Hello and welcome to WH social media live. I'm GA and it's my pleasure to welcome you to today's conversation. And the conversation today touches on a topic that is dear to all of our hearts. I know it's important to me and I imagine it's going to be equally important to you. And the topic is mental health. Today I'm joined in the studio with two of my colleagues um uh Dr. Fari Hana who works he's a technical expert and he's an expert on one very important aspect we're going to talk about and that is mental health in emergencies um and which poses extra challenges not just for experts but for people who are going through this and uh to my right here is Dr. Aisha Malik, mental health specialist, and uh she's going to join the conversation about I know many topics that you might be interested in about our day-to-day mental health. I know we've seen lots of figures. We have a lot of news on mental health. So, let's see how uh we can steer this conversation to make it useful for you. Thank you again for joining us. So, um let me start um with you uh Dr. Fari before we jump into the broader topic of mental health uh I want to explain why we are actually going to talk about mental health in emergencies this year's world mental health day was on the 10th of um this month which was last Friday and it focused on mental health in emergencies and so Dr. farming tell us um why should we worry about mental health in emergencies? What are the special conditions that make us look into this topic? >> Thank you so much and pleasure to be here and we not only today facing unprecedented humanitarian emergencies especially when it come to number of people affected by humanitarian emergencies around the world. But today also we face unprecedented mental health crisis during emergencies. That's why the topic of the world mental health day today is simple but urgent. Access to mental health and emergencies. During humanitarian emergencies, stressful experiences are common. It's common unfortunately that people may lose their homes, lose their property, lose loved ones, get displaced, have difficulty in access to basic needs. Test stress is also common and most of it resolve voice time. Test stress include emotions such as depression, sadness, difficulty sleeping, fatigue, irritability among many others. But also increase in mental health conditions is common. One in five people living in emergency situation have a mental health condition such as depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorders, schizophrenia and others. Today in humanitarian emergencies there are around 66 million people living with mental health condition in humanitarian affected countries. Also people with pre-existing mental health condition in many emergencies. Today access to mental health services is limited. In countries such as Chads which is a huge country there is no specialized mental health professional while the country is facing one of unprecedented humanitarian needs. Similar situation in South Sudan among several among several others. The way people cope during emergencies depend on many factors. their current mental health situation, their previous mental health situation, also their level of resilience and the type of support they get during emergency. People with mental health condition, particularly those with pre-existing conditions such as those in institution are amongst the most vulnerable in humanitarian emergencies, but sadly because of stigma commonly forgotten. >> Yes. So, so this is a major challenge. I mean, who works in health emergencies. We estimate more than 300 million people will require uh humanitarian assistance and we are working in I think 17 countries that require the highest level of interventions. But you know when you compare with supplying food or medicines or um you know there are so many priorities in emergencies, mental health often isn't the first thing that we used to think of. But I know with with our work over the last few years we are beginning to prioritize this and you've been in countries Dr. Farmy tell us give us an example of what can be done and what we are doing for people in these very very challenging situations through no choice of their own. >> Guys thank you for your question and in humanitarian emergencies people don't cope only with food water shelter medication people also cope with mental health and psychosocial support. When who is asked to support in a humanitarian emergencies, particularly large scale emergencies, we assess the situation, identify who is in the ground, including services provided by governments, by charities, by local NOS's and in many situation by international humanitarian workers when it come to mental health and psychosocial support. And based on identifying who is there, we identify what are the gaps, geographical gaps in mental health care, gaps for specific vulnerable groups, gaps in specific types of services. Sometimes the gaps can be in capacity building requirements. We start building the capacities. Sometime we start adapting and contextualizing the international standards we have and many times we start capacity building and many times we also have a surge capacity of deployment of expert who support the local population owned mental health intervention. In fact, some of the biggest steps forward in mental health care. During the past couple of decades come during of mental health and emergencies in Syria. For example, during the last decade, we have seen great advances in mental health programs. Currently, in some of the major emergencies such as in Ukraine, we see lots of investment in mental health services scale up using the emergency as an opportunity to scale up services. >> So, that that's a great point. In my own public health career, I was in the tsunami in in Southeast Asia and in Sri Lanka. I was there when it happened and there were hardly any uh mental health services. >> But we use the opportunity of building back better and now every district in the country even even districts that were not affected have much stronger mental health care and integrated into primary health care. So actually using um emergencies when we see the acute suffering sometimes is a great opportunity to do this. So I just wanted to uh speak to everybody and say please use # ask and some of you are uh also already using it to ask us questions. So we've got questions already for you. But before we uh go to that Aishhat thank you also for joining so much. Um so many of us um have either not experienced emergencies or we we're lucky enough uh to have survived emergencies. Uh but mental health touches everyone. Can you give um us a sense of how uh big this problem is and and and you know talk us through some of the numbers we keep hearing but each number is a person. >> Absolutely. No thank you guy. I'm really happy to join everyone here today. So we published a report that I hope my colleagues will share or it will be available if you search for it which is called the world mental health report and in that report we talk about how nearly 1 billion people in the world live with a mental health condition. That's an enormous number. And what's really even more uh important to think about is the fact that even in high-income countries, so countries that we think have lots of resources available, you've only got about a third of people living with depression who are having access to care. People living with anxiety disorders, only about one in four people get access to care. And those are the two most common conditions in the world. You don't have to have gone through an emergency to experience a mental health condition, as you just said. Although as Fami is here and he has emphasized if you live in adversity like that it absolutely is a risk factor but you can be exposed to a risk factor wherever you live and we know of many risk factors that impact mental health whether it's poverty violence abuse bullying um other levels of stressors many things can impact our mental health and it's basically a huge problem uh that we really need to see more investment in GIA >> absolutely and and again you know I want to reiterate what I said before. Nobody is untouched by this, right? We we all have our stories. We all have family members. Let me just dive into the into the conversation because you're getting uh you're getting questions. So, um um uh we have a question. How can we reduce the stigma and fear around talking about mental health? Because while we understand the numbers, while we understand the need for scaling up services, there is a gap between the two still where lots of people and I know from my personal experience you it was frowned upon if you said, "Oh, I'm depressed or I I need help." So, how do we deal with this stigma and this this hesitancy to still talk about mental health conditions and disorders even in 2025? Do you want to you want to start? Yes. >> Thank thank you guy. I can I can start and Asia may maybe also you can compliment. I think it's a great question. What I have seen from my work in emergencies that that usually uh policy makers and people living in emergencies talk more because of the need about uh about mental mental health needs and need to scale up need to scale up uh services. And one of the first steps to take to tackle stigma is to talk about mental health to have sessions like the one we having right now to share factual information and the statistic. The very fact that we can share that one in five people during humanitarian emergencies means that you are not alone if if you suffer from one of these condition or if a family member suffer from one of these condition. So first share information and speak about it. Second, inclusion of people living with mental health conditions when we took and when we raised the awareness in communities because we know by evidence that testimonials and success stories and initiatives led or participated with through people with lived experience has more impacts. Also, we need to make sure we are not labeling people. We don't use terms. You mean like us health workers >> all of us in the community including family members >> and including humanitarian responder. We use >> people first language >> people living with people having so and so. >> I am not depression but I'm living with depression. >> Exactly. >> Yeah. >> Exactly. I I fully I fully agree. U also I I think trying to correct misconception and myths that may exist within communities by replacing with correct and factual and factual informations >> and and most importantly also by making services available in the community and normalizing the helpseeking behavior. It's it's okay not to be not to be okay but also if you are not okay services are available and it's okay to service on that that's really important right so so you you talked about surfacing it by talking about it not labeling by inclusing people who have the lived experience but but sometimes and I've seen this that people are quite complacent to say oh I have this or I have anxiety I have depression but when I say do you need to please somebody would you like and and say no no no no no that so so that last step I think people are beginning to acknowledge how they are experiencing it but they're not necessarily going to get help is that the same outside of uh emergencies >> that's really interesting that we have lot we have a generation of people that knows they might be having some difficulties >> but there is a hesitancy to go get the help that they might need >> and I think why is that >> yeah I think that hesitancy exists because There is a stigma that we have towards mental health specialists and mental health services. And one of the reasons that stigma exists is because historically a lot of care for mental health was in these uh and they still exist big institutions which come with fear attached to them. They're not places of recovery and rehabilitation for everyone. They are really places people don't want to go. And that's why we always talk about we've got to bring uh services and uh people who can deliver care into the community. You've got to be able to go to your general practitioner in the same way that's just as normal in primary care as going to your psychologist. >> Circling back to what you said that in fact in some of these emergency settings where there are no institutions, the the primary level or community level care in a way doesn't suffer from the fear of institutions. Right? So I wanted to ask both of you another question. I know that in ter in terms of health-seeking behaviors, women tend to seek help more than men, right? And I also noticed that um women tend to experience depression and anxiety according to statistics slightly more than men. Are these linked or is it a is there a difference between men and women? It's a that's a very interesting conversation that we could have an entire other conversation about, but I'll share I'll share a perspective on this, which is yes indeed uh if you look at the World Mental Health Report and if you look at our fact sheet uh on anxiety disorders, you'll see that it says women and girls are more likely to experience these conditions than people who are born male. Now, why might this be? Now, earlier I talked about risk factors, >> right? There are more risk factors that might impact women compared to men in many contexts. That's one part of it. So women might be more likely to be exposed to things like violence or interpersonal violence which is an enormous risk factor for mental health conditions or they might be more likely to be exposed to other inequalities. So these are things which lean in the direction of uh items that can impact people born female. But for me, sorry, men's mental health, I think, is a very important topic and it might might be one that that's not as well understood. And so what we need to do is see over time where we sit with men uh and what we can do to also support men to uh seek help as well. >> So as a man and an expert, what's your view on this? >> Thank you. One of the topics that was usually neglected in humanitarian emergencies, mental health response was actually substance use during emergencies. And and if you get to the World Mental Health Day page, you would notice that one of our first feature stories is about an initiative who is launching together with UNODC and together with UNCCR focusing on substance use during humanitarian emergencies. how negative coping mechanism both among the local population and even sometimes among humanitarian responders themselves such as using alcohols or uh or using uh nonprescribed medication or using drugs in some emergencies can impact the mental health and how people can use this as a negative coping uh coping mechanism or sometimes due to change in the level of availability. So mental health and substance use is some is something that can in some countries affect men more and and is one of our priorities during humanitarian emergencies. >> It's interesting. I'm hearing you talk about like the contextual factors, right? Like violence and poverty and war and all of this. We're talking about sort of more proximal factors like access or cultural use or stress use of substances. We're looking at healthcare seeking behaviors. Right? So, so it's really very very complex and maybe this is why it's difficult to have this conversation but but regardless of these risk factors there are things we should do about it but before we go there there is a question so the question is what can doctors do to protect their mental health but the same humanitarian workers um I mean I've been in in really difficult situations in conflict and we talk about protecting our mental health we have trainings on how to protect But really, how can we um the helpers, the doctors, the humanitarian workers, the counselors, the frontline health workers, how can we also protect our mental health? Because obviously if we don't, it's going to not only affect us, but going to affect the people we're going to help. There is a lot we can do because uh because response to emergences uh when it come to mental health mental health is an integral and essential component uh and in fact in fact a mandate that countries asked us to do in the world health assembly according to many who resolution. So for doctors and healthcare worker integration of mental health into general health care which do have several who program such as the MH gap program for scaling up mental, neurological and substance use including a humanitarian version in places where there is no psychiatrist where there is no specialized mental health professional. General doctors can be trained to scale up services for conditions such as depression and grief, alcohol use, schizophrenia among among among others. But as you rightly mentioned Gia when the problem is is having multiple risk factors the way we can address it as well is multis sectoral. So it's not only the function of health sector while health sector have a critical role to play but educational actors so school mental health promotion protection actors such as safe spaces for children for girls for for for women. nutrition actors such as behavioral activation for children with severe malnutrition through parents and shelter and camp management and coordination as the problem is multiffactorial the response need to be multis sectoral as well >> so at an individual level Aisha well you're a practitioner and and lots of people come to you I'm sure in your previous life in your current life how do you protect your own mental health when you're exposed to the suffering of others >> it's a really good question And um what I'm going to do is avoid answering for myself personally. I'll I'll come back to it. I will come back to it. >> How can one >> how can one and the but there's a good reason for me doing this and it's because I actually want to do a product placement and the product placement is for our who guidelines on mental health at work where one of the populations we looked at was health workers and we were like what is it that works for health workers to protect their mental health? And actually it turns out it's pretty similar for what works for people in any workplace. But how you deliver it for healthare workers needs to be a bit different. So our three let's say the three things we need to do are we need to prevent people from experiencing risks to their mental health at work. So shift work times etc etc >> which is very very special to us >> very special to health workers very special and risks. So for example, if you have a risk of where you're seeing lots of people dealing with really complex mental health problems or health conditions unsupervised, that's going to take a toll on you as a health worker. So getting supervision and supportive supervision is a way around that. The second one, which is the big piece, is managers need to be competent to not just manage >> but to also support their people. You support your health workers or your employees. That's going to lead to great outcomes for them. And the third is stress management. In fact, we did uh our colleagues in Ukraine uh delivered a stress management program that we had developed to healthcare workers all across Ukraine to help them manage the conditions that they were facing at the moment. So, it's like yes, there's stuff we can do as an individual. We can learn those stress management skills, but I always like to say other levels are important as well. >> No, absolutely. But then also at individual level, we must have access to that. So, if you're a manager, then there is a role for you to play, right? And it's a set of skills. It's not I just care about my my uh employees or the people I supervise. I must have the skills to identify and to support uh without harming or being intrusive. You know, as a manager, I' over over my life, I've realized more and more my role is to do that, right? And you talked about working I as a young doctor, I think I worked 105 hours a week, but that's illegal now. But during COVID we saw >> how how this shift work was affecting people and being separated from their families. Um you know just not having a sleeping rhythm even it it reduces your ability to cope with stress right I think we do have a lot of health health workers online. So really we wanted to say to you that this is not something extra. Looking after yourself is core to your work you know and health care workers and helpers in general tend to prioritize the person in front of us and not ourselves and selfare self-care is not selfish. You wanted to add something. >> Thank thank you guy. I uh I agree with what you and Aisha has uh has shared for for me. I also go on duty travels many times in emergency affected location. One of my ways of personal coping would be to stay connected uh with my family and with my friends in the moment every day. Uh you you can squeeze in time every day to to strengthen your social support system to be able to cope with the stressors that work can bring. I try to keep daily routine for me personally also waking up and sleeping at specific time every every day make a huge difference. But I try to keep also some me time uh such as through reading through my ebook app or through my book where you get yourself a bit distracted from daily work related stressors. >> Now that's really interesting. And and what what do you do? >> I work out. >> So >> physical activity. >> I do physical activ. It's my best time. My my family are >> You're the person I want to be. Oh, that's so that's so lovely. >> Um, and then I have to exercise and if I don't exercise, I do I can my bucket of stress is already way too full for the rest of the day. >> Uh, so that's my personal way of doing it. >> So actually I mean I I'll share with you uh uh mine as well. that um you know somebody one of our viewers has said you know uh mandates and frameworks are generally well written but it's hard to implement due to cultural hurdles and I do agree I come from a generation and a profession as a doctor where hard work is valued >> oh yeah >> right taking time off is not valued but it's the same even in a public health organization well the legal framework say you should take leave and you should have your weekends That's not how the cultural pressures work in our in our professions. So in a way talking about this and coming together and figuring out how to do this and to be validated for doing that and not to be stigmatized or blamed for doing that is important. So I I really appreciate the comment. Thank you for saying that because all of these are easier said than done. You're absolutely right and that's why we are still struggling with admitting uh that we need help for our own mental health >> wherever on the spectrum it is right because most of us are functioning well beyond what is normal um and um and there are cultural pressures of what we understand is normal um and what is um sort of indulgent but I also wanted to just be a little provocative and I'm Sorry, you're you're the you're the man here. You know, for me as a doctor, as a public health worker, now as a as a leader here, my day I I do want to read every night, but I go home and I cook. >> I have to take care of family problems. Uh aging parents even though children are out of the house, you know. So, I think for healthare workers, this is the issue. And 70% of healthare workers are women. Those who don't have power in the health care system, you know, less hierarchy are women, right? Nurses and midwives and primary health care workers run health across the world and they have a second job, a third job when they go home. So I think we really need to talk about some of these and I just wanted to acknowledge that you know while we have this amazing frameworks and uh you know within WHO yes it is difficult to implement it but men and women and bosses and employees we should all talk about it right. >> I I agree and one of the key roles we can emphasize uh here in the example you you kindly mentioned Gaia is peer support networks. I I >> peer support networks. I I I heard yesterday one of one of our our our colleagues in the emergency department sharing that as supply chains save lives supported chains save teams >> support chains save teams that that's really interesting yes >> I I think peer support networks are very are very valuable intervention here and uh and and colleagues of females but also of males within the workplace can play a key uh a key role in supporting supporting the peer Yes. So, so even now in a way this is a conversation, right? And we're having a conversation with people on our social media platforms. So, it can be a a a a point of stimulus for us to continue that conversation. Um, in my family, I I what I noticed is that men uh wouldn't admit that they needed that they were actually undergoing stress. And when you said, "Would you like to see a doctor?" Say, "No." you know, and the unsaid thing was, I'm a man. I don't need help. So, it takes many conversations for you to hold that space to convince people that they should get the help they need. And there is more and more help available now. Would you would you agree compared to the last few years, there is more help available? I would say that there's more help available uh and that the information on mental health is more available and more accessible especially since co it became quite quite normal to talk about things. I think in the the context of men again that you're bringing up and what is really important for us to think about helpseeking is the male suicide rate worldwide is substantially larger than the suicide rate for women and that's a big alarm bell when it comes to this topic of helpseeking because yes I think many of us come from cultures where it's less likely that people of a particular gender would go and seek the help and support that they might need and we accidentally might all participate in contributing to that and exacerbating it and enforcing it but actually it's a really serious issue. This is a to me a big nut that we need to crack is how do we communicate with people who are coming from a culturable group where seeking help doesn't feel safe to do so uh because this will save lives. >> Thank you. I think it's difficult to to generalize and say that that more people are able to access help. Now we are in a in a situation where there is uh extreme funding constraints affecting the humanitarian community. I give you one concrete example. Uh last year uh who was able through procurements to provide access to essential life-saving psychotropic medication during humanitarian emergencies as requested by countries to 2.1 million people living with severe mental health condition in some of the most tough humanitarian emergencies in the world. Today this percentage in 2025 is 94% less. Not because we have less people actually we have more people living >> less funds available >> but less funds and competing priorities make the requests by country. So while the awareness do exist but the resources are still is extremely limited >> that that's a really I mean I think across health we are in this crisis because of major crisis in international development and humanitarian aid and again we go back to the beginning of our conversation where food and shelter may be prioritized when there's only 5% of the funding that we had last year this could be something that could be dropped right so we we have to really keep raising the alarm on this >> because mental health is health, >> right? There is no health without mental health. There is a question and I want to get that in about um how many hours about social media and the mental health challenges that come from being constantly on social media and and it's not just being on social media for leisure, it's for our work we're on social media as well. There's a specific question I don't know um I certainly don't have the answer. I hope you do. How many hours a day do you recommend daily for screen time to keep a stable mind? >> How would you respond to that? >> I I would say we don't have AI don't have a recommendation on screen hours for stable mind >> but we do have recommendations on screen time for young children separate I think to social media that comes from other experts in our organization and if our colleagues are able to share that information they can. However, on the con for the context of social media, it has both pros and cons to this time that we're spending. And I think for yourself as an individual or the person that's asking this question, you might need to think to yourself, why are you asking this question? Is there a feeling for yourself that you are spending so long on social media that it's taking you away from other activities that you might be doing that previously might have been good for you or kept you connected with other people face to face. So I think that's an important reflection that I would share back. So sorry that we don't have a specific recommendation on it >> from from emergences perspective dealing with social media. Most people during humanitarian emergencies uh sometime resort to social media to get information from and and you need to make sure that you are seeking accurate information and avoiding misinformation such as by seeking resources from re reliable UN or reliable NOS's within your community especially when it come about when it come about access to to services or information about uh about about a disease outbreak for for example but But also you need to consciously limit the time you get exposed to social media during emergence. Especially if you are following content which is violence or about upsetting news. Limit it to specific uh specific times when possible and also not sharing images that can trigger emotion among people without thinking twice or without also putting warning for other people. >> Exactly. Exactly. No, thank you so much. And and and I just then I'll I'll double back just to say that um you know, so what I do is it's obviously director of communications is stressful in a different way than when I worked in emergencies, but it can be stressful. So in the morning I get up, I I leave at least 45 minutes before I look at my uh my so my phone. Uh usually there's more than 100 social media messages, not not emails. So I I found having that time is good. I meditate before I start connecting back with work and I try to read at the weekends and be in nature but meditation is my number one uh number one practice because I really find the anxiety building during the day. So with that I want I want to conclude but we've talked about mental health challenges but actually mental health is more than challenges. So we had to talk about positive mental health that allows us to do this and and you know um I I was reading who's report yesterday and and the thing that resonated most with me is why do we need good mental health? >> So the absence of disease is not health. So why do we need health? So the first is obviously like we're doing to to connect with each other. Our ability to have human relationships, our ability to feel empathy, our ability to belong whether it's a peer group or a family comes from good mental health is required for that >> and they reinforce that. Right? Then the second is to function. You can't learn, you can't do a job, you can't develop without good mental health. So we must understand the impact of challenges on people's just lives throughout their lives. Then to cope as you all talked about how do we deal with stress and change and stress are common to life but if you have good mental health then that is where the idea of resilience and strength comes in and then of course we don't want to just live and survive we want to thrive right to reach our full potential. So when we talk about mental health and we see these extreme conditions, we see these massive numbers, we mustn't forget we said one billion people have mental health conditions. Seven to eight other billion are may not have good mental health. You know, it may be they're not fully uh enjoying full mental health. So I want us all to think about that that that absence of conditions is not health and that mental health is a conversation that we should have not just for our knowledge but to address stigma to uh make it safe for people to talk make it encourage them to seek help. Um so I think we should look at the full spectrum of it. I think time is nearly up. What would be your final message to our audience as we wrap up? >> For everyone, investing in mental health is a key way for uh for recovery. >> Yeah. >> Uh it's uh it's important uh during this world mental health day week and months and days to uh to continue the value for mental health for us and for people surrounding us. And I would say at if you look in the World Mental Health Report, there is a really nice diagram. And I'm sorry, I forgot what page it's on, but it's a diagram that shows that you can have low levels of mental health symptoms all the way to severe and low levels of well-being to high levels of well-being. And for me, that's important because if you live with a mental health condition, yes, you might have severe symptoms, but if you're well supported, you can have high well-being and you can go to school and you can go to college and you can go to work if you are well supported. And our job at WHO and I hope you will all join us in this advocacy as well is to push for making sure that people can get access to the support that they need so that they can participate in life because people living with mental health conditions do work, do go to school and do want to do those things and we want to make sure that people can have access to what they need. >> So, so this was just a tip of the iceberg. There's so much to talk about. We've had just to let you know people joining from Pakistan, Somalia, Nigeria, UAE, India, France, Tanzania, Bangladesh, South Sudan, Barbados, Botswana, Oman, USA, Togo, Portugu Portugal, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Croatia, Haiti. Um, and of course I I'm sure colleagues have joined us from WHO as well. My my remark is thank you so much. Thank you for joining us. Thank you for your questions. Thank you for uh allowing us to have this conversation and we will see you next time in the next WH u uh social media life. Thank you so much. Please look after your mental health. >> I had a black dog. His name was depression. Whenever the black dog made an appearance, I felt empty and life just seemed to slow down. He could surprise me with a visit for no reason or occasion. The black dog made me look and feel older than my years. When the rest of the world seemed to be enjoying life, I could only see it through the black dog. Activities that usually bought me pleasure suddenly ceased to. He liked to ruin my appetite. He chewed up my memory and my ability to concentrate. Doing anything or going anywhere with a black dog required superhuman strength. At social occasions, he'd sniff out what confidence I had and chase it away. My biggest fear was being found out. I worried that people would judge me. Because of the shame and stigma of the black dog, I was constantly worried that I'd be found out. So, I invested vast amounts of energy into covering him up. Keeping up an emotional lie is exhausting. Black Dog could make me think and say negative things. He could make me irritable and difficult to be around. He would take my love and bury my intimacy. He loved nothing more than to wake me up with highly repetitive and negative thinking. He also liked to remind me how exhausted I was going to be the next day. Having a black dog in your life isn't so much about feeling a bit down, sad, or blue. At its worst, it's about being devoid of feeling altogether. As I got older, the black dog got bigger and he started hanging around all the time. I'd chase him off with whatever I thought might send him running. But more often than not, he'd come out on top. Going down became easier than getting up again. So, I became rather good at self-medication, which never really helped. Eventually, I felt totally isolated from everything and everyone. The black dog had finally succeeded in hijacking my life. When you lose all joy in life, you can begin to question what the point of it is. Thankfully, this was the time that I sought professional help. This is my first step towards recovery and a major turning point in my life. I learned that it doesn't matter who you are. The black dog affects millions and millions of people. It is an equal opportunity mongrel. I also learned that there was no silver bullet or magic pill. Medication can help some and others might need a different approach altogether. I also learned that being emotionally genuine and authentic to those who are close to you can be an absolute gamecher. Most importantly, I learned not to be afraid of the back dog and I taught him a few new tricks of my own. The more tired and stressed you are, the louder he barks. So, it's important to learn how to quiet your mind. It's been clinically proven that regular exercise can be as effective for treating mild to moderate depression as anti-depressants. So, go for a walk or a run and leave the mut behind. Keep a mood journal. Getting your thoughts on paper can be cathartic and often insightful. Also, keep track of the things that you have to be grateful for. The most important thing to remember is that no matter how bad it gets if you take the right steps, talk to the right people, black dog days can and will pass. I wouldn't say that I'm grateful for the black dog, but he's been an incredible teacher. He forced me to re-evaluate and simplify my life. I learned that rather than running away from my problems, it's better to embrace them. The black dog may always be part of my life, that he'll never be the beast that he was. We have an understanding. I've learned through knowledge, patience, discipline, and humor, the worst black dog can be made to heal. If you're in difficulty, never be afraid to ask for help. There is absolutely no shame in doing so. The only shame is missing out on life.