Hello and welcome to today's press conference, the first in the new year. Um, it's the virtual press conference on global health issues. It's Tuesday, 13 of January and we're here in the W2 headquarters in our new press conference room. So, we're very happy to launch that officially this time online uh with you. Um we have a couple of special topics today. It's the new reports on taxes on sugary drinks and alcoholic beverages that will be launched today in a webinar right after this briefing. The by the way the embargo for this these reports have been set for 2:00 Central European time uh 1400 hours that's in about 20 minutes [snorts] 15 minutes and we also will discuss an update on the cervical cancer prevention and control u we'll have two specialists on this one here today with us um and I'll introduce them in a short moment but first to the podium of of course we have with us today the director general Dr. Tedros Gabrius. We have the chief scientist Dr. Sylvia Bion. Um we have Dr. Jeremy Farah, assistant director general for health promotion and disease prevention and care. We have Dr. Eten Kruger, director of the department of health determinance promotion and prevention. We also have Dr. Chiku Vazu um the executive director for health emergencies program. And we have with us Dr. Katherine O'Brien, director for immunization, vaccines and biologicals. These are the [snorts] people here on the podium. We also have a couple of um experts with us online or here in the room, but two to mention specifically we have for the uh topic of the new reports on taxes and sugary drinks and alcohol beverages, alcoholic beverages, we have um Dr. Anmari Peruch. She's health economist and the lead author on that report. And we have on uh the cervical cancer topic Dr. PBO Barango is crosscutting specialists on NCDS and special initiatives. With this from my side, welcome. Um by the way, if you want to get into the queue for the questions, please raise your hand with the raise your hand icons and then we'll get to you later and uh uh you will have to unmute yourself at that point. With this, over to you, Dr. terrorist. >> Thank you. Thank you, Christian. Uh, good morning, good afternoon, and good evening, and happy new year, and welcome to WHO's first media briefing for 2026. Last Friday marked 1,000 days of Sudan civil war. Almost three years of continuous violence have turned Sudan into the worst humanitarian crisis globally. An estimated 33.7 million people will need humanitarian aid this year and 13.6 million people are displaced, making Sudan the largest displacement crisis in the world. Poor living conditions, overcrowding, lack of access to safe water, sanitation and hygiene and a breakdown of routine immunization are fueling disease outbreaks. Wo is supporting the response to outbreaks of cholera, deni, malaria and measles. But just when the people of Sudan need it most, the health system has been severely damaged through attacks on health care, lack of essential medical supplies, and shortages of health workers and funding. Despite sustained efforts by WHO and partners to restore and revive health services, more than onethird of health facilities remain nonfunctional. WHO calls for unrestricted and safe access to all areas of Sudan to restore access to health services. And we call for the protection of civilians from attacks, including health and humanitarian workers and patients. And we call for an end to the conflict by all parties in Sudan. As always, the best medicine is peace. Now to our main news of the day. As you know, over the past year, sudden and severe cuts to aid have caused severe disruptions to health systems and services in many countries. WHO is supporting countries to maintain essential health services in the short term while mobilizing domestic resources to make the long-term transition from a dependency to sustainable self reliance. One of the best tools for doing that is health taxes on tobacco, alcohol and sugary drinks. Health taxes have been shown to reduce consumption of these harmful products, helping to prevent dises and reduce the burden on health systems. At the same time, they generate an income stream that governments can use to invest in health, education, and social protection. Last year, WHO launched the Street by 35 initiative, which aims to support all countries to use health taxes to increase the real prices of tobacco, alcohol, and sugary drinks by 2035. However, health taxes are not a matter of set it and forget it. To be effective, they must be designed carefully and adjusted regularly. Since 2008, WHO has published regular data on tobacco taxation in our binary report on the global tobacco epidemic. Today, we are publishing new reports on taxes on alcohol and sugary drinks. They show that in most countries these taxes are too low to be effective, poorly designed, not adjusted regularly, and rarely align with public health objectives. As a result, alcohol and sugary drinks have become more affordable even at the disease and injuries associated with their consumption continue to place growing strain on health systems, families, and budgets. Health taxes are not a silver bullet and they're not simple. They can be politically unpopular and they attract opposition from powerful industries with deep pockets and a lot to lose. But many countries have shown that when they're done right, they're a powerful tool for health. For example, in the Philippines, a major tax reform on tobacco and alcohol in 2013 increased revenues by more than five times, which supported the expansion of national health insurance to more than 15 million poor families. In Lithuania, a major tax increase on alcohol in 2017 was associated with an almost 5% reduction in all cause mortality the following year. In the United Kingdom, attacks on sugary drinks introduced in 2018 reduced sugar consumption generated 338 million pounds in revenue in 2024 alone and has been associated with lower obesity rates in girls aged 10 to 11 10 and 11 especially in the most deprived areas. Many more countries are following the example these countries are setting. Last year alone, Malaysia, Mauritius, Slovakia, Sri Lanka and Vietnam were among countries that introduced or increased taxes on tobacco, alcohol or sugary drinks or all three. And already this year, India introduced a new excise duty on tobacco and Saudi Arabia content. WHO looks forward to supporting more countries to design and implement health taxes to protect health and to transition away from a dependency toward sustainable self-reliance. Finally, this month marks world cervical cancer awareness month. Cervical cancer is one of the most preventable cancers. Yet, it still takes the lives of many women, mostly in low and middle inome countries. We have the tools to make cervical cancer the first cancer to be eliminated. vaccines to prevent it, tests to detect it, and therapeutics to treat it. That's why in 2018, I issued a global call for action to eliminate cervical cancer, which was followed in 2020 by a global strategy with the 907090 targets. 90% of girls vaccinated, 70% of women screened and 90% of women with cervical cancer or precancerous legions treated all by 2030. Since then, nearly 60 countries have introduced HPV vaccination and 162 countries now include the vaccines the vaccine as part of their national immunization schedules. 65% of girls globally now live in a country where HPV is in the vaccine schedule. That proportion is expected to rise to more than 80% in the coming months as more countries include HPV in their schedules including India. Many countries at all income levels are showing that by integrating vaccination, screening and treatment elimination is within reach. Late last year, Australia announced it had no cases of cervical cancer diagnosed in women under 25 in 2021. Several countries in Europe are close behind. Rwanda set itself the goal of achieving the 907090 targets by 2027. three years of schedule and are already has vaccinated 77% of girls screened 31% of women and treated 81% of women with cervical cancer or precancerous lesions from Bhutan to Brazil Chile to China Pakistan to Papa New Guinea Serion to St. Vincent and the Green D the Grandins and Timorste to Tanzania. Dozens of countries are expanding vaccination, screening and treatment. They're showing that eliminating cervical cancer is not a pipe dream. It's achievable. Christian, back to you. Thank you very much, Dr. Tedros. And with this, we open the floor. As I said, please raise your hand with the raise your hand icon and unmute yourself when it's your turn. And we'll start with Robin Mia from AFP. Robin, please go ahead. >> Thank you. Um, >> there's a question Thank you. There's a question on on sugary drinks. when um consumers are making their choices, they're often looking at one version of a soda with sugar and another version of it with sweeteners. So, are are sweeteners uh clearly the better choice or or do they come with their own risks that consumers need to bear in mind? And secondly, is there an issue as well with with labeling? If a drink has sugar as its second biggest ingredient after water, should it be clearly labeled on the front as a as a sugar water drink? Thank you. >> I think we want to start with Dr. L. Maria de Regil if we have her online director for nutrition and food safety. Loose, are you there? Yes, I am here. In many countries already there is front of the package labeling and many countries particularly in Latin America but in also in other regions have policies to mark at the front of the pack label the whether the foods are high in sugar. And that allows users to have a more a more information more clear information on whether the amounts are beyond what is recommended for that particular food. I think that the report already covers other pieces on on sugars and I will pass it to my colleague Epen. Just looking if anyone wants to add anything here. Not in particular. Thank you very much. Then we move on to the next question. Jeremy launch from Jeremy, please go ahead and unmute. Jeremy, if we can't reach Jeremy or something wrong with the unmute button, then we'll try with Carrie Cullinan. >> Can you hear me now? >> Oh, now we go. Okay, back to Jeremy. Jeremy, RF, please. We had you there for a second. >> And now, now is it better? >> Now it's good. Please go ahead. >> Now it's good. Thank you. Uh the question is not related to the report. Sorry about that. But uh as you well know uh next week I think on the 20th it will be one year since the US withdrawal from the WHO and it will be official next week if I'm not mistaken. I would like to know one year later um where does who stand? Uh did you manage to cope with uh the financial issue? Uh just random question like um how do you feel one year later? Basically >> how do we feel one year later? I'm giving to Steve Sullivan our principal legal officer. Do we have can you hear me well? Great. Thank you. Thank you for the question. Um so we're getting asked this question in many different forms including the one you just asked and it really goes to the issue of when exactly uh will uh US withdrawal from WH be effective. And let me say uh this is a very important question and there may be differences of view among member states on the answer to this question. And let me explain why that's the case. The the reason there may be differences of view on this issue is simple. It has to do it starts with the WH constitution. The WHO constitution is a treaty, the treaty that establishes WH. Um it's contained in this book. We call it the green book. It's available on our website. Um and very notably the WHO constitution does not have a withdrawal clause. Um this was not an oversight. It was very deliberate. Uh in 1946 the drafters understood the historic struggles against the international spread of disease and they saw how a truly universal organization would make the world safer. Uh so they did not include a withdrawals clause. Instead they provided flexibilities within the treaty so it could accommodate uh all countries and by the way they were following the example in not including a withdrawal clause. They were following an an example of the UN charter which also does not include a withdrawal clause and also uh was based on the principle of the importance of universality for that instrument. So there is no withdrawal clause in the WHO constitution. Um and in 1948 the US made an arrangement an agreement with the World Health Assembly reserving for itself a loan among countries the right to withdraw on two conditions. one one-year notice which you've mentioned and the other condition was that the US will meet its financial obligations to the organization in full for the current fiscal year. So uh uh there is also um therefore uh an issue of how member states the other countries the uh of the organization will look uh at this condition. uh and uh there will be a discussion among member states about this. We expect this discussion to come up at the WHO executive board uh which will be next month. That discussion we expect will continue at the World Health Assembly which will be in May of this year. Um uh and uh we look forward to member states uh discussing this. And why member states? Because this involves and these questions of withdrawal, the questions of the condition and the promise uh and the agreement reached between the US and the World Health Assembly. These are issues that are reserved for member states. They're not issues that WHO staff can decide. So during the governance meetings of WHO uh these will be discussed. Um in other words uh while there is an open question uh on when and how withdrawal happens um uh there is uh it's important to say not an open question about what the constitution says about who's overall mission. Uh the constitution sets out the objective for the organization of the health of all people. All people wherever they live and without discrimination. And those are the principles of WHO. Those are the principles that were set out in 1948. They will uh continue to apply. They apply today and they will continue to apply as long as there is a WHO. Thank you. Thank you very much Steve Solomon and I'll hand over to DG Dr. Teros please. >> Yeah, thank you. So I don't know if you can answer how do you feel but um maybe if you ask me my wish instead of my feeling I hope the US will uh reconsider uh its decision and rejoin WHO. That's what I I wish. The reason I'm saying this is um withdrawal from WHO is a lose for the United States and it's also a lose for the rest of the world. Um I also believe that when I say lose-lose, it also makes the US unsafe the withdrawal and makes the rest of the world unsafe. So it's not really the right decision. I want to say it bluntly because I believe that there are many things that are done through WHO that benefits the US and only the WHO does and especially the health security issues. That's why I said the US cannot be safe without working with WHO. Um and there are many examples actually to say that. So my wish is I hope they will reconsider and um uh you know uh continue with the other member states uh working with uh WHO and then on the funding level uh of course as you may remember uh I have submitted a revised budget to the governance and the governance has approved the revised one which is a very reasonable one and based on that budget we did the uh restructuring and the restructuring that we call future fit who um and we have done uh the future fit restructuring based on um who core mandate all the prioritizations has been done based on that of course the process has been completed Um as you may remember we started from the top leadership. The senior management is reduced by half. The middle management department reduced by half and then that goes all uh down to the expert level and we have made all the adjustments based on the prioritization uh process we have set for ourselves and we have also observed three principles of transparency, fairness and humanity. uh and we implemented the process based on these three principles and then when it comes to funding we have proposed a reduced budget as I said earlier and all the prioritization helped us now to fit into the new budget. So now we we believe that we are okay with the funding level actually as we speak for the 2526 I mean for the 2627 bianium we have about 75% of the budget we need uh but the 25% is left to be raised of course raising the 25% remaining could be tough because of the environment. Uh but the 75% we secured actually more than any time uh in the past in terms of the level of funding that we have secured at this level at the start of the budget year for 2627. Uh so I can say it it it has stabilized already. Um and um we were prudent the last few years and we have been saving and we actually paid salary gaps and the indemnities from our s our own savings. So the cash flow and so on is stabilized. I want to assure you that then when I saw for US to reconsider its return it's not about money. It's not about money. Money can be adjusted. It's about cooperation. It's about solidarity. The best immunity is solidarity. It's in the interest of the US. It's in the interest of the rest of the world. So it's not about money. And I don't want it to be s seen as such. I'm not saying money doesn't matter. But what matters most is solidarity, cooperation, and for the whole world to prepare itself for any eventualities to a common enemy like a virus like COVID that we have seen. So we need cooperation and solidarity for that. Um then the other confidence that comes from the in terms of finance is because of the finance reform we started in 2017 18 as part of our transformation. As you may remember we asked our member states to increase their assess contribution or the core budget to 50%. They agreed to do that in 2022 and they have already approved the two installments in May 2023 and May 2025. That has actually increased the uh core budget and it helped us also to save many jobs. For instance, of course, we have separated uh you know some colleagues, you know the figures, but at the same time because of the increase in assess contribution or membership fee, we saved about 5 700 6 to 700 uh jobs. So that helped us to minimize the impact. And for the future, I think we have three more installments in 2027, 2029, and May 2031 that we expect from our member states. With that, hoping that it will happen. the organization could be more stable and prevent shocks like now because by but minimum the core budget will be 50% as already planned in uh agreed in 2022 but we're looking for additional resources and if we can increase the flexible funding which we can to 80% that will help even uh the organization to be more stable and that's why we are saying future fit WH with stable funding but at the same time focusing on its core mandate based on the prioritization focusing on raer laser focused on the core mandate and helping countries based on the priority on their priorities and fit for um the health conditions in in in the future. But the funding is very important for or for our organization for who uh to really deliver and that's why side by side with the technical changes we are making we're also addressing the financing issue. So that's what I would like to say but it's not just the funding it's part of the overall uh uh restructuring we're doing the uh future feed who thank you Christian. >> Thanks thanks so much Dr. Tedras. Now we go to the next question but before we do that I understand we do have a bit of an issue with with the audio. So always bear with us in case it takes a second or two longer to get you connected. And uh secondly, it looks like a couple of you have not identified themselves clearly on the net. So in case you want to ask a question, please identify yourself with the name and agency properly otherwise we cannot take you. Um next question as we said before is now to Carrie Conan from HPW. Carrie please go ahead. And let's see, do we get you? >> Okay, >> here we go. >> Great. Thank you, Christian. My question is about the taxes again. Um, the report notes that the taxes are too low particularly for sugary beverages where the average is 2%. So what would be an effective level for taxation? And also the DJ you mentioned that there are powerful industries with deep pockets that are opposing these and some are using the tactics that we've seen from the tobacco industry. So how can countries especially small countries that don't have strong economies um address these powerful industries? Thank you. >> Good question. Thank you very much. And we go to Dr. Jeremy Ferrar, assistant director general. No, you want to go first go to Almaruch. Okay, let's go there. >> Thank you. Uh, regarding the technical question on um on the low level, so uh 2% is median. So it's somewhere in the middle but on average it's around 9% the tax on sugar sweetened beverages and that's very low because if we compare for example with tobacco products on average it's about uh 50 60%. So you can see the difference and we know that taxes increase prices. So if you increase your tax prices go up and this reduces consumption. So the proportion is an indicator of how uh you can affect prices. Um when it come to um work um dealing with the powerful interests I think uh governments uh we have many examples of governments have that have really done very well on taxes. So there was a mention for example of Mauritius they recently doubled their tax on sugar sweetened beverages. So it's possible for all countries to increase taxes uh despite pressure because the evidence is there. We know that uh uh taxes do reduce consumption. They generate revenues and they're good for public health. So the argument of public health, improving public health should be uh always uh be prominent and uh a good response to pressure from private interests. Thank you. >> Anything to add? Yes, please. >> Thanks [clears throat] Christian. Thanks Gary for the question and and uh Amory who led the report. Just to put into a little bit more context though, the the this report that's being released, the the um timet is today and tomorrow, but it does build off work in July 2025 on on tobacco taxes as well. And and I think we need to see these three together in a sense. Um uh the evidence uh from tobacco is obviously extremely strong that if taxation is increased uh consumption reduces and we can anticipate from the existing evidence that this will be true for alcohol and sugary drinks as well. Uh but this isn't just about taxation as a negative. This is also about using taxation as a move to uh shift behavior uh generate uh health promotion and prevention in all health systems that are struggling to deal with the rise of non-communicable diseases and others. And it also allows countries to raise revenue which can then be reinvested in whatever the country chooses from health to education to uh any other aspects of what the country wants to use its fiscal policies for. So it is about taxation, it is about changing behavior, it is about reducing harmful products in the marketplace, but it is also about investing in health and other social measures. So it's a win-win uh on every aspect. >> Thank you so much both. And we want to try now with Michael Guarissa. He's from the Health Times in Zimbabwe. Michael, if you can please unmute it. >> Oh, thank you Christian. Uh so my my question is on on taxation as well. Uh so I come from Zimbabwe where the government has introduced a tax on on on sugary drinks that is called the sugar tax but there've been concerns that um these taxes are placing an unfair burden uh on low income families. So I just want to find out from the DG um do you believe these taxes are equally appropriate for low and middle inome countries facing poverty food insecurity and how best do you think uh these taxes should be crafted without putting a burden on the poorest of the society. Thank you. >> Thank you very much Michael. And we go to Dr. Krug. He's director for department of health determinance promotion and prevention. >> Yeah. Thanks so much. Uh the word tax sometimes has a negative connotation and therefore you use the word burden, but really it's not. As Jeremy just said, this is a preventive measure. The we know that alcohol is an unhealthy product. We know that tobacco is an unhealthy product. We know that sugar consumption is unhealthy. All of these issues lead to cancer, cardiovascular diseases, injuries, etc. And so even the most poorest family when they are hit by a severe injury by a cancer or cardiovascular disease, it throws them into further poverty. So they shouldn't be seen as a burden. They should be seen as a prevention measure that helps avoid consumption of unhealthy products. So yes, these taxes are relevant even for the poorest countries because it's about prevention. >> Thank you. And maybe Marie, you want to add something? Yes. Um I'd like to add also that um um lower income groups are more price sensitive. So when something gets more expensive, they reduce their consumption to a greater extent than uh higher income groups. And we've seen it specifically on tobacco and even more recently in the experience of Mexico or the UK when they introduced their tax on sugar sweetened beverages. They followed closely their populations to see how that would impact on consumption and the greatest reductions in consumption were among the lower income groups. So in terms of also uh health gains, the health gains will be greater also uh among lower income groups because of their uh reaction to uh the price and tax increases. Thank you. >> Thank you very much both again. Um let's now try with Maya Pence from the UN brief. Um Maya, if you can please unmute. Go ahead. Thank you very much for taking my question. My question is related to the cuts that the budgetary cuts and the number of people who have been laid off by who in the last year given the situation with the funding withdrawal from um the WHO or by the United States. Um, how many people have been laid off? Do you have a number? >> I think we didn't quite understand, but maybe Patrick, do you have an answer about how many people? Um, yeah, I'm must admit I haven't heard the full part. Do we need to repeat? Yeah. Maya, please repeat. >> Yeah. How many people have been laid off by WH given the funding circumstances? >> Yeah, that's the short version. How many have been laid off for the combination of laid off and and retirement? Patrick, >> thank you for the question. uh our reports the executive board and the PABAC will set out these numbers in detail but broadly I can say that by 30 June 2026 midyear the number of WHO global staff will be projected to reach 7,360 which represents a 22% reduction compared to one January 2025 which was 9,41. Um, it should also be noted that approximately 1,52 additional vacant positions are included in that number. So depending on how those positions are filled, that number could be adjusted. Thank you. >> Thank you very much, Patrick. And just so before we go to the G, just to say this is was Patrick Cronin, coordinator for who human resources and talent and Dr. Tus. >> Yeah. No, I I just wanted to do to add to that. Um the 22% has actually two parts. Uh so the question is the people we laid off. So it's almost around half of it because half of the 22% was done through natural attrition for instance by abolishing positions from which uh you know our who colleagues have retired. So not hiring in these positions that are opening that really helped. And then uh the other uh solution was uh we offered voluntary early retirement to staff and many have used the opportunity especially those who are 55 years and and and above and that also helped. So through that we um u managed around 1,00 1 1,080 I think if I'm not wrong positions actually through natural attrition. So the natural the separations global is around 1,200 something. Um so need to uh see that I think that's how you can get the full picture but then the separations could have been higher and I said it earlier when I answered uh you know the question about our uh funding level uh the assess contribution the decision by our member states in 2022 to increase their membership fee has helped us to save 600 to 700 jobs that could have been added to the separation ation if if we didn't have the finance reform. So um it's not like a simple answer to to the question. I just wanted to give you the full picture in addition to what Patrick um said. Thank you. >> Thank you DG. Um now we go again to the African contribment. We have Savvi News Africa and uh that's Princess Equi Ajid. If I get your name right, please go ahead and unmute. >> You got it perfectly as if you you're an African. >> What? >> Yeah. >> Thank you for the opportunity. Um my question is coming from a region where manufacturers may have the tendency of lying. They could tell lies about the labeling. So I want to ask is there a measure to ensure that manufacturers could tell lies about what is contained in their product are sanctioned. Do you have measures like that so that when we look at the labeling we are sure what's written is what's contained. Thank you. I'm not quite sure. Maybe we want to go to Dr. Loose, Maria Drigi, Regal, Director of Nutrition and Food Safety for that one. Let's try Loose. >> Yeah. know I mean in all these food policies where we are recommending to change the levels of sugar, sodium or unhealthy fats, we also encourage that these these policies are regulations are not only developed by the nutrition department but also food safety because food safety are the ones that are in charge of monitoring the food supply and inspection and also for the enforcement and it's very important that the regulations and policies have a provisions for the enforcement of this. So if they have the tendency or there is any tendency to lie on the labels the important part is establish a monitoring system food monitoring systems within the food control system and ensuring that the governments have the capacity to enforce for further compliance and I would say that in some cases when governments have limited capacity the seal society has made an intentional effort to monitor the amounts of sugars in this case or unhealthy nutrients and unhealthy amounts of nutrients in certain foods. And they are a strong advocates of compliance but also to help governments to make the case and invest more on monitoring and enforcement. Over to you. >> Thank you very much Loose and Jeremy Ferrell, please. Yeah, just to say on this one to add to what Liz just said there. Um this is not just something the World Health Organization works on on its own. We work incredibly closely with the other UN agencies uh that look after the food supplies in the agriculture system, FAO in Rome and WHAR in Paris and uh um United Nations environment program. Working together as part of that quadripartide uh along with then the World Trade Organization others allows us to have a unified consistent voice that speaks to areas that are directly under health like regulation around pharmaceutical products but also sometimes not directly in the health field but are in associated fields like for instance the food and uh agricultural sector. Working together through those multilateral agencies makes a huge difference. >> Thank you very much both for this. Uh, next question goes to Lauren Shiro from Swiss News. Lauren, please go ahead and mute. >> Yeah, thanks Christian and uh, first of all, happy to uh, to all of you. Good to good good to see you all. I'd like to follow up uh, after Steve Solomon's uh, response to Jeremy's question on the legal uh, uh, approach to the US withdrawal. So when you mentioned the second condition, the need for the US to have met its obligations uh its financial obligations in full for the fiscal year. Is it the case? Can we say that this condition has been fulfilled by the US and then you mentioned that discussion to come between the other member states first at EB and then at WHA. Does that mean that the I mean the US will consider themselves as out of the organization uh uh as soon as end of January. But does that mean that the there will be a kind of formal decision of acknowledgment by the other member states uh in in a form of formal uh consensus decision or even a vote if one member state has for a vote? Thank you. Thank you Leon and yes to Steve Sullivan. >> Yes and thank you for the question. So to the first question has the condition been fulfilled. Um uh this is exactly a question that is an open one uh and member states um will be uh considering that question again at the EB next month and uh perhaps at the health assembly. Um the uh uh the current situation is that uh the US for uh 2024 and 2025 uh is in a rears on its payments. You can find uh the uh the out the full description of those amounts as well as every other country's amounts on the WHO website. There's a very transparent handling of all those financial figures available on our website and that has been the case for many years. And then your second question, will uh the US consider themselves out? That is a question best addressed to the US. Um so thank you for both of those questions. >> Thank you very much and Steve. Um we have two more questions on the line. Now I have Be Well Media and that's Jessica Stewart. Jessica, please go ahead. Hello. How how is everyone? Thank you for taking my question. Um I have a few questions on the pricing. I saw in the reports that it is reporting that water is also being highly taxed as well um in I'm not sure how many counties or countries but I was curious are there any talks about um lowering lowering the price of water um compared to sugary prices and an example would be um I'm in the US in De Moines Iowa um water at the convenience store is $2.69 69 a bottle or two for five or you can get vitamin water which we know is sugary water um for um three for $5 and then you can get a smoothie for $4.99. And how with these um incentives are we going to actualize healthy decisions like drinking water? Um I guess any anyone have any thoughts on that? Yeah, we'll go with Anmar Purich on the pricing and the taxes. >> Thank you. So, um what the report shows is that among the countries that do tax sugar sweetened beverages or non-alcoholic beverages to be broader, uh half of them tax water. So, what we highlight is that water should not be taxed because it's a healthy alternative. Uh but maybe what should be more encouraged is uh buying uh uh or drinking portable water or clean water doesn't have to be necessarily bottled water. We don't have information specifically on the price levels of water. Uh but we assume that we also presume that since uh there is a tax applied on these beverages, they will be more expensive than they should be. And the recommendation of course is to uh remove the tax. Thank you. Thank you very much uh Jessica and and Marie. Last question goes to Katherine from Vital Science News. Katherine, please go ahead and unmute. >> Hello. Um Katherine Fior, Vital Science. My question is um about the European Commission launched its uh cardiovascular plan, disease plan uh Europe's safe hearts plan and in it uh there was a proposal a vague commitment towards uh a levy for um highly processed foods and alcoher proposals for new taxes on on the on highly processed foods and alco. And I'm just wondering in their deliberations uh did the EU contact the who for their advice? Um did you give any feedback to them and um will you be working with them on this on in the future? I know that you have a a close working relationship with the European Commission on a number of issues. So that's my first question and just my second question is um a general one about vaccine recommendations. Uh the US announced changes to its plans um its proposals for recommendations citing international comparisons um with Denmark but other countries as well Japan. And I'm just wondering uh does the WHO take a view on how countries should go about making recommendations? What factors should they take into consideration? And I think that's a question for Jeremy Ferrar. Thank you. >> Thank you very much Katherine. Let's see. Um maybe on the EU pricing as such we start with Dr. Etien Krug and then we see how we take the second one. >> Yeah, thank you very much for the question. Uh who has an excellent relationship with the EU indeed. Um we have many many colleagues and particularly an office uh called our Euro office that deals mainly with interactions with the EU. They're not here. So I cannot answer for sure if there has been in-depth discussions on the measures proposed by the EU. But I I'm quite confident that there were uh interactions. But in the end of course it's the EU itself that sets its policies. Dr. Faram, you want to add? >> So, just on the question of um of the US policy changes on immunization, every country uh as I think we've explained before is responsible for their own uh policy uh formulation and who provides recommendations on vaccines. What is really crucial as countries make their policy recommendations is that they use a um an evidence-based process that is systematic. It's transparent um and uh is really referencing the disease epidemiology of that particular country, the resources of the country and it also includes assessments of equity and fairness um and the feasibility of different vaccine programs. Um we've certainly seen the uh changes in the um policy recommendations in the US which as I think we all know um now changes six vaccines into either um into shared decision-making recommendations as opposed to um uh universal recommendations for the um for children or in some cases for pregnant women. And I think the important point of this is that um shared decision-making is used in um policy recommendations when the the balance of the benefit and the risk is not clear to be able to make um a universal recommendation and it needs much more tailoring at the individual level. What is certainly clear from shared decision-making is that um it uh requires a lot of consultation between a provider and a parent and it certainly is an aspect that will um further constrain uh in general the um the vaccine access that that people have because of the time the um the kind of uh discussions that need to happen. So the US is um uh is making its recommendations um and will be watching carefully um about what the impact of those recommendations are on protection of children especially um from diseases for which we have safe and effective vaccines. And our WHO recommendations do provide um that there are 14 uh diseases against which we have what we refer to as a global recommendation which means that we do recommend that every country in the world is considering those vaccines for inclusion in their routine um program. the US has um made a decision to step back from some of those vaccines um and to revert them into a shared decision-making um approach which certainly can have and we do have concerns um that this may limit uh the um opportunity for children to benefit from these safe and highly effective vaccines. >> Thank you Dr. Far. We wanted to go to LS de before and then come back to you. >> Okay. Yeah. Loose, you wanted to add. >> Thank you so much. I wanted to respond on the question related to food taxes. We directly we have not received any requests from EU but probably our regional office in Europe has. So it's difficult to comment on that part. But what we can say is that we can see increased interest from countries in taxing food that is highly processed or ultrarocessing depending on how you want to call it. Erh, we are working on an operational definition erate the establishment of of policies to limit the consumption. We are in direct countries in direct contact with some countries in Europe but also in other regions who are interested in limiting the consumption of a highly processed foods. So we see a trend and more and more questions are coming into that regulation. Over to you. >> Thank you loose and now to Dr. Farrell. Yeah, there's just one thing to add to that that that is um not only with the countries but we're also working very closely with the international agency international agency for research on cancer in Lyon I um and this is a area to Dr. to Tedros's point earlier of of very clear common ground uh with the United States on on the moves the United States is taking on highly processed food that would came up during the younger discussions around non-communal diseases back in September and and uh there is a a lot of shared interest countries as Liz mentioned but also with us on on how we uh set standards for ultrarocessed foods but also how we limit their use in future. >> Thank you very much. Uh and with this we've come to the end of our briefing today. Thank you very much for for joining us. We will send the audio files and the Dr. General general's remarks at the shortly after this briefing. Um for anything else, please contact media inquiries at wh.int. The the mentioned and discussed reports are online now and can be uh checked there. And also for any further interview requests, please don't try to contact us. And with this back to the Dr. Tedros. >> Thank you. Thank you, Christian. And thank you to all members of the press for joining us today. And see you next time. >> Recording stopped.