Initiative platform for action renewed global health ecosystem navigating challenges and opportunities for financing inclusive resilient and sustainable health systems. Maternal mortality has been down by 40% since 2000. Child mortality by 50% since the 1990s. And we are nearly eradicating polio. And this is not a miracle. It's the product of science and is the product of a health ecosystem that has delivered for people around the world. Yet we have realized that this system has some shortcomings and there is fragmentation indeed. There is the impact of course of budget cuts from some major donors that are asking is asking us to rethink the system. Um there are ongoing initiatives of reform by the institutions by the countries including donor countries and there are some announcements that Spain has made in this in this regard. What we need also is reform and change and that is why Spain working with other countries uh and institutions and civil society has put together this initiative. We have with us 12 countries. Australia, Bolivia, Ethiopia, France, Indonesia, Moritania, Mosmbique, Seneagal, South Africa, Spain, Thailand and the European Commission and others are of course welcome to join. There's countries from the north, from the south, everywhere. We have also the major institutions from the global health system, the world health organization, the pan-American health organization, the global fund to fight AIDS TV and malaria, gabi unad, the pandemic fund, DNDI, echoas from West Africa, is global civil society groups. The initiative has two simple objectives. One is for all these allies, government, civil society, international organizations, initiatives to renew commitment and in particular a commitment of countries, donors and partner countries alike to support a restructured, more agile and more coordinated global health ecosystem with an emphasis on promoting universal health coverage through inclusive, resilient and sustainable national health systems and also reform. We request relevant organizations and some are present here and global initiatives to propose concrete ideas or reforms aimed at improving coherence, agility, efficiency, maximizing impact, strengthening collaboration, avoiding overlapping and fragmentation and very very important supporting and empowering partner countries leadership with a view to present a joint reform road map by early 2026 with an accountability mechanism to the boards. This is no new mechanism but we felt it was important that FFD4 the most important conference on financing development talks about an important matter but also an urgent one which is changes and adaptations in the global health ecosystem and we are very pleased uh to have with us u prime minister Pedro Sanchez of Spain uh Dr. from WH sanistar from Gabi and Peter Sans from the global hand from the global prime minister. Good morning and thank you for attending to this initiative on global health action. For me, it is truly an honor to participate in this event with all of you. It is also a pleasure and a privilege to be able to share the stage with the panels such as speakers such as Dr. Tedros, SA Nishar, and Peter Stans all of whom are true leaders in global health and with whom I'm sure I agree on the worrying diagnosis of the situation in this area which is so crucial for the future of humanity. A recent article published in nature magazine pointed out that the cuts in the global health ecosystem alone will cause more than 25 million deaths in the next 15 years. I repeat that figure for you. The cuts in the global health ecosystem according to Nature magazine will cause more than 25 million deaths in the next 15 years. Just to give you an idea, that is a figure greater than the population of 130 countries in the world. This scenario has come about because of the withdrawal and retreat of some major donor states, but also because selfishness is winning the battle against empathy in a world of fragile memory. A world in which science and knowledge are fighting an unequal battle against the propagators of hoaxes and conspiracy theories. the the world is flat. Defenders, this is the only way that we can um not how can we not forget the lessons of the coid9 pandemic. Barely 5 years have passed since that tremendous public health crisis. The first and most important lessons of the CO 19 pandemic is that it doesn't matter how high the border walls are because no virus is going to stop at customs to stamp your passport before crossing the line. It is a certainty that compels us to act and not just because it is the only morally acceptable decision but because it is also the most intelligent one. In other words, if we do not strengthen the global health architecture out of moral conviction, let us do so to ensure the safety of our citizens. That at least is Spain's vision. And we don't forget the lessons from the CO 19 pandemic. And we're going to back it up with facts and with more resources. 315 million euros for the global health initiative for the period 2025 2027. What does this include? Well, it includes a major increase in contribution to the global fund to fight AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis. It also includes reinforcing Spain's contribution to the Gabi Alliance. I announced in Brussels just a few years a few days ago that we're going to increase our contribution to 130 million euros in the new period. and also it includes the multi-year contribution to the WH with €60 million. Fortunately, and just as our moderator said, we are not alone in this, the global health action initiative has the backing of the major multilateral health organizations and more than 10 countries, many significant contributors to this. And today today we can commit to four major goals that I would like to share with you before uh concluding my words. We want to strengthen the global health architecture and make it more sustainable and efficient. Secondly, we want to align ourselves more closely with international financing more closely aligned with country priorities. Thirdly, we want to promote universal health coverage through resilient, inclusive, and sustainable health systems and encourage the mobilization of domestic resources. In short, it is about acting with a long-term vision to improve a more effective and equitable glo global health governance system. But above all, it is about putting into practice what we learned in the face of the co pandemic. That the health of each of us depends on the health of others. And may that lesson which cost us so many lives during the pandemic never be forgotten. That is what we must bear in mind always. Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Dr. Pedros, director general of the WHO. You can go ahead take the podium. Thank you. Thank you, moderator. It's an honor to be here with your excellency, Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez, and my good friends Sonia and Peter. And I thank your excellency and the government of Spain for your leadership during this critical time in the world. And thank you for attending the replenishment of Gabi in person in Brussels last week and your commitment, your pledges to Gabi, but not only not only that, but to WHO and the global fund. A decade ago as foreign minister of Ethiopia I chaired the third international conference which resulted in the Adisaba action agenda. Those commitments boosted financing for the sustainable development goals including the held SDGs which helped saved lives and made the world a safer and more equitable place. 10 years later, we are we are in a different place with serious challenges. The sudden and drastic cuts to foreign aid have disrupted health systems, disrupted with millions of people missing out on vital services and medication. But within this crisis is also an opportunity as his excellency said to reshape global health financing so that it becomes more resilient and more responsive to the needs of countries. Political leaders through the sea commitment have reaffirmed their commitment to increase investments in universal health coverage and inclusive, equitable, affordable, resilient and quality health systems. The Sevilla platform for action is the vehicle for implementing the Sevilla commitment starting from day one through a more and better financing for SDGs including through taxes and blended finance tackling debt crisis and reforming the development architecture at both national and global levels. The initiative we're launching this morning, led by Prime Minister Sanchez and endorsed by many countries and partners, seeks to shape the global health ecosystem to deliver more sustainable, inclusive and resilient financing for health systems. And this initiative is an opportunity for us also for the global health agencies to recommmit ourselves to have an effective global health architecture. So thank you so much your excellency for bringing us all together. Who is already working with countries to support them through the health financing emergency and to build stronger and more resilient financing systems which are less reliant on aid and which protect the poorest from catastrophic out-ofpocket spending. We're also working with our partners such as the World Bank and regional development banks to channel more concessional financing towards highly cost effective investments in health. And we had a successful discussion yesterday with AIB um uh president especially focused on the concessional financing that uh should be effective and in support of the severe outcome. And we're working with global health initiatives to help ensure priority services are protected during the cuts and financing from all sources is aligned to countries priorities in accordance with the Lusaka agenda principle of one plan, one budget and one report. This is a time of crisis but also a time of reform. And I would like to thank I'd like to um appreciate the uh president the prime minister and not only that to congratulate him on the success of SEIA. The success of Sevilla shows Sevilla shows multilateralism is alive and and well and who is proud to work with Spain and all of our partners to support countries to build a healthier, safer and fairer world powered by a fitfor-purpose global health ecosystems. I thank you. Thank you very much Dr. Tedros. I now give the floor to Dr. Sanar, CEO of Gabby. Your Excellency, the President of the Government of Spain. Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, good morning, Bonus Diaz. It's an honor for me to be here today for this timely convening as the foundations of global health shift beneath our feet which is exactly why the civil platform for action is so critically important with its focus on the need for a new global health ecosystem and we applaud Spain's leadership and drawing attention to this. At Gavei, we have already begun a radical transformation to sustain our extraordinary progress. Our reform is called the Gavei leap and it is predicated on four clear principles. The first principle is country centricity. We have taken concrete steps to increase resources at the decision making discretion of countries. We are making it easier for countries to work with Gary through radical simplification of our grant making and reporting mechanisms. We are channeling more money through governments and we're investing more in strengthening their financial systems. And we realize partnerships are no longer nice to have. And therefore, beyond our own reform, the Garvey Leap is calling for a global health leap. and a merger at the last mile. We are advocating for all agencies to align their grant cycles to facilitate countries and we are calling for a mandated model of health systems integration with full transparency of investments and synchronized analytics. The second principle of the GI leap is national self-reliance. As you may be aware, Gavy's model is unique in having helped 19 countries graduate from support since the year 2000. And our aim now is to accelerate support for other countries on the path to transition. And our third and fourth principles are focus mandates and finite lifespan so that we help countries on the pathway to sustainability and self-reliance and as global agencies focus on global public goods. I'm humbled to let you know that our transformation is well on the way to implementation and we believe its four goals could well serve as a blueprint for a wider global health leap during this time of unprecedented change and uncertainty. Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, last week we were deeply humbled not just by securing a successful GI replenishment at the Brussels summit in what was perhaps the tough toughest context to date, but we were also deeply encouraged by the resounding endorsement of our transformation plan. And I want to thank Spain sincerely as it made its largest pledge yet at the Garvey replenishment. And I want to thank you specially, Mr. President, for your leadership, for being present there in person, and for your bold and courageous pledge to Garvey, which represented a 30 30% increase from your last contribution. As Garvey embarks on its next ambitious journey, I know that we can count on Spain's partnership and Spain's leadership. I also want to congratulate you, Mr. President and I want to congratulate the government of Spain on the launch of Spain's first global health strategy. This is a bold and a visionary commitment to advance health equity, to support multilateralism, and to further global solidarity in these uncertain times. As the world confronts so many challenges, your leadership is now more important than ever. We greatly welcome the idea of developing a joint road map for a new global health architecture under the severe action initiative and we look forward to working with you as you steward this initiative. I thank you much gracias. Thank you very much Dr. Nishar. I now give the floor to Peter Sans executive director of the global fund. Excellencies, colleagues and friends, um let me start by acknowledging and thanking his excellency the prime minister of Spain, Pedro Sanchez, um for your leadership, for your generous support of the global fund and for our partners in health and for your leadership in putting forward uh the civil platform for action and the challenge to us all to make the global health ecosystem even more responsive to the needs of the people we serve. of even more efficient and effective. This is a moment of reckoning in global health. Actually, an enormous amount has been achieved over the last two decades. Uh in my world, that of HIV, TB and malaria. We've seen uh a reduction in the combined mortality rate of 63%. We've seen 65 million lives saved. We've seen really significant increases in life expectancy in many of the countries most affected by these diseases. So we should not underestimate how much we have achieved. But as we all know, we face huge challenges right now. Whether it's climate change, conflict, the diseases themselves evolving, the sharp reductions in overseas development assistance. These are the debt crisis. These are very real challenges and that means we have to think ourselves. We have to look at ourselves and say what what do we need to do differently and this conference is a very timely moment in that debate that discussion and I think the civil platform for action as I say challenges us to really confront what we can do differently in terms of how we structure f how we structure the global aid flows how we work together as agencies and how we partner ner with countries. At the global fund, we are fully supportive of the calls for more agile, more efficient, more effective way of doing things. One that involves different ways of working together, one that involves different ways of working with the countries. Ultimately, we are enablers. Ultimately, those of us in the multilateral world are not the ones who are going to deliver UHC. We're not the ones that are going to bring these diseases to an end. We are going to enable governments, communities, civil society on the ground to make that difference. The ultimate goal is nationally led, nationally resourced health systems that are inclusive and effective and no longer reliant on external support. But we have to recognize that that transition is a journey. It's not a switch and that countries are in very different states of readiness to make that journey. And also that it's not just governments that lead on that journey, but it is civil society and communities and that their voice, their leadership, their active participation in decision-m is absolutely crucial to delivering accountability, impact, and equity. So we are fully behind the calls for change. We're fully behind the calls for strengthened domestic financing. We we embrace the call for a reform roadmap, a joint reform road map um that we can together get behind. Um and we are absolutely behind the commitment to truly universal coverage. And I say truly because sometimes the universal bit of universal health coverage gets a little bit diminished. The U in universal health coverage is absolutely critical. And as we do all of this, we have to retain the focus on what it actually means in terms of impact and outcomes and particularly the impact in terms of saving lives on the health and well-being of the poorest and most marginalized in the world. And that's where communities and civil society will keep us honest and keep us accountable. So at the global fund we are already making changes. We are we we are looking at this situation as one in which we have to change and we must be enthusiastic about radical change. If there was ever a time for radical change in the global health ecosystem, it's now. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much Peter. And with this we come to the end of this event. We thank all the teams involved in this initiative and many are present here and we thank you all of you for your participation today. Thank you very much. Let's have this