and how they will bridge the divide between governments, multilaterals, and the private sector. So, um disease elimination and creating equity in the most um underserved communities is not just a medical challenge. It's tied to geopolitics. And that's one of the reasons that foreign policy, why is foreign policy convening such health programming as this? And that's because it's incredibly important that we work together as common humanity to solve these problems. We feel very strongly about that and we're happy that you're here to join us in uh in that effort. So, some housekeeping. There are there's a lot of stuff on your chair. Let me tell you about it. There's a QR code on your seat that will take you to the agenda. We want to make sure we um conserve and not print too much paper. Um and one side you'll you'll click on that QR code and you'll get to the agenda, speaker bios, and the like. You flip that over and there's a QR code to subscribe to FP. One of the reasons we're able to do this is through your um sustaining subscriptions. So, please do. If you don't already subscribe, think about subscribing. Um a lot of the folks in the room I know already do have subscriptions. We have cool hats for subscribers. They say soft power on the front. Joseph Nye, uh the dearly departed professor, um actually coined the term in Foreign Policy magazine in an article um many years ago. So, we're honoring him with those hats here today. Um we also have reporters on the ground um here in New York. They are publishing their sit newsletter. Um Josh Haltoanganger and Richishi Ianar daily focusing on all the scuttlebutt happening around ANGA. You'll find instructions on how to access that and sign up for it in the um great tote bags that help you think globally. And also there's some headsets on your um seats. That's not for you to zone out and listen to an iPod or music. Um we're going to have a discussion in a couple hours that will feature Brazil Portuguese. So we have some specific instructions uh about that. Not I think you all know how to use a translation device. Um but really we want to collect them afterwards and my colleague Dr. Maisha Alam who heads FP analytics will explain that a little bit more uh later when that uh when that part of the program comes together. Um so I think that's it for the housekeeping but I want to thank our partners. Today's event was made possible with the help with help from the Gates Foundation, Merc and the Rockefeller Foundation. You can applaud. I think that's very deserving. with additional support from Astroenica, BOPA, Sigma Healthcare, and Seed Global Health. Thanks to them as well for supporting the program. Lastly, I am super excited about a brand new foreign policy podcast which we are just going to start work on. It's focused on where global health could be headed at this moment. And the conversation you're about to hear is actually going to be part of that podcast of that first episode. That means you're all going to be part of that first episode. So, let's get going. >> Please welcome Walke Health Executive Director Dr. Rosemary Monguru and Gates Foundation CEO Mark Susman for a conversation with journalist and broadcaster Henry Bonsu. Are you ready? >> Do you mean it? >> Fantastic. Thank you very much indeed. It's great to be here. It's great to see you all. The threshold is a new foreign policy podcast about how to end infectious disease in today's world. In this first episode, I'm delighted to introduce Mark Susman, chief executive of the Gates Foundation and Rosemary Umbu, executive director of Wacki Health, a leading African advocacy organization based in Kenya. And over the next 25 minutes, we'll discuss the future of disease elimination. We've never been closer, but also the challenges have never been greater. Let's start and I'm a journalist. We all have to start with some breaking news from this morning. Gates announced a partnership uh to expand access to generic enterp. >> Yes. Well, uh, the excitement we have about this drug, Licapravier, is it's something that is essentially 99.9% effective