ship of Dr. Tedros Adanum Gabriishus whose unwavering vision has bre breathed life into a new era of multilateralism one that is bold inclusive and deeply rooted in the principle that no nation can stand alone against the tides of disease disaster and disparity. We live at a time of deep uncertainty where fear and despair cast long shadows. Yet through the storms, the WH has stood as a refuge, a sanctuary for health and peace. Born from the ashes of World War II, it has become a sacred gathering ground where nations once divided, united in purpose to protect, to uphold, and build peace through health. My hope is that this remains true for the world without WH is a world without hope. Excellencies and distinguished delegates, today we gather not merely to as representatives of our sovereign nations, but as custodians of humanity's shared future. In this assembly, history pauses to mark a defining moment for the world. The WH, one shaped by the crucible of a pandemic that laid bare both our vulnerabilities and our capacity for collective resilience, including our own limitations in battling diseases, poverty, conflicts, and environmental destruction. We as a human family have seen in the depths of suffering. But we have also glimpsed the light of hope. A hope kindled by equity, fueled by cooperation, and sustained by the belief that unity, not division, shall prevail. The pandemic agreement stands as a testament to this unity. a product not of imposition but of painstaking dialogue across differences. Indeed, a signal of hope in the divided world. For over three years, our delegation sat side by side not to dominate, but to deliberate, not to divide, but to dream of a better, fairer world. Within its provisions lies a promise. access for all to vaccines, diagnostics, and therapeutics, and other pandemic health products. Sustained investment in our health workforce. Equitable sharing of knowledge and innovation through research and development and groundbreaking mechanisms for shared responsibility such as the pathogen access and benefit sharing system and the coordinating financial mechanism for the implementation of this global accord for pandemic prevention preparedness and response. Let us be reminded that this agreement affirms our national sovereignity and the abiding commitment of countries to contribute to global consensus building in preventing the spread of disease and its consequences and loss of lives and livelihood. Our sovereignity is not diminished by cooperation. It is elevated by our willingness to contribute to the common good. The pandemic has imparted profound lessons, insights that will shape the way we navigate this new world, unfolding before us. Yet, amidst the winds of change, some challenges persist with unwavering tenacity. Tuberculosis continues to burden communities with an estimated 11 million people affected worldwide. HIV remains a formidable threat particularly among marginalized and key populations with nearly 40 million individuals living with the virus. Mental health quietly endures in the periphery as one in the in eight people grapple with mental health conditions. The scourge of tobacco remains one of the most persistent and preventable threats to global health. silently undermining progress across generations and contributing to the vast majority of non-communicable diseases that now account for most deaths worldwide. These are not mere numbers. There are names, faces, and stories. As a global community and as champions of health, we are called to urgently act, not simply with sympathy, but with boldness and resolve to address these longstanding health challenges. The new world does not require us to recover, but also to transform. Innovation is the heartbeat of progress, but it must be tempered by compassion with equity as a core principle. Let us harness new technologies not as instruments of profit but as tools of service. Our patients, our people must be empowered not as passive recipients of care, but as partners in disease prevention, guardians of health, and voices of accountability. Let multilateral discourse be inclusive. Lifting up the unheard voices of the suffering and the silenced. Stigma, poverty, gender inequality and marginalization are injustices we are duty bound to dismantle. We must continue to build strong institutions and sound governance structures for they are the foundations of effective decision making, promote accountability and foster transparency, paving the way for fairer, more inclusive policies and services. Indeed, people centered health governance anchored on universal health coverage focusing on transformative primary health care is a barometer of our collective commitment to human rights. Through the United Nations high level political declaration on universal health coverage, we renewed our shared promise that health should never come at the cost of dignity or financial ruin. We pledge to align our investments with primary health care to strengthen subnational and local systems and to confront the root causes of illness and reinforce interventions addressing social determinance of health. Since 2013, the Philippines has made minimum minim meaning meaningful progress in the implementation of the universal health coverage, including the implementation of health taxes on tobacco, alcohol, and sugar sweetened products. Yet numbers still speak with painful clarity. Two billion lives burdened by outofpocket spending for health and over half a billion still waiting for essential care, affordable medicines and technologies they deserve. With only 5 years to 2030, the gap between our vision embodied in the sustainable development goals and our progress remains wide. We must quicken our pace fueled by the truth that every life saved. Every illness prevented is a triumph of humanity. Our work must transcend ministries and borders. Advancing not just health but finding commonality in education, food security, environmental justice, gender equality, digitalization and advancements in technology. Let us not lose sight of our purpose. We, the WH, were founded to guarantee health as a fundamental human right for all. Multilateralism is not just a means to an end. It is the soul of this endeavor, the vessel through which peace, dignity, and health reach every doorstep. The road ahead demands a whole of society commitment for help which is not merely a goal but the very foundation of lasting global peace. Amidst the strain on WH's finances, we must not falter. We, the member states, must rise above fiscal hesitation with unified resolve. As the WHA president, I urge every member state to support the WH investment round. Back the 20% increase in assessed contributions and provide the organization with the flexibility to act swiftly, wisely, and effectively. Remember this, the cost of inaction and delayed action is measured in lives. We can no longer avert our gaze from the pressing realities of our time. Echoes of conflicts, wars and rumors of wars, the relentless toll of disasters and a changing climate. The persistence of diseases and the everpresent threat of another global pandemic. These are not distant storms on the horizon. They are unfolding before us, shaping the course of our shared future. And in the face of uneven progress and insufficient and unsustainable investment for health, the consequences grow ever more profound, too vast, too consequential for us to ignore. In the spirit of solidarity and as a clear expression of our commitment, the Philippines through the leadership of our president Ferdinand R. Marcus Jr. manifested during the 2024 Western Pacific Regional Coordinating Mechanism to contribute to the WH investment round in the next four years. I hope that each of you will shall do the same. Today I call for all all of us to come together and reinforce the organization through sustainable financing and pledges of support while working with the secretariat in diligently reccalibrating the organization, the budget, the structure and greater operational efficiency. Now more than ever, the world needs more hands that heal. health workers who carry the weight of our shared hope. My country, the Philippines, a steadfast wellspring of skilled and compassionate health and care workforce, remains deeply committed to serving humanity by developing and nurturing health professionals. Likewise, we are equally grateful for the global community's resolve in prioritizing the training and retention of health workforce. But the looming global shortfall, an estimated 10 million health workers by 2030, spares no nation. It strains health systems, overwhelms individuals, and frays the minds of those already stretched too thin. No single country country can solve this alone. Let the 78th Assembly through our resolution building momentum in accelerating actions on the global health and care workforce by 2030. Rekindle partnerships among the community of nations that are not just transactional but transformational. finding win-win solutions that build health and care workforce capacity, honor, dignity, and ensure that no community is left behind. We look forward to revitalizing the central role of the WH in strengthening capacities, providing technical support and replicating innovative and positive practices towards ensuring equitable and sustainable development of the health and care workforce. Excellencies and distinguished delegates, this assembly is more than a gathering. It is a declaration, a declaration that unity, not unilateralism, shall define our response to the world's gravest health challenges. That solidarity, not isolation, shall be our strength. Now more than ever, we summon courage and steadfastness against fear that fosters inaction. We embrace hope and strive for peace. and we may help shape a fairer world. We, the WH, through our collective will shall remain the beacon of health for all, emanating hope in a turbulent and fragmented world. As president of the assembly, I stand beside you as a bridgeuer, a pathfinder, and a believer in our shared humanity. You have my solemn pledge and confidence that together as one we can pursue an agenda that fosters hope for health and peace for all. Thank you. We shall now consider item 1.4 adoption of the agenda and allocation of items to the main committee. Let us turn to the proposal for a supplementary agenda uh which is found in the document A781 revision one addendum one. The gen the general committee met and recommended not to include this item in the agenda to facilitate our work. I would like to propose to the plenary that we address this matter through a process that has been constructive when this issue arose in past sessions of the health assembly. Through this process, viewpoints can be expressed and good order of the health assembly can be well maintained. Accordingly, I propose that the debate be structured as follows. Two delegations would take the floor for three minutes. It in support of the general committee's recommendation not to include this item on the agenda and two three minutes each in opposition to the general committee's recommendation not to include the item on the agenda. Furthermore, following this uh how previous such two plus two proposals for the debate has been handled in the past, I would propose that following the four interventions, the health assembly decides as arranged with those most closely involved not to include this on the agenda. As this would be a 2 plus two, I would take it that it is understood that no additional request for the floor on this matter would be put forward. Again, to be clear, it is understood that there will be no additional requests for the floor. Finally, I would like to express my appreciation for the cooperation received in the efforts to agree this arrangement in the form I am proposing it today. It has been the subject of extensive consultation in the runup of the World Health Assembly. My understanding is that this proposal again has the full support of the most closely involved as well as the support of member states generally who have through an informal white paper been acquainted with it. Given this understandings, given the sensitivities and given the importance of a predictable and orderly process, I take it my proposal is agreeable to the health assembly. Thank you. Accordingly, I would like to give the floor to the delegate of China. Mr. President, firstly, warm congratulations on your assumption of the presidency. We will fully cooperate with your work. We support the recommendation of the general committee not to include the Taiwan related proposal in the agenda of the assembly. Firstly, the proposal openly challenges the authority of the UN and the postwar international order. This year marks the 80th anniversary of the victory in the world anti-fascist war and the 80th anniversary of Taiwan's recovery and return to China. Taiwan's return to China is a vital part of the outcomes of the World War II and the post-war international order. Ang resolution 2758 and WHA resolution 25.1 have long since resolved the issue of China's representation including that of Taiwan. In recent years, the Democratic Progressive Party authorities in Taiwan have pursued separatist activities, thereby eliminating the political foundation for Taiwan's participation in the assembly. For many consecutive years, the WHA has rejected such proposals, thereby upholding the authority of the UN and postwar international order. The facts clearly show that the path of Taiwan independence is a dead end and well once again doomed to fail. Second, the Taiwan related proposal interferes in China's internal affairs. The Taiw Taiwan question is an inter internal matter of China and the legacy of the civil war. Although the two sides of the Taiwan Strait have not yet been reunited, the legal and factory status as part of China has never changed. The one China principle is a consensus of the international community. To date, 183 countries have established diplomatic relations with China on this basis. Prior to the opening of the assembly, numerous countries submitted letters to the WHO reiterating their support for the one China principle. This fully demonstrates that the principle represents the prevailing sentiment and consensus of the international community. Third, the central government of China has always attached great importance importance to the well-being of our compatriots in Taiwan. Under the precondition of the one China principle, the engagement of experts from Taiwan province with the WHO is not subject to any difficulties or obstacles. The proposal's hype over the so-called gap in the international pandemic prevention system is completely inconsistent with the facts. China calls upon the president to make a firm ruling in favor of the general committee's recommendation and to reject the inclusion of the Taiwan related proposal in the agenda of the assembly. I thank you, President. Thank you. I would like to give the floor to the delegate of Bise. Mr. Chair, distinguished delegates, on behalf of the government and people of BISE, I rise to express our full support for the proposal to invite Taiwan to participate in the 78th World Health Assembly as an observer and to reaffirm BISE's long-standing position on the importance of Taiwan's meaningful inclusion in all who meetings, mechanisms, and activities. This year's theme, One World for Health, captures the essence of global solidarity. It calls on all of us to act together inclusively to ensure that no one is left behind in our pursuit of help for all. Yet Taiwan, home to 23.5 million people, remains systematically excluded from the WHO, even as it continues to demonstrate commitment, competence, and compassion in global health. Taiwan's record speaks for itself. During the CO 19 pandemic, it implemented one of the world's most effective early response systems. It has donated medical aid to over 80 countries, provided expertise in digital health, and strengthened health systems through international cooperation. Taiwan has also supported critical global health security initiatives from vaccine development to surveillance systems. Excluding such a capable partner not only contradicts the values of the WHO, it weakens our collective preparedness and response capabilities. Let me emphasize the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2758 and the WHA Resolution 25.1 addressed the issue of China's representation, but they do not determine Taiwan's participation in WHO activities. These resolutions do not justify the exclusion of Taiwan, nor do they grant China the right to represent the Taiwanese people. The government of the People's Republic of China has never ruled Taiwan. Furthermore, the continued use of a 2005 secret memorandum to block Taiwan's participation in technical meetings is undemocratic, non-transferred, and detrimental to global health. Between 2009 and 2022, Taiwan applied to participate in 237 who technical meetings, but was allowed to attend only 88. This is not a reflection of global cooperation. It is a reflection of political interference. Mr. Chair, we cannot claim to support one world for health while willfully excluding a willing and able partner. Help must come before politics. The inclusion of Taiwan is not a political issue. It is a matter of global health, security, human rights, and fairness. Biz therefore urges all member states to stand on the side of inclusion, science and solidarity. We call on this assembly to invite Taiwan to participate as an observer at WHA78 and to open the door for its full engagement in WHO activities. The position of BISE is clear and unwavering. Taiwan can help. Taiwan must be included. One world for health means must mean health for all. No exceptions. I thank you. Thank you. I would like to give the floor to the delegate of Pakistan. Pakistan supports China's position regarding Taiwan's participation as an observer in World Health Assembly. We firmly uphold the one China principle as affirmed by UN General Assembly Resolution 2758 and World Health Assembly Resolution 25.1. These resolutions provide the World Health Organization with a solid legal foundation to approach this matter reflecting China's sovereignity and territorial integrity. We urge all stakeholders to respect the agreement reached through these resolutions on this issue. As it stands, communication and collaboration channels for Taiwan's region's involvement in WHO technical fields are well established and operational. subject to adherence to the one China principle. Experts from Taiwan can engage WH technical meetings. Introducing divisive items like this into agenda jeopardizes the function of this critical forum and contradicts the core tenets of the UN charter. The World Health Assembly is intended to be a technical body and WHO is a specialized agency of the UN. Hence, politicizing its agenda detracts from addressing vital public health issues. Such actions are contrary to the principles of state sovereignity and global solidarity. The primary objective of this health assembly should be to address global public health challenges including the ongoing public health emergencies in different parts of the world resulting from conflicts, natural disasters and climate change induced catastrophe. Our focus must be on enhancing multilateral cooperation to tackle these issues and to bolster global health governance. We should avoid dwelling on the issues that have been conclusively resolved. I thank you. Thank you. I would like to give the floor to the delegate of St. Vincent and the Grenardines. Mr. President, colleagues, director general, ladies and gentlemen, St. Vincent and the Grenadines is strongly advocating for the reinstatement of Taiwan as an observer at the World Health Assembly. Today, when the global discourse is focusing more on strengthening health systems and the One World for Health idea gathers momentum, Taiwan, a nation of 23.5 million people, should not be left out. We are convinced that Taiwan's inclusion would make the world healthier, more sustainable, and more equitable. Taiwan was invited to attend WHA as an observer for 8 years between 2009 and 2016. This was unfortunately discontinued for political and not health reasons. We reiterate neither the UN General Assembly Resolution 2758 nor the WHA resolution 251 can be used to justify Taiwan's exclusion from WH. These resolutions do not mention Taiwan, nor do they confirm Taiwan to be part of any other nation. Hence, these resolutions have nothing to do with and do not address the issue of Taiwan's representation in the UN system. Mr. President, Taiwan's contribution to global health is well documented. Taiwan has been willing and able to help whenever necessary. For example, during the CO9 pandemic, Taiwan implemented advanced deployment and response mechanisms to prevent and contain the virus. Taiwan worked well with international partners, sharing experiences and responses with other countries. As a leader in medical technology and digital health, it has helped other nations improve their health systems. These actions demonstrate in no uncertain terms that Taiwan is an indispensable part of the global health network and as such should be record accorded a greater role in the WHO system. The problem of Taiwan exclusion extends to all WHO activities. This exclusion in participating in the affairs of international health affects the fundamental health of its 25.5 million people and many more people around the world and should not be subject to outside consent. We dare say that for us to be true to the WHO constitution and the noble theme of one world for health. All stakeholders including partners like Taiwan who have a proven record of making significant contributions to global health must be included. Taiwan's prolonged exclusion is unfair and self-defeating. Its inclusion will not do any injury to the UN charter. WHO should live up to its vision of health for all irrespective of race, religion, political belief, economic or social condition. We urge all relevant stakeholders to support Taiwan's inclusion as an observer and Taiwan's full participation in WH meetings, mechanisms, and activities. No country should be left behind. Neither should be any people. The position of my government is firm and unequivocical. WHA must discuss inviting Taiwan to participate as an observer. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Now that we have heard four interventions on this subject, I take it that the health assembly accepts the recommendation of the general committee not to include the proposed supplementary agenda item on on the agenda. I I see that this is the case. Microphone chairman, please. Before proceeding further, I would express my appreciation for the understanding and cooperation of all member states in the orderly and uh predictable handling of this item which further furthers the good order and effectiveness of the health assembly and the principles enshrined in the constitution of the world health organization. Let us now turn to the adoption of the agenda itself. The the general committee recommended deleting the following items from the provisional agenda. Item four, invited speakers. Item five, admission of new members and associate members. Item 21.7, assessment of new members and associate members. Item 21.8, amendments to the financial regulations and financial rules. Am I correct in assuming that it is agreed to delete these items? I see no objections. It is so decided. The general committee also decided to recommend to the plenary that the 78th World Health Assembly close no later than Tuesday, 27 May 2025. May I therefore assume that the assembly agrees to adopt the provisional agenda as contained in document A781 revision one as amended. What's this? I see no objections. It is so decided. The agenda is hereby adopted. Document 781 revision 2 reflecting the changes on the agenda will be distributed tomorrow morning. This concludes the consideration of the agenda. Our program of work for the remainder of the day will be item two report of the executive board on its 155th and 156th sessions followed by the agenda item number three addressed by the director general. The address of the director general will be followed by the general discussion on item three and the convening of the first com meeting of the committee A. If needed, committee A will conduct an evening session today, Monday 19 May from 1800 to consider agenda sub item 16.2 to intergovernmental negotiating body to draft and negotiate a WH convention agreement or other international instrument on pandemic prepared prevention preparedness and response on Tuesday 20 May at 900 hours item 8 reports of the main committees will be held in the third plenary meeting the plenary will then be suspended for the highle segment which includes messages from heads of delegation and the global health leaders awards. After the conclusion of the high level segment, the plenary will resume the consideration of the first report of committee A. Committee A will then continue their discussions following the plenary. The committee on credentials will also meet on Tuesday 20 May at 1400 to help facilitate interpol interpretation and the preparation of official records delegations and requested and are requested to provide the secretariat before the plenary advanced copies of their statements either through email at interpretw.int int or give a paper copy of the document to the officers in the room at least 30 minutes in advance. This does not prevent delegates from making changes on delivery. It will however facilitate clarity and accuracy in all languages. under the subject and at the top of the statement please state the name of the country group the meeting either plenary committee A committee B and the relevant agenda item in order to facilitate the organization of the week. I would like to propose and this is a procedure followed on previous occasions that the order of the list of speakers for discussion under agenda item three be strictly adhered to and that further requests be added to the list in order in which they are received. I would also like to propose that the list of speakers be closed tomorrow Tuesday at 1000 CST. I assume these proposals are acceptable to everyone. I see no objections. So it is decided on Wednesday 21 May 9 900 the fifth plenary will meet to consider the report of the committee on credentials and the finalization of the general discussion under agenda item three. Committee A will resume its work and hold its next meeting immediately after consideration of the report of the committee on credentials. Also on Tuesday 21 May following the closure of agenda item number three in plenary committee B will convene its first meeting and consider item 19 under the election of the vice chairs and reparator followed item 21 budget and finance matters. At 14:30, committee B will consider agenda item 20, health conditions in the occupied Palestinian territory, including East Jerusalem and in the occupied Syrian Goland. The general committee will also hold its second meeting on Wednesday at 17:30 to draw up a list of members for the purpose of the annual election of members entitled to designate a person to serve on the executive board and to consider any change in the program of work of the health assembly. Does the plenary agree to this proposal? I see no objection. It is so decided. Let us suspend the agenda item and come back to it should we need to take more adjustments of our program. Let us now move to agenda item two report of the executive board on on its 155th and 156th sessions. I have the pleasure to invite to the roastroom the chair of the executive board Mr. Jerome Walut. Mr. Walot, you have the floor. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. Dr. Tedros, director general of the WHO, honorable ministers, excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to congratulate you, Mr. President and the other officer office office bearsers on your election and wish you the very best in steering the affairs of the assembly to a successful end. In today's statement, I will summarize the highlights of the 155th and 156 sessions of the executive board. During the 155th session held from the 3rd to the 4th of June 2004, the board considered 17 items and sub items and adopted 12 decisions. The board noted the report of the four fourth meeting of the program budget and administration committee and the fourth meeting of the standing committee on health emergency prevention preparedness and response. It appointed members to serve in the vacant positions on those two committees as well as on the vacant positions on foundation committees and selection panels for public health prizes. On the matter of evaluation, the board noted the annual report and decided to initiate a revision of the WHO evol evaluation policy. The board also noted a report on engagement with non-state actors and decided to admit two non-state actors into the official relations with WHO. The board welcomed the report by the leads for the member state-led governance reform on a process for handling and investigating potential allegations against WHO directors general and adopted a decision on the next steps in developing a proposal for such process. During its 156th session held from the 3rd to the 11th of February 2025, the board considered 45 items and sub items and adopted 41 decisions and seven resolutions. In relation to the first pillar, the board noted a report on universal health coverage and recommended that the health assembly adopt four resolutions and one strengthening national capacities in evidence-based decision making for the uptake and impact of norms and standards. Two, rare diseases. Three, strengthening health financing globally. and four strengthening medical imaging capacity. The board also noted report on the follow-up to the political declaration of the third high level meeting of the general assembly on the prevention and control of non-communicable diseases and recommended that the assembly adopt a decision on a dedicated report on mental health as well as four resolutions on one promoting and prioritizing an integrated lung health approach. Two, reducing the burden of non-communicable diseases through promotion of kidney health and strengthening prevention and control of kidney disease. Three, primary prevention and integrated care for sensory impairments including vision impairment and hearing loss. And four, world cervical cancer elimination day concerning communicable diseases. The board noted a report on that subject and recommended that the health assembly adopt resolutions on accelerating the eradication of draen kul kuliasis and on skin diseases as a global public health priority. The board noted two reports on health and care workers and recommended that the health assembly adopt a decision on the interim report of the expert advisory group on WH global code of practice on the international recruitment of health personnel as well as a resolution on accelerating action on the global health and care workforce by 2030. The board noted the draft global traditional medicine strategy 2025 to 2034 and recommended that the assembly adopt the strategy on the understanding that further consultations would be held to finalize the draft. The board also noted the report on global strategy for women's children's and adolescent health and adopted decisions recommended the assembly adopt resolutions on a world premature day and on the digital marking of breast milk substitutes. In relation to the items under the second pillar, the board noted a report on Bobby Horo's work in health emergencies and recommended that the health assembly adopt a resolution on public health and social measures. The board noted a report on health conditions in the occupied Palestinian territory, including East Jerusalem, and recommended that the health assembly adopt one resolution. In relation to the third pillar, the board noted a report on the impact of chemicals, waste, and pollution on human health and recommended that the health assembly adopt a resolution on lead. The board noted a report on the updated road map for an enhanced global response to the adverse health effects of air pollution and recommended the health assembly to adopt the updated road map. The board also noted the report on climate change and health and decided that the secretariat would continue facilitating intersectional consultations to enable adoption of the draft global action plan. at the present meeting of the health assembly. In relation to the fourth pillar, the board noted the reports on financing and implementation of the program budget 2024 2025 and the proposed program budget 2026 to 2727 and adopted a decision point on the resolutions and priorities for adoption by the health assembly. The board noted a report on the process for handling and investigating potential allegations against WHO directors general and decided to request the chairs of the EB and the PEBAC to conduct informal consultations with member states to resolve the remaining areas of divergence and finalized draft procedures for consideration by the health assembly through the Peabach. The board decided to extend the mandate of the standing committee on health emergency prevention preparedness and response until the closure of the 79th World Health Assembly in 2026. On staffing matters, the board expressed its condolences on the untimely death of Dr. Fostin Dug Lelay nominated by the regional committee for Africa in August 2024 as regional director for Africa and decided to appoint the next regional director at its 157th session. The board also reappointed Dr. Hans Honry Kuga as regional director for Europe as from 4th of February 2025. This brings to clo close my report. Mr. President, to other members of the executive board and I would like to convey our highest regards to you and indicate our readiness to respond to any questions or clarifications you may need. I thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Walcott, for your excellent report. I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the work of the executive board and in particular to express our appreciation and our warm thanks to the outgoing members who have contributed very actively to the work of the board. This concludes our review of item two of our agenda. Let us now turn to item three of the agenda addressed by Dr. Adhan Abracus, Director General. And now invite director general to the roast room. Dr. Tedros, you have the floor. Thank you. Thank you, your excellency, honorable president of the World Health Assembly, Secretary Teodoro Herbosa. I think you can recognize the names are the same. Teodoro and Tedros are the same. My name is Ethiopianized. uh and the federal counselor of the Swiss Confederation, Elizabeth Bome Schneider and director general of the United Nations in Geneva, Tatiana Valo Va. And I would also like to acknowledge the presence of my predecessor, former who director general Margaret Chan. I think she's not in her seat, but she was here. I'm very glad that she joined us. Excellencies, honorable ministers and heads of delegation, dear colleagues and friends, Mabuhai and welcome to the 78 World Health Assembly. I think the president of the assembly will tell you later what Mabuhai means. Every World Health assembly is significant, but this year's is especially so. At this assembly, member states will consider and hopefully adapt the WHO pandemic agreement. This is truly a historic moment. As you would agree with me, even in the middle of crisis and in the face of significant opposition, you worked tirelessly. You never gave up and you reached your goal. when you finally reached consensus on the morning of the 16th of April after an intense night of negotiations and I was so honored to to be here there in the room to witness that it was a mixture of emotions for all of us joy, triumph, relief, exhaustion but that night seeing your commitment I was so moved and you made it and I look forward to your adoption of the agreement and to celebrating that adaption with you at tomorrow's high level. Welcome. Excellencies, it's an honor to deliver to you my report for 2024, a year of significant challenges and significant achievements. The results report for 2024 provides a more comprehensive account than I can provide today. and I commend it to you. It shows how we're using your resources to achieve tangible results. At this assembly, last year, member states approved the 14th general program of work with its s three-fold mission to promote, provide, and protect health. Allow me, as I always do, to pick out a few highlights according to each of those three priorities. First, our mission to promote health, and prevent disease by addressing its root causes in the air people breathe, the food they eat, the water they drink, the roads they use, and the conditions in which they live and work. It's now 20 years since the WHO framework convention on tobacco control entered into force. In that time, smoking prevalence has dropped by one/3 globally and there are 300 million fewer smokers today than where there would have been had prevalence remained the same. Every year, WHO supports more countries to implement evidence-based measures to fight tobacco. Last year, Kivoir, Georgia, Lao PDR, and Oman introduced plain packaging. Vietnam prohibited ecigarettes and heated tobacco products. And through our partnership in the tobaccof free farms initiative, we have supported more than 9,000 tobacco for farmers in Kenya and Zambia to shift away from growing tobacco to growing high iron beans. With who support, 15 countries increased taxes on unhealthy products last year, including tobacco, alcohol, and sugary drinks. Five countries passed best practice policies on trans fat elimination and these are Colombia, Lebanon, Mauritius, Nepal and Qatar. And today we will recognize four more countries for the same achievement. Austria, Norway, Roman and Singapore. You know trans fat elimination and its impact on cardiovascular disease. And congratulations to those countries. 34 countries have also joined the acceleration plan to stop obesity. We published a new guideline on Westing and we helped secure multi-year funding for 15 hybrid countries reaching more than 9 million and saving an estimated 1 million lives. In February this year, we co-hosted the global ministerial conference on road safety in Morocco where countries made strong commitments and I thank his majesty the king and his excellency the head of government for their strong leadership and support on this issue. In March, we also co-hosted the global conference on air pollution on health in Colombia. And I likewise thank his excellency President Gustavo Petro for his strong support and leadership on that issue. If recommendations be implemented, I know we will make good progress. WHO continues to support countries to address the cause of air pollution, mitigate its impacts and build climate friendly and climate resilient health systems. Together with Gabi and UNICEF, we're supporting the electrification of 10,000 health facilities through solar systems in Ethiopia, Uganda, Pakistan, and Zambia. One thing I would like to remind you is Gabi will have its replenishments in June in Brussels and I urge you to give your full support. In Ukraine, we worked with partners to improve water sanitation, hygiene and waste services at over 200 health facilities. And we have now established a formal partnership with past, present and future climate co-presidentidencies to ensure health remains at the center of future climate discussions. Now to the second pillar of our mission to provide health by expanding equitable and affordable access to essential health services. Through the UHC partnership, we provided support to 36 countries last year to develop packages of services for universal health coverage based on the foundation of strong primary healthcare including eight countries with humanitarian crisis. We also supported 11 countries to analyze their health and labor market to shape national strategies and investment plans. And last year we trained 15,000 health workers in more than 160 countries to address the physical and mental health needs of refugees and migrants. In December last year, I also had the honor of joining President Emanuel Macarron to open the WHO Academy in Leon. The WH Academy will be a gamecher in terms of building capacity in countries by providing lifelong training online and in person for health and care workers, policy makers, and the WHO workforce. Just as we work to expand access to health services, so we are working to expand access to medicines and health products and to strengthen regulatory authorities around the world. Last year we did designated 33 regulators as WHO listed authorities which will significantly expedite who pre-qualification of medicines that have already been approved by one of these regulators of reference. We also recognized Egypt, India, Rwanda, Seneagalan and Zimbabwe for achieving or maintaining maturity level three for regulatory oversight of medicines and vaccines. We pre-qualified 126 medicines, vaccines, diagnostics and other products. and we gave emergency use listing to two vaccines for EMOX and a variant of COVID 19. We launched a new platform with information on more than 2,500 types of medical devices and we selected 481 nonproprietary names for active pharmaceutical ingredients. At the same time, we're working to protect precious medicines against the steady march of antimicrobial resistance. Last year's UN high level meeting on AMR resulted in a commitment to reduce the number of AMR related deaths by 10% by 2030. and the Jedha commitments will help to translate the political declaration into real world action. And I thank the minister and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for the successful AMR meeting. Over 170 countries now have national action plans on AMR and more countries are adopting who recommendations. Nepal for example has banned the use of antibiotic combinations that WHO classifies as not recommended. Last year we also developed the first guidance on wastewater and solid waste management for manufacturing of antibiotics and the AMR industrial lines updated its standard to align with who guidance on maternal and child mortality. After substantial improvements during the MDG era, progress has largely stalled. We continue to work with member states to identify the barriers and to give them the tools to overcome them. Over 50 countries have now developed acceleration plans to reduce maternal and newborn mortality and prevent steel burgers. And last year Tanzania opened 30 new care units for newborns while Pakistan, Ghana, Saralion and Malawi are also making progress to increase uptake of family planning uh practices. We developed a protocol to rapidly assess bottlenecks which 27 countries are now implementing. We also published new guidelines and neonatal sepsis, child birth pneumonia and quality of care. And we continue to support countries to catch up on routine immunization. When the expanded program on immunization was launched in 1974, less than 5% of the world's children were immunized. Today that figure stands at 83%. EPI has been the single biggest contributor to infant and child survival globally, preventing 154 million deaths, an average of 8,000 a day for the last 50 years. And we continue to support countries to introduce new vaccines to save lives. Since the start of 2024, six new countries have introduced HPV vaccines. Nine of Africa's most affected countries are preparing to roll out the new men 5 CV menites vaccine and we have supported the delivery of more than 27 million doses of malaria vaccine in 20 countries in Africa. Meanwhile, we're living in a golden age of disease elimination. Last year, Cabo Verde and Egypt were certified as malaria free and already this year, Georgia has reached the same status. Congratulations to those countries. We also confirmed seven countries for the elimination of neglected tropical diseases. Brazil, India, Jordan, Pakistan, Timorstee and Vietnam. And so far this year, Guinea, Moritana, and Papa Newu Guinea have all been confirmed for the elimination of entities. Last year, only 15 human cases of guineaorm diseases were reported from just 12 villages in Chad and South Sudan. I would like to acknowledge the strong personal commitment of the late President Jimmy Carter to guineaorm eradication. Although he sadly did not live to see his dream achieved, his legacy will endure through the work of the Carter Center. And we validated Guinea for the elimination of maternal and neonatal tetanus and Brazil was revalidated for Misel's elimination. Since the start of last year, we validate validated bellies, Jamaica, and St. Vincent and the Grandins for the elimination of motherto- child transmission of HIV and syphilis. And congratulations and we re-evaluate we revalidated Armenia and Dominica for elimination of mother to child transmission of HIV and Namibia for being on the path to transmission of HIV and hepatitis B. And this year we validated Botswana for becoming the first country to reach gold chair status to the path to elimination of motherto- child transmission of HIV. on HIV. 77% of people living with HIV globally are now accessing treatment, up from 69% in 2020. And 19 countries have achieved the 95 95 95 targets ahead of the 2025 deadline on hepatitis. Last year we reached 38 focused countries with new simplified treatment guidelines for hepatitis B. We supported 10 countries in Africa to introduce hepatitis B vaccination at birth. And with the support of who Pakistan launched the prime minister's program for the elimination of hepatitis C, aiming to screen more than 80 million people and treat almost 4 million. very ambitious target on tuberculosis. WHO's work is enabling more people to be treated with better medicines, treated with better diagnostics, and we're supporting the development of better TB vaccines. A pivotal phase, a pivotal phase three trial of the lead vaccine candidate has completed recruitment in record time, enrolling over 20,000 volunteers in South Africa, Kenya, Malawi, Zambia, and Indonesia. We await the results of what could be the first effective TB vaccine in over 100 years. In addition, treatment coverage for TB has now reached 75% globally for the first time. And last year, we launched groundbreaking guidelines for shorter, fully oral, more effective regime for people with drug resistance TB, which have now been adapted in 109 countries. on mental health. We supported countries to expand access to mental health services for 70 million people in 90 in nine countries, providing care to more than 1 million people. We also provided lifesaving medication for 2.1 million people with severe mental illness in conflict settings including Chad, Sudan, and Ethiopia. However, requests for medicines for mental health have stopped almost completely in some countries due to funding limits and competing priorities, leaving people with severe illness with no support in the middle of crisis. Through our partnership on childhood cancer with St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in the US. We have begun distributing medicines free of charge in lower income countries. We aim to reach 12,000 children with cancer in 12 countries this year. On cervical cancer, 155 member states now have national guidelines on cervical screening based on who guidelines on hypertension. More than 30 countries have now implemented the WHO hearts program, reaching more than 12 million patients across 165,000 primary care facilities. And just one year after its launch, WHO Specs 2030 initiative is supporting access to affordable eyeglasses in 16 countries, including to people in remote areas. Now to the third pillar of our mission, supporting countries to protect health by preventing and responding rapidly to health emergencies. In 2024, WHO coordinated the response to 51 graded emergencies in 89 countries, outbreaks, natural dis disasters, conflicts, and more. We deployed and delivered urgently needed specialist medical supplies worth 196 million US dollars to 80 countries. We deployed 89 emergency medical teams, supported more than 67 outbreak response uh deployments, and much more. Thank you so much for your support to the uh emergency fund that really helped in in those interventions. We helped to bring collera outbreaks under control in 27 of 33 affected countries leaving only six in an acute phase. With who support, Rwanda and Tanzania stopped outbreaks of Madburgg virus disease and Uganda stopped an outbreak of Ebola, including a vaccine trial that began within four days of the outbreak. As you know, in August last year, I declared a public health emergency of international concern over the outbreaks of EMox in the DRC and other countries in Africa. In response, WHO gave emergency use listing to the first Empox vaccines and tests and helped to coordinate donations of 6 million vaccinos across 15 countries. Meanwhile, 2024 was a year of mixed news for the other public health emergency of international concern, polio. We helped to stop an outbreak of wild polio virus in Africa. But the number of cases detected in Pakistan and Afghanistan rose from 12 in 2024 to 99 last year. 10 cases have been reported so far this year. In response to the res to a resurgence of polio in Gaza, who negotiated a humanitarian pause for a vaccination campaign that reached more than 560,000 children. We stopped polio, but the people of Gaza continue to face multiple other threats. Two months into the latest blockade, 2 million people are starving while 116,000 tons of food is blocked at the border just minutes minutes away in Al Ar. The risk of famine in Gaza is increasing with the deliberate withholding of humanitarian aid, including food in the ongoing blockade. Increasing hostilities, evacuation orders, shrinking humanitarian space, and the aid blockade are driving an influx of casualties to a health system that's already on its knees. People are dying from preventable diseases as medicines wait at the border while attacks on hospitals deny people care and deter them from seeking it. Since November 2023, WHO has supported medical evacuations of more than 7,300 patients out of Gaza, including 617 cancer patients. We thank St. Jude Children's Research Hospital and the European Union for their support and partnership in making this evacuations possible. However, more than 10,000 patients still need medical evacuation out of Gaza. We ask member states to accept more patients and we ask Israel to allow this evacuations and to allow urg urgently needed food and medicine to enter Gaza. WHO stands ready with our UN partners to move rapidly to deliver it if and when it's allowed to enter. In Sudan, an estimated 32,000 people have been killed. 30% of the population is displaced and 20 million people need humanitarian aid. I visited Sudan in September where I saw the effects of the civil war and met people who are paying the price. The following week I was in Chad where I traveled to the border town of Adre and met some of the 900,000 Sudanis refugees who have fled seeking security and food. And they're just a fraction of the 122 million people globally who have been forced to flee their homes. In Gaza, Sudan, Ukraine, and elsewhere, we continue to see attacks on healthcare, which are becoming a new normal of conflict. Last year, we verified more than 1,500 attacks on healthcare in 15 countries and territories, killing more than 900 people. In every country, the best medicine is peace and a political solution. I hope peace will prevail that can transcend generations. War is not the solution. Peace and political solution is the solution. in response. Thank you. Thank you. In a response to the lessons learned from COVID 19 and other health emergencies, who is supporting countries to strengthen their capacities through the health emergency preparedness and response framework. We're supporting countries to strengthen their capacities in genomic surveillance and every day we scan the world for public health threats through the epidemic intelligence from open-source platform. Last year we assessed more than 15 million potential signals from 13,000 sources. The pandemic fund has provided $885 million in grants catalyzing an additional $6 billion in co- financing supporting 47 projects across 75 countries. Through the WH hub for pandemic and epidemic intelligence in Berlin, the international pathogen surveillance network now connects 350 organizations in 100 countries. You know, the Berlin Hub is a product of the lessons learned from COVID 19. And the research and development blueprint for epidemics and pandemics is managing collaborative open research concertia for 12 families of pathogens involving over 5,000 scientists to drive R&D and identify gaps in counter measures. I would especially like to acknowledge the Oswaldo Cruz Foundation in Brazil, Fior Cruz, which is leading one of those consortia. I thank Fior Cruz for its partnership and offer my warm congratulations on its 125th anniversary. Feliz anniversario Fio Cruz. I had also a very good partnership with with Fio Cruz when I was minister of health in Ethiopia and started the monitoring and evaluation masters program that strengthen our health management and information system. So uh ubrio mu obri of your cruise the marin technology transfer program based in South Africa is now sharing technology with a network of 15 partner countries globally. The global training hub in the republic of Korea has helped to train over 7,000 participants in biio manufacturing. These two the Captown and Korea also South Africa and Korea are also based on COVID lessons including the biohub which is facilitating sharing of samples to address the sharing of samples challenges we face then and just last month last month the global health emergency corps run a two-day simulation called exercise polaris with 350 experts from 50 15 countries is to test capacities for deploying and connecting health experts during health emergencies. Through the open WHO platform, more than 9 million people accessed learning supporting the response to 26 outbreaks. At this assembly last year, member states adopted a package of amendments to the international health regulations and who is supporting countries to prepare for their entry into force in September this year 2025. We are also supporting voluntary national and global peer reviews of preparedness through the universal health and preparedness review. Last year we supported 19 joint external evaluations, 28 afteraction reviews and 34 simulation exercises and for the first time we have 195 countries reporting on their IHR capacities through the state's parties annual report thus far. So based on the COVID lessons, there are significant changes that are happening and we need to continue to push. In addition to these general preparedness activities, we're also supporting countries to prepare for specific threats including Ebola. With Gabi, we vaccinated 150,000 health workers in six countries against Ebola. the first time this has happened outside of an outbreak response to prevent any future outbreak. We also supported the vaccination of 65 million people against yellow fever in four countries and through the global influenza surveillance and response system giz more than 12 million samples were collected and tested and 50,000 samples were shared with who influenza collaborating centers. We recommended nine new zonotic candidate vaccine viruses available globally manufact available globally to manufacturers to produce vaccines in case of an influenza pandemic as we have agreed preparation is continuous that's why honorable ministers dear colleagues and friends all of this work to promote provide and protect health is supported by our efforts at all three levels of the organization on the force and thieves piece of GPW14 to power and perform for health through science, digital technologies, data and our ongoing transformation. Last year we conducted a review of our transformation to see what has worked and what has not. Based on the review, we have rep prioritized transformation and aligned it with priorities of the GPW14. One of the successes of transformation has been our increased focus on science, data and digital health and this is the future of the organization. Damn nature's normative standard setting work is its bread and butter and we have streamlined processes to give member states the highest quality evidence-based advice as fast as possible. Last year there were 65 million downloads of who publications guidance and other materials. We launched important new guidelines on aven influenza, artificial intelligence, clinical trials, tobacco sessation, Empox and so much more. Starting this year, we are aligning our guidance and normative work with pre-qualifications, meaning we will pre-qualify a product and issue guidance of on how to use it at the same time. The first product under the new process will be lenapir an exciting new medicine for the treatment and prevention of HIV. Although a true HIV vaccine remains elusive, Lena Pavir is the next best thing, an injectable antiretroviral taken every six months that has been shown to prevent almost all HIV infections in those at risk. We expect to conclude both the guideline and pre-qualification processes this year which will support the subsequent roll out of this product. Another success of transformation has been our increased focus on digital health. Over the past five years, WHO has supported almost 75% of member states to develop strategies to harness digital technologies including artificial intelligence to strengthen health their uh system. WHO hosts the global digital health certification network which last year enabled the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Oman, Indonesia and Malaysia to issue 250,000 international patient summaries for two 2024 Hajj pleums supporting emergency care for 78% of scan records. Many more countries are joining this year. The network now covers 82 countries benefiting nearly two billion people. I thank the EU for its continued support for this work. Another key element of our transformation has been our focus on data. Every country in the world now act now access the world health data hub which is a secure and standardized pathway to increase transparency, accountability and progress. Honorable ministers, dear colleagues and friends, I hope you agree that we have many achievements to celebrate. But we also know that many countries face significant challenges. Many ministers have told me that sudden and steep cuts to bilateral aid are causing severe disruption in their countries and imperiling the health of millions of people. In at least 70 countries, patients are missing out on treatments. Health facilities have closed. Health workers have lost their jobs. and people face increased out-ofpocket health spending. Although this is a challenge, many countries also see this as an opportunity to leave behind an era of a dependency and accelerate the transition to sustainable self reliance based on domestic resources. We're doing our best to support countries to make that transition. And yet at precisely the time the member states need a strong WHO, it's being challenged. Although our current situation is difficult, it should not be a surprise to any of us. It's a situation many years in the making and one that we saw coming. When we began the WHO transformation 8 years ago, as soon as I started my director general tenure, one of the main problems we set out to address was who over reliance on earmarked voluntary funding from a handful of traditional donors. We have implemented several measures to elevate that problem with your support. As you know, the past five years, we published the first investment case, established the WHO Foundation, conducted the first investment round, and three years ago, the Health Assembly took an historic decision to increase assess contributions progressively to 50% of the base budget. This is the highest increase in the history of this organization and thank you for your confidence and for that historic decision in 2022. This week I ask you to approve the next increase to make another step toward securing the long-term financial sustainability and independence of your WHO. Already the first increase has made a huge difference. If it had not happened, our current financial situation would be much worse. 300 million dollars worse. Even so, we are facing a salary gap for the next banium of more than 500 million dollars. The secretariat has taken a range of measures to curtail costs in travel, procurement, recruitment, early retirement and more. These measures have helped to narrow the gap, but still there is no alternative but to reduce the size of our workforce. We're doing this reduction carefully to protect the quality of our work and ensure that we are positioned to emerge from this crisis stronger, more empowered and more independent. As you know, we have been engaging in a major structural re reignment guided by an indepth analysis of priorities deliberate and conscious. The prioritization exercise has informed the development of a new streamlined structure for headquarters which reduces the executive management team from 14 to 7 and the number of departments from 76 to 34. Some member states call the new structure lean and mean. I think it's more focused and it could be more impactful as well. Last week I announced our new executive management team and in the coming weeks we will decide which directors will lead which departments. This was an extremely difficult decision for me. You can imagine that and many of you have said that when we met as it is for every manager on our organization who is having to decide who stays and who goes. I wish to place on record my deep gratitude to the outgoing members of our executive management team. Dr. Mike Ryan, Dr. Samira Asma, Dr. Bruce Alward, Dr. Katina Beame, Dr. Lee Alian, and Dr. Jerham Solomon. Each of them has served the organization and the people of the world with distinction and dedication and again of course without I ask you you did it but again I ask you to join me in thanking them for their contribution and for the Job well done. Thank you so much. Excellencies, let's be clear. A reduced workforce means a reduced scope of work. The organization simply cannot do everything member states have asked it to do with the resources available. This week you will consider a reduced program budget of 4.2 billion dollars for the 2026 2027 bianium. This represents a 21% reduction on the original proposed budget of 5.3 billion US. Assuming you approve the increase in assess contributions and thanks to the investment round, we're confident that we have already secured more than $2.6 billion or 60% of the funding for the next bianium. That leaves an anticipated budget gap of more than$1.7 billion US. We know that in the current landscape mobilizing that sum that amount will be a challenge. We are not naive to that challenge. But for an organization working on the ground in 150 countries with a vast mission and mandate that member states have given us, $4.2 2 billion for two years or 2.1 billion a year is not ambitious. It's extremely modest and I hope you will agree with me and I will tell you why. $2.1 billion is the equivalent of global military expenditure every 8 hours. I don't know how many of us know this. $2.1 billion US is the price of one steel bomber to kill people. And $2.1 billion US is one quarter of what the tobacco industry spends on advertising and promotion every single year. And again, a product that kills people. It seems it seems somebody switched the price tags on what is truly valuable in our world. I will share with you a story at the Munich Security Conference in February. I'm a regular attendee of the Munich Security Conference since I became foreign minister in um 2012. I haven't missed except during COVID. At that conference, a foreign minister spoke to me about the large increase in defense spending announced by some countries. Not some countries actually many countries. Many countries are doubling or tripling their defense spending. And everybody knows this. And this is billions, hundreds of billions and trillions. And he said, "We have to prepare." When I asked him, he said, "We have to prepare for the worst." I said, "I understand, but what about preparing for an attack from an invisible enemy?" Because you're only considering the visible ones, the tanks that may roll into your border or the drones that may come overhead. How about the invisible enemy? The COVID 19 pandemic killed an estimated 20 million people and wiped more than 10 trillion US dollars from the global economy. I don't think you remember any war in, you know, recent memory that killed 20 million people. Countries spend vast sums protecting themselves against attacks from other countries but relatively little on protecting themselves from an invisible enemy that can cause far more havoc and damage. If we think $2.1 billion is a year is dollars is a year in a year is ambitious or 4.2 2 billion for a banium. Then either we must lower our ambitions for what who is and does or we must raise the money. I hope you will go for the latter and I know which I will choose and I hope you will choose the same. On that note, I remind you of tomorrow's investment round event and we look forward to seeing new pledges from member states and philanthropic donors, honorable ministers, dear colleagues and friends, in 1951 the newly born who was already being batheted by the prevailing geopolitical winds of its time just as it is today. In her opening address, the acting president of the World Health Assembly that year 1959 51, Miss Rajikumari Amrit Kaw, the first minister of health of India and the first woman to preside at this assembly said this. I quote, "The dark clouds that overshadow our skies today can and must be dispelled by the fulfillment on our part of the pledge to serve one another. Our work is surely a precious heritage which we may not forsake and a positive factor for overcoming the root causes of conflict. End of quote. Today and this week I ask you to remember those words from 1951 from the Indian late minister. We are here to serve not our own interests but the 8 billion people of our world to leave a heritage for those who come after us, for our children, for our grandchildren and continues and to work together for a healthier, more peaceful and more equitable world. It's possible. Our current crisis is an opportunity to do just that and and and together we will do it. I thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, Dr. Ted Ross. Uh also as per your instruction, mabhai is a Filipino greeting.