Hello to everyone from uh World Health Organization, our headquarters here in Geneva, Switzerland. My name is Tik and I welcome you to our regular press conference on global health issues. As always, we will start by introducing uh our speakers here in the room uh and then we will also introduce a bit later uh WH experts who are online and who will also be answering the questions. So uh we have with us as always Dr. Tedra Zatanus who director general with us today is also Dr. Ahmed Jamal who is director for polio eradication. Dr. Terza Zakaria is unit head of humanitarian and disaster action within health emergencies program. Mr. Imra Hollowo is director of strategic planning and budget and we welcome him as well. We have uh Mr. Patrick Cronin who is the acting director of human resources and Mr. Nabil Tabal who is incident manager uh within our health emergencies uh program. Uh journalists who are online uh please uh make sure that you have your name registered so we know who you are and uh please uh raise your uh hand uh by clicking raise hand icon if you have a question so we can put you in the queue. Now I will give the floor to Dr. Tedras for his opening remarks. Thank you. Thank you, Tariq. Good morning, good afternoon, and good evening. The ceasefire announced in Gaza two weeks ago is fragile and has been violated but continues to hold, which is great news for everyone. We welcome the return of hostages, the release of prisoners, the sessation in violence, and the increase in aid flows. But the crisis is far from over, and the needs are immense. More than 170,000 people have injuries in Gaza, including more than 5,000 amputes and 3,600 people with major burns. At least 42,000 people have injuries that require long-term rehabilitation. And every month, 4,000 women give birth in unsafe conditions. Hunger and disease have not stopped, and children's lives are still at risk. The destruction has been physical, but also psychological. An estimated 1 million people need access to mental health care. The demands on the health systems are huge, but significant parts of the system have been destroyed or badly degraded. There there are no fully functioning hospitals in Gaza and only 14 out of 36 are functioning at all. There are critical shortages of essential medicines, equipment, and health workers. Since the ceasefire took effect, WHO has been sending more medical supplies to hospitals, deploying additional emergency medical teams, and scaling up medical evacuations. Today, WHO teams are at the Karam Shalom crossing collecting medical supplies. And yesterday we supported the evacuation of 41 patients and 145 companions to several countries. I thank the more than 20 countries who have received medical evacquis from Gaza. However, there are still 15,000 patients who need treatment outside Gaza, including 4,000 children. More than 700 have died while waiting for evacuation. We continue to call for the restoration of referrals to the West Bank, including is Jerusalem. And we call for more countries to receive patients from Gaza for specialized care. And we call for the Rafa crossing and all crossings to be opened to allow more patients to be treated in Egypt and to enable the scale up of aid. Although the flow of aid has increased, it's still only a fraction of what's needed. The Rafa crossing was supposed to be opened last week. A significant amount of aid has built up at Al Arsh in Egypt that's ready to enter Gaza as soon as the crossing is opened. While we're focusing on responding to today's health needs on the ground, we're also working with partners to plan for the long term recovery and reconstruction of Gaza's health system. Over the next days and weeks, WHO will focus on four areas. First, maintaining life saving and life sustaining essential health services. Second, strengthening public health intelligence, early warning and prevention and control of communicable diseases. Third, coordinating health partners, and fourth, supporting the recovery, rehabilitation, and reconstruction of the health system. Our 60-day ceasefire plan asks for $45 million, but the total cost for rebuilding Gaza cell system will be at least 7 billion US. WHO was in Gaza before the war started. We have been there throughout and we will stay there to help the people of Gaza build healthier, safer and fairer future. There is more good news in the Democratic Republic of the Congo where the Ebola outbreak seems to be on track to come to an end. Last Sunday, the last patient with Ebola was discharged in Bulap after making a full recovery. The 40 the 42day countdown started officially on Monday, meaning that if no further cases are confirmed, the outbreak will be declared over in early December. In total, 64 cases have been reported with 45 deaths and 19 recoveries. This illustrates again what a dangerous disease Ebola is. But it also shows that with strong government leadership and the right tools, partnerships, and expertise, Ebola can be controlled swiftly. The outbreak is not over yet. Measures on the ground need to be maintained so that we're ready to respond to any new cases. More than 250 community health workers are following up contacts every day. Some of them walk for hours through forests and swamps to reach the most isolated villages. Since the start of the outbreak, almost a thousand alerts of potential Ebola cases have been reported, many coming from communities themselves, showing the importance of working hand in hand with affected populations. The response in Bulape also relies on strong community mobilization with community leaders briefing their people including at markets and church to raise awareness about vaccination and isolation and reinforce trust in the response. WHO has deployed over 100 experts providing 150 tons of medical supplies, ambulances, motorbikes, and digital tablets for rapid data collection and sharing. We're also supporting the government to ensure that people who have recovered have continuing care through a survivor care program. Responding to emergencies is just one part of who's work. Supporting countries to prepare for them is another. Today, WHO is publishing our new national health emergency alert and response framework, which outlines the key steps for an effective and coordinated emergency response locally and nationally. that in that includes dedicated systems with clear roles, a trained workforce, flexible procedures to deal with rapidly changing information and more. The framework has been developed based on lessons learned from real world experiences including the coid9 pandemic. Finally, tomorrow is World Polio Day. When we launched the global polio eradication initiative in 1988, more than 350,000 children were paralyzed by polio every year. Today, that number has dropped by more than 99%. Just 36 cases of wild polio virus reported so far this year. A large part of this success is due to the leadership of Rotary International who have been pathfinders for polio elimination. This week I had the opportunity to welcome partners from Rotary here at WHO and thank them for their partnership in bringing us so far. But we're not done. And as long as polio exists anywhere, it's a threat everywhere. Decades ago, the world overcome geopolitical and geographic barriers to end smallpox. Let's do the same for polio. Let's finish the job. Tik, back to you. Thank you very much. You very much Dr. Tus for his opening remarks. Uh to speak more about situation in Gaza, we have online Dr. Rick Piperorn who is our representative for occupied Palestinian territory. We also have online Dr. Mori Keta who is incident manager for the uh Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Uh online is also Dr. Kato Bryant that you know very well our director for immunization vaccines biological and we have also Mr. Rob Holden who is a unit head for emergency response coordination. uh remind journalists please uh click the icon raise hand so we can call on you and we will start right now with uh Nina Larson from AFP Nina. >> Yes. Hi, thank you very much for the briefing and for giving me the floor. Um, I was wondering yesterday the uh, International Court of Justice ruled that Israel could um, not use starvation as a weapon of war in Gaza and also needed to help humanitarian agencies bring in aid. I was wondering um you mentioned a bit about uh what you're you're trying to do in Gaza, but do have you seen um a dramatic shift in the amount of aid that is able you're able to bring in and also do you um have you seen um any dent in the hunger levels since the start of the ceasefire? Thank you. >> Thank you, Lena. Let's go to uh to Dr. Paperorn. Uh Dr. Peter cord >> thank you very much s so let me first say something general on access so with ceasefire in place so access has improved to some extent but you heard and that is allowing who to reach hospitals and supply parties more easy and more frequently to fill urgent gaps gaps but this is just a tip of the iceberg and you must have heard this from other UN partners as well so currently You have car shalom and kisufin crossings which are open and where supplies are flowing into Gaza but too few supplies. Rafa remains closed for people and supplies. So it's vital that that is urgently reopened. On top of that, we see still a closure of Zikum and Arab areas crossings which provide direct access to the north make it more uh much more challenging to reach the people there with vital support at scale needed and that this is even more important I would say for for when you talk about food and wash and shelter. So all all this should be opened etc for for food wash medical supplies etc for WHO. So we have scaled up um the efforts to bring supplies in and since the ceasefire have brought in 139 pallets of vital supplies not just by the way for WH also assisting health partners who brings it in for other partners that as well including insulin lab supplies essential medicines etc. But just to give you an overview what we still have waiting. So only WH we still have 2,100 pallets of medical supplies ready to move to Gaza via the West Bank, Jerusalem, Arsha Palar, Cairo, Aman and Dubai. In addition, we still have 4 and a half million in supplies stored at at the Dubai hub ready to prepare for dispatch depending upon the priorities of the response. So, WH global supply chain has the agility to respond to the constant evolving needs of this ongoing emergency and and as Dr. Taylor referred to today actually we have a team again in Kum Shalom picking up more supplies to get it. So on Monday uh for the overall UN at least 145 UN cognated trucks uh carrying nearly 1500 metric tons of aid were collected from Karim Schlong or Karam Abu Salam and Kusup crossings. But in terms of aid entering into Gaza on Monday 263 trucks from the UN and the partners were offloaded the carlong. It's increase. It's an increase but much more is needed. over to you. >> Thank you. Thank you very much. Uh Dr. Pipon, Dr. Zaka, would you like to add something? >> Uh thank you very much. I wanted to um just highlight as well the because the question did address as well issues of malnutrition related death and I think it is important to for us to to be able to know how many people have lost their lives due to extreme lack of food but it's also important to remember that all of these deaths were preventable and there are hundreds of thousands over 600,000 people in Gaza who are facing catastrophic level of food insecurity. And so it is our collective duty to also make sure they do do not lose their lives because we have not been able to scale up the aid at the level that we require. And it's also the same thing when we talk about severe food insecurity, especially the catastrophic level of of food insecurity in so many countries and that includes of course the population the people of Gaza but also those of Sudan, Haiti, South Sudan, Mali and many other countries too for which you know the number of those who are at that very critical level of food safety is is also at risk of actually going into irreversible health consequences. Thank you. >> Thank you very much. Uh Dr. Zakarius, next question. Kuna News Agency, we have Eman Hji. Eman, >> thank you. Thank you so much. Um just a question. You mentioned actually the violation of the CI of the ceasefire in Gaza. Uh could you give an update on how many injuries do you did you register after um this is fire? Thank you. >> Thank you very much. Dr. Papercorn, if you have not heard a question, it was do we do we know the number of casualties uh reported uh since the ceasefire took place? the um I quickly have to go back. I think it was um over 80, but I'm not over 80. I have to get the correct number though. But I think what I on my mind was over 80 over 80. We will get back later. Maybe can I address the one question on malnutrition, the former uh question on mal nutrition just coming out of Gaza two weeks ago when the ceasefire were announced. So the food situation has slightly improved. uh but it will take a lot more to actually verse the situation. It's good to know that a new IPC analysis is underway and that will shed more light. Overall number what we have seen that 4 11 411 people have died in 2025 from the effects of malnutrition. Of them 109 were children including 84 under fives. Over to you >> thank you very much and I think Mr. Nabil has uh figures that have been asked for. >> Yeah, thank you uh TK. So um yeah, just to complement uh strictly on the figures um and this is also figures coming from the Mo since the the ceasefire is in place. Uh 89 uh were killed and uh around 317 total injuries uh according to them. Thank you. >> Thank you very much, Mr. Taval. And now we go to next question. We have uh Christian from German news agency DPA. Christian, >> thank you for the perfect pronunciation of my last name also. Um I would like to get some more details on the medical evacuations that Dr. Tedras tweeted about last night. uh the 41 children. Maybe you could give us more details whether these were injuries or or sick children and especially where they were taken and who's going to care for them now. Thank you. >> Thank you very much. Um Christian, I guess we go back to Dr. Peepercorn. >> Thank you very much. So I think the matter fact from yesterday we talk about 41 critical patients they were all children including 145 contendants over 180. It's the first meteac since the uh uh ceasefire. I can't give you yet full details on the countries because uh due to operational concerns and and when the children will have arrived there uh we will make that we will make sure that we will share that. I want to stress a thing about Metavac. It's a flagship program of WH. We aim and we are very much ready to scale up to a minimum of 50 patients per day plus companions in line with the previous ceasefire. So still some figure since October 23 who supported a medical evacuation of 7,782 patients to over 20 countries. The estimate is from the ministry of health that still over 15,000 people still need medical evacuation. So our key asks are very simple. First of all, all medical corridors need to be opened. The most important one is to reopen the West Bank and East Jerusalem referral route. We've had discussions with hospitals directors e Jerusalem and West Bank and they are very much ready to receive those patients and the companions. That's the that's the first and most important key that would be a little game changer. Then of course a rougher crossing to be opened for patients to get transferred into Egypt and possibly from Egypt to other countries and a continuation of the medavac through car shalom to Ramon airport to other countries and to Jordan more the second more countries must step forward to receive patients. We currently plan medevac for next week. We would like to plan medevac for every other day or actually we would like to plan for medevac every day. Over to you. >> Thank you Dr. Peeper. Let's uh let's go to um FA news agency new agency Antonio Breto. very much uh tarik. So this week in the European Union the clocks are being changed to winter time. This is a practice uh that in recent years has increasingly being questioned and this week Spain the government of Spain has called for it to be abandoned next year. Um so we have had the the economic energetic perspective but I also would like to have the health perspective and and to know what is the WHO position on this uh change of our whether it's beneficial or harmful from a from this health perspective. Thank you. >> Uh thank you Antonio. Uh I don't think that we have anyone here who can who can answer but we will definitely go to uh to to our colleagues uh and and check if uh if we have something on that and I'll come back to you uh by email. Thanks for thanks for coming and asking that. Uh I understand that uh Christian has a follow-up question. Can we go back to Christian? >> Thank you. Yes, my followup is to uh Rick. Is the problem with more med medical evacuations that you do not have uh recipient countries or hospitals who are willing to take them or is the problem that uh Israeli authorities are not facilitating the move of these patients? Thank you. >> Well, I think there's two there's two here. one, we need all the medical corridors to be open. So, one is definitely linked to the Israeli authorities because uh I think we have um advocated from the start of the crisis to reopen the traditional referral pathway to the East Jerusalem hospitals and the West Bank. Before the crisis, I think good to note that between 50 to 100,000 patients per day were referred to Jerusalem hospitals and uh to the Jerusalem hospitals and to the West Bank hospitals. The hospitals are ready, the Palestinian Authority is ready to receive these patients and that would be definitely a little game changers. We've also noted that a lot of countries are supports that and the that a lot of other countries will support it and also as WHO we are ready to then for example support the east regional hospitals and the westbank hospitals when needed. So that's one. Then we uh the other crossing which needs to be open is the Rafa crossing which was already highlighted etc corridor for patients to be transferred to Egypt and from Egypt possibly to other countries and the other one should be uh constantly open is the car shalom to Ramanor airport and Jordan. So yeah, from the Israeli authorities, we want more dates for for for for these medevac crossings, but we definitely need more countries to receive patients because we always talk I mean like that people ask me, oh can more patients go to Egypt? You shouldn't ask me. That's a question for the Egyptian authorities. But we are incredibly grateful to the specifically the countries in the region like uh Egypt uh they have received close to 4,000 Gazin patients already. UAE more than a thousand Qatar uh I believe UE 1200 Qatar a thousand Jordan Turkey etc. So we really ple with other countries as well to open up. Um I also want to clarify that we are uh currently with the approvals I think yeah we are would say currently working well with the Israeli authorities but the roots are not all roots are open h and they prevent an an increase in the medevacc and of course uh more countries need to open up for these patients and I also want to make a point that we understandably we always uh get a focus from countries they want a specific group of patients and children and we all agree with that from the 15,000 uh patients still to go 3,800 are estimated children and they are of course priority group but I also want to say there's many elderly many adults many older children adolescents etc which also need to be metap and countries should be open for all groups u including their companions. Over to you. >> Thank you very much, Dr. Paperorn. Uh we have a question uh from uh Gilm Bern from French international radio who says that his microphone is not working but the question is about uh uh Ebola outbreak in in DRC and he's asking how could you explain the success of the response uh uh in ending Ebola outbreak in the RC. So maybe maybe we can uh ask Dr. Mari Ka to to to join us and give us update on the on the response. >> So before we go to the Ebola one, so I'm sorry for uh raising my hand later um the medical evacuation as um Rick said it it's both ways. First is from the recipient country side. So far 20 countries have received not more than four or five countries have received significant numbers. The rest very few. So um that's why uh Rick was asking and I said it in my statement if countries could really open up and uh welcome those patients uh who need critical care. Um so there is that side from recipient countries. Of course uh so far Egypt, Jordan, UAE and Turkey I think have taken the the most out of the uh 20 countries but we encourage other countries all over the world to welcome uh patients for critical care. And the second part is from Israel's side. The number of medical evacuations are limited once a week. For instance, we have done one last week after two weeks because of the um Israel holidays. So one um evacuation per week is not enough and we are evacuating through just one or two major corridors and one or two corridors are not enough. But the most impactful could have been if Israel could allow patients to go to East Jerusalem and and west the West Bank. That would have been actually a better option. So that's then in the hands of Israel to to to allow because they could get service within close uh proximity. So if this could be addressed then the 15,000 patients waiting for evacuation uh you know significant number of them could have received some support immediately because the delay in medical evacuation especially for some patients means they could die while waiting for evacuation and that's what happened actually more than 700 people have died waiting for medical evacuation. So those in the list are critical patients and they need time is the essence. So that's what we are saying. And then there was the other question which I wanted to add um but I also missed that. So I would like to add to that is there a shift in amount of aid? It's very difficult to say a shift. There is no shift but there is increase in amount after the ceasefire. But what is entering Gaza is significantly below the required target. Significantly below the required target. And that also can explain the second can be an answer to the second question. Is there a dent in hunger level? So if the if the um Gaza that if the aid that's entering Gaza is significantly low, it cannot dent the hunger level. um and the situation still remains catastrophic because what's entering is not enough. So the two actually questions are one and and and the same. So the answer is no shift in amount of aid because what's entering is significantly lower than what's expected the target even the UN target per per day and there is no dent in hunger because there is not enough food and the other part of hunger is hunger takes also more uh time to to to have uh a dent and that's why I think um we said uh some days ago go. Especially in terms of um players on the ground, Israel should allow more NOS to to operate, especially um some of the international angels who have been operating in Gaza and who have been delisted should be allowed to work because um need a surge to to um deliver uh food. But of course the two should go side by side. One is the um amount of food should or aid that enter should be significant enough and second there should be also good distribution system on the ground to reach all those uh who are affected. Uh and then on the daily uh entry the tracks um the number that's entering now is between 200 to 300 per day compared to the 600 target and even from the 200 to 300 uh that's entering Gaza a good number of the trucks are commercial and um many people don't have don't afford to buy so that also reduces the beneficiary eyes. So that's why um you know the dent in hunger you can't even talk about it at this time. Thank you. >> Thank you so much uh Dr. Tus for for adding uh these remarks. Um let's try now to to go to Dr. Miketa in the RC to tell a few words about Ebola uh as a response to ref question. >> Thank you. Thank you T. So I think the rapid control of this outbreak could be maybe explained by a conjunction of a number of uh factors like u rapid case isolation and treatment. So who and MSF for example were able to establish one of the innovative you know treatment centers uh you know here in Bulap and in which we have two intensive uh care uh uh units. So um which is of course a good things for you know clinical care. So we also have effective vaccination strategies. So it's important to recall that we had 2,000 doses uh in the country before the declaration of this outbreak. So which allow us to be prompt in our vaccination and we also use uh two like strategies in this vaccination. The first one was the ring vaccination. So vaccinating case round you know cases. So contact and contact of contact but also we also use it a targeted geographic vaccination. Now we have been able to vaccinate uh like roughly uh 37,000 uh people in in Bulap and surrounding areas. So um another thing is also strong surveillance and outbreak management. So I think uh we were able to quickly uh detect you know the cases from the community to isolate them but also to follow the contact you know until uh the end of the 21 days. So another uh important uh aspect is also the community engagement. I think it's a very important also to recall that uh this is one of the particularity in this response in in Bape. So we had a very strong community engagement. So you know all the um community leaders are supporting us you know the community members because here you we have like chief uh uh uh in the the chief so traditional chief in place. So that are well respected by the community and if they are supporting or maybe if they are guiding the community they use to follow. So which allow us also to implement you know all our intervention here. So um one of the important uh aspect is also the logistic so the timely logistics and the resource mobilization and you we were able you know thanks to Monus to establish quickly the airbridge because you know Bulapi is uh hard to reach area. So there is no roads no to to reach you know Bulapi but we are able to have this uh air bridge which allow us to have you know to transfer staff and uh supplies and so on. So this is a number of aspect which personally I think contributed to the success of this outbreak response. Of course uh we are not yet out of the wood but we are on good track as the DG has just mentioned and the countdown has now started and we are also implementing a a this a new plan for this specific period of intensifying our interventions making sure that you know all the cases sorry active case finding around the last known cases and their contacts maintaining active and passive massive surveillance through health facility visit and nationwide alert system continuing postmortm testing for Ebola on suspected death in the in the community but also strengthening rapid response team you know to prepare for any new cases the the the survival care are also one of the aspect which has already started and the first follow-up visit will start on 26th of October so next week we are also now trying to work on uh you know strengthening health service delivery as a legacy of the response over to you. >> Thank you very much uh Dr. Ka and uh Gilam you are welcome to contact us and we can put you in touch with our colleagues in the RC for for more information if needed. Uh we are getting close to hour but we have couple of hands so let's try to take quickly one or two questions more pretty patnik from Geneva Health Files. Pretty >> good afternoon. Uh thank you for taking my question and organizing this. Um I just had um sort of a more of a big picture question on um you know heading into 2627 um what is the impact of the uh current budgetary crisis on the emergency operations um specifically on on conflict zones uh your operations in conflict zones like Gaza. Um also um I guess in the in the context of uh uh a big emphasis on who's norm setitting activities um and you know uh pressure from some donors to to cut incountry presence and that kind of a thing uh um in the immediate bianium um how do you see your uh emergency operations getting affected? Thank you so much. >> Thank you. Let's start with uh Dr. Zakaria, >> thank you. Uh, a very important question in it and and perhaps I could just reflect on a couple of um the facts that we have monitored uh throughout this year because indeed throughout this year we have seen significant sustained uh funding cuts for uh humanitarian operations especially since you highlighted also the countries in conflict. Um so compared to 2024 uh the the financing that we have received for uh response uh to various humanitarian emergencies across the world has decreased by over 40%. And so it is huge. uh we have had to make the a very hard choice of actually choosing who to prioritize and who not to among the 300 million plus people we collectively identified as in need of humanitarian assistance. It was necessary because we wanted to make sure that whatever resource comes in is actually directed to those who are in most need in the most difficult places and with the worst living conditions. What we have also observed uh as of uh September so last month is over 5,600 health facilities have had to reduce service delivery in these humanitarian settings. Over 2,000 were already forced to suspend operations. This has directly reduced access for health services to 53 million people across multiple countries. We have also seen that those partners with whom we work uh in delivering health services are the the national ones. So those who are closest to the communities who live in communities and work with them who have borne the the the biggest load of these funding cuts and in particular women organizations have been very very hard hit by these funding cuts. So the outlook for 2026 is really dire because when we collectively utilize a sound methodology to actually identify quantify those who we know are in need of humanitarian assistance and are not even able to meet the needs of even half of them is is really heartbreaking. But that is the trajectory that we're currently seeing. And some of you know scientific publications have also estimated that the impact of the funding cuts would actually even um result in more than 14 million avoidable deaths. And in countries like DRC and Sudan and Haiti, we're seeing this already the rise in the rates of maternal mortality, the rate of malnutrition and the situation is only getting worse. Thank you. Uh thank you Alis. >> So just to add to what Terza said while agreeing what she said um I think the question is more about who income and um the way Terza answered the question is the severe cuts in countries the funding they used to get uh from various donors. Um I think that's uh the right way because of course there is funding cut for who uh but the most impactful will be the the funding that many countries lost um money that they were getting directly actually for many of their programs whether it's in emergency setting or other uh uh programs. Uh so what worries us is uh actually that because the funding for who we're shaping up and we're now developing models to deliver even more with less uh and just one partner among many others and there could be a way to uh address the gaps that we may have. Uh but the biggest loss is the loss in countries. If you take country by country for instance as many as 50 countries have been affected and lost a significant amount of funding they used to get and that's why we are helping countries to mobilize domestic resources for the immediate and also for the long term. So that's where the focus should be. Um you know who is one player. Of course we we need to do u everything we can and we are doing that but the most worrisome is the situation in countries and the significant loss in uh donor you know ODA that goes to countries through bilateral mechanisms or other mechanisms. Uh but what one good news is many countries are waking up now and they're saying we need a mindset shift now and we we should um have health sovereignity and we should mobilize our own resources and we should um you know finance our health systems. uh of course including emergencies. This doesn't mean that they will not get support from others or there will not be donation but that money can also be used effectively to build uh capacity. uh then when it comes to emergencies the same there is a decline in donation that comes to countries and um that's what's what's worrying us especially in countries where there is no capacity um but the there should be um a solution to address those gaps as well and we're we're helping countries or um regions in that respect effect then on the country presence I don't know uh where that's coming from but uh there is no pressure on us to reduce our country presence but what we have proposed to member states is where there is um really uh justification to uh close some of our country offices uh we can do that and especially for instance we have some offices in high uh upper middle inome countries for instance that may not be necessary or in some countries there could be a non-resident representative to focus and do the engagements on uh policy dialogue so based on a certain criteria we can do that otherwise I want to assure you that there is no pressure from countries to from member states to uh reduce or cut in country presence. Uh thank you and tarik. Thank you very much Dr. Tus. We have a time for one last question and I understand we have a Jamie Kiton from Associated Press. >> Jamie, >> thank you T. Thank you TK. I hope you can hear me. Um Dr. Dr. Papercorn, you said that you're working well with Israeli authorities on the issue of opening crossings. Um could you or Dr. um uh Dr. Tedros please give us specifics about what they are saying uh are the problems in uh in getting those crossings open? And I'd just like to add on a similar point that the points 8 and 12 of the uh Gaza peace initiative announced in the White House um with President Trump and and Prime Minister Netanyahu um said that that aid should be entering without interference and that the people should have a right to leave and enter Gaza um if they wish to. So there's been a parade of US officials um in Israel in recent days. What communications have WHO officials had with US officials to make sure that these points are respected by Israel? Thanks. >> Thank you, Jamie. Dr. Peipperorn, >> let me try to address the question. I think I was probably misqued. First of all, I want to make it very clear that on the access the access currently there's two crossings which are open. I think I said that very clearly in the beginning car and kifu and a little bit more aid is trickling in but as the GG also rightly stated absolutely not enough and absolutely not in line with the expectations. So all crossings should be opened and that was also part of the plan. So you talk about arises, you talk about Zikim and you talk about Rafa crossing for example, they should be opened. That was also in relation what we said to clearly stated with medical evacuation. We would like to do a medical evacuation every day. For that we need to get a approval that it can happen. We want to do it through every crossing. So through the car shalom crossing what we do now but also through Rafa and of course if we would love to see it happening through the north for example through Aerys uh or or or Zikim to East Jerusalem and the West Bank. So I want to stress that's what I I think stated and on the there is currently a civil military coordination center and yeah the humanitarian partners including WH um do have meetings and and we try to there present actually exactly the same thing I was presenting today with you on supplies on medevac and etc. And let me be more for example be very clear on on medical supplies. WHO we have summarized an an priority list of essential medicines and medical supplies which are absolutely needed currently and that's the problem that's different from medical supplies for food for example. Currently, for each medical supply, each medical item, we need to get an approval and it goes through the so-called UN 2720 system. It's a complex and labor intensive system takes a lot of time and often we get into discussions and some of those supplies are not approved. So we made this the the plea also with our US colleagues. We want this whole list to be already pre-approved. So we don't need to go into this discussions anymore. That also applies for medical equipment. That brings me to the second point. We all have had discussions about the dual use the dual use list. This was already a huge issue and obstruction before this crisis exploded. I remember that it took me and my team almost two years to get eight mobile X-rays into Gaza, which should normally every hospital, every department has a number of mobile X-rays. And we made it very clear both to the Israeli authorities and the and the the US team military team was there and and not just for health. This applies for all other sectors that we cannot go back to this discussions on dual use and endless dual use discussions. So that needs to be updated and changed and we have made some very pragmatic suggestions for that when it comes to health as WH leading and coordinating health for the partners. Over to you >> thank you very much and this brings us to the end of this briefing. I'm looking at at Dr. Ahmed Jamal who we don't have a privilege to have often here. if he if you want to say a few words on the occasion of the world polio day before we give the floor to Dr. Tedros. >> Uh no, thank you so much uh for giving me the floor. Uh tomorrow is definitely wild polio day and I think Dr. Ted Rosia highlighted the the road taken and uh and and highlighted the work of Rotarians as the pathfinders. Uh in terms of numbers we when we started this work it was a thousand children being paralyzed every day and that was what was known and recorded. We we are talking about in 2025 36 cases reported the whole year so far and only in two countries. That's a lot of uh progress over many years and it was through much of uh a lot of work by many at country level. Uh the the other thing to remember is yes we are going through a very tough geopolitical and general uh security situations in many places but uh as Dr. Tedros highlighted yesterday there was there's a statue outside of smallpox eradication and that was achieved in the midst of uh what was then uh in the midst of the cold war. It wasn't an easy time. There were so many other conflicts that were going on. So the mission is possible. It's doable. Uh we are all committed to ending polio. Tomorrow is the day of celebration and reflection and the day after it will be about pushing forward uh to get the job done. So thank you so much again. Appreciate it. >> Thank you very much Dr. Jamal for being with us today. We will be sending the recording of this press briefing uh in the next couple of hours. I would like to thank everyone for joining us and give the floor to Dr. for his closing remarks. >> Thank you. So just wanted to maybe say what we have been saying for a long time which is peace is the best medicine and we welcome the peace bill brokered by President Trump but it's a fragile ceasefire and it has to be translated from ceasefire into into peace and for the people of Israel and Palestine to have a political solution and peace that transcends generations. Um and uh we also hope uh that based on the promise made or on the agreement signed that there will be scale up of the uh food aid and of course other humanitarian aid. Um because as I said earlier, the situation is still uh catastrophic and we ask um Israel to open all crossings and especially for Medvak also to open West Bank and um uh East Jerusalem and we also ask countries to uh receive patients who need who need care. I think the world has a responsibility to save lives those who are at risk of dying because of serious injuries and still are stuck in in in in Gaza. So I just wanted to repeat those words although I have said it already in my statement because as we speak because people are not getting um the permission to leave or they don't get recipients from countries I mean not getting recipient countries as a result they're they are dying. So, we just wanted to repeat our our call and I hope this ceasefire holds and and is translated into a permanent a permanent peace. And to um members of the press, thank you for joining us today and see you next time.