agreement. A milestone achieved after three years of global negotiations. Thank you so much, Dr. Tedros. We know you've come straight from the airport, so we're so thankful for that. Thank you. It's true. Yes. I just came straight from the airport. Our aircraft had um a technical problem yesterday. So that was cancelled and we had to reroute and supposed to arrive earlier this morning around 5 actually but ended up arriving just now because of the new route but at the saying goes don't give up so we didn't want to give up and I really wanted to be with you thank you your excellency president Tman Mr. Limbong Hang, Miss Hoing, Miss Jenny Chua, Mr. Desmond Cuke, and my friend Bill Gates has just left. to Bill Gates. Excellencies, distinguished guests, dear colleagues and friends, good afternoon and it's an honor to be back in the Leon city. Landing at Changangi this afternoon reminded me of the first time I visited Singapore in 2016 when I was the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ethiopia. On that trip, I signed an agreement for the avoidance of double taxation with former minister of trade. And this is the good old days when countries were looking for ways to remove barriers to tread. Remember those. Anyway, it's great to be back. I thank the Tamasc Trust and the Philanthropy Asia Alliance for organizing this important gathering. And I thank Singapore for its strong support for global health in general and for WHO in particular. Singapore and Tamasc were among the first to pledge their support to the WHO investment round last year. Thank you very much. I also very much appreciated Singapore's leadership and support during the coid9 pandemic drawing on its experience from previous outbreaks including SARS H5N1 avian influenza and the H1N1 pandemic. I distinctly remember former prime minister Lucian Lung um and his videos or his video messages during the coid9 pandemic which were an example of a strong calm evidence-based leadership at a time when it was most needed and I remember the whole world was appreciating Singapore's experience and I remember when President President Trump when President Tarman joined us in Geneva to present the recommendations of the high level independent panel on financing the global commence for pandemic preparedness and response which he chaired and two products of that one the pandemic fund was established and two the joint finance and health task force was established. Thank you so much your excellency for your leadership which is helping in emergency preparedness and response and I hope the world is now better prepared for pandemics. What impressed me most about Singapore's response to COVID 19 was the alignment between experts, public health officials and political leaders. Like I said about the prime minister, all delivering the same message. That's what builds trust in the community. And that's what we saw in Singapore. high trust. As a small state at one of the world's major trading crossroads, Singapore is a perfect example of why a shared response to shared threats is so important in our interconnected world. The best way to protect a population from dis threats of all kinds is not isolation but cooperation. Not turning inwards but outwards. It's that principle that is at the heart of the WHO pandemic agreement on which member states reached consensus just a few weeks ago and which they will consider and hopefully adapt at the World Health Assembly in two weeks time. meaning history in the making and the early discussions. President Tarman was part and thank you so much again. The landmark agreement was negotiated carefully by countries for more than three years to address the gaps and inequities in global health security exposed by the coid9 pandemic. The pandemic agreement creates a foundation for international cooperation to prevent, prepare for, and respond to pandemics. If adapted, it will do many things to make the world safer. By establishing a new system for sharing pathogens, vaccines, and other tools. By facilitating the transfer of technology, knowledge, skills, and expertise. By setting up a coordinated financial mechanism. By establishing a global supply chain and logistics network. By mobilizing a skilled trained and multiddisciplinary national and global health emergency workforce, and much more. There is one thing the pandemic agreement will not do. It will not infringe on national sovereigntity in any way and it will not give who power to impose mask or vaccine mandates or lockdowns. There is a lot of mis and disinformation about this as I hope you're observing. So we must be very clear. This is an agreement negotiated by countries for countries and will be implemented in countries in accordance with their own national laws. WHO simply provides the legal framework within which countries have come together to negotiate the agreement. But we have not been waiting for the pandemic agreement to make the world safer. By the way, sorry for dwelling on pandemic agreement because it's history in the making and I thought it's worth it. Uh but as you know in addition to the pandemic agreement we have been doing many other things. We haven't we haven't we have not been waiting just for the pandemic agreement alone. Based on the lessons learned from COVID 19, we have established several new initiatives including the pandemic fund, the WH hub for epidemic and pandemic intelligence, the mRNA technology transfer program to boost uh local manufacturing, the biohub to share samples, the health emergency corps and more. In December last year, I also had the honor of joining President Emanuel MRO to open the WHO Academy in Leo, France. The WH Academy will be a gamecher in terms of building capacity in countries by providing lifelong training online and in person for health and care workers, policy makers, and the WHO workforce. Like the United Nations of which we are part, WHO was born of the realization that the only alternative to global conflict was global cooperation. Our work includes supporting countries to strengthen their health systems, scanning the world for signals of outbreaks and other emergencies, and bringing countries together to confront the biggest health challenges of our time. All of this work takes place at a turbulent time with steep reductions in spending on international development and global health. As President Tarman and Bill were saying earlier, the sudden withdrawal of funding has caused severe disruptions to health services in at least 70 countries that were benefiting through bilateral cooperations with the US and others. We see disruptions to information systems and supply chains, closures of health facilities, job losses for health workers, and increased out-ofpocket health spending. WHO is supporting many countries to sustain health services on which millions of people rely. At the same time, many countries recognize the need to transition away from a dependency to greater self-reliance and they see this situation as an opportunity to accelerate that transition. I think this is the right mindset. The mindset of a dependency has to go away. who therefore has a critical role in supporting countries to navigate that transition. Even so, it's clear the big gaps remain. Philanthropies have a key role in helping to bridge these gaps and to support countries on the journey towards sustainable self reliance. Many of the philanthropies here are making a huge difference in addressing many health challenges. With the support of the Gates Foundation and Rotary, we are on the cusp of eradicating polio forever. The Sasakawa Foundation has helped reduce the number of reported cases of leprosy globally by more than 95% since the 1980s. The Buffett Foundation is helping to save the lives of countries, the lives of countless women who would otherwise die in pregnancy and child birth. Others of you have helped to expand access to health services in the Philippines, control deni in Indonesia and here in Singapore, fight antimicrobial resistance in Cambodia, Malaysia and Vietnam, accelerate genomic science and clinical care for people with rare diseases and more. I particularly appreciate that many philanthropies are now working together to address challenges jointly reducing fragmentation. Let me leave you with three requests. First, I ask you to work with countries at these most difficult times, not only to address specific health issues, but also to build their capacities on their journey towards self-reliance. Second, I ask you to work with WHO to enable to provide the highquality technical expertise uh and on the um ground presence on which so many countries rely. And third, I ask you to work with each other to coordinate and maximize your impact and reach. Thank you all once again for your dedication to health in this region and around the world. We look forward to your continued leadership and partnership as we work together to realize who's founding vision, the highest attainable standard of health, not as a luxury for some but a right for all. I thank you. Thank you, Dr. Tedros.