Hello all. I am Feder Shahib speaking to you from W2 headquarters in Geneva and welcoming you to our virtual press conference today Monday 1st December on global health issue issues with a special focus on the WH launch of the guideline concerning glucaconol like peptide one GLP-1 therapies and obesity in adults. Uh let me introduce the participant in the room. Uh Dr. Tedros Adanum Gabrielus W2 director general Dr. Jeremy Farrar Assistant Director General Health Promotion Disease Prevention and Care Dr. LSE Digil Director Department of Nutrition and Food Safety Dr. Francesca Saluti Senior Advisor on Obesity Issues Department of Nutrition and Food Safety Dr. Mibongizi director medicines and health products policies and standard department Dr. Teriza Casaya the director department of HIV TB hepatitis and sexually transmitted diseases and the last but not the least Dr. Chiquay Equazo executive director health emergencies program. Uh let me tell you that we have um several uh special guests that we will introduce later on and uh a number of who expert online that I will call on if need be. Now without uh further ado I would like to invite Dr. Tedos for his opening remarks. Dr. Tedros, you have the floor. >> Thank you. Thank you Fedila. Uh good morning, good afternoon and good evening. First, some good news. Today marks the end of the most recent outbreak of Ebola virus disease in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I send my warmest congratulations to the government and people of the DRC, especially in the affected community of Bulape. The outbreak was declared in September and there were 64 confirmed and probable cases with 45 deaths. We honor the memory of those who died, especially those who lost their lives while serving others. WHO is proud to have played our part in bringing this outbreak under control in support of the Ministry of Health, National Public Health Institutions, and alongside our partners. It's important to remember how far we have come in our fight against Ebola. When Ebola devastated West Africa a decade ago, there were no approved vaccines or therapeutics against it. Now we have both. Ebola is a preventable and treatable disease that can be stopped. And although Ebola has been stopped in DRC, an outbreak of Marberg virus disease was declared in Ethiopia over two weeks ago. So far 12 confirmed cases have been reported including eight deaths. Three patients have recovered and one is still under treatment. The government of Ethiopia is leading the response and who is supporting as requested. We're providing testing supplies and protective equipment for health workers and deploying experts to support local authorities. Now to Asia where floods have caused devastation in Indonesia, Malaysia, Sri Lanka, Thailand, and Vietnam. Other countries in the region are also at risk. More than 400 people have died in Indonesia, 160 in Thailand, 90 in Vietnam, and 300 in Sri Lanka with hundreds more missing. The floods have caused landslides, major damage to critical infrastructure, displacement, and severe disruption to essential services and livelihoods. WHO is deploying rapid response teams and critical supplies, strengthening the surveillance and supporting continuity of essential services for affected communities. It's another reminder of how climate change is driving more frequent and more extreme weather events with disastrous effects. Now to our main news of the day. Obesity is one of the most serious public health challenges of our time. Globally, more than 1 billion people are living with obesity and that number is expected to double by 2030. Obesity is a chronic relapsing disease that drives heart disease, diabetes and some types of cancer. It was linked with 3.7 million deserts globally last year and puts huge strain on health systems and can economies. In recent years, a class of drugs called glucagon like peptide one receptor a agonist agonists or GLP1s which were originally developed to treat diabets have been approved in many countries for the treatment of obesity. In September of this year, WHO added GLP-1 to the essential medicines list for the treatment of diabetes in high-risk groups. Today, we're issuing new recommendations on the use of globe GLP1s to treat obesity in adults. These new medicines are a powerful clinical tool offering hope to millions. But let me be clear, medication alone will not solve the obesity crisis. Obesity is a complex disease that requires comprehensive lifelong care and it has many social, commercial and environmental determinants requiring action in many sectors not only in the clinic. This guideline is about integration. These therapies are part of a holistic strategy built on three pillars. First, creating healthier environment through robust policies. Second, protecting individuals at high risk through screening and early intervention. And third, ensuring access to lifelong person- centered care for those living with obesity. Crucially, the use of GLP1s does not replace the need for healthy diet and physical activity. Our recommendation is conditional and we acknowledge the challenges. We need more long-term data. The costs are high and the health systems are not yet ready. Our greatest concern is equitable access. Without concern concerted action, this medicines could contribute to widening the gap between the rich and poor both between and within countries. We must work together on strategies like pool procurement and tier pricing to make these medicines affordable for all. This guideline is a key part of who's acceleration plan to stop obesity. It's built on evidence and shaped by the principle of health for all, ensuring that scientific progress benefits everyone everywhere. This guideline has been developed in response to strong demand for member states and civil society. So today I'm very pleased to welcome three special guests. First, it's my privilege to welcome Dr. Lakam Bodo, the honorable minister of health from Trinidad and Tobago. Minister Bodo, thank you for making the time to join us today and you have the floor, your excellency. >> You so much uh Dr. Tedros, director general of the WH for this opportunity and the very kind invitation. I want to recognize the honorable Sean Sinister for Charum Affairs of Trinan Tobago who I believe is online with us this morning as well as Dr. Gabrielle Francis Kodi the power rep for Trin Tobago and the Dutch entities and also to recognize Dr. Karen C who's the chair of the Trin and Tobago NCD alliance. So, it is indeed an honor to join you for this global launch of the WHO's living guidelines on GLPbased therapies for adults living with obesity. I extend my sincere congratulations to WHO for this landmark achievement. These guidelines represent a major step forward in global obesity. And I you know I want to I want to state that of the 1 million people in the world that um you mentioned director general with obesity there quite a significant number of living in Sri Lanka today that we are concerned about and of course we want to treat um so of course these guidelines as we said would be providing the first evidence-based recommendations on phicotherapy for obesity and highlight highlighting the importance of equity access and long-term integrated care. As a small island developing state facing a high burden of chronic disease, Trinidad and Tobago welcomes this guidance and recognizes its value for health systems like ours. What we see is not only a clinical challenge, it is a societal one. Our 2024 steps survey confirms a continuing rise in non-communicable diseases including diabetes and hypertension largely driven by lifestyle and dietary patterns. Likewise, the cancer internal 2003 to 2020 report reflects an upward trend in cancer diagnosis. These realities underscore the urgent need for comprehensive whole of government and whole of society action. In Trinidad and Tobago, we have taken decisive steps to address obesity through both population based policies and strengthened health system responses. We are proud to be the first Caribbean country to ban sugar sweetened beverages and unhealthy snacks in schools, reducing children's exposure to products that contribute to obesity, and setting the foundation for healthier lifelong habits. These measures demonstrate our belief that prevention begins with creating supportive environments not only in hospitals and clinics but in our homes, communities and schools. At the same time recognizing policy alone is not enough. We must match these actions with structured chronic care models at the primary care level. The Ministry of Health has therefore intensified screening, counseling and risk factor management within primary health care and strengthen public education to guide healthier decision making very early in the coming year in 2026. colleagues. We'll also launch our step into wellness campaign which will focus on behavioral change and community engagement to encourage movement, physical activity, healthier eating and screening. This campaign reflects our commitment to empowering individ individuals and families to take control of their health, understanding that information alone does not change behavior, but connection and support do for us here in Trinidad and Tobago. The WH living guidelines arrive at a very pivotal moment. GLP-1 based therapies present an important addition to the suite of interventions available for obesity management. As the WHO rightly emphasizes director general pharmore therapy must be integrated into long-term person centered chronic care models. Trinidad and Tobago fully supports this approach. We welcome the guidelines as a tool to help member states, including small island patients like ours to implement obesity care that is safe, evidence based, and equitable. Over the coming months, our ministry's technical teams will carefully review the recommendations, assess the applicability within our national context, and identify pathways to strengthen our obesity management services. Colleagues, obesity is a global epidemic that no country can solve alone. Today's launch represents not only scientific progress but an affirmation of our shared commitment to better health for all. Trinidad and Tobago stands with the WH and with fellow member states as we continue working towards reducing the burden of disease and improving the health and wellbeing of poor people. As I close, I just want to say that at the heart of every guideline, every policy and every reform is a person, a parent, a child, a family who deserves a healthier tomorrow. Trinidad and Tobago is committed to standing with the global community to ensure that tomorrow is not only possible but safely. I thank you for this opportunity and again I congrat. Thank you. >> Thank you. Thank you so much, Minister Bodo. And it's now my pleasure to welcome Dr. Janet Hunter, the deputy director general of primary health care at the national department of health in South Africa. Dr. Hunter, you have the floor. Dr. Gabri's the DG of the World Health Organization. And so South Africa is not exempt from the picture. the director general of the World Health Organization painted at the beginning of his um input with regard to the global situation when it comes to obesity. According to the statistics South Africa causes of death in South Africa report that was released in August 2025 non-communicable diseases led by diabetes and conditions relating to hypertension remain the leading causes of death in South Africa. Obesity is a major driver of non-communicable diseases with an estimated 67% of women, 31% of men and 13% of children under five being overweight or obese in South Africa. This prevalence is amongst the highest on the African continent and it continues to rise. We recognize that obesity is not the result of individual choices alone as was said by the DG as well as the minister from Trinidad. But obesity is driven by social, economic, environmental and commercial determinants including unhealthy food environments, aggressive marketing and inequities in access to healthy diets and safe spaces for physical activity. South Africa is currently implementing a multi-prong strategy as advised by the DG to comment to combat obesity and we are using the whole of government and whole of society approach to achieve these priorities. The guidelines on GLP1s makes it possible for South Africa to in time and of course depending on a number of conditions add another facet to our strategy. This brings us to the question of availability of GLP1s in South Africa's public health facilities for both diabetes and for weight loss um treatment. For medicines to be available in the public sector, it has to be included in South Africa's essential medicines list. The National Essential Medicines List Committee has prioritized the review of GLP-1s for possible inclusion and this review will include an examination of the affordability of the medication and it's great that as countries we will be working together under the umbrella of the World Health Organization to look at this issue of making GLP1s more affordable. um together. It is poignant that these the first WHO guidelines on GLP1s are launched on World AIDS Day. South Africa will do well to use the lessons learned um on our journey to increasing access to ARVs in making GP1s equitably accessible in the country. The theme for today's World AIDS Day is overcoming disruption, transforming the AIDS response. This theme is aligned to South Africa's current endeavors in preventing and managing our key communicable and non-communicable diseases in an integrated person centered manner on the primary um healthcare level. And so we are looking at the transformation of our AIDS response in this regard to integrate the management the prevention management and care of HIV and AIDS together with our other key communicable and non-communicable diseases. Thank you your excellency for this opportunity um to make remarks on um the launch of the GLP-1 guidelines. Thank you so much. >> Thank thank you. Thank you, Dr. Hunter. I'm now pleased to welcome Dr. Karen Celia, a member of the board of trustees of the World Obesity Federation. [clears throat] >> Good morning everyone. Thank you very much DJ [cough] for that introduction. [clears throat] Today is really in fact a very special day for those of us who suffer with [clears throat] obesity. I live with obesity and two of the other NCDs which the global campaign in all countries around the world aimed to address. I particularly use the word other because we now recognize us as technical persons working in the program area that obesity is a chronic progressive metabolic disease that requires long-term care. We think as part of the civil society um organizations that I am that it's really important for us to begin to get the population to understand this as well as to the healthcare providers so that we in fact are able to operationalize this with and shift the emphasis from individuals responsibility and lack of willpower to in fact as we deal with diseases as a whole ensuring that there are mechanism isms for screening, diagnosis, treatment and care. The experience that we've had with obesity over the years has been difficult for some and to myself at times I recognize that in fact even as a health care provider that within the health system we do in fact still have an systemic bias towards uh persons with obesity and difficulty in accessing care and being the respect for that care as they go. But this is changing and that is good and this is where these guidelines come in. The guidelines are very timely. The guidelines will assist providers technical officers to in fact develop further the programs and I see I say further because as you've heard in countries like my own there's really a lot has been going on and we are able to now jump you know be able to work with these immediately and get the advantage of that as we go forward. The guidelines provide as they say guidelines and from the perspective of civil society and people living with obesity. The recommendations I am sure may in fact cause a little bit of constonnation in terms of the fact they are not uh there are some conditionalities related to this. It is for this reason that I am particularly honored to have been part of the process because I think it is going to be important to be able to help my colleagues persons living with obesity and in the civil society generally in Trinidad and Tobago and in the Caribbean understand the basis for this and in that way we'd also be able to advocate for further research for uh to be able to move us forward um to the condition or move the conditionalities away as it were in terms of the guidelines. The emphasis on ensuring and that these guidelines fit into a comprehensive program for the management of obesity is extremely important. The balance between prevention, treatment and care must be monitored and we in the civil society would like to work with the the governments in the different countries to be able to identify the targets to which we can collectively aim with respect to establishing these programs. As I refer to the comprehensive programs that we will need to in fact optimize the value of the of the GP1s. I want to urge that and note that there are a lot of very good systems on which we can build. My colleague from South Africa has referred to the experience with HIV in being able to deal with the high cost of drugs when we in fact thought we would never be able to in fact provide therapeutics to um to the the patients when they first came on board. There's a lot to learn here and it is hope that the countries will work collectively at the global regional and within the the country itself partnershiping partnerships with the government sector and the private sector to be able to make these drugs available as soon as possible so that the population can in fact benefit from them in substantially. The in terms of the system itself, there are programs within WHO that in fact provide the basis platform for providing the coordinated integrated care that is required and I refer here to hearts the program that WH launched and we in Trinidad have in all the primary healthcare centers that really increase the quality of care for hypertension. the basics are the same. So we have in fact a program on which to build the the expansion for treatment of obesity and in that way get the patients involved get self-management of care involved and the therefore the focus on the drugs is simply as a tool in a comprehensive program. Thank you. >> Thank you. Thank you Dr. And thank you once again to all our guests for joining us today. Finally, today is World AIDS Day. Over almost 45 years, we have come a long way in response to HIV. New HIV infections have dropped by 61% since the peak in and AIDS related deaths have dropped by 70% since 2004. HIV has been transformed from a certain death sentence into a preventable and treatable disease. But those gains are now at risk. Sharp reductions in international funding this year have led to disruptions in services for HIV prevention, testing, and treatment. At the same time, progress against HIV has largely stalled. There were 1.3 million new HIV infections last year, the same number as the previous two years. We face significant challenges, but we also have significant opportunities. Earlier this year, WHO recommended and pre-qualified Lena Capabir, a new long acting injectable for the prevention of HIV. This is the first time that guidelines have been published in parallel with pre-qualification to accelerate access. WHO calls on all countries to rapidly scale up use of Lenapavir for people at risk of HIV as well as access to testing and treatment for those living with HIV but who may not know it yet. Our ambition is not modest but it's achievable to end the AIDS epidemic. Fedila, back to you. >> Thank you Dr. Tedros. And now I would like to open the floor to journalist question. Uh please do raise your hand and unmute yourself if you want to ask your question. And can I ask you to ask first on the main topic of today's press conference? We will be happy to take question on other topics. Um I would like now to give the floor to uh Belisa Gohindu who is from W magazine. Belisa you have the floor. >> Thank you very much. I'm Blissa Gudin from W Magazine based in Lisbon Portugal to the world. My question is relates to obesity in young adults and treatment with GLP-1. From what H can it be administrated and how is it available in all countries for example in Europe? And in the case of obese children, what type of therapies are advised if they cannot be treated in the same way? Thank you very much. Thank you. Uh, Belisa, I would like to ask LSE to take this question or Francesca. >> Uh, thank you very much for the question and uh um WHO uh indeed recommends today GLP-1 therapy for the treatment of obesity in adults, non-pregant adults. uh currently the assets and availability of GLP-1 is um let's say um relatively still in the MI2 space is a is a an assess ecosystem that is immature yet very dynamic. GP1 are available in different formulation in many countries but are not registered in all countries. Um we hope that uh with uh the release of this guideline as one of the critical pillars uh into the um uh shaping the assess ecosystem that this medicine will become more available as Dr. Dr. Janet Hunter also just said uh this medicine yet have to be included in the national essential medicine list in South Africa and they are currently under consideration in many other countries. In terms of availability and possibility of treating children, uh who will release in fact next week who WHA guidelines for the management of clinical management of obesity in children and adolescent uh that include a broader set of intervention that are related to behavioral therapy as much as uh therapeutic option uh especially for adolescent. uh GP-1 guidelines are not currently approved under the age of 12 years. So this is become this is going to be uh reflected in the guidelines that will be released next year uh next week sorry. Uh thank you Dr. Saluti. Now I would like to give the floor to a reporter from Jama Bibbons Domingo. Kristen you have the floor. Uh thank you very much. We were uh very pleased uh to uh publish a summary of uh these new WHO guidelines in JAMAMA this morning and to participate in the webinar that will follow uh this press conference. My question is GLP-1 therapies are already part of major clinical guidelines. What is the significance of the WH now weighing in with this guideline and what do you hope to accomplish with this announcement? Uh thank you. I would like to invite Dr. Deil to take this question. >> Thank you. I I would like to emphasize that this guideline responds to the request of member states and and civil societies. The fact that WHO is reviewing the evidence and providing a recommendation gives assurance to multiple countries and and and their advisors on the effectiveness of this intervention, the safety and also allow the health system to improve its readiness to understand and obesity better and to respond better [snorts] to this crisis. So the fact that WHO is bringing this recommendation allows healthcare providers to be better trained for example to receive other options in their menu of the toolkit to treat obesity and provides a a clear path on how to implement uh these interventions as part of a comprehensive care for obesity. Um, thank you. Now I would like to invite Yon Lombbert from NPR to ask the next question. Yan. >> Uh, hello. Thanks for taking my question. Um, I wonder uh if you can comment on the US not recognizing World AIDS Day uh for the first time since 1988. >> Um, thank you. Dr. Casiva, >> thank you. WH is uh commemorating World AIDS Days since 1988 uh uh when following the requests from the member states and reflected in the resolution. It was unanimously supported. This is very important day uh to commemorate uh those who lost their lives due to uh HIV AIDS and those who are continuing uh suffering and staying on treatment and uh who always stands in solidarity and we're supporting countries community representative to put spotlight and to share important information about new opportunities and indeed we have these opportunities of course We cannot uh dictate countries what will be the format and way uh to share this important information and express solidarity. But our uh uh approaches and uh our commitments remain unchanged and we are calling for increased investments for the reintroduction of innovations and we have much better opportunities for treatment for pro provision of pro prevention of this disease and supporting those uh the most vulnerable key populations. So we would like to call also the journalist community and all people join who in uh this day. >> Dr. Far. So I was uh I remember very well in December 1988 I think I'm right in saying the very first World AIDS Day as a junior doctor working in London and uh the progress since then has been nothing short of staggering. Uh I remember treating mostly young individuals which was essentially a death sentence had a profound impact on my career and and life in general. And I just want to pay tribute to what the US has done in contributing to where we've got to in HIV whether it be through the president's fund PEPFAR or the development of new drugs including the recent one lenapir which is changing and has the ability to transform the HIV epidemic at a global level and the expertise through multiple agencies that have worked so hard on therapeutics on diagnostics but also in social and behavioral sciences from the US and uh this has been a massive and gamechanging contribution. So how countries choose to acknowledge respect uh the world aids day is uh is up to them but nobody should underestimate the progress that's been made the advances that have come the equity that has been driven including from the comments earlier from South Africa uh but how much further there is to go and if we lose the fight against HIV if people are not accessing treatment then we will see a long tale to this epidemic which could be prevented Indeed. Um, thank you Dr. Farrar. Uh, now I would like to invite Muhammad Arsa from Anadulu to ask the next question. Muhammad. >> Uh, thank you so much. Thank you so much Fila. Uh my question will be about the Gaza and despite the ceasefire, Israel continues its attacks in Gaza. Uh my question is what are the impact of these attacks on health and hospitals and uh do Israeli attacks hinder your work in the field? Thank you. >> Thank you, Muhammad. Uh Dr. Chu. >> Yeah. Thanks Muhammad very pertinent uh question. So to to be honest since this ceasefire we have seen a reduction in the attacks in the OPT and we're grateful for that. Through that reduction, we've been able to access the territory a lot more, deliver a lot more uh supplies to hospitals, bring back a few hospitals back to work with many of our partners working in in the OPT in the occupied Palestinian territories, but it's by far not sufficient. Uh so attacks have continued in certain parts uh maybe at reduced frequency than previously. We still have lots of trucks with supplies waiting to get in. A few more are getting in, but by far not sufficient to uh support the needs of the population. And thirdly, we still have over 3,000 kids waiting to be evacuated to access health care uh desperately needed. 3,000 kids, about 6,000 16,000 individuals altogether. So, the ceasefire has had an impact. It has opened the window just a little bit more but a lot more needs to be done in order to ensure that uh firstly the we are able to support work with our partners to uh provide care to the people of in the in the occupied Palestinian territories. Uh get out the patients that need care. But absolutely uh we have to stop uh attacks on healthcare and re return healthcare setting to the um uh respect that we accorded them throughout history that we've basically lost over the last few years. So that's a work in progress. Um I have to acknowledge some progress has been made but far from what we need to return to normaly. >> Thank you Dr. Chu. I think that Dr. uh Terresa Zakaria has something to add. Dr. Zakaria is team lead for risk reduction at who uh Dr. Zakaria, you have the floor. >> Thank you, Fadila, and thank you for this question. Um just echoing what Dr. Chico has also mentioned that every single attack has a very profound impact on people's access to healthcare, but also the trust of the population in the health system moving forwards. So indeed one every single attack is untolerable. Uh but just to summarize it since the 7th of October we have recorded 825 attacks in Gaza that have resulted in 8,650 injuries as well as 991 deaths. So it's a big loss for the health system as well. Uh in the West Bank, we have also recorded over 900 attacks on health care that have resulted in 175 injuries and 37 deaths. According to the Ministry of Health, at least 1,500 health workers have been killed since October 2023. And we are seeing the impact of the ceasefire. We are seeing hospitals resuming operations. We are seeing primary health care finally fully functioning for the first time even though it is a very small proportion and what we are asking uh again is really for all border crossings to be open for unrestricted humanitarian assistance because the needs remain very dire. We are ready to support more and bring more medicines and personnel and and support the health system of both Gaza and the West Bank actually to provide a much needed healthcare to the population. But for these that basic conditions need to be met which is not fully the case yet uh as of now. And again Gaza will face tremendous challenge in rebuilding its health system and every single attack contributes to you know the loss in in trust in the health system and people fearing to access health services if they think that by going to a health facility their lives would be at risk. So very important to really protect health from all forms of attacks, to protect patients, to be able to safely access health services and to really bring um perpetrators to account. Thank you. >> Uh thank you Dr. Zakaria. I have now um Michelle Roberts from BBC. She cannot I I guess she has some technical problem. So I am I will read her question. It's uh about GLP-1. She said um how can we have GLP-1 be made more accessible? What difference will make the most to access them? Um it's from Michelle Roberts BBC. Um Dr. Saluti. >> Thank you very much for the question and thank you Fela. Um the strategy in fact to uh have an equitable and inclusive implementation uh of this guideline faces three challenges. The first one is a shaping of the global asset ecosystem. The second one is health system preparedness and the third one is a person center universal access to care. uh so it's not just making GLP-1 available in countries that that will mean and will necessarily translate into an equitable access to all those in need. Uh there is a concerted action to put in place at that level at global and national level starting with uh really making that assess ecosystem much more prone to increase the production the availability the affordability and the feasibility of uh uh of the uh medicine themsel and there are several strategy to put in place that we have uh uh seen working very well in largecale health programs like for example HIV has been cited several times times today pool procurement, tier pricing, local production uh etc. There is a health system to prepare. Here we are facing two challenges as one within the health system. One is the shift uh in obesity narrative as a chronic care disease that requires lifelong care and unprecedented scale. We have 1 billion people today projected to be two billion uh in 2030. uh health workers uh healthare training good referral system procurement of supply etc and finally a person centered care people living with obesity need to be the co-creators of the health journey adherence is the issue but also that universal assets is fundamental uh this medicine needs to be part of the universal uh universal health care packages national primary care benefit packages or whatever financing mechanism is in country to support that uh people living with obesity do not bear the cost of care and treatment. >> Uh thank you so much Dr. Farar. >> Yeah, I agree with everything Francesca just said, but just to add a couple of more thoughts. um whenever a new innovation comes and and these drugs are still relatively new used around the world uh and you're then going to potentially give it to many many millions if not billions of people around the world is absolutely crucial that those individuals have got access to the best possible information uh as individuals as a as a government as a health ministry to know that what you're going to do in terms of policy and access is backed by the best possible evidence we have issued quite a restrictive guidelines line at the moment on the basis that we think the scientific evidence there is very strong and we can back that up with that evidence with a lot of external expertise including people with lived experience. We think the evidence on the longerterm use still needs some further evidence to be generated and that's what we will do and that's why these are called living guidelines because they will be updated in a more dynamic way in future so that they can take into account that new evidence as it comes. What we don't want is people having to go behind and without the system accessing these drugs in ways that is unregulated uh not based on the evidence and which uh they're having to go to the internet and other uh places to find access to it. So preparing the health system for where these drugs will have their maximum impact integrated with other parts of uh of of prevention and promotion of health and then making sure that people can trust the evidence on which it's based. That's I think the job of we of WHO and health systems around the world. >> Uh thank you so much. Now I would like to invite Dr. Mukazi to add uh some uh more information. >> Thank you so so much. Uh just to add um the addition of GLP1s on the essential medicines list was also a step to facilitate other interventions on access. The essential medicines list is essentially a selection and prioritization uh tool that WHO provides to member states to see priority products that they could prioritize in the intervention. Addition [snorts] of this for example we know that has already start started discussions on pulled procurement that because it's it is identified as an essential product that enables pulled procurement. We also know that that uh this addition of this uh on the essential medicine list and production of the guideline now has already started a discussion on addition on the scope of who pre-qualification and that also opens to you know funding and procurement by international agencies and lastly the the addition on the essential medicine list also enables other intervent ventions that that are geared towards increasing production capacity for example licensing and then when it is added. So um these in interventions that we celebrate today uh both the guidelines and addition of the essential medicine list provides uh tools not only the end themselves but enabling other tools enable access and I think we look forward to uh these being deployed and to increase access and affordability interventions. Thank you so much. Uh thank you so much. Um we have another journalist having uh difficulties to um to to use uh um to in fact to speak to us. So I am reading his question. It's Matias Loni from Medscape Argentina. His question is, can you clarify what you mean by long-term treatment for obesity with GLP-1 given the fact that effects tend to reverse once they are interrupted? Good question. So, um, Dr. De, >> thank you. In the context of the guideline um long trend means more than six months and that's a regulatory definition uh for most of for the medications. So the trials that have been included in the guideline cover between 6 months and 36 40 months h for obesity we have seen that for diabetes there are longerterm trials. So that's what we mean. The truth is that there is a still lack of evidence on whether the treatment the response of the body is different when they interrupt the treatment where they reduce the dose etc. So there are still a couple of questions and that's why we have a living guideline that allow us to incorporate these questions and be able to provide more specific responses when there is no efficacy when there is interruption when there is a interruption or resuming the the medication. So there are still questions that are coming and we are learning as we move forward. However, what is very clear is that this intervention is efficacious to reduce weight and can be used more than six months in a safer way. >> Um, thank you. Thank you so much. Now, I would like to invite Albert Oti from DPI to ask the next question. Albert? >> Uh, hello. Uh, thanks for taking my question. Uh uh one more question about GLP-1. Um would you say that um these medications are being overprescribed prescribed too often uh in especially in wealthy or western countries and do your does your guidance is your guidance signal that it should be uh its use should be really restricted to to to obese uh patients. >> Dr. Saluti. >> Uh thank you and thank you Fella again. Um the WHO guidelines are based upon the best available evidence is a synthesis of uh uh current studies uh also um amplified by um perspective on um uh values and preference perspective of healthcare provider and people living with obesity as well as preliminary data on um uh cost effectiveness. Nevertheless, uh the guidelines uh state that uh uh and as we said uh we release a conditional recommendation uh to uh prescribe GLP-1 therapy in people living with obesity meaning with a very defined BMI that should be over 30. um that has to be contextualized to countries and uh really put it in the as we said before in the context of uh uh the condition of the health system and also uh the possibility to provide uh sustainable uh chronic care for people living uh with the disease. Uh medication alone uh are not going to solve the issue including with people with obesity. Something that we would like to emphasize is also that uh behavioral therapy that focuses on healthy diet and structured physical exercise is essential to amplify also the impact of the medicine. Who does not recommend uh GLP-1 for those who have a BMI uh that is less than uh 30 uh that is less than 30. is really based on a condition that is defined and diagnosed by health care provider and uh uh the health system and regulated by the health system. >> Uh thank you so much and now I would like to invite Priti Patnayak to ask the next question. Pretty >> good afternoon. Thank you for taking my question. Um I wanted to know um uh whether the guidelines address the question of uh um you know intellectual property um in impeding access uh to these drugs. Um and uh if you if you'll be able to comment on uh the potential of generics in shaping this market going forward. Thank you so much. >> Um yes please go ahead. Thank you very much for the question. Particularly guidelines like this do not directly address the IP issues and those are a different discussion that through a different channels. But having said that as I mentioned in my earlier intervention initial initiatives like this uh uh enable other discussions to take place and this is one of them that could take place and you could see uh companies discussing voluntary licenses and all that but but it's when produces a guideline like this highlighting the importance of such products and we put them on the essential medicine list that can enable other access interventions and we hope that these discussions will start in one way or another. Thank you. >> Uh thank you deos. Just to add as we um just said at the beginning of the conference the global assess ecosystem for GLP-1 is very immature at the moment and uh who has a role to play that with the essential medicine list with the guidelines and then of course with the PQ. Nevertheless uh we do need much more than that. We need need to bring on board different partners and stakeholder to really have uh available a suite of intervention that can really serve and bring this medicine when uh clinically indicated to those in need. Uh also we need to recognize that definitely uh the some of the uh current GLP-1 therapy in the market will go uh generic next year but this is not going to be a possibility in all countries. uh but at the same time uh the pipeline uh of GLP-1 therapy is also very active. We currently have 40 products that are about are possibly entering the market uh between now and 2030 and some of them constitute more friendly uh combination as for example the or formulation as for example the oral uh formulation. So uh generic is definitely going to be one of the strategy that uh uh will uh support and amplify and shape the global asset ecosystem. At the same time we need to be innovative and agile to really have different sort of strategies and intervention that also will uh make possible uh to uh bring the medicine the best possible and safe medicine in the best formulation to all those in need. Uh thank you uh so much. I would like to invite our special guest if they have any comment to make. Um Minister Bodau or uh Janet Hunter, Dr. Janet Hunter or Dr. Karen Cel if you have any comment to make please jump in and thank you. >> Thank you. I just say um from our side also even though I was part of the guideline um development group but to say thank you to WHO for showing the leadership and the initiative. This is a great start. It's not going to be easy because of the exorbitant cost. Um but we do want as complete a package a toolkit as Louis has called it earlier as complete as possible a toolkit with which to prevent and manage obes obesity since it's really serious risk factor when it comes to NCDS and especially diabetes that's leading our um mortality causes in South Africa at the moment and I think around the world soon. Thank you so much. >> Thank you. Um I think we have another uh journalist or or we we have someone else who wants to speak from our special guests. Dr. Sely, you have the floor. >> Sorry, I somehow can't find my hand. But first I wanted to thank the journalists for the excellent questions. Uh it is really encouraging to know of the interest to this extent um of by the journalists and it in in fact immediately caused me to see where in fact in order to get the dissemination of the utility of these guidelines we need to involve journalists in our own regions and in our own country. So that is um a a reminder for me as we as we go forward. I the I would like to thank also the Francesca and her team uh in pulling together this at a time when all the answers are not there that as she says the ecosystem is in fact quite young quite you know um in rudimentary stage but the important thing is that that means we have time to inform and educate policy makers and the different sectors and civil society. about the living nature of these guidelines. Another challenge I think that is evident from the discussion that we are having. So I really would like to congratulate Frances and her team and Francesca and her team and who for taking this step at this time when all the everything is not there on the table but we know how urgent it is. And again I see the similarity as we had done with HIV. We had to start because uh the situation was dire. Thank you. >> Thank you so much. Um another journalist having problems um speaking. So I can read the question from uh a journalist from Lswis in Belgium and Sophie L from Lswis Brussels Belgium. It's an interesting question. I like it. I would like to know what would you reply to the body positive movement that refuses to consider obesity as an illness. Um so who wants to take this question? May maybe um loose or uh the >> Yeah. Thank you. I think that that is a >> the way that obesity is presented there. It's a personal decision on how it was to present that part of the body positive. What we recognize in this guideline is that it needs to be people centered. So h that part of how someone perceives themselves accepts how others en encourage how encourage others to accept obesity and support people living even with obesity. We are fully supportive of that. However, we recognize that obesity has particular metabolic changes and conditions that lead to other diseases and that evidence is very clear. Not all people living with obesity will develop these diseases but a great number of people living with obesity will need additional care in terms of NCDS. It is likely that they will develop diabetes, hypertension and other conditions. So yes, we have to be very body positive but also if we can prevent a multiple diseases associated to obesity that's where we want to go. We are encouraging and our campaigns including in the world food safety day has been about acceptance about having a dialogue in terms of health workers that provide more compassionate care to people living with obesity to colleagues living with obesity and that's what we mean by people centered care and that's why guideline also has people living with obesity as part of the guideline development group and they very strong advocates advocates of having options and GLP-1 is an option to treat obesity. Thank you uh so much. [snorts] Um I would like to take a last question from our friend uh John Zarakostas from the Lancet and France cut English service. John you have the floor. John, can you hear me? John, >> can you hear me now, Fidel? >> Yes. Yes. Please go ahead. >> Yes. Yes. Good afternoon. Uh thank you for this briefing. Uh I would like to uh get some uh answers from the panelists. Um we heard a lot about equitable access to the new uh very effective GLP-1 uh drugs. Uh what's the price differential at the moment? How many of these drugs are available to people in poor countries? And uh we mention you mentioned the HIV AIDS model of 20 25 years ago. Is that the path to get these drugs at affordable prices for people in poor countries? Uh thank you very much. >> Uh thank you John. Uh Dr. Saluti will take this question. >> Thank you very much John and thanks Fidela. Um there are two uh question in this one. One is about the equitable assets and one is about the pricing. Equitable access is not only a matter of having the uh medicine um affordable and available in a country. We already uh somehow address that issue is a matter also of the health system preparedness and also of a person uh center universal access to care. In terms of uh uh pricing and cost of the medicine, uh currently uh according to the latest possible data, we observe 10-fold variation in the uh price of this medicine where it is available in the countries where it is available. As we said the medicine GRP1 whatever formulation are not necessarily registered in all countries and many countries are working toward uh the inclusion in their uh national um uh essential medicine list and also as part of their uh services and intervention and in the in the health system. uh the current challenges are uh universal in terms of access to this uh medicine and they are referred to uh production capacity to pricing to availability but also to procurement and supply issues. Uh GLP-1 uh or at least those approved for obesity are injectable and need a cold chain. So that of course uh adds onto the uh feasibility and uh into the delivery of this medicine. Um the prices are changing is a very dynamic uh uh space at the moment. We have seen uh in many countries that prices have uh uh have changes as I said before 10-fold variation in the current prices in many countries in terms of uh where the future should look how the future should look like uh definitely we need to learn from those uh large scale programs including HIV but not only uh that have put in place a series of strategies to really uh bring up the availability and affordability. So as we said already poor procurement, tier pricing, local production, voluntary license etc etc are to be used according to as in order to uh ensure that safe and effective medicine are delivered uh as indicated and prescribed by healthcare providers. >> Uh thanks so much. We have come to the end of our press conference. Thank you very much for your participation. As usual, we will be sending you the audio files and the DG uh speech um right after uh this press conference. And if you have any follow-up question, don't hesitate to contact the WHO media team. With this, over to you Dr. Tedros for your closing remarks. >> You Thank you, Fadila. And thank you to all members of the press for joining us today. And see you next time.