Good evening to everyone joining to our weekly live Q&A on CO 19 updates. I am very pleased to be joined today in person by Dr. Mike Ryan as usual and we have also Dr. Maria Vankerov who is uh actually connected remotely. Um as usual uh please send us your questions if you're watching us on Twitter using the hashtag ask. If you are watching us on other platforms please use the comment section to ask your questions. Um Mike and Maria will um um Mike Maria Dr. Tedto shared some good news yesterday that uh we in the past we had the lowest number of deaths uh since the pandemic started. So is this good news? Uh does this mean that we are coming to an end of the pandemic? [clears throat] Well, Mar will give uh more detail on that. Yes, it's always good news. I mean, we've seen the number of cases, reported cases dropping uh over the [clears throat] last number of weeks, but the deaths up to about a month ago were were were very stable or increasing in some places. So, the fact that we see deaths dropping is a good sign. It's a really good sign that uh that the intensity of the disease is dropping away and that health systems are coping a little better. But it's not the end. Remember, there were 21,000 cases last week and uh um or 21,000 deaths, sorry. Uh uh and that's still too many and there are still too many people dying who are unvaccinated, too many people dying who are not getting access to oxygen. Too many people dying who don't have access to steroids, who don't have access to antivirals. So you know just because numbers are falling we should be happy but that we shouldn't be satisfied. Uh we need to do better and and and and we can do better. So I think yes, good news. We should take it for what it is, but we shouldn't let our guards down. Thank you. to Mike. Maria, do you have any comments on the current trend on mortality? Um, thanks Alex. Hi, Mike. Um, no, I mean I I agree with Mike that declining trends um are what we want to see. Um, and especially declining deaths. Um, but as Mike has said and as the director general has said, you know, 22,000 deaths last week, 21,000 deaths, 40,000, these are far too high. Um, and they're far too high when we have tools that could prevent them from happening. Um, we're also concerned of under reporting. Um, you know, this is something that we've talked about throughout the pandemic. We certainly know that the tests um that are being administered around the world, uh, there's a significant decline um, across large numbers of countries around the world because testing policies have changed. It's ironic because we now have more tests that are available. We have systems that are in place that could actually do PCR based testings in national and subnational levels. We have antigen based tests that are being used by professionals, being used by individuals, but in fact testing is declining. Um and and what we need to do is to maintain um this level of surveillance so that we could track this virus and really understand its circulation. More than 7 million cases being reported last week um is still an exceedingly high number. Um and with this intense level of spread, the threat of v virus evolution remains. Um, and this is what we're concerned about. But if we focus on the deaths, declining trends are what we want to see. But as Mike has said and as DJ has said, we could do more and we should do more. Now is really the time to push through this and make sure that we get vaccination into the AR vaccines into the arms of people who need them most in all countries. Every single life uh on this planet matters. Um and we just need to work even harder even though we're all tired of this and want this to be over. Um to keep those trends declining because we are at risk if we let down our guard we are at risk to start to see hospitalizations increase again. We are at risk to see um deaths increase again. Just last point is that the vaccines um are working. Um we do see a significant decoupling of cases and deaths in countries that have strong vaccination coverage. um and in particular those who are at risk. So they're working uh amongst people who are getting vaccinated, receiving those full doses and vaccines are saving people's lives, but they can only save the lives of the people's whose arms they reach. Um and so that's why we're working so hard and and the DG continues to push for vaccine equity. We are already receiving follow-up questions from our viewers. So, thank you so much. Uh the first one is from Dr. Tony Aena um who is saying thank you both for your support. Uh can we safely call it endemic now? So Dr. [clears throat] M would you like to start and Maria maybe we can use the chance as well to um mention the situation around the world and that we still have hot spots with infections right Mike would you like to start? Yeah, I mean again we've spoken of this many times before. The [clears throat] this terminology of pandemic, epidemic, endemic, they're really just descriptions of what's happening. They're not absolute categories. So in a sense, when we say something is pandemic, it means it's an epidemic occurring at a global level. Pandemos, everybody is included. We talk about an epidemic, it means that you've got a an acute outbreak of disease that's affecting a defined population. So it's a very rapid increase in cases and it's very unusual and very noticeable. Um when a disease becomes very often ancient epidemic diseases often settle down into an endemic pattern. They start out causing epidemics or pandemics but they eventually settle into a pattern because so many people in the population are protected by natural infection or in more recently by vaccination. uh then the disease settles often into a pattern of becoming a disease of childhood as we see with the likes of measles and dtheria and all of those diseases uh where um the disease becomes end in children because as new children are born in our population they're susceptible to these diseases. So the viruses uh hone in on infecting kids and you often then within that you've seen with measles vaccination an ep a hugely um difficult disease has been almost eliminated around the world and we saw how the benefit of vaccination but now we see what happens when vaccination levels drop for measles. We see the epidemics occurring again because population levels of protection drop. So in a sense how the disease transmits in the community very is very dependent on human immunity and human protection. So as human protection levels changes the virus changes in terms of the disease it causes or the the amount of disease it causes. So when a disease is endemic in a sense we're saying the disease is occurring at low levels across a community. It may be targeting particular people in the community um because of age or because of vaccination status but the disease is at low levels and very often you see epidemic on endemic cycles they're called where you see a disease that's endemic it's just bouncing along at low number and then occasionally you see big spikes and you often see those spikes in a seasonal pattern or you see those spikes in particularly susceptible individuals. So even if we say now and I don't believe and Maria maybe you'll correct me if I'm wrong but I certainly personally do not believe we've reached anything close to an endemic situation with uh with this virus. It's not fully settled down into any u temporal pattern pattern by seasons. It's not settled down into any particular pattern uh of transmission. Um and therefore the disease is still quite volatile. Uh it's still capable of causing huge epidemics as we've seen. Um uh and even in populations who've been previously exposed that is not an endemic disease yet. Um uh and endemic in itself when people say oh when it's endemic everything will be fine. Well that's not the case either. Tuberculosis is endemic. Malaria is endemic. They kill millions of people every year. So endemic uh please everyone out there don't believe that endemic equals it's over or endemic equals it's it's mild or endemic equals not a problem. That's not the case at all. There are many endemic diseases that are killing and maming people all over the world. Uh again pandemic, epidemic, endemic are descriptions of the state of transmission of the virus. Right now the disease is still causing huge epidemics around the world as part of the pandemic. Um increasingly we're seeing as Maria said a decoupling that the number of cases in countries with high vaccine protection it means when they get a wave of disease passing through you don't see the hospitalizations and deaths as much because people are protected. So it really depends how well protected the population is when the wave of virus passes through. And what we're seeing in many countries with high rates of vaccination, they're getting through the waves relatively easily, but in countries with low levels of vaccination, with high levels of vulnerability, with lack of access to healthcare, those uh waves are still causing major major problems. So um uh I think we have to be very careful in using words like endemic at this moment. Thank you, Mike. And I think you answered a question from few viewers who are asking is CO still dangerous and is this end of CO? And I think you described it's still dangerous and it's not at the end yet. Um, thank you Michael. Maria, can we please hear from you on on the situation with infections and hotspots at the moment? Um, thanks Alex. Yes. No, I mean also fully concur. We're still in the middle of this pandemic. I we you know, we all wish that we weren't, but we are not in an endemic stage. Um, even to be able to describe it as uh endemic. Um, you know, the virus is circulating at such a high level and it will, uh, eventually become, you know, endemic, but we're still in this pandemic causing huge amounts of death and devastation and, uh, you know, changing people's livelihoods, their futures, um, where it doesn't need to be. Um, so, you know, fully concur with what what Mike has just said there. Um, we are still seeing hot spots uh, around the world and in fact in all regions. While we are seeing the decline in cases, you know, there were still 7.2 more than 7.2 million cases reported to WHO last week. And this is despite, as I mentioned, a significant decline in testing. Um, there is a large amount of self- testing that is being done in a number of countries, but that does not always get registered into systems. So, we don't have good good eyes and ears around the world about its circulation. Um we do see a decline in cases being reported across all of the regions. Um but there still are millions uh of cases being reported as we've mentioned. Um and it depends on the situation in each country. It depends on the population level immunity um based on past infection and or vaccination because some people have been infected and have been vaccinated. Some people have been infected and not vaccinated. Some people have not been vaccinated nor have they been uh infected. Um and so this will uh impact the virus's circulation and the outcome of the patient whether or not they uh develop disease, whether or not they need hospitalization, whether or not they go on um to be severe and die. Um so there are hot spots um all over the world. We do see some hotspots in our whipro region and in particular uh the western Pacific region um where there's been some large increases in cases. All of these are detailed out in our weekly epidemic report and online. If anyone is uh you know interested to look in detail about what is happening with that circulation, we continue to track this. We continue to report this and we continue to advise countries to keep up their surveillance and continue to reporting cases and deaths and in particular hospitalizations to us um so that we can really understand that burden. Um but it's just it's far from over, Alex. Um and there's just a lot more uh that we can do. We're trying to balance I think you can hear Mike and I when we speak about this. We're trying to sort of balance the urgency um the seriousness about what is happening uh around the world and at the same time recognize um the fatigue that people feel in even talking about the pandemic and dealing with the pandemic. Um but I can tell you uh you know that people who are in hospital right now, people who are losing their lives right now, people who are lo losing loved ones right now, this is not over for them. People across large parts of the world who have not received a single vaccine, this is not over for them. Um and it's not over frankly for all of us because we still have these variants. We still have virus evolution. We still have uh mutations that are being identified. We now have further sublineages of omccrron. this will continue to happen. And I speak, you know, as someone who's in the US right now with COVID, doing fine, isolating myself, very lucky to have been vaccinated, very lucky to have access to clinical care. Um, and and feeling exceedingly lucky that I have loved ones around me to take care of me. So, you know, it's far from over and we all are human. We all have to do what we can to keep ourselves and our loved ones safe. you do as well to keep others safe. Um it's been a long time of as well you being with everyone and dedicated to provide the best science and advice. And um we have someone who is asking uh for an update on something that you uh presented two weeks ago uh in the same studio uh and it's about strategic um plan and response to to co 19. So um here is the question. May Dr. Vanker Cole will update us on the implementation of the strategic preparedness readiness and response plan after two weeks of his publication. What are the current obstacles to executing the plan toward the endemic? So that's a great question. The strategic preparedness readiness and response plan is a an update to previous U plans that WHO has published. So it's actually a continuation of what we published first in February on the 4th of February 2020. Um so more than two years ago where we published the first strategic preparedness and response plan and what we've recently released is an update to that in its third version. Um it's an adjustment of the current strategy. So the plans are actually well underway. Um, who is working with our regional offices and our country offices and our partners to implement this plan to focus on reducing the spread of the virus. So trying to minimize uh as much transmission as we can while we are starting to safely open up societies and at the same time reduce the opportunities for this virus to cause severe disease and death. And we do that through a number of tools starting from surveillance and testing, getting patients into the clinical care pathway so that they receive the therapeutics that they need depending on the outcome, depending on the disease that they have and their underlying conditions. Making sure that we increase vaccination coverage around the world. um and focusing on a 70% target of all populations in all countries, but within that 70% target, make sure that we reach 100% of people who are at risk uh with underlying conditions um who are over the age of 60 and reaching 100% of our frontline workers. So, those plans are well underway. Um, and so there's a huge amount of work that is being done across all of the pillars of response from everything from using these life-saving tools like diagnostics, therapeutics, and vaccines, making sure that healthcare workers are trained, protected, and respected, working in safe environments of providing that care to the patients that need them in every country of the world through all the way to empowering, enabling, discussing, communicating, um, making sure that individuals and communities have what they need to keep themselves, to keep their communities, to keep their families, to keep their businesses open. And so it's everything across the board. Um what we are doing in the third year and with this adjustment is looking with uh countries at the national strategies. What do the national strategies uh say? How do they need to be revised? Taking into consideration where a country is. Every country is in a different situation right now, based on a number of factors based on how they dealt with COVID before, how they're dealing with it now, based on the population level immunity, based on the demographics of the country, based on the trust that they have with their societies and how that's changed over time, based on their access to tools and how they use those tools, based on their ability to adjust and change the implementation of different STR different uh layers of interventions over time. And we are working with governments to um adjust what they need to do in the third year of the pandemic taking on uh you know what they need to do to reduce massively reduce severe disease and death. We believe that we can take the death and devastation out of COVID this year. We can end the emergency of CO 19. But we can only do that if we increase vaccination coverage, if we increase access to life-saving tools, and at the same time take measures to reduce the spread because we can't forget about variance. We can't pre prevent protect um excuse me, we can't forget about the possibility of more variance. And really importantly, all uh of the future scenarios in terms of how this pandemic may unfold, all national strategies need to take into consideration postcoid condition. Um, we are really learning about this now. We are really starting to get some good data from studies that are coming out from cohort studies and who has been working with patient groups, clinicians across the spectrum of technical areas, with the heart, with the lungs, with the brain, um, with all different organs of the body to understand postcoid condition or long COVID and making sure that patients receive the care that they need. Um uh a lot of our viewers are actually sending you best wishes to stay strong and are grateful that um you are still with us answering their questions. Um Mike, maybe you can take this question from Jaya Kumar who is asking if we if concentrating more efforts to support countries in Africa to fight COVID and if we can strengthen Kovac's facility to reach the 70% target in Africa. Uh good question. Yes. Uh yes we we are and uh but not just in Africa we're we're really focused in on a lot of uh low middle- inome countries particularly low-inccome countries in which there are gaps in vaccination but also gaps in therapeutics gaps in surveillance because these gaps aren't just in one thing they're very often in in many areas um and and just you know refraining on what Maria just said in an epidemic situation there are two things you Because a lot of this stuff is made very complex for people and it's a lot of scientists talking gobbledegook people half the time, right? And and people get lost in it. It's there's a very simple equation when we deal with contagion. When we deal with infectious diseases, your first job is to protect a population. Try and stop the virus getting at people. Sometimes that's by wearing masks or by physical distancing or staying home or vaccinating people so that the virus can't infect them. Uh so everything you do is focused on that community and protecting that and even within that community maybe protecting especially vulnerable people in that community like people living in long-term care facilities or um people like that. So that's what we try to do and that's what all that work around vaccination and communication and public health and social measures is. We're trying to separate people from the virus, protect people from the virus. The other thing you do in an epidemic situation is where you can't do that, where people are exposed and become ill, what you then try to do is save individual lives. And that's where clinical care, getting to hospital quickly, getting a fast diagnosis, getting access to oxygen, getting access to steroids, getting access to um to virals becomes important. And they're the two things you try to do all the time in an epidemic. Protect the population and the community, save individual lives. But you can't do those two things if you don't have data. If you don't understand where the virus is. If you don't understand the sequences or the variance or you don't understand the transmission dynamics or where the virus is going next. So unless you have that intelligence, you won't be able to fight the virus. And secondly, you can't fight the virus unless you have the commodities you need, the diagnostics, the vaccines, the drugs, the oxygen. Uh unless you have the health workers. So there are things you need to do the job. But the job is very straightforward. Our problem in this pandemic is we've not been able in every situation to connect communities with the right information, connect communities with the right protection like vaccination. It's been inequitably distributed and equally on the clinical care side, we've not been able to connect people who will most benefit from antivirals and oxygen with the system in time. So in effect it reflects a lot of longstanding weaknesses in our health care systems, longstanding inequities in the system and they're just amplified in the pandemic. The the pandemic is essentially uncovering and amplifying these very longstanding inequities, injustices in the way healthcare is delivered and the way people have access to either protection or life-saving interventions. And on both sides of that equation, there are deep deep um deep inequities. uh and in that sense coming back to the question that's why Africa matters in this because Africa has suffered the most in terms of lack of access to all of these technologies and commodities right the way through this pandemic as I speak today only I think 83% of the population of Africa have had a have had no one of them they have not had a single dose of vaccine when we talk about people over 60 we've talked about people over 60 been the most vulnerable in this pandemic and if you go to European countries like uh like Spain and the UK and France, 95 and 96% of people over 60 are vaccinated, triple vaccinated. If you go to Africa, it's 25%. Look at the difference. And we talk about the, you know, we've been going on about it. You've seen it yourselves out there in your communities, the devastating impact that this virus has had in older populations. Yet, we leave 75% of the most vulnerable people in Africa completely unprotected. This is not right. This is not fair. And you know what? It's not smart because the virus will continue to evolve, continue to transmit in a completely u um um unrestricted way. So, a lot of work is going on. There's a a major push in many of these countries. We've got 34 countries in in a in a in a in a group at the moment that are considered to be the highest risk of of of not achieving the objectives we set for vaccination. uh and WHO and UNICEF uh have launched at the beginning of the year um a combined effort with many other UN agencies to uh accelerate the delivery of uh co vaccines uh in countries mainly across Africa for sure but not not only across Africa uh and that effort is having bearing some fruit up to the end of last year access to vaccines or the availability of vaccines at the global level was the major constraint and that still remains a constraint to to a great extent but that's less of a constraint now than the ability to be able to deliver those vaccines in country. Part of that um is because uh and it's very difficult when Africa and low-inccome countries needed the vaccine it wasn't there for them. Now they see Europe and North America and other places opening up and saying no the pandemic's over uh and therefore the political will and the community demand for vaccination drops because people are saying well the rest of the world thinks it's over why why should we have a vaccine too? So there are issues around hesitancy. There are issues around information. There are logistics issues around delivering the vaccine uh and and managing the campaigns in terms of coal chain and others. Uh I think we have 69 who member states that are still below the 40% original target. Uh many many more below the 70%. So we have a lot of catchup to do and we must do this because as we've said in the beginning the main impact of this disease is in the unvaccinated. That's where the death that's where the hospitalizations are occurring to the greatest extent. Uh so if we're going to make progress together globally, we have to make progress in low low income countries and we have to make progress in Africa. There is tremendous capacity. I've worked in Africa in so many major outbreaks and yellow fever in measles in polio in Ebola. There is a tremendous capacity to do vaccination if our health workers in Africa get the right support. We've done massive campaigns on yellow fever, massive campaigns on measles, on menitis. There's an innate capacity to do that. There are the community workers out there. We need to boost those community workers and vaccinators. We need to inject more finances into the system. We need to send surge capacity in terms of health workers. We need to uh beef up the logistics pathways. And if we do those three or four things, we'll get there. The difficulty is doing that in one country is fairly straightforward. doing that in 50 countries in Africa at the same time that's a challenge and and I think uh the team working on this and they're led by Ted Chabet u and there's an integrated team of who UNICEF and other players I know that HCR the Mu many many other organizations are involved in supporting this effort thank you so much Mike uh and u also for this great question um Maria we are receiving questions questions about BA.1 and BA.2 re combinant and um if you can clarify why this is not a different variant and what do we know um about um its features and severity. Oh thanks Alex. So we are tracking a number of sublineages of omccron. Um and all of these are categorized under omccrron for the moment. We have the BA1, we have BA.2, BA3.4 and 5. Um and all of these are sublineages of what we call omccron. We also have a recombinant which is a combination of BA1 and BA.2. Um some people have called this exe and in fact that's the naming um of the scientific naming using the pango lineage nomenclature. Um so people may be confused out there. Um but of this recumbent um there's initial data um that show uh that it is circulating in a number of countries. These are still low levels of detection. um we haven't seen a change in terms of a major change in the epidemiology with the exception of an increase in transmissibility um of about 10%. This has been reported as 10 times more transmissible and that was uh incorrect. Um it's about 10% more and that's a slight increase. That may sound like a lot but it's a slight increase. Um we haven't seen a change in severity. While I have the opportunity I'll give an update of uh4 BA.4 and BA5. um we discussed this yesterday at the press conference as well. So these are further sublinages of omccrron um that we are tracking around the world and BA.4 and BA5 have been detected in a number of countries including South Africa, Batswana, Germany, Denmark um and a few others. So in Europe, in Africa um but detection levels are low. Um, and I think part of the problem here is the challenge of keeping up with surveillance, keeping up with increasing sequencing, and making sure that those sequences are shared. For those countries who are doing robust surveillance and sequencing, they're sharing this data with platforms like JIADE. And there's more than 10 or 11 million sequences that are available um to be analyzed in real time. And so WHO through our technical advisory group for virus evolution um are working with the scientists around the world to understand these sublineages. So far for BA.4 and BA5 there are less than 200 sequences that are available um to be analyzed across a number of countries. Um we haven't seen a change in the epidemiology based on the detection levels so far and we have not indicated any change in severity but it's still early days and what we have to make sure is that we continue to have the ability to track the ability to share the ability to analyze so that we can answer questions like this and really critically we as WHO with our partners can update our guidance and make sure that we make any changes to that guidance should they be necessary. So so far in countries that are detecting BA.4 and BA.5 we're not seeing an increase in case detection. Um again this is despite this is despite changes in testing strategies but testing levels and incidence levels seem to be leveling and we don't see an increase in hospitalizations. So this is what we're really tracking right now around the world and this is what remains really critical for us to be able to do in real time and I'm talking almost daytoday right now. A lot of countries are moving to weekly reporting which which is fine but we have to be able to look at this sort of over time and be able to understand what these trends mean and in particular what they mean for hospitalizations what they mean among people who are vaccinated. Last point um our counter measures for the subvariants of the sublineages of omccron are working. vaccines, the CO 19 vaccines remain incredibly protective against severe disease and of death. And so it is critical that people get vaccinated, that people have access to vaccines and that people get vaccinated and that they receive the full dose that they need. Maria, there is a follow-up question on genome sequencing capacities. Um, I think the concern is as you as you pointed that uh testing rates are lower, genome sequ sequencing uh rates are lower. So are we actually at risk of not uh spotting all potential varants of concerns or or mutations? Well, we are at risk if these systems are not maintained. Um what has been one of the most um striking uh achievements I think during this pandemic um is the coming together of scientists and experts um and the investments that have been made in surveillance systems for testing for sequencing. Um and what we are in jeopardy of is in the third year of this pandemic, we're in jeopardy of countries dismantling those systems or um taking away the investments that they've put in place to really have strong abilities to track these viruses. This is not only good for SARS KB2, the virus that causes CO 19. It's good for any respiratory pathogen. It's good for any infectious uh disease. uh in fact because the PCRbased systems um the testing systems that are in place the ability for people to use tests outside of medical facilities is something that can be leveraged and enhanced and used for other infectious pathogens. So what we're really worried right now if I actually look at the tracking of the variance of concern globally and we look at the sequences that are being shared with Jade the number of sequences that are being shared over time over the last several weeks is declining and this concerns us because we know there are so many cases that are out there and we know that there are good surveillance and sequencing systems that have been put in place. those need to be reinforced and in particular we would like to see the sequencing platforms uh particularly the regional ones across all of the WHO regions all the geographic regions of the world be enhanced and nurtured and so that sequencing capacity is at national and at subnational level so that countries could use that information to make informed decisions about what they need to do so they can work with us and experts around the world so that we can analyze them together looking nationally looking regionally looking globally Um so our worry is that um there is a threat that the systems that have been put in place for COVID, for surveillance, for testing, for PPE, for good workforce, for sequencing will be um taken apart because people need to move on to something else. And that's what we don't want to see. We need to see the investment for now dealing with the threat of COVID now, but also an investment for the future. what we do now is critically important for not just COVID but for the next disease X for the next threat that is out there and for the known threats that are out there like influenza you know like other infectious diseases that are circulating. So, it's really critical that we use this moment, this horrible traumatic two years that everyone has been through um to use these financial financial advancements to use the political advancements to kind of push this forward and make sure that we have a good public health system in place to deal with COVID and anything in the future. Um there you both stressed that CO is still around us. It's not near end and it's still dangerous. So, some of our viewers are asking if this is still a danger. Why are we stopping contact tracing? Why are we told you don't need to wear a mask anymore? Why why the measures are lifted? Mike, maybe would you like to start? I didn't quite get the question. I agree with the statement, but so the question is um as we seeing the countries are lifting the measures. This is my interpretation of the of the viewer's question is um as US experts are saying that epidemiological situation is still bad then they are confused why countries are stopping to do uh contact tracing and are lifting other public health and social measures. Um, yeah, it's it's natural. I mean, for well, everyone, as Maria said earlier, wants to get back to living as close to possible to normal life as as as we all can. And certainly in places where you've got very high vaccination coverage and previous immunity from previous infection, we're seeing that normalization of the situation. So, you can see why countries are lifting restrictions. Now, you've seen different approaches to lifting restrictions. You've seen for example if you take the likes of Singapore some countries in Southeast Asia they've taken a very stepwise approach and they've gone for a few weeks they've done one thing and then they release something else and then and they've been very cautious and they've tried to kind of I suppose walk their way down the hill from from the peak we were at. Uh other countries lifted the restrictions very abruptly. uh and they felt they had reached a point where I think the danger of the disease returning in huge numbers was outweighed by the demand from populations just to get back to normal life. And there is this we we we all have it within ourselves. We have the desire to be safe and we also have the desire to go and do what we want to do. It's it's the same when we we set speed limits on the road. We all want to get from A to B fast. We all recognize if everyone goes too fast there'll be lots of accidents. So we set a speed limit. So we have a a level at which we tolerate a certain amount of speed and a level above which we say does it mean driving at 79 kilometers an hour is less dangerous than driving at 81 km an hour? No, it doesn't. It's just a line that says above this we will do something below this we won't do so much. And I think that's where governments are at. The governments have decided that some governments that they're lifting all restrictions because they're comfortable that there's enough vaccination and enough prior immunity to reduce the impact of any wave. Uh and secondly that their health systems are strong enough to cope. many governments then have passed that responsibility on to individuals and that's something that I find somewhat difficult at times because there are still very vulnerable people in every community who may still need to protect themselves or be protected by others be they in a long-term care facility for example or people with imunosuppression. So, it's very important as these restrictions are lifted and if you don't have to wear a mask, if someone sitting beside you on the on the bus or sitting beside you in a restaurant is wearing a mask, that's not to be criticized. That person may be vulnerable. That p person may be going home to a vulnerable individual. So we need to find a way to accept that while most people will be able to live very straightforward unrestricted lives, others will choose for very good reasons to maintain higher levels of protection. Um and and I think that must be mutual there must be mutual respect for that. uh and also I think we need to be ready and I hate saying it and sound like a a worrying nanny is that uh there may be situations in future where a wave passes through again or we get a new variant where governments may have to introduce uh restrictions again and again all of this comes back to what what was tried in the past everything has been about creating physical distance between people it's the virus transmits most effectively at short range uh short range aerosol or through the air transmission, short range contact touching and all of that. And the virus transmits and we've seen this uh in um uh if you're in enclosed space without proper ventilation, you can get the buildup of aerosols in in a room. What we don't fully understand is the connection between the dose of your exposure uh and the outcome. Is the dose you're exposed to, will that reduce your incubation period? Will that increase your infectiousness? Will that make your disease more severe? In many in infectious diseases, it's very often the dose you're exposed to and where you're exposed, what organ is exposed, um, causes, uh, causes a difficulty. So a lot of the work that governments will probably need to do in future is to decide let's say in the northern hemisphere next winter if we start to see increasing numbers of cases again what can be done short of going into lockdowns to reduce transmission in terms of physical distance in terms of the wearing of masks in terms of investing invest in ventilation and and other things so I think that's the work for now in countries with low with low numbers of cases and low impact there's There's nothing to suppose that the disease won't return. Um, and what would be acceptable in the next wave of cases for ordinary people out there? What's acceptable in terms of um uh going back to restrictive measures? Nobody wants to go back to to swinging lockdowns. They were never that effective in the first place. uh the the the WHO's always advised a calibrated uh approach to to stopping transmission through the the the sequential application of measures especially around physical distance and especially around masks and other things. So I I do think people need to be uh I I I think the for me the overwhelming thing for for countries that have good control now is people want to get back to their normal lives. You know please do. We need to track the virus everywhere. Even in the countries where the virus is low, we need to track it. So we need to continue testing, continue in doing genomic sequencing and keep a very close eye. But as Maria said, there are still huge parts of the world in which people are not protected at all. Uh so even though the weather may be fine where you are, there's still a storm elsewhere. Uh and we need to be aware of that and we need to be prepared to continue our effort to support that even though that suffering is far away. We have a responsibility as human beings to support other people who are in distress. Uh and there are many many populations around the world who are still very very very at risk with this virus. And we need to do everything possible and even within our own communities make sure that even if our community is well protected with vaccination in general that the high-risisk people within that community are super protected in terms of vaccination. If uh if we do all of that I think most people can get back to their normal lives. um and and and I hope we get to a point in the next year where CO fades into people's memories, but it should not fade in the memories of public health practitioners. We need to stay absolutely focused on this virus for a lot longer than this year and into the future. But that doesn't mean everyone on the planet needs to worry about this virus all the time. I think that's what people are sick of. I think people are sick of worrying. They're sick of being concerned. They're sick of, you know, thinking, "Have I just been exposed? that person sneezed next to me. What about my kids? They're worried about their parents. They're worried about children. So, nobody needs to have that level of concern or worry anymore. We have these fantastic tools at our disposal. And we've used them very well in many places around the world. The only problem is we've not used them as well as we could have used them in terms of their effectiveness and in terms of the equity. We have not fairly shared these life-saving tools around the world. So if we can if we really do want to take think about the next six nine months in this response, we can as Maria said come to the end of a public health emergency. We can redistribute these commodities in a way that's fair. We can get better control on the virus and people can sequentially return to a normal existence. uh recognizing that in some cases over the next year or two there may be epidemics in which we have to reintroduce some measures to reduce transmission. Thank you so much Mike and as we are coming closely to an end of today's session um looking into future and how we can actually fix things and not be in the same situation when the next pathogen emerges. Um Dr. The terroris is talking about generational agreement and um which is discussed among member states and we had some public hearings. Uh so here is a question from Minat Nan. I hope I pronounced this well. Uh may you also update us on the recent public health public hearings regarding the pandemic treaty on 12th and 13th April. What are the roles of the public community in the formation of the treaty? Um well first of all it's great that people out there know about these uh consultations and and it's absolutely critical uh for the future. Uh our member states have come together in an international negotiating body to look at this uh the concept of an accord uh an agreement for the future and this agreement is about protecting our future protecting the future of our our our our kids protecting the future of our ecosystem. uh it's very much linked to the to the to the climate agenda. It's very much linked to the sustainability agenda. We are living on a fragmented planet. You can see it politically, economically, biologically. Um we are in a in a very very challenged situation right now. Uh conflict crisis, climate crisis, uh the crisises in health, they're they're colliding in many places in the world. Right. So the the issue of infectious diseases, the issue of the pandemic threats, it's an existential threat. And it doesn't matter if you're from a developed developing country, east or west, if doesn't matter if you're from the Cook Islands or Canada. Uh it doesn't matter from Croatia or Chile. Every single citizen on this planet has a stake in the future of this planet. In the future of this biome that we live in, in the future of this ecosystem that we're disrupting and we're driving beyond any sustainable capacity for it to continue to sustain us and Dr. Tedlas has said that how long can we continue to do this and expect our planet to to to be kind to us? And we're seeing the result of that in climate change. We're seeing the result of that in in the biologic uh threats that we're facing, natural biologic threats, because we're stressing the ecosystem in which we live. We're stressing everything in that system. Now, to fix that is not going to be we're not going to flick a switch. It's like climate. We we're not going to flick a switch and all of a sudden our problems are over. These are systemic issues. systemic issues of humans being infected by animals because of misuse of the environment, of our inability to be able to detect and respond and contain these diseases because our public health systems are weak. Because our people, our communities don't trust the very governments that are supposed to serve them, where misinformation and disinformation are weaponized to hurt people more than sometimes than the viruses that threaten them. If we don't deal with that, uh, we are going to in a sense sleepwalk our way into the next pandemic, which could be worse. The upside is we've got fantastic science and innovation at our disposal. I've seen and people talk about all the bad things we've seen at community level and misinformation. I've seen wonderful things. I've seen huge examples of solidarity, of people wanting to support each other, citizens trying to help each other. It's governments have got in the way at times. Citizens have wanted to do the right thing. since the very beginning of this response. So it because of that and because the the countries from all over the world are now negotiating an accord um a promise I often call this a promise to the future not not not an agreement uh uh where we undertake we the people we the citizens of this planet make a promise that we shall not continue to stress our environment. We shall not continue to drive up the risks at the animal human interface. That we will commit to more sustainable management of the biome of this fragile ecosystem that we occupy. That we will commit to building fairer health systems, better resourced health systems that can detect these problems, that can treat people equitably, that when we do develop these wonderful scientific solutions, that we can share them equally with those who need them, not with those who can pay for them. These are the elements. Now, when you talk about those issues, they're they're beyond political. They're emotional issues. They don't matter to me as the head of the emergencies program in WHO. They matter to me as a father. They matter to me as a child of my parents. What future do I want for them? And therefore, that's why it's so important that communities and non-state entities and NOS's and uh organizations out there fully engage. This is about the future of our of our our global people. Uh and if we don't get to grips with climate, if we don't get to grips with pandemics, if we don't get to grips with issues like social justice, then we're going to not have a very safe future. So that's what this is all about. We want everyone out there to engage. Every single person on this planet has a stake in this discussion. Has a stake in the future, security of our health and and the future of our biologic security on this planet. And we must link that to the other issues like climate. And so you can't separate the issues of social justice and health justice and climate justice anymore. But what we don't have is an agreement around preparedness for pandemics. We don't have an agreement around managing these biologic threats into the future. This is what this process is going to last a year or two now. So please, those of you who, and it doesn't matter, you don't have to be a member of an organization. Those of you are sitting there in your sitting rooms right now, sit down and write a letter. Write a letter to Dr. Tedros. Tell him what you want. Tell him what you want in this agreement. write a letter to your to your prime minister, to your minister of health, and tell him or her increasingly and thankfully hers uh what you want on this planet in terms of your security and health and future, the health systems you want, the health justice that you want because you have a stake in this. It is your right to speak on this issue as it is your right to speak on climate. Um and you should speak, use your voice now uh and use it together. use it individually, but please use your voices now. We want this to be a global conversation. That's what Dr. Ted has has called it, a generational agreement that at least allows us to look into the future and say we have a plan and that plan involves every citizen on this planet. Thank you so much, Mike. And um Maria, do you have any comments on future plans and generational agreement that could be helpful for those who are interested to participate and contribute? No, I'm just sitting here listening to Mike thinking thank God for Mike Ryan and thank God for Dr. Tedros for for leading this charge and for all of the people who are fighting for these types of gener general generational agreements. I mean, I I am so grateful to work uh with amazing people like Mike and Dr. Tedros uh over these last two years but even beyond and it's time it's time for people to to speak out and to step up and to really put their n put their voices forward. So there are a lot of people who are working on this. There are a lot of people who are fighting for this. There are quite a few who are fighting against it but have a say. Um and these public consultations are specifically for the opportunity for people to raise their voice. So um write that letter, speak out, say what you think. Um, I keep thinking about my own kids as well and thinking about what world they live in and what world we're leaving for them. Um, there are a lot of mistakes that a lot of adults have made that we've left for our kids to deal with. Um, but I think things are changing. I really do. I mean, I I see leadership changing and I see new voices coming to the table. Um, and thankfully a lot of them are women. Um, but strong men as well. um but young people um religious leaders, community leaders, people from every part of the planet and I think we do need a promise. I think we do need an agreement and this this contract on pandemic preparedness. Um you know a lot of people now have been saying to me we you know we're we we we have this peace time now you know or perhaps perhaps we have a lull right now. We don't. There is no peace time in pandemic preparedness. But that doesn't mean everyone on the planet needs to be concerned. As Mike had said before, there are people like us who've dedicated our lives to this. But there are thousands, perhaps millions around the world now who recognize, billions now that recognize the importance of this and what a toll an invisible pathogen can take on our lives and our livelihoods um that has stolen so many actual lives and futures. we have to do differently next time and we have to take this opportunity to do so. If we don't do this now when and the DG says that all the time, but it is the time to step up. It is not the time to retreat. It is the time to put our voices forward, put those thoughts to paper and actually take steps. We need every government of the world right now to take this opportunity with COVID to build the systems that are in place to put in that architecture that needs to be there. But we also need this agreement. Um, and and now is the time. So for those of you who are out there who want to get involved, get involved. We're giving you an opportunity. Raise your voice. Speak out. We will listen. Thanks, Alex. To Mike, Dr. Tedros, and and um others leading this organization. I I think I need to add my thanks to you as well because you've been um on top of this pandemic for I I mentioned earlier a couple of years now. uh and other female scientists who contributed even to those life-saving solutions and who were leading the way. Um maybe I can read the message from Evette Michelle Ra. I think this will be a nice message to close today. Thank you for your work during this pandemic. It's still fairly new with the developed variance. I'm vaccinated and will continue to be safe and wear my mask. I know this is far from over. We must be smart in our decision making and stay safe and heart at the end of the message. that Lydia a job. Yeah. Wonderful. Next live for us. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you Maria. Um stay safe. Uh we are sending our thoughts and love to you. Uh thank you Mike for being with us today and thanks everyone for wonderful wonderful questions. Until next time be safe.