Respectful Chair, Dr. Jerome Valk, Excellency, Dear Colleagues and Friends, First, I thank Minister Valk for his leadership of this Board, and I thank all members, state members, and non-members of the Board and non- state actors for your engagement in this meeting and your support for the success of our meeting. You have dealt with a very significant agenda item in terms of its size and its importance. Thank you, in particular, for your decision to refer the Programme Budget 2026-2027 to the World Health Assembly. And thank you for the confidence you have shown by contributing 20% ​​of the base budget and for honoring the commitment you made in 2022. This is a very strong signal of your support, and it is a major step towards achieving more reliable and sustainable financial outcomes.  " Fighting as you have heard me say many times, I started as a Director General more than a few years ago. We identify the organization as having a handful of traditional donors. Major risks. Addressing that risk has become a priority of the transformation. We start as a director. I hope you see and agree that we have come a long way on that journey through the investment round of the Foundation and the historic commitment to increase our contributions. Because of your strong commitment to sustainable financing, these are truly transformational chances that are helping to bring our doorsteps together, reduce our exposure to unpaid and late funding, and share the burden more evenly. I also thank those member states who have committed to making more flexible contributions to our organizations. We recognize that you expect results and you expect value for money. And so you should have said that budget allocations should align with member states." Priority We agree you said we need to increase based on realistic funding We agree you said that our workforce is our greatest asset We agree you said we need to improve efficiency Enhance oversight and reduce unnecessary expenditures We agree to not only do what we are doing and what we will continue to do As I said in my opening remarks last Monday, we addressed operating vision strategic goals To mobilize new resources and to tighten our belts Thank you for your support You have demonstrated this week for these goals A large part of your discussion has been about budget and financing It's important to remember that budget and finances are means to an end because they enable the technical and operational work of the organization So I thank you for your commitment You have Demonstrated in adopting resolutions and decisions on universal health coverage, communicable and noncommunicable diseases, emergencies, polio, meningitis, cervical cancer, sub-species medicines, medical devices, the health and care workforce, digital health, and children and adolescent health, and so many more. Thank you most of all for the spirit in which you've worked. This week, I said in my opening remarks, I regret the announcement by the United States of its intention to see them participating last week. I think we all felt their absence. We very much hope they would consider, and we would welcome the party to engage in constructive dialogue. Thank you all once again for your hard work over the past 8 days and for your continuing commitment to our founding vision: the highest affordable standard of health for all people, not as a luxury for some, but a right for all.  I wish you all a safe and healthy journey home and as you have already guided us we will keep in touch and we will update you regularly thank you so much and safe travels and back to you chair thank you doctor [appreciation] my colleagues this 156th session of the ec board had to discuss some complex issues including the issue of sustainable financing the need for proposal process for the program budget 2026 2027 the process for alliance against the directors general and a number of new resolutions with costs and other implications we have had to face new realities with the announcement of the withdrawal of the US from the ec all of this you continue to demote the true meaning of multilateralism moving away from entrenched positions and compromises for the greater good and collective well being and achievements over the last  8 days including an agreement on the rights of the foundation price and anole the remarks by the work of health workers across the globe shows the global health through first commitment continues to be in good hands our work over the next few months will not be easy but we have learned anything that is worth while comes with some secret I refer you to work in the intersessional period between now and 2014 and the 2018 World Health Assembly in the same spirit of cabaret that was upheld by 2015 namely on the prioritization process for the program budget and the development of a draft process for handling and investigating potential allegations against the Director General based on the framework put forward by the Chairs of the EB and the EB, I wish to thank you for the support and patience that you have exhibited during this meeting in particular.  I would like to extend my gratitude to the office of the Board, all of whom have stepped in to attend the session at various times. Thank you, all of your Board members, Director General, and delegates. It has been a privilege to work so closely with you over the last eight days. Despite the many challenges we have faced, we have come together and embraced the 40 diseases and seven resolutions we have adopted to strengthen our work and to enhance good public health. I would like to take another moment to thank all of you for your courage. I would also like to especially thank the Secretariat, including the technical teams and interpreters, for their tireless efforts in working to answer. This meeting was indeed a success for colleagues who are far from home and traveling. I wish you all a safe journey, and I now declare the 156th session of the Executive Board.  Close [Appreciation]