this session. I'd like to thank our hosts, the WHO, Bloomberg Philanthropies, and Resolve to Save Lives. Um, it's really my pleasure to be moderating this morning's session around the topic of hypertension. We're going to be focusing on looking for ways to turn the growing momentum around uh diagnosis and the commitment in this space into actions that can help the 1.3 billion people who are currently living with uncontrolled blood pressure. We're going to be hearing about the latest findings from the WHO global report on hypertension and we'll also be hearing from health leaders from around the world who will share their experiences with successful programs in addressing hypertension. So hopefully by the time we leave here this morning, we will all have some new learnings on how to scale and really bring those successes to more people around the world. To start things off for us, it is my distinct pleasure to introduce Dr. Tedros Gabrius, director general of the World Health Organization, who will give us an overview on this year's global report on hypertension. Dr. Tedros Thank you. Thank you, Alice. Honorable ministers, be recognizing my minister, Dr. Mcdes, my friend Tom Frieden, Dr. Dr. Kelly Henning, distinguished guests, dear colleagues and friends, it's a great honor to launch who's second global report on hypertension together with Bloomberg Philanthropies and resolve to save lives. I thank my good friend Mike Bloomberg and Tom Frerieden for their leadership and partnership in this area and so many others years ago. Tom may remember this. Tom came to WHO for a meeting about hypertension and I remember vividly an expression he used that caught my attention and has stuck with me ever since. He said that people with hypertension are like walking bombs. They carry a deadly condition that could go off anytime. These are Tom Priden's words, walking bombs. And every year it does go off in 11 million people, cutting their lives short and robbing families of someone they love and economies of billions of dollars in health costs and lost productivity. Imagine that's the entire population of New York City and Chicago combined wiped out every single year. That's 11 million. No other risk factor or pathogen claims as many lives. Globally, more than 1.4 4 billion people live with hypertension, including me. I'm one of the lucky ones. Of course, my hypertension is well managed with medication. And that's the great paradox of hypertension that it can be controlled with relatively inexpensive And that has been shown as you know. But globally only around 1 in five people with hypertension have it under control. In 99 countries control rates remain below 20%. Millions remain undiagnosed, untreated or poorly managed. The biggest barrier is access. Access to medicine and access to affordable validated blood pressure devices. That's the challenge. But it's also the opportunity because if we can control hypertension in just half of those affected, we can make a massive difference. preventing 76 million deaths by 2050 and saving 100 billion US dollars every year in health costs. This report shows that it can be done. It contains the real life examples from Bangladesh, the Philippines and the Republic of Korea. As we will hear today, the Dominican Republic, Ethiopia, India, and Indonesia are also make life-saving progress. The key factors for success are the same across all these countries. Political leadership, sustainable financing, community engagement and integration of hypert hypertension care into universal health coverage. Many have used the WHO hearts technical package to strengthen primary care. expand team based services, standardize treatment and improve access to affordable medicines and devices. Hypertension control is one of the most cost effective interventions in public health, but it requires leadership and investment and above all it requires the conviction that every life matters. As you know the week we expect world leader this week we expect world leaders to approve a political declaration on non-communicable disases and mental health with ambitious targets. 150 million fewer people using tobacco. 150 million more with hypertension under control. and 150 million more with access to mental health care. These targets are a floor, not a ceiling, and countries can and must aim higher. Honorable ministers, dear colleagues, compared with some other persistent challenges in global health, hypertension is lowhanging fruit. We know what the problem is and we have affordable solutions. So, what's stopping us? Let's confront the challenge, embrace the opportunity, and save lives. The opportunity is before us. The responsibility is ours and the time is now. I thank you. Thank you, Dr. Tedros. Now, like to invite uh Dr. Dr. Kelly Henning, public health program lead for Bloomberg Philanthropies, who will uh talk to us a little bit about investing in hypertension control to fasttrack progress on non-communicable diseases. Kelly, thank you, Alice and Dr. Tedros. Good morning. Good morning, everyone. I'm glad to be here to discuss such an urgent health topic with you. More than 1.4 billion people live with high blood pressure today and yet only one in five have it under control. Dr. Tedros mentioned this in his talk, but I think it's worth mentioning by every single speaker over and over and over again. Every year, this silent killer causes millions of preventable strokes, heart attacks, kidney disease, dementia. At Bloomberg Philanthropies, we're committed to working with partners to help prevent as many of these deaths as possible, particularly in low and middle inome countries where the burden is so great. through the cardiovascular initiative, a partnership with resolve to save lives, the World Health Organization, and other committed partners partners with groups on the ground to enroll more than 40 million people thus far in hypertension treatment. We will hear several inspiring country specific examples from our esteemed panelists today. At Bloomberg Philanthropies, we're proud to support this initiative, whether through advancing treatment for hypertension or complimentary work that we support on reducing salt intake and eliminating trans fats. It's clear that progress is possible and is also scalable. But here's the truth. Progress at this scale requires resources. If we are serious about saving lives, strengthening health systems, and reducing the prevalence of NCDS, then we must all strive to back these good intentions and strong programs with financial commitment. So today, I call on you to join us. We know what is needed. We know what works. And we all need to work together to increase the financial obligation to this very, very important health issue. Let's increase funding to detect and and effectively treat high blood pressure. Let's invest in this proven cost-effective lifesaving intervention. And by doing so, we will not only save millions of lives, but also build stronger, more resilient health systems and communities for the future. Thank you. Thank you, Kelly. I'd now like to welcome Dr. Tom Frerieden, president and CEO of Resolve to Save Lives, who will talk to us about how medication is both the biggest barrier and the biggest opportunity in making progress on hypertension control. Tom, >> good morning. Thank you very much for being here. Thanks to our co-sponsors, thanks to WHO, Bloomberg Philanthropies, all of our panelists. Uh uh if we can have the first slide or maybe I advance it. Yes. I want to introduce you to a man I met earlier this year in northern India where the government is expanding a very effective program to treat hypertension. His name is Jaganath and he came to the uh health center. This is a rural health post because his back hurt and he wanted to get something to help him with his back pain. But because that center is part of the World Health Organization hearts program and ensures that each person attending health facility has their blood pressure measured. His blood pressure was measured and I don't know if you can see it in the background. Um it it was 182 over 91 confirmed on multiple occasions. Uh so he had severe hypertension, severe high blood pressure, undiagnosed, untreated and asymptomatic. High blood pressure is like a battering ram. With every heartbeat every second of every day, the blood is slamming against the brain, heart, and kidneys and increasing the risk of a heart attack and stroke. And often the first symptom is a heart attack or a stroke. at least a third of which are fatal. But because this program was in this facility, he was immediately started on treatment, appropriate treatment, as good as anyone in the world could get. He was enrolled in the treatment program so that he would be followed up over time. He was connected with the nursing and clinical staff and medical supervisors who would support him. And I don't know who was happier, him or me. Now, uh, 50 million lives are in the balance. That's the difference in lives saved between our current status of at most 20% controlled and 50% controlled. As Dr. Tedros said that would be saving well 76 million lives in the next 25 years. And it's not just lives, it's also disability. Current estimates are that one out of six patients with dementia that dementia is due to uncontrolled blood pressure, whether it's multi-inffort dementia or Alzheimer's disease. Now, there's good news and bad news. There's in fact two pairs of good news and bad news. The good news is that NCD work didn't lose any money with the recent budget cuts. The bad news is that's because it didn't have any money to lose. The second piece of good news is that it only costs $5 a year to treat a patient with the best medications in the world. Not secondass medicines, the same medicines I use to treat my hypertension. The bad news is because it only costs $5 a year, there's not much money in it for pharma. So there's no real economic incentive to scale this up. Treatment with lowcost generic medications is highly effective and highly safe. I want to tell you the story of South Korea. South Korea shows what's possible. Just 25 years ago, their global control wasn't their hypertension control. This is community-based. This is gold standard studies in the community was 15%. Not very different from the global average of 9%. Globally, we've been a lagard. We're only at 20% globally. They're at it says actually 58%. They're at 62% this year in the latest unpublished data. This is with a focus on control. The clear lesson is focus on control makes an enormous difference. And with that they've seen an 80% decline in cardiovascular deaths. Look back to 1990 and you can see uh Korea uh in blue really kind of um global average. It's not very different a little bit better. And then over the last 30 years a dramatic decrease much faster than in other areas. Now um I also want to emphasize that it's not just about treatment. Prevention is very important as well. And really the two most important prevention strategies are represented in this room. Uh, one, the Pan-American Health Organization in Latin America has been the absolute leader in what is truly the only effective front of pack nutrition policy with good evidence, which is a stop sign, black stop sign like warning saying too much sodium, too much um, fat, too much sugar. Um it's very clear that this kind of warning informs and empowers consumers and incentivizes companies to improve both the options and choices. The second we have the George Institute here which has really led the studies that have shown that potassium enriched low sodium salts save lives. They are a very effective intervention for everyone other than people with uh severe kidney disease. They're safe and effective. And if you think about it, among adults, at least in this country, and probably in most countries, our most important nutritional deficiency is potassium. Our most important nutritional deficiency is potassium. It's killing more people than any other nutritional deficiency. And uh elevating the potassium intake above sodium intake is the strongest predictor of heart health. So this is a call to action. Uh please uh look at the QR code, sign up, join us, scale up hypertension treatment in primary health care, adopt national protocols, provide free ideally or highly subsidized medications. We know that any co-ayment undermines adherence. So please sign up. And the last thought to leave you with is that hypertension treatment is affordable. In fact, for the future of families, of communities, and of healthc care financing, we can't afford not to provide free and accessible treatment of high blood pressure. Thank you. Thank you, Tom. And finally, I'd like to invite Leanne Riley, unit head for surveillance, monitoring, and reporting at the World Health Organization to provide more details on the findings and recommendations of the second global report on hypertension. Thank you very much, Ellis. Thank you, colleagues. Gosh, this is a hard act to follow. So talk about raising my blood pressure. Um well uh it gives me great pleasure to um to present the report to you. This report as you've heard comes at a really pivotal moment. Hypertension remains one of the greatest health challenges of our time. But it's also one of those biggest opportunities. So I'll be walking you through the key findings of the report, the country experiences and the recommendations. if I can get the slides to work. Yes. So, let me start um with why this report matters because um as we've heard, we need to all keep saying this. The current report outlines the situation and shows that 1.4 billion 1.4 billion adults live with hypertension and yet less than a quarter of them have it under control. So every second lives are being cut short by uncontrolled blood pressure and despite this being highly preventable and treatable it remains the leading driver of heart disease and stroke. So the human and economic cost is um just immense and particularly in low and middle inome countries and I think this is a very strong message that we see in the report just how much um the price tag on this untreated uh condition is. Uh so our report also outlines the urgency. Um these control rates are dangerously low as we've heard and only a really small handful of countries in fact four have control rates that are over the 50% um that was presented in the last u picture. So this is of course a very sobering picture. Nearly every country is far behind on hypertension control and as the report shows 99 countries have their control rates at less than uh 20%. So unless urgent action is taken more than 1.5 billion people will live with hypertension by 2030. That's just five years away. And as we've heard, this puts unbearable pressure on families, on communities, and on our health systems uh because of these costs. Yet progress is possible. Um and countries are showing the way. As we heard from U Dr. freedom. Korea is a leader, the Philippines, Bangladesh, they're all showing us that with political leadership, with financing, and by integrating hypertension into universal health coverage, real change is achievable. And these countries are turning policy into results and offering road mapaps for what other countries could follow. And that's documented in this report. The report also focuses on where we see these important barriers and gaps and outlines these. Most countries sadly are losing patients at every step of the hypertension care pathway. So from prevention and diagnosis to treatment and followup, there are gaps, critical gaps in medicines, in health workforce um and our health systems which are holding back progress. The report also explores the importance of medicine's access. Access to affordable and quality assured medicines are at the heart of hypertension control. But in too many countries, patients are facing empty shelves and unaffordable prices. So fixing the medicine's value chain is critical to saving those lives. The report also makes it explicit that hypertension isn't just an NCD issue. It really is at the cornerstone of universal health coverage. Countries that integrate hypertension services into their UHC benefit packages can strengthen equity can increase this financial protection and can shore up broader health system resilience. The report concludes with five very clear recommendations and these are practical, evidence-based and proven to work. If countries act now, they can rapidly accelerate progress. And these five focus on integrating hypertension interventions into UHC and UHC reforms, ensuring access to affordable medicines and validated devices, strengthening the health workforce and promoting team-based care, raising public awareness about hypertension, making it everyone's business, and reducing that number of silent bombs that uh Dr. Ted Ross mentioned the the huge amount of people who are unaware that they have this condition. And lastly, but by no means least, strengthening monitoring and information systems so that we can track the progress, but also course correct when we are not on track. So the prize is enormous and the potential lives saved is is also huge. the billions in health care costs that could be avoided and this faster progress towards the SDG goal 3.4 to produce reduce premature mortality. There are very few other uh global health interventions that could offer such a powerful return. And finally, our report is a call to action. Hypertension is a silent killer, but it doesn't have to be. Countries already know what works. We're going to hear a bit more about that. But now is this time to turn the evidence into action. Thank you. Thank you, Leanne. And thanks to all of our presenters. I think that really sets an excellent foundation for our upcoming discussion. So, I'd like to invite our panelists to the stage. Uh, Dr. Mectus Daba, Minister of Health for the Federal Republic of Ethiopia. Dr. Victor Atala Lajam, Minister of Public Health and Social Assistance for the Dominican Republic. Dr. Gloria Balboa, Assistant Secretary in the Department of Health in the Philippines, and Mrs. Merti Utami, acting director general for disease control for Indonesia. Welcome everyone and thank you for being here. Um I'd like to just start the discussion with you Meus. Uh Ethiopia was one of the first countries to really adopt the WHA hearts program uh with resolve to save lives. Tell me a little bit about how the government now is envisioning scaling up that program and really you know making it a foundation of healthcare in the country. >> Thank you. Thank you very much Alison. Thank you everyone. And uh always a pleasure to see colleagues. Thank you Tom. Thank you uh of course director general Ted Ros was with us and it was always a pleasure to see to hear from those who are living with something and uh especially hypertension for us when we started with resolve to save life and with the hearts initiative from who we have started to identify is how many people do we have. So it all starts with understanding the burden and ensuring that you first give a priority to control. So back then when we started we only have uh less than 2% you have seen the global average less than 2% of communities were having a BP control of uh I mean that the the the expected blood pressure control but afterwards we have doubled but imagine it's just a doubling number and whatever you double it all depends on where you were at the base. So recognizing the the the problem was the most important thing for us.