So I have no excuse of being jet-lagged and have had the benefit of um three days at PBAC which has had very intensive discussions and I think has given me a better appreciation of the issues before us. These are obviously critical issues at a time when the critical mission of the World Health Organization is even more important than has been in the past. It is my pleasure to welcome all executive board members and their alternates and advisers. I would also like to corded greet representatives of memp states observers the United Nations various United Nation bodies and specialized agencies other intergovernmental organization and non-state actors in official relations with WHO whose participation is further evidence of the close relations between WH and these organizations. Finally, welcome to our secretariat colleagues who are following and supporting the deliberations of this meeting. I now turn to a matter related to the office of the board. As you will recall at EB157 in May 2025, Miss Carman Ailla Ortega of Panama was elected as raptor from the region of the Americas. Since then, I understand that Miss Ailla Ortega is no longer available to serve in this position. I understand that the region of the Americas has consulted and proposes that Dr. Raina Raa of Panama be elected as raptor. Do I take it that the board agrees with this proposal? As I see no objection, it is so decided. Let us now turn to the consideration of the agenda for this session of the board. In accordance with the provisions of the rules of procedure, the board has before it this session's provisional agenda contained in documents EB1581 and EB1581 annotated. In accordance with rule eight of the rules of procedure of the executive board, the officers of the board met with the director general on 2 October 2025 to review the draft provisional agenda of the 158th session of the board that had been circulated to member states on 27 June 2025. Proposals received from member states by the deadline of 18th September 2025 were considered and the provisional agenda was agreed by the officers of the board. At this time I would like to propose the deletion of the following agenda items as I understand they are not needed. Sub item 27.2 amendments to the financial regulations and financial rules. Sub item 32.3 independent expert oversight advisory committee membership renewal brackets if any. These items are included systematically on the agenda in case they are needed. In this instance they are not needed. May I take it that the proposals are acceptable. I see no objection. It is so decided. Are there any further comments on the provisional agenda? I see that no one is seeking to take the floor. Thank you. Therefore, the agenda is adopted. >> Is this? >> Yes. >> Okay. >> Okay. Bulgaria. >> I see that uh Bulgaria has uh asked to take the floor, I assume, on behalf of the European Union. With that, I pass the uh call to Bulgaria. Yes. Okay. Thank you, chair, director general, members of executive board, colleagues. The European Union works closely with the World Health Organization on a wide range of subjects both within the European region and on a global level as agreed in the exchange of letters of 2000 between the WHO and the European Commission concerning the consolidation and intensification of cooperation and without prejudice to any further conclusion for general agreement between the WHO and the European Union. The European Union delegation attends the meetings of the executive board as observer. As in previous EB meetings, we asked the executive board to kindly agree that the European Union delegation is also invited to ident and participate without vote in the deliberations of the meetings of its committees and subcommittees, drafting groups or other subdivisions there of addressing matters falling within union competence in the 158th session of the executive board. Thank you. Thank you very much. I understand this is a usual practice in the executive board. I would just check with colleagues. Do we agree to proceed in this way? I see no objection. That is the way we'll proceed. Thank you. I would now like to turn to the method of work and the daily timetable. As you know, EB158 is a six-day meeting as compared to the last February session of the board, which was eight days in duration and required several evening sessions for the board to complete its work. I understand that the agenda is even even heavier this year with 53 items and sub items as compared to 47 items and sub items last year. Due to financial constraints, we will have the possibility of holding only one evening session, which I propose be held on Friday if needed. I stress if needed. I said to the secretariat, I feel I will have failed if we get to an evening session. They said, don't set you an unrealistic an unrealistic KBI, but collectively we might be able to do it. All other meetings will finish on time. This means that we'll have to conduct our meetings in a very efficient manner. In this regard, I propose that we commit to have a focused discussion and agree that statements should respond specifically to the guiding questions appearing at the end of the secretar's reports. Secondly, all of our meetings will start exactly on time and we maintain a practice of strict punctuality throughout our meeting. uh third continuing with the efficiency measures introduced in previous meetings the speakers list will be displayed on screen to provide clarity on the time required to complete each discussion. Additionally, I propose to ensure adherence to the speaking times through use of a chime system linked to the traffic lights and if needed the cutting off microphones for speakers whose statements exceed the time limits. The speaking times are as follows. EB members are requested to limit their interventions to two minutes. Individual statements by all member states not represented on the board and associate members will be limited to one minute. Statements by observers, invited representatives of United Nations and other participating intergovernmental organizations and non-state actors in official relations with WHO will be limited to one minute. Regional and group statements will be limited to three minutes. I've also requested that the secretariat also adhere to time limits as well in their responses. I would also like to inform you that as agreed, constituency statements by non-state actors in official relations will continue during this meeting and will be provided on the following selected agenda items. On agenda item six, follow up to the political declaration of the high level meeting of the general assembly on the prevention and control of non-communicable diseases. On item 10, primary health care. On item 16, WHO's work and health emergencies. On item 23, well-being and health promotion. 26, economics of health for all. And on item 28.6, engagement with non-state actors, NSAs, in official relations with WH. Constituency statements delivered on behalf of a group of several NSAs will be limited to two minutes and will be delivered after all EB members intermingled throughout the discussions and among statements by member states not represented on the board. When we move to the agenda items considered last week by the peback, I propose to build on the good work of that committee by focusing our discussion on the PEAback report and its recommendations rather than having another full discussion of each of these documents. Uh may I take it that these proposals are acceptable. I see that no one is seeking to take the floor. So I'll take that as decided as the way we'll conduct this meeting. Let us now review the preliminary daily timetable contained in document EB158/D2/2. It is proposed that the board meet this morning until 12:30 and then this afternoon from 14:30 to 17:30. On each of the remaining days, I propose we meet from 10:00 a.m. to,300 and from 14:30 to 17:30. This morning, following the conclusion of item one, the board will consider item two, report by the director general, which will be followed by item three, report of the regional committees of the executive board, and item four, report of the program, budget, and administration committee of the executive board. The board will then turn to item five, report of the standing committee on health, emergency, prevention, preparedness, and response. Then I propose we take up provide health items one after another as they appear in the published EB158 web page. Tomorrow, Tuesday, 3rd of February at 10:00 a.m., I propose that the board continue with the remaining items under provide health and thereafter proceed according to the sequence of items as outlined in the provisional daily timetable with one small deviation. With respect to sub item 29.2, two, communication of the United Nations Secretary General as depository of the Constitution of the World Health Organization. I would like to propose that the board's discussion of the notification of Argentina and the notification of the United States of America be discussed separately. This means that two discussions are envisaged under this sub sub item. A program of work will be issued each morning and provide additional details on the items expected to be covered each day. Do I take it that the board agrees with these proposals? I see no colleagues seeking the call. So we will proceed that way. I would now like to briefly address a housekeeping matter related to to electronic voting. As member states will be aware, an electronic voting system is now available in this room. Under rule 51 of the rules of procedure of the executive board where an appropriate electronic voting system is available, the board may decide to conduct any show of hands or recorded vote electronically. In order to support the smooth and efficient running of this session, I would like to propose that if and when a vote by show of hands or recorded vote is required during the session of the board and unless otherwise decided by the board during the consideration of the question to be voted on, such vote be conducted by electroic means using the system that is available in this room. In other words, the default approach would be that any show of hands or recorded vote would be conducted electronically unless otherwise decided in relation to the specific question to be voted on. I would also like to clarify that this approach would apply only to the current session of the board and be would be without prejudice to any further decision that the assembly may take at its further sessions. Are there any comments or objections to this proposal? I see no colleagues seeking to take the call and therefore it is so decided. When delivering statements, I would like to remind delegates to speak at a moderate speed. I probably should remind myself of that. I sometimes get excited. Um that allows for its interpretation and ensures that messages are conveyed clearly and accurately. Please send a copy of your written statements in advance to the email address address interpret who at least 30 minutes in advance of delivery. This does not prevent you from making changes on delivery but will facilitate clarity and accuracy in all languages. If would if you would like your statement to be posted on the WHO website or if you have a longer statement with supplementary information you would like to share, you may send it to the email address statements wh.int. Please be reminded that written statements will not be included in the summary record of the meeting. Are there any comments before we proceed? I see no none. Thank you. Uh finally, I would like to remind board members that in accordance with rule 32 of the EB rules of procedure, proposals for resolution or decisions to be considered by the board relating to items of the agenda should be introduced at least 15 days before the opening of the session and may in any event be introduced not later than the close of the first day of the session. These should be sent to governance unit at wh.int int by 1,800 today. Thank you. In relation to the informal cons consultations mentioned in the peback report. Oh yes. Uh just for those who are at Peback, there are a couple of informal consultations that were flagged in the PBAC decision. One related to Fencer and one related to the governance reforms. Um these have been scheduled uh today and tomorrow. uh the informal consultations in on engagement with non-state actors for today uh will be held at 1,800. The informal consultations on governance reform will be held tomorrow at 1,800. Uh both will be held in the EB room and I encourage others to participate. I should also note as was flagged at PBACK uh those informal consultation sessions obviously don't preclude other informal consultations that would say say outside those sessions either on a bilateral or a multilateral basis. Finally, I thought I'd make a brief reflection that yesterday uh members of the executive board met in an informal session uh to discuss uh many matters. Uh I would first like to thank all members of the executive board who attended and it was a very very constructive session. Um essentially the session was really focused on information sharing and making sure that all members of the executive board uh some who follow these matters very very closely on a daily basis some who attend every moment of peback and some who arrive from capitals and looking to get uh further context could understand some of the key issues before us. Uh we received some excellent briefings from the secretariat and I thought it was a very good day essentially of bringing the executive board onto a common understanding of the issues uh rather than seeking to negotiate out outcomes and I hope that that preparation and the informal session uh has assisted the executive board in their deliberations over the next week. So thanks again for attendance uh for that session which is largely information sharing. So this concludes our consideration of agenda item one and therefore I will move to agenda item two which is the report by the director general contained in document EB158/2. It is now my pleasure to give the floor to the director general uh Dr. Tedros. Dr. Tedros, you have the floor. Thank you. Thank you, chair, uh, chair, secretary Blair Comi, our vice chairs, honorable ministers, ambassadors, heads of delegation, members of the executive board, dear colleagues and friends. Good morning and a warm welcome back to WHO, your WHO. 2025 with a year of stark contrasts for our organization as we all know. On one hand, it was a landmark year. The WHO pandemic agreement was adapted. The amended international health regulations entered into force. The next increase in assess contributions was approved and the United Nations General Assembly adopted an ambitious political declaration on non-communicable diseases and mental health. On the other hand, it was undeniably one of the most difficult years in our organization's history. Significant cuts to our funding left us with no choice but to reduce the size of our workforce. Of course, who is just one part of a much bigger picture. Many other international organizations have been affected and sudden and severe cuts to bilateral aid have also caused huge disruptions to health systems and services in many countries. I'm proud that despite the challenges we faced, there are many achievements to celebrate. Allow me to highlight a few according to each of the three key priorities of the the 14th general program of work to promote, provide and protect health. First, our work to promote health and prevent disease by addressing its root cause. In response to funding cuts, who is supporting many countries to sustain essential health services and to transition away from a dependency toward the self-reliance based on domestic resources. One key tool for mobilizing domestic resources as you know is health taxes. That's why WHO launched the 3 by35 initiative last year, calling on all countries to raise the real prices of tobacco, alcohol, and sugary drinks by at least 50% by 2035. Last year alone, Malaysia, Mauritius, Slovakia, Sri Lanka, and Vietnam were among countries that introduced or increased taxes on one or more of these products. Already this year, India introduced a new excise duty on tobacco and Saudi Arabia introduced a tiered excise tax on sugary drinks. On tobacco, the WHO framework convention on tobacco control celebrated its 20th anniversary last year. Since the FCTC entered into force, tobacco use has dropped by one-third globally and continues to decline in 140 countries. Last year, Molives became the first country to adopt a generational tobacco ban for people born from 2007. WH also recognized Austria, Norway, Oman, and Singapore for their efforts to eliminate trans fats from their food supplies. The Commission on Social Connection delivered the first global evidence-based framework on loneliness and social isolation. The WHO land all lands for transformative action on climate and health grew to more than 100 countries helping them to build climate resilient lowcarbon health systems. Member states also endorsed an updated global road map on air pollution and health, including a commitment to health impacts by 2040. And new data from the WHO UNICEF joint monitoring program showed that 1 billion more people now have access to safety, safely managed drinking water than a decade ago, saving an estimated 5 million lives. Now to our work supporting countries to provide health by strengthening health systems on the road to universal health coverage. Following cuts to bilateral aid who developed guidance on responding to the health financing emergency supporting countries including Cambodia, Ethiopia, Mozambi and Uganda. In December, we established the UHC knowledge hub in Tokyo with the World Bank and the government of Japan, which is now supporting the first cohort of eight countries through capacity building, knowledge sharing, and by bringing ministries of health and finance together. The latest UHC global monitoring report shows that 4.6 6 billion people still still lack access to essential services and 2.1 billion people face financial hardship because of health costs. One of the main reasons people miss out on health services is because they don't have access to a health worker. The world is facing a shortage of 11 million health workers by 2030. More than half of which is a shortage of nurses. In response, last year who supported 11 countries facing the most acute shortages to strengthen their national workforce strategies, contributing to commitments for nearly 100,000 new health worker jobs. With who support, South Africa has expanded its health workforce by 28% over the past five years. Building the capacity of the global health workforce was one of the main reasons for establishing the WHO academic in Leon with the support of the government of France which now brings together in one place our work on health workforce policy, strategy, data and advocacy alongside learning. The academy now offers more than 250 courses free of charge in up to 20 languages with more than 100,000 enrollments last year. I urge all member states to make use of this resource. It's there for you. One of the courses the academy offers is the basic emergency care program which provides standardized training on how to manage acutely ill patients. A study of over 35,000 patients in 17 hospitals in Nepal, Uganda, and Zambia showed a reduction in mortality of between 34% and 50% following the implementation of the WHO Academy basic emergency care training. We also continue to support countries to strengthen their health data systems, including through the use of digital technologies and artificial intelligence. We expanded the global digital health certification network to 82 countries, enabling 2 billion people to access their health records on national digital health wallets. And we have now rolled out ICD11 to 132 member states. Every day our ICD systems receive around 3 million requests for information, improving data quality, ensuring generating insight into population health trends. We also continue supporting countries to expand access to essential medicines. Last year, we pre-qualified 44 medicines, nine vaccines, 10 individual diagnostics, 21 medical devices, eight vector control products, and we performed 185 inspections of manufacturing sites. We updated the essential medicines list to include new medicines for cancer and GLP1s for diabets in people with obesity. We reviewed 5,000 pediatric formulations to prioritize those that are optimized and age appropriate for children. And we designated five more agencies as who authorities Australia, Canada, Indonesia, Japan, and the United Kingdom. and this will help expedite regulatory processes and have mers available in time. In addition, we recognized Ethiopia for reaching maturity level three for regulatory oversight of medicines and vaccines. And seven member states in the Africa region won a global UN award for their pool procurement initiative which was supported by WHO and has helped them to realize significant cost savings. In addition, the World Health Assembly adapted the WHO global traditional medicine strategy and launched the traditional medicine global library with over 1.6 million scientific records on antimicrobial resistance. The global antimicrobial resistance and use surveillance system glass showed that one in six bacterial infections globally are now resistant to antibiotics and the trend is increasing. Concerningly, glass also shows that many countries are potentially accelerating resistance by using antibiotics that are in the watch category when they could be using antibiotics in the access category. In Kyrgyzstan, who supported a national survey that catalyzed a total shift in the national AMR plan and through the special program for research and training in tropical disdr that shape national and regional cate strategies in Ghana, Colombia and Ecuador. In addition to our work to strengthen the foundations of health systems, we also saw progress on our disease specific programs on maternal mortality. WHO released updated estimates that more than 55 hybrid countries used to refocus on proven interventions. With partners, we issued the first consolidated guideline on postpartum hemorrhage, creating a single global clinical standard for the leading cause of maternal deaths that saving lives when applied consistently. We also issued our first global guidance on infertility and published updated global estimates on violence against women on immunization. Despite funding cuts, we protected the global missiles and reubella lab network, enabling our network of more than 740 labs to process more than 700,000 tests to detect and respond to missiles outbreaks globally. We supported seven new countries to introduce malaria vaccines, bringing the total to 24. and we supported 15 more countries to introduce HPV vaccination to prevent cervical cancer. Since we launched the global call to action to eliminate cervical cancer in 2018, almost 75 countries have introduced HPV vaccination, meaning 65% of girls globally now live in a country with routine HPV vaccination. In response to concerns about vaccine safety, who conducted an analysis of 31 studies in multiple countries over 15 years that showed once again that vaccines, including those containing teome and aluminum adjuventants do not cause autism. Vaccines are also bringing us closer to the eradication of polio with 41 cases of wild polio reported last year from just 24 districts in Pakistan and Afghanistan down from 99 cases in 49 districts in 2024. In addition, Madagascar stopped its polio outbreak and countries around Lake Chad mounted a joint vaccination campaign that reached more than 83 million children. And with partners, WHO vaccinated over 600,000 children in Gaza, controlling the strip's first recorded outbreak in 25 years. 2025 was another year in which more countries eliminated neglected tropical diseases. Burundi, Egypt, Fiji, Moritania, Papa Newu Guinea and Seneagal eliminated traoma. Guinea and Kenya eliminated sleeping sickness and Nijer became the first African country to eliminate river blindness. In addition, WHO certified Georgia Surinam and Timorstee as malaria free. Mold leaves became the first country to achieve triple elimination of motherto- child transmission of HIV, syphilis and hepatitis B. Brazil was validated for eliminating vertical transmission of HIV and Botswana reached gold gold tier status on the path to elimination. WH also pre-qualified Lena Capavir for HIV prevention and published guidelines on its use supporting the first eight countries to accelerate the roll out of this new tool that could change the trajectory of the HIV epidemic. Lena Capavir is the near is the nearest thing we have to an HIV vaccine. a long-acting injectable antiretroviral taken every six months that has been shown to prevent almost all HIV in infections in those at risk. It's the first example of a new approach to develop pre-qualification and guidelines in parallel, not in sequence, to speed up equitable access to innovative new tools on TB. WHO supported countries to scale up rapid TB diagnostics and promoted shorter and more effective treatment regimes. And the TB vaccine accelerator is working with countries to prepare for the rapid integration of new TB vaccines into health systems should they succeed in phase three trials on non-communicable dis. As I mentioned earlier, the UN General Assembly adopted the most ambitious political declaration yet with concrete targets on tobacco hypertension and mental health. We also issued new guidelines on the use of GLP-1 for the treatment of obesity in adults and who initiatives on cervical breast and childhood cancer are now benefiting over 1 million people in more than 100 countries. In partnership with St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, we delivered 1.5 million cancer med supporting treatment, 2,400 children in five countries. We also supported 14 more countries to strengthen mental health services for children and young people. Since it launched in 2020, who special initiative for mental health has expanded mental health services to over 90 million people and enabled firsttime treatment for more than 1.5 million children and adults. And we supported 29 countries to scale up access to spectacles. As many of us know, including me, a pair of glasses can make a huge difference to quality of life. Now to WH's work to support member states to prevent, prepare for, and respond to health emergencies. This past Friday marked six years since I declared COVID 19 a public health emergency of international concern. And we closed that chapter, by the way, in May 2023. As you know, the pandemic taught all of us many lessons, especially that global threats demand a global response and solidarity is the best immunity. Most notably, last year, member states adopted the WHO pandemic agreement and the amended international health regulations entered into force. WHO took many other steps last year to strengthen health emergency preparedness and response through through the pandemic fund with the world bank. WHO supported about countries countries to develop 41 uh projects helping 70 countries to strengthen surveillance laboratory networks workforce capacity and multis sectoral coordination. The WHO hub for pandemic and epidemic intelligence launched an update of the epidemic intelligence from open-source system EIOS which harnesses the power of AI to support more than 110 countries and 30 organizations who use the platform every day to quickly identify new threats through the international pathogen surveillance network. Over 110 countries are also strengthening genomic surveillance to better track pathogens, detect new variants, and guide faster responses to emerging threats. The WHO Biohub coordinated 25 sample shipments 13 laboratories in nine countries to guide research and development of counter measures. 20 countries completed joint external evaluations. 195 states parties submitted their annual IHR reports and 22 countries completed their national action plan for health security. The global influena surveillance and response system giz processed more than 12 million samples and through the pandemic influenza preparedness framework PEIP W who signed eight new agreements giving us access to more than 900 million vaccine doses in the event of an influenza pandemic as well as antivirals, syringes and diagnostics to protect against outbreaks of yellow fever. We supported the vaccination of more than 38 million people in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Guineabisa, Nijer, and Uganda. After a three-year break, we have also reestablished preventive kera vaccination, allocating 50 million doses to Bangladesh, DRC, and Mozambi, thanks in part to a doubling of supply. We supported preventative vaccination for Ebola for approximately 100,000 frontline workers in the DRC and Central African Republic. We also established a new stockpile for a monoconal antibbody against Ebola with treatment courses ready to be shipped in 24 hours if an outbreak is confirmed. Just as we supported countries to prevent and prepare for health emergencies, we also supported them to respond. In 2025, WHO detected 1.2 million signals, assessed and verified about 500 threats, and supported countries to respond to 450 of those events, preventing disease spread and saving lives. You don't see this in the news because it was controlled or managed or contained. In total, we responded to 50 emergencies in 82 countries and territories. Last year, we released 29 29 million US dollars from the WHO contingency fund for emergencies to support the rapid response to emergencies in 30 countries. And thank you to countries for contributing to the contingency emergency fund. And through the global outbreak alert and response network GO we coordinated 59 deployments to support emergency response in 16 countries. With who support, the DRC controlled an outbreak of Ebola virus disease within six weeks and Rwanda, Tanzania and Ethopia controlled outbreaks of Marberg virus disease. In September, I declared an end to EMPOX as a public health emergency of international concern. Through the access and allocation mechanism, WHO secured three million dose of EMOX vaccine supporting the vaccination of 2 million people. We also continue to respond to the global resurgence of choleera deploying more than 50 million dose of oral kolera vaccine from the global stockpile. We also launched the first who guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of menitis and supported the response to menitis outbreaks with 4 million dose of vaccine. In addition to outbreak response, we also responded to the health needs of more than 25 million people affected by humanitarian emergencies in 33 countries. In Gaza, we organized the transport and shipment of 938 tracks of life-saving emergency health supplies, coordinated more than 80 health cluster partners, and supported over 8,000 medical evacuations. in Sudan. Since the start of the conflict in 2023, we have delivered almost 3,000 metric tons of medical supplies, responded to outbreaks of collera, deni, and malaria, and we're providing direct support to dozens of hospitals, primary healthcare centers, mobile clinics, and nutrition centers. In Ukraine, we deployed 17 mobile teams which provided more than 18,500 health consultations in more than 140 locations. We also supported the medical evacuation of more than 6,200 patients and provided mental health training to more than 150,000 health workers. In all these places, we continue to see attacks on health care as the alarming and illegal new normal of conflict. In 2025, WHO verified 1,350 attacks on healthcare in 19 countries and territories, causing 1,900 1,981 deaths and 1,168 injuries among health workers and patients. Of course, who does not work alone. At the health cluster lead of the UN inter agency standing committee, we coordinate over 1,500 partners who reached 32 million people with humanitarian assistance last year. We also coordinated the deployment of more than 100 international emergency medical teams who provided 1.8 8 million medical consultations in more than 20 countries. In addition to all of this work to promote, provide and protect health, the secretary supported work on the force and fibs piece of uh GPW14 to power and perform for health through science, digital technologies, data and our ongoing transformation. Last year, we launched a new global action plan and a new global network to strengthen clinical trials with 34 major research institutions advancing equitable research capacities around the world. We also launched a three-year project to modernize the way who prioritize, develops, and disseminates our highest priority guidelines. Through the Alliance on Health Systems Policy and Research, we're supporting Sri Lanka to establish its Centers for Disease Control and to shape its national health policy for the next decade. And this year, we're celebrating 25 years of research for life and Henry, which makes scientific publications available for free or at very low low cost in low and middle inome countries. facilitating access to promote evidence-based policies. Meanwhile, we continue to take steps to make WHO more accountable, transparent, efficient, and effective. WHO's Office of Internal Oversight Services completed 13 country office audits, two regional office audits, and two crosscutting audits in 2025. There were no unsatisfactory conclusions. We expanded our evaluation function and improved completion rates and our investigations function handled 1,174 cases and closed 636 cases in 2025. The year and case load fell to 538 which is the lowest in three years. The number of substantiated cases rose to 45. This year we're introducing a new case management system with AI capability and a new integrity hotline. Both will help to strengthen timely highquality investigations and provide safer challenge for reporting strengthening our internal justice. The regional office for Africa also hosted the first who strategic conference on prevention and response to sexual misconduct in joint who member state operations with 42 member states and for the first time member states agreed to include a gender equality indicator in the results framework in GPW14. Excellencies, dear colleagues and friends, I hope you will agree that despite the many challenges we have faced, your organization has continued to deliver. None of these achievements would have been possible without WHO's people, my colleagues throughout 2025. They continued to serve you with dedication and commitment even though many of them were uncertain as to whether they would still have a job. I remember 2025 as we all should for them and I express my deep gratitude to all staff who have left or are leaving for their service and dedication. Of course, no process is perfect and we acknowledge the legitimate concerns that some staff have raised about it. We take those concerns seriously and we have addressed many of them and we continue to do so. We have designed, communicated and implement the changes we have made based on the principles of transparency, fairness and humanity. And by and large the outcome was good. Although there are still a few issues to finalize, we have now largely completed the prioritization and realignment. We have reached a position of stability and we are moving forward. It's important to remember that although the cuts we faced last year were a shock, they were a shock we saw coming and for which we have been preparing. When we began the WHO transformation more than eight years ago, we identified our over reliance on a handful of donors as a major risk and we took several measures to address it. Most significantly, we proposed and in 2022, the World Health Assembly approved a plan to progressively increase assess contributions to 50% of the base budget from just 14% at the time. Member states approved the first increase in May 2023, the second increase last year, May 2025, and the next three increases are scheduled for approval in May 2027, May 2029, and May 2031. We also took a series of other steps to broaden our donor base, including by establishing the WHO Foundation and conducting our first investment round with your support. Thanks to all these measures, we have now mobilized 85% of the resources we need for the base budget. This banmium at one level, we are in a better position than ever before at this stage of a banm. However, because the majority of voluntary contributions remain earmarked, we continue to see pockets of poverty, including for our work on emergency preparedness, AMR, health financing, climate resilience, determinance of health and more. And although 85% sounds good and it is, the environment is very difficult and the remaining 15% will be hard to mobilize. If you had not approved the increase in assess contributions, we would have been in a far worse situation than we are. This demonstrates why member states must continue on the same path and approve the remaining increases to secure the long-term stability, sustainability, and independence of who not only until 2031, but even beyond. When I say independence, I don't mean independence from member states. Of course, who belongs to you and always will. I mean non dependence on a handful of donors. I mean non-dependence on inflexible unpredictable funding. I mean a WHO that's no longer a contractor to the bigger biggest donors. I mean an impartial science-based organization that's free to say what the evidence says without fear or favor. Although we have faced a significant crisis in the past year, we have also viewed it as an opportunity. It's an opportunity for a linear who to become more focused on its core mission and mandate, including in the context of the UN reform initiative. This means sharpening our focus on our core mandate and comparative advantage. Doing what we do best, supporting countries through our normative and technical work and leaving to others what they do best. WHO cannot do everything and we shouldn't try. WH super power is its convening power. the ability to bring together governments, experts, institutions, partners, civil society, and the private sector under one umbrella. Our success and yours lies in harnessing that power, including through our network of more than 800 collaborating centers. A powerful resource for strengthening our normative work and ensuring that evidence drives policy. After all, the needs of the countries we serve are always evolving. So, WHO must also continue to evolve. That means that the governance of WHO must evolve. If we want an agile, efficient and effective secretariat, we need agile, efficient and effective governance. And I hope you will support the chair in the governance reform that he proposed. If we want a secretariat that can deliver on member state priorities, we need member states to prioritize and to resource those priorities. This is your WHO. It's what you want it to be and what you make it. And as WHO evolves, so must the global health architecture or as I prefer to say the global health ecosystem. There are now many discussions on reforming that ecosystem to ensure all partners leverage their comparative advantage, avoid overlaps and duplication, and that together we deliver value and results for the countries we serve. We're proposing to bring these discussions together into a joint process to help transition to a leaner, more collaborative and impactful global health ecosystem in support of country priorities. We look forward to your advice and guidance on that and the other agenda items before you this week. Excellencies, dear colleagues and friends, we can see the difficulties of the past year as a setback or we can choose to see them as the catalyst for future of who the path forward is clear. It's the path we have already charted. It's the foundation we have already laid in the transformation and the realignment to secure our financial stability and sustainability to strengthen our normative and technical leadership to reform our governance to reshape the global health ecosystem to leverage our collective strengths to reinforce our solidarity and to do it all in service of country-led priorities. your priorities. That's why you founded who in the first place to create a place where the nations of the world work together to find shared solutions to shared threats. That's why you adapted the pandemic agreement last year and that's why you're now negotiating the PBS and I'm confident that you will conclude your negotiations in time for this year's World Health Assembly. The story of 2025 is not one of austerity but resolve. It is the story of the people of this organization serving the people of this world. They are the reason who is here and the reason we will continue to be here. This is your WHO. Its strength is your unity. Its future is your choice. I thank you and chair back to you. Thank you, Dr. Ted Ross. Um, the floor is now open for discussion. Um, if you wish to indicate the call by the usual method, push the button in front of you on your console. I will start with members of the executive board before turning to those member states not represented on the board, observers, the UN and IGOS. Members of the executive board, who would like to take the floor?