At the same time it is uh on all global health issues. We'll focus on the launch of new joint child mortality report and the estimates charting the progress in child survival over the past two decades. We'll look at the outcomes of the meeting of the strategic advisory group of experts on immunization, the SAGE and its latest recommendations on the use of a range of vaccines. Um we'll look ahead to the world TB day which is next 24 March and we're of course also talking about the health impacts of the conflict in the Middle East. Now with this let me introduce the panelists today. Uh first and foremost we have the director general of WHO Dr. Tedrosenome Gabrios. Then I look at the panel from the left side. We have Dr. Kate Strong. From my left side, we have Dr. Kate Strong, scientists at the Department of Sexual, Reproductive, Maternal, Child, and Adolescent Health and Aging. And she's the lead author of the joint report titled Levels and Trends in Child Mortality. Then we have Ian Clark. He's incident manager for WO Emergencies Program. Um, next to him is Dr. Kate O'Brien, director for immunization, vaccines, and biologicals. Then we have Dr. Jeremy Farah, assistant director general for health promotion, disease prevention and care. And we do have Dr. Terresa Casaya. She's director for the department of HIV, TB, hepatitis, and sexual transmitted infections. Um, we have other colleagues online should the topics bring them up and I'll introduce them as we go along. Um a remark on the proceedings of course then for the question and answers please raise your hand with the raise your hand icon and we can only take questions from journalists who have clearly identified themselves. So if you have not and you want to ask please log out again log in and um identify yourself with this enough for me and over to the director general for the opening remarks. >> Thank you. Thank you Christian. Good morning, good afternoon, and good evening. The improvement in child survival over the past two decades is one of the great success stories of global health. In 2000, more than 10 million children died before their fifth birthday. Today that number has been cut by more than half to 4.9 million deaths in 2024 according to new estimates published today by WHO UNICEF and other partners. Millions of children are alive today because countries and partners invested in proven solutions, vaccines, skilled care at birth, treatment for severe acute malnutrition, and stronger primary health care. These gains show what is possible when the world commits to protecting the health of its youngest and most vulnerable. Of course, 4.9 million child deaths is still 4.9 million, too many. And since 2015, the pace of decline in child mortality has dropped sharply. Subsahara and Africa remains the region with the highest under five mortality in the world, losing around 2.8 million young children in 2024. Every day about 6,300 newborns die. The most common cause are complications of prematurity, labor, and delivery. If children survive the first month, malaria, pneumonia, and diarrhea continue to claim many young lives. It's to be expected that the pace of decline we saw between 2000 and 2015 could not be maintained. conflict, humanitarian crisis and funding pressures are putting essential services at risk in many countries. But we know what works. There are solutions. By strengthening primary health care, expanding immunization, improving maternal and newborn care, and ensuring every child has access to nutrition and life-saving treatment, we can accelerate progress. Again, many countries are showing what's possible. For example, in 2022, Salion declared child mortality a national emergency. Since then, almost 1 million children have been screened for malnutrition, and the number of children who have not received any vaccines has been reduced from 15,000 in 2024 to 9,000 last year. Likewise, North Macedonia has achieved one of the fastest recent declines globally, cutting neonatal mortality by 87% since 2015 through improvements in emergency obstetric and newborn care. WHO calls on governments, donors and partners to make child survival a political and financial priority to focus on those at highest risk to strengthen accountability for commitments and to invest in primary health care so that every child has the chance not just to survive but to thrive. One of the main reasons for the decline in child mortality is immunization. In 1974, only 5% of the world's children were vaccinated against killer diseases, including measles. Today, that number stands at 85%. A large part of that success was due to the establishment more than 50 years ago of the expanded program on immunization or EPI. Since 1974, EPI has helped to save more than 150 million lives from diseases like missiles, titanis, diperia and pneumonia. Many countries rely on advice from WHO about which vaccines to include in their routine immunization schedules. WHO should be vac who should be vaccinated at what age with how many doses and and so on. That advice is shaped by the strategic advisory group of experts on immunization or SAGE. A group of independent experts who meet twice a year to review the latest evidence and advise WHO. Sage concluded its first meeting for the year last week. This time it issued recommendations on vaccines for COVID 19, typhoid and polio. The biggest change was for typhoid. Sage has updated its 2018 recommendation to say that countries with a high burden of typhoid disease should consider a booster at around five years of age to maintain protection. On COVID 19, Sage reviewed more than five years of evidence on the safety and performance of COVID 19 vaccines and concluded they have a very good safety profile. Sage continues to recommend that countries should consider routine vaccination against COVID 19 for groups at the highest risk of severe disease including older people, people in care homes and those who are moderately or severely imunompromised. Sage also provided updated recommendations for other risk groups that countries may consider including pregnant women and children. on polio. Sage recommended that countries that are using three doses of inactivated vaccine may reduce the use of oral polio vaccine from three doses to two. These recommendations are important for improving the safety and impact of vaccines on the path to polio eradication. I thank Sage for its recommendations which I have accepted. Next Tuesday, the 24th of March marks World TB Day. Tuberculosis or TB is another example of a major global health challenge against which the world has made great progress. Since 2000, efforts to fight TB have saved an estimated 83 million lives. But cuts in global health funding and increasing drug resistance are threatening to reverse this gains. Each day, over 3,300 people die from TB and more than 29,000 people fall ill with this preventable and curable disease. Millions more are not diagnosed or treated. New diagnostic tests are helping to close this gap, but their uptake has been slow in many countries due in part to high costs and the need to transport samples to laboratories. Last week, WHO published new guidelines on TV diagnosis to expand access and reduce costs. WHO has now expanded our recommendations to support the use of new tests that can be used near the point of care, opening up even more options for countries to decentralize services and expand access. For the first time, WHO is also issuing recommendations on the use of tank swabs for TB testing and a new sample pooling strategy to diagnose people more quickly using fewer tests. These new tools could be truly transformative for TB. Both the new tests and the new pooling strategy can cut the cost of testing by 50% or more. All while providing faster results by bringing fast accurate diagnosis closer to people along with access to better treatments and we hope a new TB vaccine. This innovative innovations can save lives, reduce transmission and change the future of TB. WHO calls on all countries to scale up access to rapid tests and other tools so every person with TB can be reached and treated promptly. Finally, the conflict in the Middle East continues to impact the health of people across the region. In the Islamic Republic of Iran, more than 1,400 civilian deaths have been reported, almost 900 in Lebanon and 20 in Israel. Thousands of people have also been injured in all three countries. Up to 3.2 million people have been displaced in Iran and over 1 million in Lebanon. Many are living in overcrowded shelters which have the potential to rapidly increase health risks. Meanwhile, in Iraq, health services are facing increasing pressure, particularly hospital to locate near areas affected by conflict and violent demonstrations. And in Syria, more than 100,000 people have recently arrived from Lebanon. Access to health care is becoming more difficult. Some health facilities have closed and movement restrictions are delaying ambulances, patient referrals and the delivery of medicines. Injured people, displaced families, patients with chronic diseases, pregnant women and all older people must be able to reach lifesaving health services. Most concerningly, attacks on health care continue to be reported. In Lebanon, WHO has verified 28 attacks with 30 deaths and 25 injuries. In Iran, WHO has verified 20 attacks with nine deaths. And in Israel, WHO has verified two attacks on healthcare. Attacks on healthcare are a violation of international law. Airspace closures and shipping line congestion have decreased the volume of supplies reaching who supplies hub in Dubai. We have activated our contingency plans and are identifying alternative ports of entry to replenish the hub. We're also working with the UAE and partners to consolidate priority cargo movements and explore the possibility of charter flights to deliver supplies to critical emergencies. We expect operations to continue although there may be more lengy delivery times. WHO has also released 2 million dollars from the contingency fund for emergencies to support the response in Lebanon, Iraq, and Syria. Who is doing whatever we can to save lives and prevent suffering, but as always, the best medicine is peace. Christian, back to you. Thank you very much, Dr. Tedros. With this, we are opening the floor for question and answers. Again, please raise your hand with the raise your hand icon and then we move ahead. Um, first is for FA for Antonio Broto. Antonio, please go ahead and unmute. >> Um, thank you very much. My question is on Argentina because uh its government has announced yesterday that the country is no longer a member of WHO. So I know that this is in the agenda of the assembly in May, but I I'd like to know uh what immediate effects this has in or this may have in the health system of the country. I also want to clarify if this implies also withdrawal of Argentina from Paho and also if despite the withdrawal is it still possible some form of relationship between the country and the WHO? Thank you. >> Thank you very much Antonio. I think there are two parts. We we'll start with the more legal part with Steve Solomon here, our principal principal legal adviser and then we'll move for health systems uh to Dr. Jeremy Farah. Steve, please go ahead. >> Thank you very much. First with respect to the question of Argentina's um membership status in the organization um this is a a question for member states collectively and all who member states will address that question collectively uh at the world health assembly. Um, so with respect to this question of Argentina's membership in the organization, is it a member or not? Think of it this way. Like Schroiger's famous cat in a box, the question of whether Argentina is in or out may not be fully resolved until the box is opened. And that box is on the agenda of the World Health Assembly in May. So bottom line is the World Health Assembly will have the opportunity to address this question in May of this year. Uh with respect to the issue of Paho, um it's a PAHO, the Pan-American Health Organization is a separate constitutional organization. uh although it is uh part of WH uh as well in terms of its regional role and our understanding is that Argentina has not notified withdrawal from the Pan-American Health Organization. And with respect to the final question of um uh if a member state is withdrawn from the organization, would there still be possibility scope for uh some sort of I think the word you used was relationship with the organization and that also is a question for member states. Um it has been answered in a number of areas. Uh that answer is yes in a number of areas and the example we can point to is uh the very important international health regulations 2005 where a country can be party to the international health regulations without necessarily being a member state of the organization. So there certainly is precedent for countries having a relationship with the organization for example through the international health regulations without being members of the organization. Uh I think that answered the legal questions. Thank you very much. >> Thank you Steve Solomon and we'll go to Dr. Jeremy for all. >> Thanks very much uh for the question. I think it was Antonio was it? Um the first thing I'd say is that the health system of every country within the WHO and those that may choose to leave in the future is the responsibility of individual countries. Uh what WHO is here to do is is not uh replace that. What WHO does is to provide guidance and advice about how countries may consider their health system but that all national governments have the responsibility for their own health system. I think the the the the um sadness in a way of Argentina planning to potentially leave is that Argentina number one has contributed so much to everybody else's health through uh and this is from personal experience with working with Argentinian health systems around things like deni drug resistance uh and Argentina was one of the very first countries um to roll out universal health coverage. many other countries learned from that. And so it's both a contribution from Argentina to the health of their of Argentina, but also of many other countries around the world. And this sharing of information um which Argentina's made such a proud contribution to I think is uh is something that we would certainly miss if Argentina uh were to to leave. uh and at a time when much of the world is sharing similar challenges where the demographic shift or infectious diseases or where mosquitoes go uh then the sharing of information between countries becomes ever more important and that I think is to the benefit of all countries and that's why who would aspire to be uh relevant and useful to all countries. >> Thank you very much Dr. Farrell. Next uh goes to Helen Branswell from Stat. Helen, please go ahead and unmute. >> Hi. Uh thank you Christian for taking my question and thank you for doing this press conference. Um I wanted to ask a question about the proposed um hepatitis B birthdose trial that uh the Bandam Health group wanted to do in Guinea Bisau. Uh there was an article earlier this week that quoted the dean of the faculty of health sciences at the University of Southern Denmark saying that the trial has been put on a full hold. But he went on to say that the WH's research ethics review committee will review the trial. I wanted to see if that is true. Thank you. Thank you very much. Uh Helen, I'm not sure we have anyone on this one right now. Let me just see if we have anyone over there. Dr. Dr. Kate O'Brien. Yeah, please. Thank you. >> Uh thanks Helen for the question. Um so there has been outreach um from the university to our ethics uh department seeking assistance on reviewing the ethics um of the proposed trial. and we're in discussions within who about responding uh to that request. Um I think the important thing to recognize here is that um we have expressed and others have expressed the concerns around the trial and the fact that hepatitis B vaccine for newborns, those especially born to women who are hepatitis B surface antigen positive is an incredibly important preventive measure to avoid the transmission of what is a deadly virus um to those infants. And the recommendation from WHO is that all countries should be um including hepatitis B vaccine at the time of birth in their programs. So any questions around the research related to this which is a a vaccine with known efficacy and a very long established safety profile um an excellent safety profile need to be fully considered in the context of what a study is aiming to uh study. and uh the the uh deep ethical uh considerations around any human subjects research that does not provide um a life sa a known life-saving intervention um to those who uh would be in the trial. So, uh I hope that answers your question. Thanks. >> Thank you, Kate. I understand Helen has a follow-up. >> Thank you. Just just so that I'm clear, you Dr. Dr. O'Brien, you said that there has been outreach and there is discussion ongoing at WH about whether or not to respond to the assistance. Am I understanding that correctly that you have that WHO has not replied one way or another at this point? Thank you. So yeah, just to be clear, um we have received um a request uh from the university about whether we could um assist them with uh an ethical review and we're looking at that request. Um it's not uh in other words who is not a um an entity that is uh tasked with reviewing um the ethical review of any clinical trial that's done uh by researchers around the world. That responsibility is primarily the responsibility as outlined in the declaration of Helsinki. It's the responsibility of the sponsors of the research, those who are funding it, the institutions who are carrying it out either in the field as well as um the home institutions of researchers and so uh we are looking at the request um and we will be communicating with the university. >> Thank you very much Dr. O'Brien. Next question goes to Gabrielle Emanuel from NPR. Gabrielle, please go ahead and unmute. >> Hi, thank you so much for doing this. Um, I had a quick question. I wanted to follow up on the earlier comments about um disruptions the war in the Middle East is causing um to medical and humanitarian supplies. Sorry about that. I just wanted to understand a little bit more about how bad the backlog is and who is most affected. Thank you. >> Thank you very much, Gabrielle. We'll go to Paul Molinaro. He's our head for operational support and logistics and he'll take that one for now. Thank you. >> Yeah, good afternoon. Um thanks for the question. Um, I think, um, the longer this goes on, unfortunately, I think we're going to all be educated on just how many industrial processes are are going to be reliant on petrochemical inputs beyond the obvious one um of of just energy supplies. Um, I think this will take time for the ripple effects uh to be felt. Um certainly not necessarily medical but something to keep an eye on is is is phosphates and its input into into fertilizer. You look at a c you know some countries are 50 60% reliant on products from this region for fertilizer. Um and then obviously for medical equipment uh uh plastics this hasn't necessarily been felt yet. Um because again that will take time to to come through the system. Um in another question where uh we've been looking at is around uh pharmaceutical vaccines and biologicals. It's not necessarily an issue around the production but certainly um the Gulf region and the carriers are are critical uh components of international logistics particularly in air freight. Um we have a lot of life sciences based in the region and and and and carriers um dealing with time sensitive and temperature controlled. Um some of that capacity is coming back online. uh obviously you have different alternative routings. What happens there is um you will get um congestion and you'll get uh price uh price rises. Now, I'm sure pharmaceutical companies and other medical companies have been doing in the last week or two exactly what our teams have been doing and scrambling to find out what we have uh at sea, what's inbound, what are our are our pending orders and then trying to um find solutions to that. Certainly those companies will have excess inventory and certainly wealthier more developed countries will have buffer. Um of course lower least developed countries may have uh issues coming or that will come up soon. Um and then certainly when it comes to WF WH I think we're more canary in in the co in the in the coal mine given um the vulnerability and the fragility and the conflict areas that we operate on and certainly there we start to um we start to feel feel the effects of shortages um as a provider of of um of first response and in many cases unfortunately um as a provider of last resort. Having said that, we've had a strategic long-term partnership with the UAE um for the management of our operational facility um in the UAE for 10 years. It has constantly worked in the background 6700 shipments and deliveries um a year on average. We um have an ongoing engagement and flexibility with the Ministry of Health, with the customs authorities, and with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And right now, what we're looking at are alternatives. We have managed to do uh pharmaceutical shipment to Africa yesterday using commercial uh air transport and we have started to receive inbound replenishment through alternative ports. Um we work with Dubai Humanitarian and other partners like WFP, UNICEF and and the Red Cresant to consolidate our shipments and hopefully um we'll start putting out through a mix of air charter road sea particularly to um Lebanon to Afghanistan to Sudan uh and to Gaza and get that back on track as soon as we can. As ever with these kind of systems, it takes time to reboot and to jumpst start the engine. Um, but I'm pretty confident given the creativity we've shown with the humanitarian community and the different organs of the of the UAE um that we'll we'll manage to um to circumvent this in the short term. long term with industrial again as the longer this goes on I think the more we'll be receiving an education just on how dependent some of our processes are uh on on this part of the world thanks >> thanks so much Paul Molinaro with this we go to the next question and that goes to um Pelisa Godinho from W magazine Portugalisa please go ahead and unmute Uh hello, thank you for taking my question is about the uh COVID 19 vaccine in several European countries including Portugal. Even if individuals with medical prescription and professional exposure could not assess to the updated COVID 19 vaccine because it was out of stock. uh how does the WH plan to address the growing growing gap between official planes of sufficient supply and the real world shortage that prevent willing nonrisk group adults from being vaccinated. I uh are reality that I myself witness I never got the vaccine because they were out of stock. no vaccines available. Thank you. >> Thank you, Belisa. And go to to O'Brien. >> Thank you for the question and and you're raising the issue of vaccine access um and in particular vaccine access for co 19 vaccines. So just a couple of things to start with. Um co 19 is an important disease. it causes still today even though um people around the world essentially all of people around the world have either had an infection with co 19 or been vaccinated or both and so there is widespread population immunity but that doesn't mean that uh all people are protected from getting disease even with that um that immunity that uh people have co 19 does cause infections it causes severe disease and it even causes deaths still in people. Those are mostly among people who are older adults or with other underlying risk factors, but anybody can get sick with CO 19. And so there's still an important role for CO 19 vaccine in the protection, especially of those who are most at risk of severe disease. And it's important that people have access and you've raised this question. We know that in 2024 at least based on the reports that countries provide to who on an annual basis about their immunization programs about 128 countries um had co 19 vaccine in their publicly funded program. There may be among other countries private access um uh so outside the the public program but just having vaccine as part of the policy or part of the supply that is coming into the country doesn't mean that each person who should be receiving co 19 vaccine um has access to that vaccine and I think that's the nature of your question. It's really the responsibility um of country programs to um quantify the population groups in whom they will provide COVID 19 vaccine for the protection against predominantly severe disease um and have a program that can actually deploy those vaccines to people in a convenient way when and where they need the vaccines. So it's really one of the vaccines among all vaccines where the continued on and ongoing development of a vaccine program that will provide that access is really important as we head into 2026. As as with the DG um uh described in the press conference um opening statements, um SAGE has now provided um a formal set of recommendations on who should receive COVID 19 vaccine replacing the interim recommendations that we've had until now. The last interim recommendation was 2023. And countries generally speaking are going to have to look very carefully at the vaccine programs that they have across all of the life course. Infants, children, adolescents, healthy adults, pregnant women, and older adults, as well as those with underlying medical conditions to really carefully uh decide what vaccines will continue to be offered in the program, especially in a setting of ever increasingly constrained resources. So just to emphasize the importance of the vaccines, they continue to be manufactured. There is ample supply to meet the demand that countries have. It's really a question of country program decisions um about whether the vaccine is within the program and being deployed in times and places um where those who need the vaccines can adequately get them. >> Thank you much Dr. O'Brien. And you also have Dr. Maria Vancerkov who's coming in. >> Yeah, very briefly. So, thanks Kate just to supplement um something that she said here. First of all, thanks Sage for the excellent work that they've been doing to provide these recommendations and and they're really make a lot of sense. Um they're they're supportive of what had been recommended before focusing on the risk groups as Kate has said. The only thing I wanted to add was um to make sure that people uh when they have access and access is a big issue to to get vaccinated with any of the safe with any of the authorized vaccines not to wait for that next updated version. Um Sage did as DG had mentioned has done an extensive review on the safety of these vaccines and found them to be safe but also find finding them to be effective and I just wanted to reiterate that point. So if you haven't had a vaccine, if you are in an atrisisk group, please do talk to your health care provider about getting vaccinated for for CO 19 because as Kate has said it, the virus is circulating. It is still causing severe disease. It is still causing hospitalizations and deaths and these can be prevented. Thanks. >> And thanks Dr. Maria Vancov. Uh next question goes to Agnes Pedrero from AFP. Agnes, please go ahead. Yes. Hi, thank you uh for taking my my question. Um a question on the negotiations next week on the annex of the pandemic treaty. Uh I wanted to ask you if you expect any progress if you think that uh it will end next week and um and can can we say that the discussion can be summarized between an opposition between the countries of the global south and the global north and if I may a quick comment on how much you are worried about the deadly menitis spread in the UK and by the strike last night on the nuclear energy facility in Iran. Thank you. >> Oh, some quick short questions. Thank you very much, Agnes. Um, we'll start with uh Dr. Ned Amy Roglo, is head of the secretariat for the intergovernmental working group on the WO pandemic agreement. Nett, please go ahead. >> Yeah, thank you very much for the question. As you rightly mentioned, the WH pandemic agreement is meeting next week. This is it their last meeting before the word out assembly to negotiate the text for a pathogen access and benefit sharing system annex. And this is critically important because this translates the commitments of the pandemic agreement into practical provisions for timely and equitable access and benefit sharing enabling its adoption by the world assembly. So where we are now there is a new text proposed by the bureau which has been shared with the membership and since the last meeting during the past five weeks there had been intensive interaction and consultations between the member states with the different groups. So as countries engage in these intensive informal discussions what we see is the differences are remaining but compared with the global magnitude of the inaction or compared to what it was when it started. So the decisions taken in the coming week will shape the future of the WH pandemic agreement. uh and it will show whether it will be a transformative legal instrument strengthening equity solidarity and global health security and we believe the will reach the agreement on the per text because that's important for for the solidarity equity global health security and also for the multilateralism and international collaboration. So we will wait and see. Thank you very much. >> Thank you very much Ned. And for menitis we go to Dr. Ko Brian please. >> Could I just ask for the question to be repeated? >> I guess could you repeat the part about menitis? >> Yes I I can. Thank you. Um I was wondering if you could tell us how much you are worried with uh with this uh spread in the UK of these deadly menitis if the UK is in contact with you and how do you explain that that kind of spread. Thank you. >> Thanks and I'll also ask um Maria to come in on this um uh who uh has responsibilities in WHO also for menitis. I'll I'll reply just um primarily from the vaccine immunization perspective. So menitis and this is meninga coakal menenitis. So a particular form of bacterial menitis but the bacterial forms of menitis are serious life-threatening um conditions. So at any point when men there's an outbreak of menitis it's a it's a serious concern for a health department for a community for a school for populations and of course for WHO as well. Um many of the bacterial forms of menitis are preventable by vaccines and of course uh the question around whether a vaccine is effective is whether people are getting vaccinated. Um with this particular outbreak menitis is meninga cocoal menitis in particular is known to have outbreaks um in adolescents young adults. Um it is transmitted from person to person and especially through close contact. Um it's sometimes referred to as a kissing disease. Um so it's a serious disease. We've seen a very vigorous response um of course from the health authorities in the UK. um and the role of vaccines in a response to an outbreak of menitis is um not the first and foremost response because it does take time for the immune response of a person to the vaccine itself. So the main response is around the contact tracing of menenitis cases, who they've been in contact with, who they've been in close contact with and providing preventive antibiotics for those who would be most at risk. So in in in sort of just to wrap up this and I'll hand over to Maria. Um, always a very high concern whenever there is a menitis outbreak and the rapid response from the health authorities to identify it, to know which bacteria it is and to respond appropriately with the the usual measures of contact tracing response to those who have been in contact. And there is a role for vaccines, but it's not the primary um response to to an outbreak. And I'll hand over to Maria for uh anything additional. Yeah, thank you Kate. I have very little to add. Um, Kate's comprehensive answer there. So, no, it is very serious and so vaccination is really important, but early treatment is medical emergency is also just as important. So, your question was, you know, how worried we are. We're always concerned about these infectious diseases and menitis is something that we know a lot of. There are different causes of it. There's different treatment for it. There's preventative care for it. But information about how it spreads and how people um can protect themselves is is is just as important. So nothing more to add. Thanks. >> Thank you very much both. And for the third part that was the latest attacks on the Iran facilities, we go to Ian Clark, please. >> Yes, thanks for the question. So absolutely I mean both uh in inside of Iran but also in the the neighboring countries there are a number of nuclear power plants and research centers. So in a conflict of course there is always um a concern that uh either deliberately or indirectly you know a facility could be impacted. So yes absolutely there are legitimate concerns u and particularly around the the public health implications of that. So the international uh atomic energy agency is the organization that has the mandate for monitoring safety and and reporting on uh and uh so far there have been two reported cases in Iran uh that were reported by the Iranian authorities and in the case of Basher uh yesterday evening by Russia as well. Uh and in both cases the IAEA has assessed and and come back to confirm no casualties and and no immediate public health impact. But taking that into account, we have of course done considerable uh work in terms of um preparing for potential consequences. Uh we've been you know providing guidance to governments both in Iran and neighboring countries in terms of the the the public health uh implications and the guidance around that. uh and also for the UN staff and and families working in these countries to ensure that they also uh understand the the risks and and how to protect themselves in case of of of such a an event. Thank you. >> Thank you very much Ian Clark, incident manager for the emergencies program. Next question goes to uh Iman Kerji Kerji. Excuse me. Iman Kerji from Kuna. Eman, please go ahead. >> Eman, can you hear us? And please unmute yourself. Yeah, here you go. >> Yeah. Okay. Thank you so much. Um, thank you for giving me the possibility to ask the question. I have actually a question on Gaza, on the situation in Gaza, how the situation evolved since the beginning of the conflict at um in the Middle East and uh if um you you register if there have been any documented cases of malnutrition among the population the population especially um among um ch children given that the humanitarian aid remain insufficient and with especially with the closer um of uh the cross border and if you have any data about the um people killed uh during the last period with the violation of the ceasefire. Thank you. >> Thank you very much. And we go to Dr. Teresa Sakaria's unit head at um at the emergency program for OP. Please go ahead Teresa. >> Thank you very much uh for the question. I believe that my colleague actually uh who is the incident manager for the uh crisis in in OPD is also online. So I'll I'll uh answer quickly on the malnutrition status. I think it's very important um to to remember that um the nutritional status of thousands of children in Gaza was very dire prior to this uh conflict escalation. Uh the amount of aid that has come uh into uh the amount of aid that has come into Gaza has also remained extremely insufficient. Uh and so this has basically uh this means basically that we have not reached any stage where uh the the risk of um uh further deterioration into the nutritional status of children has improved at all. We're very far from it. What we have seen however since the beginning um since since late February is further hindrances to aid getting inside Gaza. And so not only that we have not yet reversed the very high risk prior to end of February but we are accumulating even more risk because more and more people are being exposed to ex further extreme living conditions the inability of food but also just their inability to access health care and um uh obtain medicines for very basic illnesses as well that could really um worsen any malnutrition conditions. I think on the casualties um and other elements of your questions I would refer to Nabil who really has uh more um accurate and and up-to-date data. Thank you. >> Thank you very much Teresa. Uh yes indeed we move to Nabil Tabal. He's incident manager for the OPT. >> Thank you. Thank you for the question. Uh yes, I will continue also on um especially on the impact of the regional escalation on the people and also on the operations across the OPT so Gaza but also in the West Bank. Uh uh and this is also coming after even after the ceasefire as Terza was mentioning uh the the challenges continued especially related to restrictions to entry of uh of critical supplies. So the recent escalation has also led to closure of all crossings but since then only one crossing which is the Kam Shaon crossing has reopened. Most crossing remain closed since the 28th of February and this is of course disrupting the delivery of medical supplies but also of fuel and uh this has is having a direct impact on health services across uh across Gaza. Uh also in particular uh this has led to um uh the suspension of medical evacuations through both crossings through the Rafa and Karam Shalom. Um Rafa crossing was has reopened for medical evacuations early uh this year in February uh but has been also suspended since the 28th of February. just uh just numbers uh during that period 319 patients uh were evacuated through that uh crossing. We were informed by the Israeli authorities through Kogat that uh the Rafa border crossing will reopen uh this week. Uh we were hoping today but most likely uh tomorrow. So we'll uh uh so we'll uh we're also ready to scale up our uh medifac operations accordingly. uh this has also impacted the EMT rotations the emergency medical teams uh they have the rotations have resumed but also at a much smaller scale so this is also putting more strain on emergency medical teams in on the ground uh and also that's having an impact on availability of supplies only 46% of essential medicines uh uh uh sorry 46% of essential medicine are out of stock um uh and this is compounded by the dual as I said the restriction on dual use. So it's also having uh impact on um on getting supplies uh related to lab supplies uh diagnostic supplies but also rehab is uh heavily impacted u as well in terms of uh services. uh we are in this context uh uh trying to accelerate the distribution of available supplies in Gaza uh and prioritizing life-saving uh services and this is also with limited availability of fuel currently in Gaza. In the West Bank, uh we uh the also the regional escalation has led to u increased uh number of checkpoints and further barriers to uh access to health services. U severing also the movement between different communities and uh and governor rates. Uh we also witnessed increase in in in in violent attacks as well. Uh in addition to risk from falling debris following missile interceptions. uh uh so this is also led to um uh to uh increased checkpoints but also uh so led to the delay in terms of uh ambulance and patients reaching um uh virus reaching patients. Uh in terms of response also WHO and health cluster partners we continue to support the deployment of mobile medical teams across uh to also ensure continuity of essential health services uh to hospital and health health facilities. Um and also we continue uh advocacy around the protection of uh of health care especially when it comes to obstruction and additional barriers to to access to health services. Uh in terms of fatalities during the ceasefire period u also according to Adam there are currently 677 fatalities since the ceasefire in in October and 1,813 injuries. Thank you and offer back to you Christian. >> Thank you very much Nabil Tabal um incident manager for the OPT. Next question goes to Christy Santosh from Reuters. Christie please go ahead unmute. >> Hello uh this is this question is regarding the menitis uh outbreak in the UK. uh could you tell us if there's any data on this particular strain uh that's spreading in Europe and if uh you know the European countries have a comprehensive vaccine policy against this and if there are any differences between the countries vaccine policies for menagitis >> thank you very much parts was not quite audible I think but uh it was about data whether we have data for the outbreak of menitis right now could you specify again Please strain. Okay, good. >> Yeah. >> All right. Thank you very much. Um, let's start with Kate O'Brien or with Maria Vancov. Yeah, please go ahead, Kate. >> Um, I can address uh the question on the um vaccine programs around Europe. Um, it's a little bit of a it's a little bit of a we'll get back to you answer. So, we do have um the data on the comparative programs across uh the European region. I don't have it in front of me, but we're happy to get back to you with that information. But many countries, I'll just say many countries, there are two vaccines. Um because there are different strains of the maninga coakal bacterium. Um and uh not every country includes both and not every country even includes one. Um so we can provide with you for you um that that summary uh of what what was reported to WHO from the countries for 2024 for the 2025 year. Um we will have the complete data in the summer. Um so again we can get back to you on that and I'll hand over to Maria for the strain question. >> Thanks. So, sorry. Uh, I'm going to have to actually get back to you on that as well. Um, I was just looking this up from the information from the UK HSA. Um, but I'll provide it in the chat, uh, as you continue on with the questions. Thanks. >> Thank you very much both. Next question goes to Ashwin Binger from the Observer Times. Ashwin, please go ahead. Thank you very much for considering my question. My question is Supreme Court of India on 10th of the March 2026 directs the government of India to establish no fault compensation policy for serious vaccine related adverse events postcoid9. As of WHO was the strategic partner with government of India for vac vaccine supply during coid9 pandemic. How WHO see this Supreme Court of India verdict and what further new investigation or reports WHO looking for to get serious concern on this Supreme Court of India's direction to government of India supplied COVID 19 vaccine to the rest of the world awin We'll we'll go ahead now with what we heard so far. Um well, you want to clarify because there was interruption in the end. >> Shall I repeat the question? >> No, no, all good. I think we're good about the uh vaccine situation and the political in in India. Dr. Kobarian, please. >> So, I I think I think I understood the question. Um I'll I'll say uh first to start with that I'm not familiar with the Supreme Court of India decision around a no fault compensation scheme for CO 19 vaccine. So I certainly can't comment on that. Um but um I can provide some information about no fault compensation schemes for vaccines and about the no fault compensation scheme that was put in place for CO 19 vaccine in the context of uh of the Kovac facility um which was as you know uh the effort to provide vaccine to the world's countries during the course of uh of the acute phase of the pandemic. So to be clear, what a no fault compensation scheme is is that um many countries have set in place um a funding mechanism so that for those rare occasions when vaccines do uh create uh a a significant uh uh side effect from the vaccine. Um to acknowledge that there there are these rare occasions, there are these rare events. Um, many countries have put in place these compensation schemes in order to avoid a long drawn out process um that costs a lot of money uh to use the courts to determine um whether or not there should be compensation that was made. And the purpose of these is to facilitate um and to make it easier for vaccine programs um to be put in place for um people throughout the country uh without fear or concern that if there is a rare event that happens that they will somehow now go through some long court process. So these compensation schemes are in place in in many countries. Um for CO 19 vaccine in particular uh in the course of the pandemic there was a no fault compensation scheme um that was uh coordinated uh through WHO um for the Kovac facility. Um and that compensation scheme has um has worked well uh and uh provided both manufacturers and country governments the confidence um that there was a an a safety net in place um for people who uh may uh in in these rare cases unfortunately suffer um an adverse event. Um so I I can't say uh what the situation is uh in India the Supreme Court uh decision but these um compensation schemes have been um really effective in assuring that manufacturers will continue to provide vaccines which are life-saving vaccines and that people who are receiving vaccines um have the assurance um first of all around the safety of vaccines which have a very very high uh bar to be a to be uh uh regulated and to be provided to the population. But if there is something that goes wrong uh which does on rare occasion happen um that there is a a means by which um people have recourse uh for for that adverse event without having to spend uh money themselves on lawyers and legal fees and and uh long drawn out court cases. So I think um that's the the those are the main points that to to describe about what no fault compensation schemes are about. >> Thank you so much Dr. Kate O'Brien. Um with this we come to the end of of our time. I see still a number of queries on the list but unfortunately we have to close. So thank you all very much for your interest and please write to media inquiries at wh.int int for any follow-ups if as we couldn't unfortunately get to your question. Apologies. Um we will send the notes of this briefing and the doctor the the Dr. General's remarks soon after the briefing. The recordings will also be available later. Um and with this back to the director general for closing. >> Yeah. Thank you. Um on Argentina, I was going to uh comment just on one issue because u Jeremy had uh covered the rest. Uh with in addition to what Jeremy said, I think the withdrawal of Argentina from WH actually is a loss for Argentina and also for the rest of the world. and health security as you know needs universality and it will make Argentina unsafe. Uh I think that has to be very clear. Um and then the second part of that is with Paho. Of course who has been working through PAHO. So if Argentina has a problem with WHO then it has a problem with PAO as well because we have been working through through PAHO and most of the um things we do actually was through PAHO and on many issues we're we're aligned with with with PAHO but of course we'll see what their position is with regard to membership issues in WHO or or or Paho. Uh then on um uh maybe one thing that I would also like to add on u um the um uh igwig issue. Uh I think Ned had already uh said that but one thing I would like to add is um next week the IG last session is starting. Uh, of course there are differences between member states, but I can also see that they're closing the gaps and we believe there will be landing zones on areas where there are still uh differences and I'm confident that uh the pubs could be agreed and the agreement on pubs will also help us to start the ratification process of the pandemic agreement uh that was uh approved by the member states. uh last last uh May, but we believe uh next week will be uh will will help us make progress on on week. And with that, thank you to all uh members of the press for joining us today. I know there are a number of uh members of the press who would like to ask questions, but we're already past the hour and we have other commitments. I hope you will understand. Uh but with that, thank you for joining us and see you next time.