Health: This scenario involves an outbreak of a respiratory illness in a country called Global Land. This scenario shows us how a simulation exercise can strengthen the capacity of healthcare workers and government employees to manage a real-time public health emergency through sectoral coordination to prepare the ground. I invite you to watch an introductory video. Good evening, I'm Taren with news. The hospitals in Goin have dozens of patients suffering from severe respiratory symptoms. There is a virus, probably of animal origin, more specifically from a deer. To discuss this further, we welcome Professor Bruno Lina. Can you tell us about the current situation in the medical field regarding this subject? It is very likely that it is a zoonautical disease, that is to say, a transmission of a virus from wild animals to humans. The question now is whether there is subsequent human-to-human transmission. Thank you, Professor. We now go to our correspondent who is on the ground in Salvora in the Crystal Bay Harine region. How is the situation evolving? Good evening there. Here, the health situation is being taken very seriously. Indeed, the departments are meeting to discuss the measures to be taken. An emergency crisis cell has been formed to debate containment measures. The Ministry of Health has sent representatives to meet with residents. The key word is absolute transparency. The Global Land Ministry of Health has reported 100 suspected cases of a new virus since November 30th. Patients have been identified in all regions of the country. Infected individuals are exhibiting symptoms such as fever and other respiratory problems. Unfortunately, one Global Land citizen has lost their life. The WHO is working with the government and its partners to test and treat patients. We are ensuring that healthcare professionals and patients have the necessary personal protective equipment to stay safe. Hospitals are preparing for an increase in cases, and we are working with neighboring countries to prevent further spread. We will continue to keep you informed as soon as new information becomes available. Back to you. And as we have seen, facing a serious health crisis requires an appropriate response. Communication and coordination play a key role. We will continue to provide you with updates.  Day by day, as new information becomes available, here you are back in the auditorium. I believe you just heard the scenario: a new, serious virus transmitted by animals, then through water to humans. It's zoonotic disease. This virus is spreading very rapidly and has been declared a global health emergency, classified as level 3. The official delegation, which we no longer see on screen, will experience the immersive journey of the WHO Academy. It's an immersive experience at the heart of the health crisis. For technical reasons, we won't see the movements of the President of the Republic and the official delegation inside the Academy. We'll go ahead of them, we'll go directly to the first stage, which is the Emergency Operating Center. In other words, it's a crisis center, and it's from there that the leaders will make the decisions. Decision-making and coordination: we're going to immediately watch the footage from this EOC (Emergency Operating Control) that we filmed in advance, where we'll be waiting for the Head of State. The video is coming up; here you are, watching the live footage. So, at first glance, nothing special. It's a meeting room with screens, and around the table are healthcare personnel, senior executives, managers from health institutions, and screens connecting them to the world. You see, they're connected to Rwanda, for example. They 're also connected, in our global scenario, to the WHO headquarters as well. So, globally, this is the country—the imaginary country—where the virus emerged, and so we have several countries on this...