but a fundamental right for all. Please join me in welcoming Dr. Tedros Adanam Gabrizus. Attention to the screen. Thank you. Thank you very much. Moderator Shukran Jazilan. Can you hear me? Honorable Minister Dr. Abdul Rahman bin Muhammad Alawise. Honorable Minister Dr. Tani bin Ahmed al- Zahudi, excellencies, honorable ministers, heads of delegation, dear colleagues and friends, I thank the United Arab Emirates for its collaboration in organizing this important event and its leadership in promoting local production. I'm sorry that I cannot be with you in person. As you may know, WHS member states are meeting in Geneva today for the f for the rest of this week for the final time to negotiate and hopefully conclude the pandemic agreement. That's why I couldn't join you and I hope you will forgive me. The pandemic agreement aims to address the weaknesses exposed by the coid9 pandemic and the lessons it taught us. One of those lessons is that the concentration of manufacturing in just a handful of countries led to the article on transfer of technology. knowhow for the production of pandemic related health products. The agreement will provide a vital instrument will provide a vital instrument of international law to support enhanced local production. But we don't need to wait until it enters force to take action. WH has worked on strengthening local production for many years using an ecosystemwide approach. But that work intensified during the WHO transformation and coid9 pandemic. In 2021, we launched the mRNA technology transfer program 2021. We launched the mRNA technology transfer program in South Africa which is now sharing technology from its base in South Africa with a with a network of 15 partner countries for joining WHO with the medicine's patent pool has also secured the rights to a platform technology for rapid diagnostic tests for diseases like HIV and malaria which we will sub to manufacturers. In 2023, we also established the WHO biio manufacturing workforce training initiative, including a global training hub in the Republic of Korea, which has helped to train over 7,000 participants globally. So although we have made some progress, we still have a lot of work to do. Low and middle inome countries still face significant barriers in access and supply. This is made even more difficult to lowquality ultimate untimely data that prevents accurate demand forecasting. Other major challenges include affordable financing and limited research and development capacity. The proposed recommendations of this forum offer four things that governments, industry associations and other actors can do with the support of WHO and other partners to strengthen local production. First, build conducive ecosystems for local production through technology transfer, R&D, data sharing, regulatory strengthening and more. Second, harness the power of digital technologies, AI and big data to drive the full production value chain from research to distribution of medicines. Third, make local production green by using energy efficient technologies and sustainable procurement of raw materials. And fourth, build public private partnerships across sectors to increase investment in R&D manufacturing infra infrastructure and workforce capacity. Excellencies, dear colleagues and friends, my thanks again to the UAE for hosting this forum. As you know, today is the World Health World Health Day, WH 77's birthday. It was on this day the 7th of April in 1948 when the constitution of the World Health Organization entered force. The constitution was the first instrument of international law to affirm that the highest attainable standard of health is a fundamental right of every human. The right to health means the right to equitable access to the products to protect and promote it. Local production is about realizing that right. Thank you all for your dedication and commitment to equitable access and to a healthier, safer, fairer world for all people. Please also don't forget the pandemic agreement negotiation going on here in Geneva and you can give your support from wherever you are. So, Shukran Jazzil and thank you very much.