Austria. No, there's a picture. Norway. Norway. Amen. Amen. Amen. And Singapore. Singapore. Come a bit closer to me. Come a bit closer. Um, next we are very pleased to recognize the remarkable achievements of the two countries that WHO has certified as malaria free in the last 12 months. Egypt and Georgia. Egypt was certified in October last year, marking the culmination of a nearly 100year effort. While Georgia also joined the ranks of malari free countries in January this year, following decades of targeted and sustained action, Georgia Thank you so much. Next, we're pleased to congratulate Botswana for becoming the first country to achieve gold tier status on the path to elimination um of motherto- child transmission of HIV as a public health problem. Thank you very much. This is a very impressive achievement for a country with a high burden of HIV. First, good. And last, not least, we congratulate 11 countries that have eliminated one neglected tropical disease in the course of the past year. I would like to invite the following countries to receive their certificates of validation of elimination. First, Brazil for lymphatic fyariasis. Teor also for lymphatic fyariasis. Chhat for sleeping sickness. So back to Tim Orstee for lymphatic valarises guinea for sleeping sickness. We now have India, Moritania, Pakistan, Papua, New Guinea and Vietnam for Traoma. India. India first. Pakistan. Thank you so much. Moritania coming. Thank you. Yeah. I have um Papua New Guinea. Papuini. And Vietnam. Now we have Nijair for onsariasis elimination. Okay. and Jordan for leprosy. Okay, good. So now, finally, we're pleased to honor this year's recipients of the World Num No Tobacco Day Awards. Each year these awards recognize exceptional individuals and organizations who have made outstanding contributions to the tobacco control. It gives me a pleasure to invite um therefore the following awardees. Dr. Lena Nanushian, first deputy minister of health of Armenia. Dr. France Peach, the former head of directorate at the Federal Ministry of Social Affairs, Health Care and Consumer Protection of Austria, the National Board of Revenue of Bangladesh, The Ministry of Health and Ministry of Finance of Brazil. T Maria, the Ministry of Health of the Cook Islands. Cook Islands. Cook Islands. Coming. Good. An award to Malaysia shared between Dr. Hajjitsu Kei Bin Aamad the Minister of Health of Malaysia, Dr. Nora Noral Jana Binti Hassan, Deputy Director of the Disease Control Division, and Dr. Munis Yami, President of the Malaysian Council for Tobacco Control. flag. Yeah. The Ministry of Health and Population of Nepal. Nepal Nepal and the director's general special recognition award of contribution to global tobacco control is awarded to the ministry of health and wellness of the republic of maicius. is. So, please join me in congratulating one last time all the awardees. Back to you, President. Please. Thank you, Dr. Bing. Let us now suspend.