I'm delighted to welcome you to the Usher building today for this this special event. But for this first part of the official ceremony, I have the role uh of presenting the Edinburgh Prize for Global Health Impact. This is a new prize established in 2024 and is a sister award to a historic Cameron Prize for therapeutics which was founded at this university in 1878. Uh since this time the Cameron prize has been awarded to 78 scientists whose work work has led to major therapeutic innovations and many of them have gone on to win the Nobel Prize by the way. So just no pressure in in in in all of this. Uh the new prize uh honors the collective achievements of departments, institutions or multiddisciplinary groups whose work has led to major measurable improvements in global health outcomes. The prize is to be awarded bianually to a group whose contributions to glo to a global health issue whether through innovation, implementation or systems leadership have resulted in the demonstrable population level impact. In establishing this award, the University of Edinburgh acknowledges the collaborative nature of modern scientific and public health endeavor. Recognizing that many of the world's greatest advances in health arise from the sustained work of interdisciplinary teams and institutional partnerships, we are delighted to be awarding the 2024 Edinburgh Prize for Global Health Impact to the World Health Organization's expanded program on immunization for their work on facilitating childhood vaccination thereby saving millions of lives. The expanded program on immunization or EPI was launched in 1974 to ensure that all children in all countries benefited from life-saving vaccines. This program has evolved into what is now commonly known as the essential program on immunization. Today, every country in the world has a national immunization program and vaccines are viewed as one of the safest, most effective and successful public health interventions to prevent deaths and improve lives. Since the initial focus on protection against six childhood vaccinereventable diseases over four decades ago, the addition of new vaccines has increased the breadth of protection provided by immunization to include vaccinations for protected and older children, adolescents, and adults. There are now 13 vaccines recommended by WHO for the EPI program. Committed to its goal of universal access to all relevant vaccines for all at risk, EPI continues to work in synergy with other public health programs to control infectious disease and achieve better health for all populations everywhere. 2024 marked 50 years since the expanded program on immunization was initiated. And today we're honored to be joined by uh Dr. Tedras Adenam Gabesus, director general of the World Health Organization, who will accept the prize on behalf of API API. I would like now to invite Dr. Ted Ross to collect the Edinburgh Prize for Global Health Impact and perhaps say a few words about the work. Now edit me. I'm back to Thank you. Pretty full househ. The right honorable secretary of state for Scotland, Ian Mary, honorable minister Mari Todd, Vice Chancellor and Principal Professor Sir Peter Matis and Vice Principal Professor David Argyle, director of the Asher Institute, Professor Katy Sadlau. The Asher family, very honored to meet you. connection of more than 100 years and esteemed members of the University of Edinburgh community. Dear colleagues and friends, good morning and my thanks to Professor Argyle for that very kind introduction. I think I'm saying the name wellh because I was uh um and my thanks also to everyone at the university for your welcome and hospitality this morning. On behalf of my colleagues at the World Health Organization, past and present, I'm honored and humbled to accept the inaugural Edinburgh Prize for Global Health Impact. The first is always remembered. So, I'm glad who has the first prize. It's also an honor for me to join as we open the new Asher building here at the University of Edinburgh. I'm very happy to be back at this great university of which I am a proud honorary alumni. As you all know, with 442 years of history, the University of Edinburgh was an academic training ground for notable leaders in science, politics, and many other fields, including Charles Darwin, Alexander Graham Bell, and my good friend, former Prime Minister Gordon Brown. The university also has a distinguished history of medical innovation from James Young Simpsons development of chloroform anesthesia to Joseph Listister's introduction of antiseptic techniques in the 19th century. More recently was the development of the first gen genetically engineered vaccine against hepatitis B. These days, among its many accomplishments, Edinburgh is doing cutting edge vaccine research, including in the areas of chronic inflammatory diseases, the innate immune system, and immune homeostasis and autoimmunity. So it's quite appropriate and a particular honor that the first Edinburgh Prize for Global Health Impact recognize who work to provide children across the world access to life-saving vaccinations. Vaccines are among the most powerful innovations in history. Thanks to vaccines, small pox has been eradicated and polio is on the brink. Thanks to vaccines, once feared and deadly diseases like measles and Ebola are now preventable. And with new vaccines against malaria and cervical cancer, we can save more lives than ever. Vaccines help individuals, families, communities, economies, and nations to thrive. Every dollar invested in vaccines delivers a return of 54 US dollars in healthier children who are to learn and earn and become the scientists, teachers, politicians, artists, and innovators of the future. 50 years ago in 1974, WHO established a groundbreaking initiative to dramatically expand access to vaccines, the expanded program on immunization known as EPI. Uh, by the way, when Professor Argyle said about the Nobel, I actually wonder why WHO was not provided with one. Even small pox eradication could be enough, I think, to to to get that. So, I'm taking it on a serious note now. Exactly. at the time and this will be a good omen I think the prize from um um you know from Edinburgh. The success of EPI is due to health workers in every country who deliver vaccines in communities sometimes at greater risk. Some have even lost their lives vaccinating against polio in Afghanistan and Pakistan or in other outbreaks in insecure areas. EPI is also foundation for pandemic and emergency prevention preparedness and response. The the EPI program was the basis for the COVID vaccine response in many countries and is the program that responds to outbreaks of other vaccinereventable diseases day in and day out thanks to EPI. EPI an infant born today is 40% more likely to survive to their first birthday than they were 50 years ago. Since 1974, EPI has helped to save an estimated 154 million lives from diseases like measles, titanis, dtheria and pneumonia. And since 2000, under five, mortality has dropped by more than half thanks largely to the power of vaccines. By the way, 2000 was the birth of Gabi as well. the Gabi Alliance. A large part of that success has been thanks to the Gabi Alliance, a revolutionary partnership between WHO, UNICEF, the World Bank, civil society, industry, academy, and and more. Just yesterday, I was in Brussels for Gavis replenishment event. As you're all aware, it came at a difficult time in global health with drastic cuts in aid which come after disruptions to immunizations programs in many countries due to coid9 pandemic and misinformation about vaccine safety. As a result, all killers like measles, dictaria are resurging. So I was very encouraged yesterday that donors pledged more than$9 billion US dollars to support Gab's work over the next five years. We're deeply grateful especially to the United Kingdom which has been one of the most steadfast supporters of both WHO and Gabby and with its contribution yesterday from a single donor actually the the largest contribution as you are all aware who has also been affected by cuts in aid by the United States and other countries which are reducing official development assistance to fund increased defense spending, a sad sign of the times. For several years, we have been transforming the organization to make it more effective and efficient. We have reduced our costs and implemented several measures to make our funding more sustainable and secure in the long term. Even so, we unfortunately have no choice but to say goodbye to a significant number of dedicated and talented colleagues. I'm very conscious of the impact on them, their careers and their families. At the same time in every in every crisis is an opport there is an opportunity and I'm confident that WHO will emerge from this situation stronger sharper and more focused on our core mandate more empowered to serve nations and people of the world. But of course who is just one small part of a much bigger picture around the world. The dramatic reductions in aid that I mentioned are having severe impacts on health services in many countries, especially developing countries. We see disruptions affecting millions of people who are missing out on life-saving services and medicines, including vaccines. Health facilities are being forced to close. Supply chains and information systems are disrupted. And out of pocket health spending is on the rise. who is supporting countries to navigate this crisis and sustain health services. But again, in the crisis lies an opportunity. Many leaders and ministers have told me that this crisis can also help them to leave behind the era of a dependency and move towards sustainable self-reliance by mobilizing domestic resources. On the vaccine front, WHO is supporting countries and regions to increase local vaccine production especially in Africa. One of the lessons of the coid9 pandemic was that production of vaccines and other tools was concentrated in too few countries. With the launch of the African vaccine manufacturing accelerator, WH supporting the African Union to reach its target of producing 60% of the continent's vaccines by 2040. In 2021, WHO established the Marina technology transfer program which now sharing technology from its base in South Africa with 15 partner countries globally. In 2023, we also established the WHO bio manufacturing workforce training initiative including global training hub in the Republic of Korea. WH also supports access to vaccines through our pre-qualification program and the advice of the WHO strategic advisory group of experts on immunization. We support strengthening of regulatory systems. Rwanda, Botswana, and Ghana are all on their way to the top level of regulatory robustness, for example. And we are also supporting stronger national and continental institutions, including the African Medicine Agency and the Africa CDC because strengthening the continental institutions could support the continent. At the World Health Assembly last month, the nations of the world made history by adopting the WHO pandemic agreement and having a pandemic agreement in the middle of all this geopolitical tension actually a sign that multilateralism is alive and and well. So good news in the middle of all this crisis and the key element of this agreement, one of the key elements in in this agree is an agreement between nations to ensure equitable access to vaccines in the next pandemic because that was one of the major challenges during COVID and the rapid development of safe and effective vaccines against COVID 19 was a triumph of science. But inequitable access to those vaccines was a collective global failure that cost lives. WHS member states have recognized that in a world divided by politics and ideology do not recognize borders. They don't recognize the the maps we draw. Shared threats need a shared response and that means vaccine equity not for some but for all. Who was founded in 1948 at the world emerged from devastation of the second world war. Like the United Nations of which we are part who was born of the recognition that the only alternative to global conflict was global cooperation. Our constitution was the first instrument of international law to affirm that the highest attainable standard of health is a fundamental right for all people without distinction. A fundamental human right. Not a privilege for some or for most, but it's a right for all. Thank you once again for this great honor which I accept on behalf of our organization WH on behalf of my colleagues pre past and present and thank you for your commitment to promoting providing and protecting health for all and I thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you.