I was just noticing that his excellency Hello and welcome to WHO in Geneva. I'm welcoming you to today's virtual press conference on global health issues. It is Thursday 5th March and we at the headquarters in Geneva. We will specifically talk about global health issues at all, but also including the progress on cervical cancer um cervical cancer elimination and we'll be joined by senior officials from India and South Africa. We'll have updates on the Wjo acceleration plan to stop obesity and of course we will also tackle the health implications of the Middle East conflict. Um for the journalists online, please make sure that you identify yourself clearly. we can will not be able to take questions if you don't put your name and agency clearly into the um into the system and please raise your hand with the raise your hand icon once it's time for question and answers. Now let me go to our panel today. First of all we have uh director general Dr. Tedros Adam Gabrios. Then we'll have uh Dr. Jeremy Farra assistant director general for health promotion and disease prevention and care. We have uh next to the director general Dr. Kate O'Brien, director for immunization, vaccines and biologicals. Um, we will also we also have Ian Clark, the incident manager for WHO's emergencies program. To his side is Dr. Teresa Casaha, director department for HIV, tupagalosis, hepatitis and sexually transmitted infections. On the far other end, we have Dr. L. Deil. She's the head of department of nutrition and food safety. Now we also have three very specific and special guests and I'm very glad to be able to welcome them. We'll have his excellency Jagat Praash Nada, the minister of health uh and family welfare of India. We also have his excellency Dr. Aaron Moto Salidi, the minister of health of South Africa. And we're also very happy to welcome our regional director for the WH Eastern Mediterranean regional office, Dr. Hanaman Balki. Welcome to all of you. And now over to the director general for the opening remarks. Thank you. Thank you, Christian. Good morning, good afternoon, and good evening. And a special welcome to our guests today, His Excellency, Mr. Ada, his excellency Minister Mosuali and our own Ardri Han Beli. You'll be hearing from them in a few moments. Today, WHO is providing an update on three diseases where we are supporting countries to use powerful new tools to prevent disease and save lives. Obesity, HIV and cervical cancer. Yesterday marked World Obesity Day. Obesity is one of the greatest health challenges of our time, but it's a challenge that we have more and more tools to address, including GLP-1 therapies. In December last year, WHO issued our first guideline on the use of GLP-1 therapies for treating obesity in adults. Medication alone will not reverse obesity, but it can help as part of a comprehensive approach that includes healthy diets, regular physical activity, and support from health professionals. The guidelines generated significant global attention and interest from countries who want to integrate GLP-1 therapies into obesity care. WHO is supporting them to do that. And yesterday, colleagues from WHO published a paper in the Lancet Global Health on our work to prepare health systems in 12 countries to strengthen obesity services, including GLP-1 therapies. Through the WHO acceleration plan to stop obesity, we're supporting 34 countries representing 1.3 billion people to reduce obesity prevalence across all age groups by 5% by 2030. Many countries are taking action from taxing sugary drinks to integrating obesity care into primary health care system. WHO calls on countries to scale up the use of all tools to prevent and treat obesity at all ages. One of the other defining public health challenges of the past 50 years is HIV, but it's also one of the defining public health successes. Once a death sentence, HIV can now be controlled with safe and effective medication. As a result, the number of annual AIDS related deaths has dropped by 70% in the past 20 years. In recent years, the same medicines that are used to treat HIV infection have also been used to prevent it in people at risk. Last year, a new medicine was approved for the prevention of HIV, Lenapavir. That's the most important development in addressing HIV since the first anti-rovirals were approved almost 40 years ago. Lakapavir is not a vaccine, but it's the next best thing. A long acting antiov antiretroviral taken once every six months by people who are HIV negative but at risk of infection. In trials, it has been shown to prevent almost all cases of HIV in those at risk. In July last year, WHO published guidelines on the use of Lenapir and in October we pre-qualified it. The WHO stamp of approval that gives the green light to the global fund to buy the medicine and begin shipping it to countries. It's the first time who has developed pre-qualification and guidelines in parallel, not in sequence to speed up equitable access to innovative new tools. In the past eight months, WHO has supported nine countries to roll out Lena Capavir to people at risk of HIV. And these countries are Eswatini, Kenya, Leoto, Mozambi, Nigeria, South Africa, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. In October last year, South Africa's national regulator became the first in Africa to approve Lena Kapavir and only the third globally. In his state of the nation address last month, President Siril Ramaposa said that South Africa is planning a massive roll out of Lenakapir and yesterday South Africa announced that it plans to manufacture Lakapavir locally. One of the challenges we face is that demand is outstripping what countries have ordered from donors who buy Lena from manufacturers. who is working with countries, donors, and manufacturers to meet this demand. Another powerful tool that's changing the face of public health is the HPV vaccine, which together with screening and treatment is giving the world hope of eliminating cervical cancer. Yesterday was HPV awareness day, drawing attention to a family of viruses that are responsible for several cancers, including cervical cancer. In 2018, I issued a global call for action to eliminate cervical cancer, which was followed in 2020 by a global strategy with the 907090 targets. 90% of girls vaccinated, 70% of women screened, and 90% of women with cervical cancer or precancerous lesions treated all by 2030. Since then, nearly 60 countries have introduced HPV vaccination and 162 countries now include the vaccine as part of their national immuniz immunization schedules. Today we're proud to celebrate two countries that are making major progress towards cervical cancer elimination. India and South Africa. Last week, India announced the largest free HPV vaccination campaign in history, targeting almost 12 million girls aged 14 every year. More than 127,000 women in India are diagnosed with cervical cancer annual and about 80,000 women die from the disease. I commend Prime Minister Modi and the government of India for their leadership on this critical issue. To say more, I'm delighted to welcome India's Junior Minister of Health and Family Welfare, Minister JP Nada. Minister, congratulations and thank you for making the time to join us today. And you have the floor. Namaste. Excellency Dr. Aeron, my esteemed colleague, director general of World Health Organization, my esteemed colleague Dr. Tedros, colleagues, friends from media. Good evening and namaskar. It is my pleasure to address the press conference on an important theme of elimination of cervical cancer along with other pressing global health issues. I represent a nation where health and dignity of every woman is not just a policy aspiration but a solemn national commitment. Today I would like to share with you the landmark measures India has taken in its relentless fight against the devastating yet preventable cancer cervical cancer. Cervical cancer remains a formidable public health challenge both globally and in India also recognizing the gravity of this issue, India has committed itself to a comprehensive strategy aimed at reducing the burden of cervical cancer. Three. These strategies include first screening for the cervical cancer is now available at 181,000 Aayush Man Aroganders which we also call as health and wellness centers across the country as a part of population-based screening for early detection and treatment. Over 86 million women have been screened under this initiative. Besides state-of-the-art hospitals in the country, establishment of daycare centers has taken cancer near to home for citizens. This platform provides me an opportunity to share with you a milestone that marks the chapter of India's first against cervical cancer and that is on 28th February 2026, honorable prime minister Shri Narendra Modi GI launched the nationwide HPV vaccination campaign targeting 12 million eligible girls aged 14 years. India has joined the community of 160 countries in global fight against the cervical cancer. This vaccination campaign is being carried out over 90 days and follows a single dose schedule as recommended schedule as recommended by World Health Organization and the national technical advisory group of immunization. The vaccine is provided free of charge at designated government health facilities, Aayish man, arrogant, community health centers, subdistrict hospitals, district hospitals and government menrical colleges and hospitals in the presence of a dedicated medical officer for management of adverse events following immunization if any. After the campaign, HPV vaccine will be fully integrated into India's universal immunization program and continued at the government health facilities during routine routine immunization days. Leveraging digital technology, government of India has developed a digital human platform which captures captures end to end records of all vaccinations under universal immunization program which provides for administration of 11 vaccines for 12 vaccinereventable diseases to all eligible children and women of the in the country. HPV vaccinations will be recorded on UIN platform and vaccine stocks and logistics will be managed and monitored through event system. The HPV vaccination is entirely voluntary and parental consent is a must to align with the community value systems. Transparency and countering misinformation and overcoming hesitancy by underscoring the long-term benefits of the youth of the country is another key component of this campaign. However, we need to remember that vaccination alone will not suffice to eliminate cervical cancer. Screening and awareness must continue. So a comprehensive strategy integrating vaccination, screening and timely treatment offers the most efficacious path forward. By aligning our national efforts with global cervical cancer elimination goals, we are not just providing medical intervention. We are securing the core resilience of our society. Together, let us protect our f future generations, uphold the dignity of our women and succeed in our fight against cval cancer. Thank you very much for giving me a patient hearing. Thank you. >> Thank you. Thank you, Minister Nada, and once again for your leadership and and time and who looks forward to supporting you on this journey. Now to South Africa. I referred earlier to President Ramapod's state of the nation address last month in which he announced plans for a massive roll out of Lakapabir. In the same speech, he also committed to ensuring every girl between 9 and 14 receives an HPV vaccine. WHO is supporting South Africa to develop a comprehensive national strategy for cervical cancer elimination. to say more. I'm delighted to welcome South Africa's Minister of Health, Minister Aron Mashedi. Dr. Mashedi, thank you for making time to join us today and you have the floor. Yes. Uh good day, excellency, the director general of the World Health Organization, Dr. Tetroscaprias, my colleague, the Minister of Health from India. Excellencies and ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this opportunity. Cvical cancer is prevented pre preventable through the vaccination of girls between the ages of 9 and 15 years preferably prior to sexual deb. It is also curable if detected early. Yet, it remains the leading cause of cancer death among South African women with over 11,000 cases and nearly 6,000 deaths annually. Given such a high rate of mortality and mobility, South Africa will strengthen and accelerate the implementation of the strategy for the elimination of cervical cancer for South Africa. As the director general has already said, the president of the Republic of South Africa, his excellency Mr. Rama has elevated this program as highlighted in the state of the nation address when he start stated South Africa will achieve this noble objective of eliminating cvical cancer in in the next few weeks to come. We will officially launch a campaign to for elimination of cervical cancer using the global strategy adopted by the world health organization with a target of 90 in South Africa. I used to mention that we are already very lucky noting the severity of this disease. We started as far back as 201 to vaccinate young girls for HPV and between the ages of 9 and 15 at schools throughout the Republic of South Africa. We have up to so far reached uh 6 million school girls. We are very grateful for the report or the conclusion of the WH that uh one dose is enough because we're giving every we're giving two doses every year since 2014. One in September uh one in February and the the the second one in October every year. We are very grateful to start the one dose vaccination campaign because of shortage of money. We were only targeting public schools in the republic. We have taken a decision that now will go to even private schools and independent schools to reach more girls h because now we have got more doses. So we we have already started in our TV uh in TV adverts around the country to announce our decision for the campaign to eliminate cervical cancer. Now when we launch this program we are going to put emphasis on the middle 70 and the last 90 which we know are very difficult. That's why we are going to put a lot of focus on uh the first 90 to make sure that we reach as many young girls as possible. We are so serious about this program that we've decided that the launch must be headed by the president himself. In other words, it's no longer the minister of health who is going to launch this campaign to end cervical cancer. It will be the president himself. So we are just waiting for a suitable date uh from the president. That's why I'm saying in the next few coming weeks we'll be launching the campaign. We'll very much appreciate the the help and support of WH. Thank you very much. >> Thank you. Thank you Minister Mashi. >> And unfortunately DG unfortunately my apologies. I am today chairing a very important meeting uh of the the the the all the nine healthcs or provincial ministers of health in our province together with South African local government association and South African military health services. It is a statutory meeting for the country and so I'll be asking to be released because I have just asked to be excused for a short time to come and attend this press conference. If you agree uh DG may I be released now or if there are any questions which we need to answer we'll answer them but I will leave my my advisor Dr. looking in to answer any questions. DG if you agree. >> Thank you. Thank you. I know your busy schedule. We're actually very grateful that you joined us dur despite your busy schedule. So, thank you so much and I think Dr. Nono can address the questions if uh there are questions to ask. But we're we're very grateful and congratulations for your progress on cervical cancer and we are here to support you and you have our our full support and the same also to Minister Nada to India congratulations like South Africa for your progress and uh we assure you that you have our our full support but we're very happy that progress is happening in the elimination of cervical ical cancer which is a very important uh initiative that we started together as you remember some years ago. So thank you so much again. Um so I appreciate your leadership again um your excellencies. Uh thank you so much for joining us to both Minister Nada and Minister Mashi. Uh, finally, who is deeply concerned about the conflict in the Islamic Republic of Iran and the Middle East with 16 countries affected. So far, almost 1,000 deaths have been reported in Iran, 15 in Lebanon, 13 in Israel, and 11 in other Gulf countries. In addition, WHO has verified 13 certain attacks on health care in Iran and one in Lebanon. Under international humanitarian law, health care must be protected and not attacked. The conflict is also causing significant displacement. So far, an estimated 100,000 people have left Iran. And in Lebanon, more than 60,000 people have been displaced and at least 1 million people may be on the move following evacuation orders in the south. The threat of nuclear facilities being impacted is also concerning. Any compromise to nuclear safety could have serious public health consequences. who is working closely with our offices in the affected countries to monitor the impact on the delivery of health services and provide support when needed and requested. But the impact goes beyond the immediately affected countries. Operations at WHS logistics hub for global health emergencies in Dubai are currently on hold due to insecurity. to say more. I'm pleased to welcome who regional director for the Eastern Mediterranean, Dr. Han Buli. Dr. Buli, thank you for joining us at this difficult time for the region and you have the floor. >> Thank you very much. Um, can you hear me? Dear Director General, dear Excellencies, Ministers of Health, and dear colleagues, the situation across the Eastern Mediterranean is indeed escalating rapidly with serious consequences for civilians and health systems. Across the region, more than 1,000 people have reportedly been killed and 7,000 injured. One of our most serious concerns is attacks is attacks on healthcare. In the past week, WH has verified 13 attacks on health care in the Islamic Republic of Iran and one in Lebanon. In Lebanon, evacuation orders have forced the closure of 43 primary health care centers and two hospitals. Violence has also affected the first responders with paramedics killed and injured at all times and in all places. Health workers, patients, and health facilities must be protected even in war. Last year, WH's Global Health Emergencies logistic hub in Dubai fulfilled more than 500 emergency orders for 75 countries across all six WH regions. However, humanitarian health supply chains are now being jeopardized. the hub's operations and are temporarily on hold due to insecurity, airspace closures and restrictions affecting access to the strait of Hermus. This disruption is preventing access to $18 million US in humanitarian health supplies while another 8 million US in shipments cannot reach the hub. More than 50 emergency supply requests from 25 countries are currently affected and six million US dollars in medicines fora and 1.6 million US in polio laboratory supplies are also held up. Half of global humanitarian needs are concentrated in the eastern Mediterranean region. We are coordinating the health response across affected countries, supporting ministries of health and partners to sustain essential services as well as strengthening disease surveillance and preparing for potential mass casualties and displacements. WHO is also prepositioning trauma supplies and essential medicines, supporting countries to maintain critical public health functions, as well as scaling readiness for chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear risks. Yet, our emergency operations across the region currently face a 70% funding gap. Without urgent financial support, essential services will seize and preventable suffering will deepen. However, WH remains committed to doing all we can for the people of this region and all regions of the WHO. Thank you very much. And back over to you, Dr. Tedros. >> Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Belhi, and thank you for your leadership at this critical time. As always, the best medicine is peace. And Christian, back to you. >> Thank you very much, Dr. Tedros and honorable min ministers as well as our regional director. Um, I think you understood that minister um Matsuri and also minister Nada will both not be available for question and answers and we thank them for their contribution. Now we're ready for your questions. And I understand the first question is from Associated Press, Jamie Keaton. Jamie, please go ahead and unmute. >> Thank you, Christian. Um, and nice to see you all again. My question is for Dr. Bali. Thank you so much for coming to see us. Um, it's so good to see you again. Um, you mentioned the, uh, 13 attacks on health care um, in Iran and one in Lebanon. I was wondering if you could give us a little bit more detail as to what those involved and um and what you you did also mention the uh disruption in preventing access. What particular concerns do you have about the provision of health care in Iran specifically right now because of the uh the the violence that's happening there? Thank you. >> Yeah, thank you very much Jamie. Let me look at our regional director Dr. Balki or the regional emergency director. Let me see. >> Yes, thank you very much. I'm happy to to take this question. Of course, the uh the um attacks on the healthcare in Iran um since 28th of February and according to um the head of national emergency management organization. Uh there's four health worker health care workers that have been killed. 25 health workers have been injured and four ambulances have also been damaged. 11 hospitals and pre uh six prehosp emergency posts were affected in the past five days. So most of the health facilities uh uh is due to their proximity to these target sites. No structural damage has been reported only m minor damages. uh when we talk about the health care uh system provision and the support that we provide to our member states in such a situation, we are there we have an office a country office present uh in Iran uh with uh staffing uh at the moment and I think that uh we have not received formal requests for any specific supplies as their uh system is withholding and withstanding the current situation. However, we remain in close communication and contact with the health care authorities in Iran and in all of the affected member states uh within this region to provide the support that is needed. >> Thank you very much Dr. Valky. Next question goes to Emma Farge from Reuters. Emma, please go ahead and unmute. >> Yes, good afternoon. Um I was wondering if you could say more about the disruptions to uh supply chains. Uh you mentioned your Dubai humanitarian hub. Can you say who those supplies were destined for in what places of the world and um what needs are they catering for which diseases or um which injuries? Thank you. Thank you very much Emma. Dr. Buggy, you want to go ahead? >> So many of the uh I'll give this to Dr. Annette in a minute, but many of the u the supply chains that goes through the Dubai hub are emergency kits and non-communicable disease kits, but also many other uh consumables for the health care systems within the region and also within other regions of the WH. The emergency kits that usually uh are exported out of the Dubai hub are pre-placed in many of the countries facing emergencies and conflict. They are um supplies that can last for 3 months to support 10,000 individuals and they include the necessities of any health care system in a in that are needed in a case of conflict. Some of the commodities also are important to go to countries that are in need of uh the polio diagnostics and kitsu and and so on. And those are because also our uh region is still uh including two member states that have uh endemic polio or wild polio in Afghanistan and Pakistan. And the delays in the delivery of these kind of uh necessities to our member states will definitely have an impact on our ability to respond and address the issue of polomiitis but also not only in the two endemic countries but also in other countries uh in in this situation. Some of the kits that also flow into the Dubai hub and out into the member states are non-communicable diseases uh kits that support the health care systems in addressing and managing the commodities that are necessary for managing diseases such as hypertension, diabetes and chronic diseases. I don't know if Annette would like to add anything to that or no. >> Thank you very much. Thank you very much uh to the regional director. Um next question goes to Stefan Bus from Luton. Stefan, please unmute. >> Yes. Hello. Thank you for for this briefing. Uh I have two questions. The first is after the reforms and the austerity measures that WHO uh has taken, what signals, Dr. Tedros do you have from member states uh as far as WH is it still perceived as a key multilateral organization? That's my first question and the second is uh we have in Geneva a global health ecosystem with Gavi uh global fund and WH uh and how important is even though it has been weakened how important is this ecosystem for WH? Thank you. Thank you very much. Um, are you referring Stefan to the Middle East conflict now or in the the more global context just to get >> more global context? Yeah. Thank you. >> So, I'm not sure we have anyone today who wants to jump in on this or do you have Dr. Jeremy Farah? Okay. Dr. Jeremy Farra, assistant director general for health promotion disease and prevention care. Thank you. >> Yeah, thank thanks Stephan. I think we spoke recently on a similar issue, Zephan, and and uh actually I just have come from a member state consultation around uh global health ecosystems and I have to say the uh enthusiasm that was there and the commitment to continuing to work together in multilateralism was palpable and very strong and we had also at that member state consultation um some really constructive interventions from the the organizations you you name Gary Global Fund, UNICEF and and many others for which We're incredibly grateful. Um, everyone knows there's a lot of discussions going on at the moment about the ecosystem. Uh, who has a mandate from our member states to host uh a gen inclusive and uh diverse consultation um on this over the course of the next eight weeks leading up to WHA and uh um have to say I'm very enthused by the uh consultation we just had. >> Thank you very much for this. Um, we move on to Elaine Fletcher from Health Policy Watch. Elaine, please go ahead. >> Hi, thanks for taking my question. Uh, you mentioned the attacks on health care in the region since the 28th of February. I'm just wondering, has the WHO done any tracking of the uh alleged attacks on health workers during the mass Iranian protests in late December and January when according to many reports uh regime forces were entering hospitals attacking and even arresting and killing both doctors and patients. And secondly, >> can you hear me? Is it okay? And secondly, just uh during the current war, there's also reports that the um regime has stationed itself in some hospitals and schools. Have you got any information on that or any comment? >> Thank you. >> Thank you, Elaine. And I guess we'll look at maybe at the regional emergencies director, Dr. Hanselman or Dr. Bi. >> But can she repeat the second question because we didn't hear her second question, please? Um if I understood well it's whether any uh any forces have established themselves inside hospitals whether there's anything on upuse of medical facilities for military purposes >> I've seen you can >> yeah over to you can >> yeah thank you very much for the question so during the events you are alluding to We um we were able so the situation was uh uh quite difficult. However, we were able to verify some of of the incidents and they are uh the information is available on on the dashboards on attacks on healthcare. Uh with regards to the second question on this, we do not have uh information and um we we cannot uh uh confirm these uh these events. So thank you. >> Thank you very much. Um next question goes to Richard Horton from the Lancet. Richard, please go ahead and unmute. Hello there. Thank you very much indeed. Um, a question to Dr. Bali, please. You mentioned that you're mobilizing support for the Ministry of Health, Ministries of Health, uh, in the region, um, disease surveillance and also preparing for mass casualty events, scaling readiness. Could you just give a little bit more detail about your plans for supporting ministers of health dis disease surveillance and scaling readiness for mass casualty events. Thank you. >> Thank you. Thank you Richard and great to to hear from you. Of course this work does not start during this current conflict. I think as I mentioned the WHO has offices in all of the 20 actually 21 out of the 22 member states. The only country that has a desk uh office is the UAE, United Arab Emirates. Otherwise, we have country offices in all of the 21 of the 22 member states of the Eastern Mediterranean region. the work that the emergency program and Annette can elaborate maybe a little bit after my intervention is that we work with our member states um uh depending on their health care system and their situation on preparedness uh and response as well. So during the peace time prior to all of these conflicts happening uh or these most recent escalations there's there has been already a communication on understanding the health care system of the country uh making sure that their supply chains are uh intact. I can give you an example in in Lebanon. We have been in a way lucky because before the current escalations that is even um escalating this morning from the previous uh warnings that we had, we had pre-placed some of these emergency kits in Lebanon and they are serving us very well at the moment. we do in preparing the member states for such uh conflicts and also for natural disasters which also happen in this region to pre-place these emergency kits. Number two is that one of the u several priority um activities that take place in the emergency countries is to establish a surveillance system. If they don't have one then the emergency teams and we do have e team heads or from for emergency in each of the countries. So apart from the head of the office we have uh an emergency team lead that works uh very closely with uh the uh ministry of health and if they do have a functional public health authority they would be working with them. If they do not then uh specific ewire systems are established to help detect um uh emerging and re-emerging pathogens because the biggest worry is when these conflicts take place then the health care system will be affected but not only that the infrastructure of the country will be or the cities the communities will be affected. The potential of contamination of water, emergence of communicable diseases can create risks of outbreaks of common diseases and and even some of the rare diseases as we seen in Raza when polio reemerged. So uh these are some of the basic uh work that we do as well as uh making sure that we are able to verify and the health care system maybe to um to verify a little bit of that. We do not verify the casualties ourselves uh or alone. We do that in support of the national authorities and other uh humanitarian partners on the ground and as Annette said uh that is published on the website now. So a lot of the work is done prior to the conflict. During the conflict then we have to work with other partners and again with what we have existing. Uh there are times uh and that's why we're very much hoping for this conflict to stop uh sooner than later because we worry that the supply chains will be uh will be further uh strained and we will be losing the capacity to provide the help that is being provided at the moment. Uh there's another concern that worries us a lot is the displaced populations that are taking place. Uh it's already taking place in Lebanon. we and in uh and Iran people are being displaced as well and that also puts pressure on uh already for example in Lebanon on already fragile health care systems um that may not be able to accommodate. So we expect that these conflicts will lead to more hardship uh and more pressure on the healthcare facilities. >> I don't know if Annette you want to add anything. Thank you and back over to you if if there's further elaboration I'm happy to do so. >> Thank you very much Dr. Balky and we'll go to Ian Clark incident manager for the >> Thanks. So so maybe just um the Dr. Bi mentioned Lebanon but maybe just to say you know to expand on that. I mean I I was there as the deputy incident manager um supporting the country office and and really considerable work was done prior to the the the incident when the pages all exploded. Um, a lot of work was done around trauma training uh as as the RD mentioned around prepositioning, but then also, you know, specifically for for triage at at all of the main uh centers and hospitals. So, you know, this really paid off in terms of the the actual impact of the response. We saw, you know, how the Ministry of Health and the hospitals were able to to manage those sudden influxes of m mass casualties. uh and and of course that's going to be critical now as as we go forward in in managing the the health situation uh in in Lebanon. But that that's not just for Lebanon. That's just a case example of of of some of the work that was done that the AD had mentioned. Thank you. >> And thank you Ian Clark. Um next question goes to Cristiana Eric from the DPA. Cristiana, please go ahead. >> Uh thank you Christian. My question is also to Dr. Bal key uh and it's on the Dubai hub. I don't know whether you mentioned it when I didn't hear it or maybe you didn't mention it. How many people are actually impacted uh because supplies cannot be delivered from the hub? And what is WH's plan B if this hub is not available for the near future? because there are no guarantees that Dubai will become uh functionable again in the next two weeks or so. Thank you. >> Thank you very much. I think uh we'll have Annette answer that and then maybe I can come in or Ian over. >> Thank you very much. Um so the impact uh in terms of population is difficult to to estimate right now because it will depend in the end uh on the question how quickly the hub is functional again but uh however we have uh um uh alternative plans. So uh currently uh we are working in close coordination with the authorities in Dubai also with global and regional partners and with WFP and UNICEF to look for other solutions. So there are potential solutions to um uh provide supplies through land routes which we are currently assessing instead of uh air transport or uh shipments. Um there we are also assessing uh the possibility to work through our other WH or other logistic hubs notably in Nairobi and in Bindesy uh which are close to to the region but also uh we are working together with our logistic hub in Dhaka uh to look into alternative shipment uh routes and also there is a uh the potential of uh local um local uh um supply sources which we can then use and have shipments through land routes uh to the different country. For sure there are some countries where there are um higher administrative and logistic barriers to address than in others. For example, access to for example Afghanistan is uh highly complex. However, we are looking into very very um uh viable solutions in the coming days or in the coming week uh for for some affected countries in the region. Thank you. >> Thank you very much uh Dr. Hanselman. And just to clarify, this is this was Dr. Anetta Henselman. She's the regional emergencies director for the Eastern Mediterranean region. Next, next question goes to Hang on um to SABC. That's Sandil Mesa from the South African SABC. Sandle, please go ahead and unmute. >> Um thank you very much. Am I audible? >> Very well. Thank you. Um my question is uh regards to the cervical cancer progress in South Africa. Um the HPV vaccination program in schools. I'd like to find out what has been the community engagement um with parents and um community members particularly around um health literacy around the importance of uh HPV vaccinations. We've seen in the past there's been vaccine hesitancy and um I'm just trying to get a sense of how informed and what has been the community engagement parent and guardian um as well as learner engagement around this program that will be um that will be launched on cervical cancer and HPV vaccinations in schools. Thank you. >> Thank you very much Sandid. I understand we still have on online Dr. Nono Simila. She's adviser to the minister of health in South Africa as advised before. Uh if you're there, please go ahead. >> Thank you. Thank you very much for the question. Um I want to highlight that the South African HPV vaccination program already started in 2014. So engagement with the communities has been quite intense es especially through the school governing bodies as well as the parents. It must be noted that um parents have to give consent for the vaccination and school health nurses then um administer the vaccine to the learners. Um the community engagement has also included um girls out of school who also have a challenge because most of them do not have parents who can give consent and some of the nurses have given us feedback that they just uh join the queue because they don't want to be left behind by their peers and it's quite difficult to refuse to give such young girls the vaccination. But we are continuing our efforts. We've found that information and um engagement is going to be quite challenging in the older population once we start intensive screening and testing. And I say that because of the uh co-infection between HPV and HIV and we are already working on communications material as well as um planning community engagements targeting the older women um because we've done quite well with the younger generation in this regard. Thank you. >> Thank you very much Dr. Nono. Um and let's see we go to Dr. Kobine direct immunization vaccines and biologicals. Please >> just wanted to add a couple of comments on uh the uh importance that you're now seeing at a country level um with respect to the one dose schedule. This is a a schedule as you know that HPV vaccine can also be given in a twod dose schedule and uh country after country is seeing the benefit of switching to a one dose schedule. it makes the the way of administering a vaccine so much easier that it's one time um and uh and there's protection for those who are receiving the vaccine. So in South Africa and in India, the really clear examples that you've just seen today, um powerful stories from um both ministers around the just the ability to roll out this program protect so many more girls. And we have some estimates that as a result of countries switching to the one dose schedule, something in excess of 30 million additional girls have been able to be vaccinated just because of a switch in schedule. So as countries continue to roll out the vaccine, I think we see more and more that um that this this uh the evidence that has supported um the benefit and the equivalence of a one dose schedule has really driven um the impact of the vaccine and protecting so many more uh young girls as they u move into their adult years and and protecting them from such a deadly disease. Thanks. Thank you very much both. Thank you very much Kate. The next question goes to Rory O'Neal from Political Rory. Please go ahead. >> Thanks very much. Um hello. My question is for Dr. Balky. Uh Dr. Balky, could you please tell us a bit more if you can about the humanitarian situation in Gaza and how the regional conflict is uh impacting on Gaza? Um, Israel is of course again closed to Africa crossing, but it says that decision won't affect the humanitarian situation in Gaza because they say there's already enough supply there. Um, is that accurate? And how does it compare with who's assessment of the supplies there? And, uh, yeah, if you could flag to us any other ways in which the conflict could um, uh, could affect people of Gaza, that would be great. Thank you very much. Yeah, thank you very much, Rory. And yeah, let's go to Dr. Baki. >> Thank you. Thank you very much. Um, I think of course the situation in in Gaza and I I think our director general has also spoken about this a lot. The um the peace process that took place was very fragile and the amount of humanitarian aid going in was really not uh and is not enough. there there's huge destruction in Gaza that will require a huge huge lift uh and a huge amount of supplies uh that need to go in. Um we uh at the beginning of this conflict a few days back the corridors were closed again and now on the third they have partially opened. So we're still again facing a situation where there is uh really not enough of humanitarian aid going in and we still do not have enough of the needed patients to leave Gaza to seek uh medical care outside. So the situation in Gaza is extremely fragile. We do hope that again the situation in the whole region slows down uh or stops and we reach a full peace in the region so that we can start rehabilitating all of these uh communities, cities, people, health care workers, health care facilities. There's a huge lift that needs to take place uh in Raza and also in now many of the countries of the eastern Mediterranean region. So the s the the situation is very fragile. The current situation and with the Dubai hub uh being impacted uh with the ability of the humanitarian aid to support what is needed in the other countries as well will take away for sure from the support needed for the people in Gaza. That's something that we also need to pay attention to and keep an eye on. Um uh and that's why I emphasized at the end of my statement the need for the humanitarian aid to support uh uh the the people of this region in in a more um structured and fashioned way. I think um the second again I did uh can you repeat the second part of his of the question because I didn't get it. >> I must admit I'm also not sure anymore. Rory in case come in again. >> If I didn't ask it, maybe he can ask it again. Apologies. >> That's okay. Yeah, the second part of my question was uh uh I I think you've already addressed it to be honest, but it was just whether um Israel's statement that there was enough humanitarian aid already in Gaza um to see a true a period of restricted supply um was accurate, but um I think you started to address that already. Thank you. Thank you. >> Right. Thank you both. Um, next question goes to Isabel Sako from FA. Isabelle, please go ahead. >> I was Isabelle. Sorry, we first have director general just add on. Sorry, I missed him. No. >> Uh, anyway, thank you. Yeah, sorry for confusing. on on the Gaz I just would like to add especially the second question with some figures uh of course the ceasefire is welcome uh but the improvement since the the ceasefire is actually marginal if I give you some figures we need 600 tracks to cross into Gaza every single day but currently it's not more than 100 between 100 and 150 And some of those tracks are actually commercial and many can't afford. So commercial doesn't really uh help in humanitarian services. So the progress is marginal. Uh that means since we have identified the situation in Gaza as catastrophic, it's still catastrophic. That's what I would like to underline. Uh and that's actually combined with a collaped health collapsed health system. Um, as you know, most of the uh health facilities are destroyed and those that are standing only function partially. Uh and then on top of that as as you know we need to um u eva provide medical evacuation to more than 18,000 they're still waiting. Um there was good progress but with the rest and as Hannan indicated with the recent closure of the corridors that was interrupted still interrupted by the way uh but even if it's reopened now there is a discussion uh that it will be reopened soon medak to east Jerusalem and West Bank could help um which is not yet uh allowed or permission has not been granted but that would have helped in medical evacuation to a nearby facilities in East Jerusalem and West Bank and like to use this opportunity actually to ask Israel uh to allow us to take patients to is Jerusalem and west west uh bank and then of course before the renewed conflict now um Rafa was being used for medical evacuation. Uh but opening all corridors for humanitarian will be very important because uh even after the ceasefire um Rafa crossing has not started uh you know um the support with humanitarian uh shipments. So that that would would increase the number of uh tracks if uh uh permitted. Then of course there are added problems like it's winter now and we had already documented deaths in kids because of um winter and you know there there are other problems as well that still affecting the population. So, um, with that, Christian, back to you. Thank you very much, Dr. Tedros. Um, hands up, hands up for everybody. We still have about five hands up and on the list. Let's see to how many we still get. Next one is, as I just mentioned, Isabel Sako from F. Isabelle, please go ahead. >> Yes. Hello. Thank you. Um it's related to the figures that um the director for Middle East had mentioned h but because for me it this much from the she mentioned 13 attacks on healthcare but uh four house worker dead killed 25 injured four ambulances attacked or damaged. So I would like just to know exactly if when she mentioned these health care workers injured or killed or the ambulances um if how many of them um were killed while they were working on duty in the in any medical facility, you know, and how it relates to attacks. erh or damages to hospital or any other medical facility um to be because I suppose some of them were killed while they were at home or in transit on the streets or somewhere else. So if I don't know if I I explain myself well but it's just to to be clear on the on the figures and if she can confirm that all working sorry all hospitals and medical fac important medical facilities in Iran are still functioning. Thank you. >> So Bill it was a bit broken but I I I get that we need a clarification on what it qualifies as attack on health. When does a killed health worker be qualified as killed at this in the situation or as a as a private individual? >> Let me first look at uh Anette Hanselman maybe regional emergency director or then maybe here in the room at and Ian Clark. Exactly. And anything to add from your end? >> Yeah, let me take that first shot at it and then maybe Ian can describe the process. I think what we actually have what I reported and uh I understand where the confusion could happen. So we have uh there's lots of inputs in in such conflict. So the the countries can report media can report but what I had reported on when I said from uh 28th of February that was reports uh by the national authorities then the WH depending on the current capacity depending on the the the the severity of the conflict is capable at certain times of any conflict and that's what happened here can verify none of them some of them or all of them. So the first part of the numbers what is what the ministry of health or the authorities had reported and then when I say who has verified the 13 attacks on the health care uh that is what we in Iran and then one in in Lebanon. Uh I think the the situation is currently uh continuous and escalating and these numbers will continue to vary from from day to day based on the capacity and based on the information that comes from the national health authorities but also from the capacity and the ability for the WHO to verify some of these uh traumas and and injuries. So um the uh on your second part of the question is uh do the healthc care facilities still stand still in uh or stand functional in Iran? And as I had mentioned earlier the uh the WH has an office in and sub and several sub offices in Iran and we are always providing uh support in the areas that we have mentioned. uh but right now it seems that the uh Iran has a a strong and robust primary health care system and there doesn't seem to be significant or anything that I'm aware of and maybe Annette would want to add on any significant um u damage or infrastructure collapse uh similar to what we're seeing for example in Gaza. So they have not uh reached any point which is good for the uh ability to respond to this current conflict. So I hope this addresses your uh your query and I don't know if uh Annette or in Geneva Ian wants to add anything. I don't know. Ian might be on stool. Ian, would you like to to answer on the on the system of attacks on healthcare? How >> Yeah, thank you very much, Kyro. We'll have Ian Clark answer this one. Yeah, thank you. Thanks. So, so maybe just to to follow up from uh from from from what the RD was saying. So, in the case of um Iran, there are 13 verified attacks. Uh she mentioned also we've had reports of four CA four deaths and 25 um casualties. Those are still in process of being verified and and if they are verified they will be added to the system. In Lebanon there is one attack uh and that has been verified and that attack resulted in the death of three paramedics and six additional paramedics were injured whilst they were evacuating a injured person. So very much on duty. Now I I I think the definition of what counts as an attack, you know, if a paramedic is or a doctor is at home in their apartment and their apartment gets hit and that person is killed whilst they weren't on duty, it is removed somebody from the health system. So it will have an impact on the the health system. However, in terms of the the the SSA guidance, the the the that the WHO uses for verifying, we used the process of of staff who are on duty. But I think it's important to note that any attack on on health care regardless of whether an individual was working or not, it will have an impact on the ability to provide health care to the uh the population. Thank you. >> Thank you much, Ian. And thanks both of you. Um, next question goes to Nina Larson from AFP. Nina, please go ahead. >> Yes. Hi, thank you very much for the briefing and foring my question. So, I had just a couple um I needed to clarify on the issue of the logistics hub in Dubai. Um, I couldn't quite tell if you were saying that the value of the humanitarian health supplies that you currently can access was 80 or 18. So million. Um it would be good if you could clarify that. And then um I was wondering if efforts are underway to switch to overland routes um or if you're trying to negotiate corridors um uh in connection with this to try to to get the aid out. Um and finally just I was wondering if you could say a little bit more about the the concerns around uh the threats uh of attacks on um on nuclear facilities or the healthc care risks connected with that. Thank you. >> Thank you very much Nina for the first two question or maybe for the all three. Let's just again start with Cairo. >> Thank you so much. I think yes the disruption in pre in u the disruption is preventing the access to 1818 million in humanitarian health supplies and 8 million US in shipments that cannot reach the hub. So I hope that that is is clear. Um on the corridors as we have said and as Annette said of course we have immediately and with our colleagues in HQ this is a definitely a three-level what we call the three-level response and immediately uh alternatives first of all negotiations and discussions uh with the authorities in uh in the UAE on how to continue to use the hub to to the best of of of their ability in in allowing us to do so. is those negotiations have been ongoing. uh coordinating with the UAE authorities is the first thing and also uh global and regional partners as we have mentioned with the WFP and UNICEF and other logistics hub which we have in Nairobi uh Dakar and Brendisi to establish other routes also there will continue to be as long as this gets escalated we need to be even discussing further which is which is also ongoing all types of potential uh road roots or ground routes uh potentially through the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia um either going west going west or north. Um but again, we do hope that we won't need to to do so. Um, and I think that the the Dubai hub is an an extremely important lifeline for the humanitarian response and and attacking the uh airport or the airport of uh Dubai being affected uh and the uh airspace being uh affected in this conflict uh will create a huge impact on the humanitarian response. >> Yeah, thank you very much. Um, Dr. Balky, I I'm just checking if we have our expert for for nuclear risk uh on board. >> Dr. Janat, anything to add there? >> Yes. Yes, I'm here. Chris, >> thank you very much. So anything you could ask other on the question of the nuclear risk situation? >> Yes, of course. Thank you for the question. Um it is understandable that there is a concern about the nuclear risks when there is a military conflict in the areas where there are nuclear facilities or nuclear fuel cycle facilities. And uh in this regard, WHO has been working with u our member states health authorities and helping them uh in terms of preparedness and capacity building for many years. WHO has been conducting training exercises and providing evidence-based guidelines, protocols for public health intervention, for medical counter measures for managing mental health impact of nuclear emergencies. So there is has been a lot of work done already as regard with this specific situation. We are in close contact with international atomic energy agency which has a mandate and expertise for verifying and assessing the level of radiation exposure. In terms of human health risk, we need to have this information about the severity of uh the event about the level of radiation and obviously since we do not have yet and hopefully it will remain this way hasn't been a verified confirmed nuclear incident so far. So we cannot really speak and speculate about health uh risks in this case. uh we are working with our global expert network also for many years. We are engaging with them. Uh we are fully prepared to uh respond in case it's necessary. Thank you. >> Thank you very much. And this was Dr. Jad Kayva, scientists here at our nuclear health risk uh unit. Thank you. We have time for one more question. That's the last one we will be able to take and that's uh John Lambert for NPR. John, please go ahead and unmute. >> Uh hi, thank you for taking my question. Um I wonder if WHO has any comment on a couple of actions that US health agencies have taken in recent days. Um the first is the US delaying the Paho meeting that was set for April to determine the measles elimination status for the US. that meeting seems to have put it seems to have been pushed back to November. Um and then the second uh is the US issuing a travel advisory to for 32 countries because of uh polio. Thank you. >> Thank you very much John. We may go to Dr. Kate O'Brien please. >> Yeah thanks for the question. And just um for those who are not so familiar, every region has a regional verification committee for measles elimination um and for assessing reubella elimination. Uh and the America's region is is no different. There is a Paho regional verification committee. Those uh verification committees generally meet on a once a year basis on a regular schedule. um and on some for some committees they um operate a little bit differently and they may meet additionally for ad hoc purposes. So uh the uh the uh America's regional verification committee has um uh decided that they will meet through their regular annual meeting to review the status of measles elimination in the in the Americas region and that meeting normally takes place um in the fourth quarter of the year. So that's when uh the review of the evidence will take place by that committee uh to determine um focusing really on countries that um have or may have more than 12 months of circulation of uh measles in the country to determine whether they retain or don't retain their elimination status. Um the second reason for um not having uh a meeting uh earlier in the year is that uh it's really important that all of the data, all of the evidence, all of the analysis has been done and scrupulously done and adequately done so that the external committee members can have the information that they need in order to make those uh determinations. So that's the reason we understand why the um the committee has decided that they'll uh review these data from uh um at their annual meeting uh at in the fourth quarter of of 2026. Um the second question was around a travel advisory from the US regarding polio. I'm not familiar with the recent travel advisory. But I would like to say a couple of things about polio um because polio as uh is well understood um is a disease that the world is trying to eradicate and um that decision by all of the member states to pursue eradication um was made in in 1988 and uh enormous success has been made towards that goal um with a 99% reduction in paralytic polio cases. But the main point is that we're not there yet and there remain um uh you know uh many cases of polio. In 2025 alone there were more than 230 paralytic cases of polio in different countries around the world over 20 countries. And so it means that until we reach eradication until the world achieves eradication every country children in every country remain at risk. And the reason is that polio is a virus that um is transmitted from person to person. Um and it can um cause disease in anybody who is not immune to polio. And the way to become immune to polio is through vaccination. And the coverage of vaccination is under threat in too many countries. And so there are gaps in the immunity that people have. And the polio virus does spread um in water. It's found in environmental samples. So in in water samples that are not clean water um and in sewage samples. And so I think the important point here is that um polio is found and can be found anywhere um where there is insufficient immunity. Um, you can certainly see on our website the countries that have environmental samples, which means that this virus is in is somewhere in the community and it's being picked up in those in those sewage samples. Um, so can't emphasize enough that this recovery of immunization programs around the world from the setbacks from from COVID are still ongoing. um and anywhere in any country where there are pockets of of underimmunization mean that those children um are at risk of paralytic disease should they encounter the polio virus. >> Thank you very much Dr. Kate O'Brien. I think that was the last question we had time for. Let's thank you all very much. We had a very long briefing today and I thank you all for your for your patience and your time and all the experts and ministers who joined us today and our regional director Dr. Hanam Balki. Um we'll be sending the files and the transcript from Dr. Tedra's speech soon after the briefing. Anything else please to media inquiries at wjo.int and over to Dr. Tedros for the closing remarks. Thank you to members of the press for joining us today and see you next time.