That India considers it its responsibility to share India's experiences with the world. That India's yoga tradition is very useful to the world in fighting many diseases like diabetes and depression. That yoga is becoming popular through International Yoga Day and yoga is helping people all over the world in reducing mental stress and in maintaining balance in the mind and body. It is very important that this new institute also plays an important role in expanding the scope of yoga. A Girl with Art On this occasion, I wanted to lay the foundation for this Global Centre. The first aim of which is to compile these traditional sciences using technology and to create their database. There have been different traditions of traditional medicine in different countries. By compiling these traditions in this centre, a global collection or new repository should be created. This centre and the experts of these traditions can also compile them by studying the sources of the original methods. It is also important to do this so that important information about traditional medicine present in different countries is available and helps the coming generations. As my friends have said.  The team should test traditional medicines and create international standards for certification. This could be the second goal of your organization. This will further increase the trust of people in every country. Now we see that many traditional medicines of India are found to be very effective even by foreigners, but due to lack of global tenders, their regular trade is limited, hence their achievements are still low. I think many other countries also face some difficulties. This Global Center should also work towards its solution. Recently, Ayurveda Panchkarma was done and pen mar documents were prepared for Unani. Its expansion is also necessary. Friends, GTA should develop such a platform where the experts of traditional medicine systems of the world come together and share their experiences. A Global Center can make these efforts its third goal. This institute can organize an annual function, an annual traditional medicine festival, in which experts from as many countries of the world can reflect and share their methods. Friends, I think the fourth goal of this center should be related to investment in research, which  ATM should mobilize Honey Singh for research in the field of traditional medicine. Now we see that billions of doctors are available for research for modern pharmaceutical companies. We should prepare similar numbers for research in traditional medicine. The five-point brush is related to treatment protocols: whether the team of astrologers can develop treatment protocols for specific diseases in which the patient can benefit from both the plain mode and these traditional medicines. Effective integration of these ancient schools into our health care system can help in fighting many diseases. My friends, we Indians live by the spirit of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam and Sarve Santu Niramaya. The whole world is one family and this entire family should always remain healthy. This has been our philosophy. Today, with the establishment of such a team at WHO, this tradition of India is being further enriched. I conclude my speech with the hope that the work center will improve the health of people around the world. I thank both of you for taking time for these guests.  I express my heartfelt gratitude to Ramesh for giving a height to this function and increasing its importance. Once again, many thanks to all of you. Namaskar, many thanks to Honorable Prime Minister for your encouraging and informative message which is your own experiential use and liquid history from Thursday. Thank you, thank you, thank you to drops. As Honorable Prime Minister said that today, this foundation stone laying here is the beginning of the era of traditional medicine in the times to come and in 2047, when India will celebrate the 200th anniversary of its independence, then traditional medicine will move forward towards its commitment to serve the entire world and it is in this lineage that thank you to all present. Thank you for joining the assembly. Congratulations, Chaudhary Day of Ministry of AYUSH. Many congratulations and best wishes to all. Request to those who would like to request the blue color, please do so here.