This is the second time when I was elected and someone in the house. Uh Mhm. Answer two. I was going to say they say we'll suspend. I'm sure they do. Or they will if they don't. Yes, quite sure. On page 33, whose names? Uh Oh, Professor Janaba Muhammed Yakub, can you kindly enter the hall? Please have your respective seats. It is my pleasant duty to read out the two resolutions that the regional committee just adopted at its private meeting. Let us proceed with the first resolution which reads as follow. The regional committee considering article 52 of the constitution and in accordance with rule 52 of its rules of procedure nominates professor Janiba Muhammad Yaku as regional director for the African region. request the director general to propose to the executive board the appointment of professor Janeva Muhammad. May Yakoup for a period of up to 5 years and 8 months. Let me congratulate you, Professor YaKob, on your nomination by the regional committee. I will now read the second resolution that will be adopted by the regional committee that was adopted by the regional committee at its private meeting. The regional committee having nominated professor Janiba Muhammed Yakub as regional director for Africa commending the remarkable efforts made by the acting regional director Dr. Chipui to ensure continuation of the work and activities of the WH in the African region through a critical period. One expresses its appreciation to Dr. Chipu for his continual commitment to the organization and his leadership in the regional office for Africa to addresses to him a sincere gratitude and best wishes as he assumes his position at executive director of the health emergencies program. Would any delegation like to take the floor at this stage to congratulate our nominee? We recommend that you kindly do so within one minute. The floor is now open. Namibia. Navia, you have the floor. Nabia, honorable chair, excellencies, honorable ministers, and esteemed colleagues, at the outset, Namibia wishes to express its appreciation to Dr. Mui for a dedicated leadership as WHO regional director for Africa, which concluded earlier this year. Namibia wishes to congratulate Professor Janabi for his election as our new regional director. As you will come to realize, the member states of the WHO Africa region are unique in our unified approach to work of the WH. The Africa region member states were instrumental in advancing vital reforms for sustainable financing of WH shaping milestones decisions including increased assessed contributions to ultimately reach 50% of the WH's budget amongst others. It is these proactive member states of the WH Africa region committed to advancing health equity as well as social justice that you will inherit as the new regional director. Professor Janabi, your vision for the African region resonates strongly with Namibia's priority to achieve universal health coverage. We are inspired by your commitment and Namibia looks forward to working closely with you to advance the impactful and lifesaving work of the WH ensuring that the inequalities that threaten to undermine our African public health systems are addressed and addressed so effectively. Despite the reduction in international donor funding, our collective resilience, expertise, and partnerships will empower the region to achieve more through sustainable financing mechanisms and innovation. Once again, Namibia wholeheartedly congratulates you and we pledge our unwavering support as you lead us into this new chapter. I thank you, Malawi. Malawi you have the floor. Thank you so much honorable chairperson. Malawi wishes to congratulate our brother professor Muhammad Janab on your success. Tanzania's success is also Malawi success and I also want to congratulate the president president Madame Samir uh for the success and my sister the minister and your team. You have worked so hard welld deserved. Let me also take this opportunity also to congratulate Dr. Chiku who was our acting RD. You did such a wonderful job and we appreciate and we wish you well in your new uh uh uh new job as the ED of health emergencies. To my brother Professor Jab Muhammad, you come at a very very critical time where even the existence of who is being questioned. This is a very critical time and we are very happy that we have somebody uh from the successes which you have had in Tanzania. We are very confident that you're also going to bring the same to the Afro region. We wish you well and be assured that Malawi will give you full support. Thank you so much. Congo, Republic of Congo. On behalf of the present, his excellency Mr. Juni Sassino and the government of the Republic of Congo, I would like to extend my most profound congratulations to Professor Muhammad Janabi for his nomination as regional director of the Afro Regional Committee. and the Congo is proud to be the host country of this office. It is a particularly trying time and we are seeing increasing budgetary restrictions which means that we require strong commitment and particularly strategic leadership. regional director elect, your nomination is a credit to your clear vision and strategic way forward for our region for healthcare in the African continent. We are steadfast in our belief that your leadership will be a leverage for bringing entries together, for optimizing partnerships, and for optimizing the resources that we have to face the African healthcare challenges. The Republic of Congo assures you of its steadfast support as you discharge this duty and we look forward to continuing very close collaboration with the regional office in the spirit of solidarity, effectiveness and shared responsibility. And please know that uh you will always have our legendary hospitality in Brazil. We wish you every success as you continue with your work for the African health South Africa followed by Cameroon. Your Excellencies Ministers of Health WH Afro region the director general of the WH Dr. Tetros Gabrias, honorable colleagues, esteemed representative. Firstly, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate honorable members for per performing this job of electing a new leader in the most efficient manner and the shortest possible time. I've got an intention to ask the director general Dr. Petros Gabrias to advise the Vatican that next time a pope is wanted these members are up to the task. On behalf of the Republic of South Africa, I extend our congratulations to Professor Muhammad Jagub Danabi on his successful election as the regional director for the World Health Organization. This is a significant moment not only for the professor but for the entire African continent. His demonstrated leadership, expertise and commitment to public health will undoubtedly be invaluable as we collectively strive to address the health challenges facing our region. We extend our sincere congratul congratulations to the Republic of Tanzania for once again presenting such a capable distinguished candidate in the professor. South Africa looks forward to working closely with professor Janabi and WH Africa under his guidance. We are confident that this vision and strategic direction will foster greater collaboration, innovation and progress in achieving health for all our in our diverse continent. Honorable members, quite often. We made ourself to believe that only the global north specifically USA and Europe are the only ones who can produce the best in medical care. Hence whenever our heads of state are sick they flock there to look for medical care. I have decrieded this practice many an occasion in this very forum and I'm promising you that I won't stop doing so until this practice is terminated. I am saying so with more courage today than ever before because in his presentation today, Professor Janabi challenge us with a question. He said, "How many of us here know that Tanzania is performing a lot of cardiac surgery? How many of us here know that Kenya is performing a lot of kidney transplant? I wish to take this opportunity to add to this list. In South Africa at the Steve Bele academic hospital, we have one of the best nuclear medicine facilities in the whole continent run by a young professor, one of our own, Professor Mike Sate. In 2017, this unit started performing alpha targeting of prostate cancer cells in order that the other cells are not damaged. 40% of his patients are referred from prominent private hospitals in South Africa and guess what 50 of his patient just in one I mean since 2017 were directly referred by European colleagues from Europe itself who know about this unit. So, Professor Yanabi, I want to recommend to you that when you take over office, please compile a list of all the best centers on our continent because we know they are there. Publicize them and promote them. Let them let the director general Dr. Tetros visit all of them to promote them and publicize them to the world so that we can see that Africa is not to be undermined. I also wish to take this opportunity to thank Dr. Chig for holding the fort in the interim after the passing of Dr. Dougle. We wish you professor Janavi every success in this new role and reiterate our unwavering support to the World Health Organization in its crucial mission to promote health, keep the world safe and save the vulnerable. Thank you very much. Cameroon followed by Central African Republic. Madame, honorable chair, director general, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the president of Cameroon, his excellency Paul Beia, I would like to state that uh we extend our sincere gratitude to Dr. Muay for the outstanding work during her mandate and we would also very warmly like to congratulate Dr. Chuay for his interim mission. This meant that Africa was able to continue on the right path. And similarly, of course, we would most warmly like to extend our kind congratulations upon his excellent election to Professor Janabi. And we would like him to we would like him to know that Cameroon will always be unwaveringly available to support him in this particularly lofty mission at the regional office. that Cameroon would be happy to uh welcome Professor Janabi and we look forward to working closely with him because indeed his program is very comprehensive and directly tackles African challenges. We are sure that together in unity we will be able to build a healthy Africa, a thriving a Africa. The president of Cameroon, his excellency Paul Byaba uh is very committed to a thriving continent in full health and this is why his excellency has always been keen to contribute uh to these discussions and reflections. And so again once again let me extend our most sincere congratulations to Professor Janabi. Central African Republic followed by Mozambi. Professor Jalabi, Professor Janabi, on behalf of the people of the Central African Republic and the present of uh the Central African Republic. And also in my personal capacity, I would like to extend our most sincere uh congratulations to you for upon this excellent election to the post of regional director of the regional committee for Africa. I am convinced that your exceptional leadership and guidance will also uh provide some spiritual enlightenment uh thanks to the grace of God who has uh intended to perpetuate the spirit of the late Dr. Fine. The representative necessary has been chosen in order to allow us all to move together towards our collective vision. I'm quite sure that your leadership for the Afro region at WH will be able to further our commitment to developing a new period of transformation for Africa. we will be able to transform this financial crisis into an opportunity an opportunity to proudly go towards our ambitious healthcare projects and strategies. I would like to again um applaud your intention to work closely with governments with ministers of health to strengthen uh South South collaboration and the intention to h treat all the African populations on a level playing field. I am sure that you will not only be able to continue the excellent work of Dr. Moi, but we will also be able to push further together. Be assured that we are pledging our unfaltering support to you as you discharge this mission. Thank you. Big followup. Thank you very much for giving the floor, Madam Chair. Director General of the WHO for Mosmbique. We are very very pleased to associate ourselves with other speakers who spoke before us in congratulating our dear brother Professor Yannabe on his election to this noble and arduous task of director general regional director of the WHO for Africa at a very challenging moment globally and continentally. On behalf of Mosambique, we wish to express every wish for his success in his mandate and our full readiness to collaborate with the new director. Together, we will continue on the pathway towards an Africa with an increasingly healthy population. Congratulations Africa. Congratulations Tanzania with from Mosmbique. May God bless you abundantly. Professor Janabe. Thank you very much for your attention. Equator followed by Angola. Thank you. Uh distinguishes member of WH regional committee for Africa esteemed colleagues and honored guest. I am delighted to extend my heartfelt congratulation to Dr. Muhammad Janabi of Tanzania on his election as the new WH regional director for Africa. Dr. Janabi distinguished career as a cardiologist, former exe executive director of uh Muimilly National Hospital and a senior advisor to the president of Tanzania positioned him as an exceptional leader for his role. His deep commitment to universal health coverage, pandemic preparedness, and health sovereignty aligns perfectly with the Georgian's needs for our region. On behalf of the president of Equatorial Guinea, uh we like to extend our warmest congratulation to Dr. Janabi. We are confident that under his leaderships, the WH regional office for Africa will achieve remarkable progress toward healthier, more resilient future for Africans as we embrace the theme of uh WH A78's one world for health. Let us unite in support of Dr. Janabi and seize this transformative moment in 2025 to advance our share goals. Thank you. Angola followed by Uganda. Thank you very much, Madame Chair, Director General of the WHO, ministers and representatives of countries, we would like at the outset to underscore that we are witnessing a very important democratic event that has been very transparent in the election of our WHO. to regional director in the person of professor Yanabi to whom I convey the congratulations of the president of the republic of Angola Jean Lorenzo and we also congratulate the people of Tanzania and the region for this excellent outcome. Professor Shinhabi, we believe strongly in you and we believe that your leadership will be transformative and it will give priority to preventing diseases and to treatment and rehabilitation. It's important here that I underscore the fact that our region has suffered greatly of emerging and reemerging diseases which require a regional strategy that is assertive and regional collaboration. As my South African colleague said, we wish to see synergies and joint work and to see us taking advantage of what we have in our continent to deal with highly complex cases and to serve the people of our region. It's important also that I say that we will be seeing you take up office in a particularly difficult time with financial challenges. But we have every confidence in your wisdom and your capacity to mobilize and support countries in mobilizing other sources of financing to gradually improve our health systems and relying on ourselves. In doing so, we are by your side, sir. We wish you every health and prosperity and you can count on Angola at all times. Many thanks to you and my congratulations to my sister, Minister of Health of Tanzania and her team for their capacity, their convening capacity and their rallying capacity. Thank you very much and congratulations. Uganda followed by Kenya chair DGW distinguished guests, delegates, on behalf of the Republic of Uganda and on behalf of his excellency Yori Kagutam 7, the President and the Ministry of Health and on my own behalf, I would like to congratulate Professor Janabi Muhammad Yakob and the United Repated Republic of Tanzania on his election. ction. We trust that our regional office is in good hands and we assure Professor Akub of our commitment and full support during his tenure of office. We also trust that you'll drive the African health agenda to greater heights. Congratulations once again and thank you all for your kind attention. Kenya followed by Burandi. Your excellencies director general of WH distinguished delegates Kenya cong warmly congratulates our newly elected junior general director professor Muhammad Janabi. We pledge our unwavering support and anticipate a prosperous collaboration fostering the spirit of unity and building upon the successes of past partnerships within the Afro region. Significant health and financing challenges lie ahead for our region demanding our collective wisdom and concerted efforts. However, we are confident that your distinguished vision, consider considerable expertise and proven leadership will guide us effectively toward sustainable solutions that benefit all member states. Thank you. Boni followed by Zambia. Thank you madam chair. Burundi through wishes to convey its sincerest congratulations to Professor Janabi on his brilliant and overwhelming victory in this election to the position of regional director for Africa. In nominating him to this high responsibility in a rigorous and transparent process recognizes the technical and strategic competency and the trust in his visionary leadership and unwavering commitment to equity in health. This comes at a critical juncture for our continent as we face many health challenges. Bundi is of the view that your election is a promising sign of hope for a more healthy Africa. We are convinced that with your rich experience and your capacity for inclusive dialogue and your determination to promote strategic partnerships with member states, you will be able to build a renewed momentum towards concrete outcomes in delivering on the aspirations of our African peoples for greater and better health and sustainable development. The government of Burundi would like to take this opportunity also to express its deep appreciation to the AD interim regional director for his commitment and professionalism that he has demonstrated during the transition period and he ensured that his mission was and the WT WH's uh mission was discharged in Africa. We thank him for his cooperation and full support. We reiterate our availability to work closely with your regional office in a spirit of African solidarity uh operational prospicity and with a focus on uh the national priorities and may your leadership be crowned with success for a more healthy Africa and for the service of the people of Africa. Thank you. Zambia followed by Nigeria. Thank you chair delegates. It's a pleasure today, a nice moment to professor Jonabi for scooping the seat for regional director of Africa. It was sad moment when Dr. Nungur could not stay on the seat for a long time and today the replacement comes to you. You have excelled through what you said by convincing. You convinced all of us here. Nobody has lost. All of us have won. You spoke with a lot of passion and it's our expectation that you walk the talk. You mean your words and we shall give you support. We are coming at a time when the fiscal space is down. But you have promised us that there is hope in you. As a medical doctor, you always keep life alive. Keep the momentary health also alive. We expect you to perform more than what others expected. Zambia is closer to Tanzania. Tanzania is Zambia. We congratulate you on behalf of my country and also congratulate the president of Tanzania and all of us. Congratulations Nigeria followed by Shelves. Uh thank you very much Madame Chair, director general of the WHO and the now gone interim regional director for WHO Africa. On behalf of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, I wish to congratulate the newly elected regional director of WH Afro, Professor Muhammad Yakubu Janabi for his success at this election. I wish to also congratulate the honorable minister for health from Tanzania, the government and people of Tanzania for the success. Let me also use this opportunity to salute the three candidates from Togo, Kova and Guinea for the brief showing during the election processes which demonstrated the rich capacity of Africa. I join to appreciate Dr. Chuku for stepping in so diligently and compet competently in the interim. I congratulate you, Professor Janabi, in your new role as the regional director of WHO Africa. I wish to pledge the commitment of Nigeria to work with you in your sevenpoint agenda covering broad areas of critical importance for the betterment of the health of Africans. Nigeria look forward to your transformative leadership as Mother Africa moves forward in this trying time to transform the health of communities in Africa. The result of this election demonstrates that Africa is just, Africa is of brotherhood and Africa is in solidarity. We wish you a successful tener. Thank you. She shells followed by commer. Thank you madame chair. uh regional um director general who saw would like to congratulate professor Mohammed Jakob Janabi on his election for the nomination as regional director for uh Africa. We are confident that you will very aly lead our continent through the challenges being faced by health systems in our efforts to reach universal health. We pledge our full support and good wishes to you as our new regional director and look forward to uh working with you. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Dr. Chu for his leadership during the inter interim period and wish uh you well in your future role. Once again congratulations professor Janabi. Thank you. Comorus followed by Ethiopia. Uh Mercy, Madame La President. Thank you, Madam Chair, for giving me the floor, your excellencies, ministers, Mr. Director General of the WHO, Mr. the regional director of the WHO. fellow participants. On behalf of his excellency, the president of the union of the Kamores and all the people of the Kamores, we wish to very warmly thank professor Jeanabi and all the kindred people of Tanzania on and congratulate him on this uh decisive victory. Just now, Professor Janabe, during your brilliant presentation, I had put my paper in to ask a question. Unfortunately, I was unable to. I can no longer do it. But I did want to however ask you about equity, gender equity and in household economies, household budgets. But I have every assurance that you will take this into account when you take up office because we all are aware that the WH has put its weight behind UHC and it is our hope that by then all people will be able to benefit from lower cost quality healthcare. In closing, I wanted to say that LDC's are supported by the WHO and the most recent initiative of this kind was uh medical clustering is a recent one and we count on you to support us in this endeavor. Once again I wish to thank you and congratulate you and you have our wishes for a successful mandate. Thank you. Ethiopia followed by Iritria. Uh thank you chair uh your excellency honorable ministers director general distinguished delegates esteemed colleagues on behalf of government of the federal democratic republic of utopia and her excellency Dr. Magnus Jaba the Minister of Health. I extend our warmest congratulations to Professor Janavi Mamejaku on his election as who regional director for Africa. He brings with him outstanding leadership as presented in the morning, rich experience and a deep commitment to advancing health in Africa. We are confident that under his guidance, our region will make significant strides towards universal health coverage and health equity and innovation. We also extend our healthfelt congratulations for the United Republic of Tanzania for presenting such a seasoned and capable candidate to lead our regional health agenda. Ethopia looks forward to working closely with Professor Janabi and the WHO regional office to address our shared health challenge and to accelerate progress toward this agenda 2063 and the sustainable development goals. Let me also express our sincere appreciation to Dr. Chukui for his dedicated service and the steady leadership as interm acting regional director during this important transitional period and also add our congratulations on his appointment as executive director of the health's emergency programs which we really appreciate. Once again congratulations to Professor Janabi and Tanzania uh on this occasion and uh we welcome you to see and add this in very very near future. Professor Janavi. Thank you follow Saga. Thank you madame chair. In the interest of time I will be very brief. All protocols observed. Our delegation would like to warmly congrat congratulate Professor Najabi Janabi sorry on his election as WHO regional director for Africa. Eritra also congratulates the United Republic of Tanzania and congratulates also all of us to for this successful election. Eritria wishes wishes you professor Janabi well and looks forward to working with you closely and you can always count on us uh or on our unwavering support. I also take this opportunity to thank Dr. Chiku for his dedication and competence during the interim period. I thank you. Sineagal followed by the Gambia. Madame Chair of the Regional Committee for WHO in Africa, heads of delegations, Mr. Director General of the WHO and interim regional director for Africa, Dr. Chiku on behalf of the president of the republic of Seneagal his excellency Jafi and the people of Seneagal I wish to congratulate professor Muhammad Yakub Janabi on his commanding win we also congratulate the other candidates of Kot Devoir Guinea and Togo all together in lock step we will be able to address the health challenges of our continent We reaffirm our appreciation to Dr. Mui and Dr. Chiquay for everything they have been able to achieve during their terms of office. To Dr. Chiquay, we wish to convey our congratulations on his brilliant promotion and we wish him every success in his new uh uh mission. We reaffirm our willingness to work with the new regional director for Africa and to work with all member states to bring about a transformative change of our health systems for the greater betterment of our peoples and countries. I wish to urge all member states and ministers of health to strongly advocate for a larger health budget in our countries and to work together for a comprehensive success in our public health and to ensure that health for all and all for health is a reality for everyone in Africa. Thank you. Gambia followed by Bosswana. Uh thank you very much madame chair. We start uh by extending our congratulations uh on behalf of his excellency president Adamabaro uh to professor Janabi Muhammad Yakub and the government and people of uh Tanzania. Uh today marks another remarkable day in the history of uh who especially the Africa region. Uh we went through very difficult times. Uh the the loss of uh Dr. or nougle. But here we are. We thank the WHO leadership and the RC members, the ministers and all the secretariat members for being able to organize this. Uh Madame Chair, we congratulate you. You yourself. Thank you very much. And the secretariat team. Uh to Dr. Jabi, we did hear you. We had your manifesto, but I want to remind you, we've taken note of the the points in the manifesto, and I remember my question. I'm going to follow through. Uh I'm sure you'll be prepared to to really deliver on those. But we are very delighted. This marks another milestone. Uh Africa needs to move forward. We need to support each other. We need to work as a team. When it comes to commodity issues that we mentioned earlier, without having a robust strategy, without speaking as a continent, it'll be very difficult for us to get to where we want to get to because united we stand strong, divided, we we we are weak. Uh to the other candidates, we want to congratulate them for putting themselves forward. Yes, you didn't uh cross this line, but we urge you to use your expertise to support uh uh Professor Janabi uh in building a stronger African health system. The support is still needed. Uh Prof. Once again we say congratulations to you but we are very optimistic that your taking of this responsibility will also mean a stronger a more robust surgical service on the African continent. This is a weak area and we think with your surgical background your background in emergency medicine some of us are very very passionate about that. I think we need to start to to start a very strong uh surgical network in Africa. Uh to the Dr. Tedros, we thank you very much for your leadership and for staying here since morning with us. It shows your commitment to ensuring that the processes uh go in line with the principles of of fairness, principles of equity and your respect for the people of Africa. Uh Dr. Chu we equally thank you for holding forth. Uh we proud of all of you and uh we wish you all the best and Dr. Mui we wish to thank you for contributing. Finally I wish to suggest to Dr. Janabi strengthen what works. It's not everything we change as leaders. There are things that are going on well build on them. Strengthen them. Of course you can be very innovative as well. Once again congratulations and thank you and follow. Thank you very much chair. Hearty congratulations to you my dear brother professor Muhammad Jakob Chanabi. Congratulations to my sister the minister of Tanzania. You had a great team there behind you sir. Um and uh just like uh you supported our candidate Dr. Muay throughout her tenure, I can assure you that Botswana will continue to support you in Tanzania as we work together to strengthen health systems in Africa. I I was listening very attentively uh to your manifesto as well and I liked how you believed in Africa and you wanted to put a spotlight in all that we can do in the continent. I say well done to you and if you are wondering where to start as you begin this journey I want to invite you to start in Botswana. Congratulations Sarah Leon followed by DRC. Thank you very much chair. I convey this message of congratulations on behalf of my minister Dr. Austin Debbie uh who is not here today but who is on his way. He'll be here tomorrow for sure. Um Dr. Janabi congratulations. These are very challenging times for the BHO as for the entire multilateral system and we are encouraged by the broad and very energetic vision you've set out in your uh program. Solon assures you of his support throughout your tenure. Congratulations Tanzania. I have already conveyed to the honorable minister of health the wish of Sierra Leon that should we ever put up a candidate, the honorable minister of health of Tanzania will be the um the chair of that campaign. Uh she she has been a very delightful presence. Cong congratulations. Congratulations and thank you excellency. Thank you Dr. Teros for being here with us and for steering this organization so very competently. Thank you. DRC followed by Sud. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. On behalf of the President of the Republic and Philip Shiki and on my own behalf, I would like to present my sincere congratulations to Profess Professor Genevie on his brilliant election. Sir, when we had elected your predecessor, there were several rounds of voting. However, there was only one single round this time round, which is testimony to the desire to see us to see you quickly in office and to roll out the policies that you shared with us. We have high expectations of you, but we do believe that the energy we see in the Tanzanian team led by your minister, we believe that energy with you paired with your knowledge will mean that we will have concrete responses and uh outcomes for the expectations of Africans. I thank Dr. Tedras for his leadership, Dr. Chu for his uh at interim stent which he masterfully uh completed and at the head of the regional office for Africa. Many thanks and congratulations to you once again professor South Sudan followed by Madagascar. Thank you our madame chair excellencies ministers of health uh excellency Dr. Tadus uh DG of WH colleague ambassadors ladies and gentlemen I'm also coming in uh on behalf of my minister and and under the secretary of the ministry of of health on behalf of the government and people of South Sudan allow me to congratulate Professor Muhammad Yanabi for his election uh as new regional director. We further congratulate uh her excellency the minister of health of Tanzania and the whole team for the work well done. Professor Yanabi deserved this position uh considering his vast experience and expertise in the field of health. We all know that Professor Janabi is coming in at a time of very complex political landscape with enormous challenges awaiting him. But we are more than sure and confidence that he will navigate safely in leading the health sector in Africa. South Sudan expresses its unwavering commitment and its steadfast cooperation with Professor Muhammad Yanabi in the spirit of African solidarity and African solution for African problems. We wish him all the best and success in his new position. We also wish the other three candidates who competed with him all the best and good luck in the future. Thank you Madame Sher Madagascar follow me. Thank you very much chair chair your excellencies ladies and gentlemen on behalf of the uh the uh of Madagascar and his excellency the president Andre Rajolina I wish to express our congratulations uh to professor Janabi upon his election. Uh, Professor Janabi, we believe that your election will provide new momentum to the uh, regional office and uh, lead to the betterment of public health in our region. The assistance of the regional office is extremely valuable in particular in these trying times. I uh, wish you all of the very best and full success as you discharge this mandate. and I would like to congratulate the United Republic of Tanzania for um on the election of their representative. Um you can be assured of the solidarity and brotherhood of Madagascar um which is reciprocal. Thank you. Follow Ghana. Thank you very much chair a director general of the WHO regional director at interim ministers I'm taking the floor on behalf of the minister of health of Togo to express our sincere congratulations to professor Janabi upon his election to this post. Professor Janabi, we are delighted at your commitment to implementing um effectively your brilliant strategy that you set out in your presentation and strategy. You can be assured of Togo's unfaltering support as you uh carry out your work. We would like to congratulate uh Dr. Chikway as well for his ad interimm work. Thank you. Ghana followed by Liberia. Chair Ghana is grateful for the opportunity to commence on the successful election of the regional director for Africa region. We thank the director general and secretariat for an election well conducted on behalf of his excellency John Rammani Mahama the president of republic of Ghana. We extend our sincere appreciation to the Republic of Tanzania and assure you that Ghana will support and fully committed to supporting the regional director elect in the execution of his duties. Professor Janea Janibi, you come at a time where the financing landscape for global health is shaky, but we are convinced that your experience and skills will be brought to bear to salvage our continent. To the secretariat, it is our hope that you will give professor Janibbei the full support he needs to steer the affairs of our region. Dr. Chiiki, thank you for the exemplary leadership you exhibited whilst acting as the regional director. The regent is grateful and we wish you well in your next endeavor. Congratulations once again to professor Janibi and well done to the minister for health of tan Tanzania for the hard work. Thank you Liberia follow. First of all, I want to say um the lady who's chairing the meeting today is our health minister from Liberia and we want to acknowledge of the great work that she has done here today. So honorable minister, on behalf of you and the people of Liberia, we want to join all the countries sitting around this table to say congratulations to that of Professor Geneva for his elections today. We know what the African country is facing when it comes to health issues, climate change and disease outbreak. We need a strong man like Professor Janea to steer us through the process. And we have he listened to him. We know that he has Africa at heart and is willing to face the challenges when it comes to financial crisis that the continent is facing right now. We strongly believe he has the capability and the capacity to carry us through that in the years to come. We are also proud that we are coming with new innovations to improve the health status of each country sitting around the table here. It is not one size fit all and I'm sure that you're going to look at each country as the situation arise. We strongly believe that with all of us around this table, we can make Africa like other continents in the world. Again, want to say thank you and congratulations and we look forward to working with you in the coming years. Thank you. S to principal followed by Algeria. A very good afternoon to everyone. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. So, Prince wishes to congratulate Professor Janabi and the people of Tanzania on his election to head our regional office during the presentation of the candidates. All of them spoke of commitments based on the realities of each member state and more specifically small developing states which reassured us. Mr. Professor Janabi, an absolute majority expressed in the voting is a clear expression of consensus and it is my hope that you will take advantage of this positive synergy to leverage the work of our organization. It's my hope also that in difficult times those that we are passing through now your experience and our solidarity will be the watch word among our countries and South Prince is ready to actively participate in this process. Thank you Algeria follow. Thank you very much chair honorable ministers director general of the who on behalf of Algeria I would like to of course extend our congratulations to professor jinabi uh on his election to this post. Uh, Professor Janabi, you are a cardiologist and you know that when we are suffering from irregular cardiac uh, heart rates, what we are at a risk of death and we look forward to you boosting the heart rate of Africa. This is exactly what we need. I am sure that our countries will be shocked and impressed by the very capabilities that exist within our region. At this moment, I would certainly like to take this opportunity to uh assure you of the steadfast support of Algeria. We will work by your side to work uh to promote healthcare for Africans. I would also of course like to congratulate all of the other excellent candidates and I certainly wish them all of the best in their future. Thank you. Faso followed by Tanir. First and foremost, allow me to follow other member states in their declarations and most warmly congratulate on behalf of Bkina Faso all of the special session. for the excellent functioning of this session. On behalf of his excellency the president Ibrahim Tawore, I would like to extend my heartfelt and warm congratulations to Professor Janabi. to the professor and indeed to the entire population of the United Republic of Tanzania. We would also like to congratulate and applaud the other candidates for their empowering visions. They are certainly very interesting to take into account for the good of Africa. We are extremely grateful to the director general for his leadership and of course to Dr. Muetti for her ongoing commitment. Thank you also to Dr. Chu and the entire team behind the regional committee who led to the uh excellent outcome of this vote. Burkinaaso uh reiterates its steadfast support to the regional office and to our new uh regional director elect. We wish you all the best on Thank you. uh your honorable chair uh thank you Dr. Di Dr. Mo acting uh DG Dr. Chqu uh excellencies, ambassadors, honorable ministers of health, friends and fellow African who we attended this special conference today. Honorable chair, I stand and speak before you with great immense pride and profound gratitude as we celebrate a remarkable milestone on the election of our Tanzanian candidate, Professor Muhammad Yakub Janabi as the WH regional director for Africa. Honorable chair on behalf again of the president of the United Republic of Tanzania, her excellency Dr. Samya Suru Hassan and the entire delegation I extend our heartfelt thanks for the trust and confidence you have placed in professor Muhammad Janabi and the condor we messages we have received following the sudden death of the director general elect Dr. Fin. This victory is not his alone. It is a shared victory for the entire African continent, the global health community and all who believed in power of unity, collaboration, and the vision of more prosperous Africa. We are deeply honored by the support we have received across the continent and beyond. Your endorsement shows a shared vision, one in which every African has access to quality health care where no one is left behind and where our collective effort drive lasting and meaning meaningful change. Tanzania remains steadfast in its commitment to African solidarity. We will continue to work hard hand in hand with the all member states to strengthening our material cooperation and advance the goals of the WHO African the president of the United Republic of Tanzania for uh for her unwavering support in endorsing Professor Muhammad Janabi and for her visionary leadership in advancing health and well-being across the African continent. Once again, thank you for your trust. Thank you for your support asant and thank you very much. Keep forth. Good afternoon everyone. Kab congratulates Professor Janabi of Tanzania. He was able to gather the votes of the majority of African countries present which means that he can be assured of our immediate confidence in his uh uh term of office. It is it is my hope that he will bring all his experience from 30 years of hard work for the development of health in his country and others. It is my call to him that when he takes up office as regional director for Africa that countries will endeavor to improve their individual health systems and to help their regional director in his work. Dear regional director, you can count on Kabu. We remain ready to help you in this joint endeavor which is incumbent on all of us. Thank you. I would now like to invite the regional director nominee to address the committee with a short statement. Professor Janei Muhammed Yakub. You have the floor. Honorable chairperson, esteemed director general of the World Health Organization, honorable ministers, head of delegations, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I'm deeply honored and grateful to accept the nomination. is the WHO regional director for Africa. This is not a merely a personal milestone but a collective achievement reflecting our shared commitment to advancing health across our continent. I pay tribute to the late Dr. Finle whose untimely passing was a profound loss. Elected to this role in August 2024, Dr. Dongul was a visionary leader dedicated to improving health in Africa. My sincere appreciation goes to her excellency Dr. Samir Slu Hassan, the president of United Republic of Tanzania for unwavering support on this endeavor and to Dr. Ted Rose for his explanary global leadership. Thank you Dr. Tedros. I also thank very much Dr. Chu for his steady leadership during this transition. I extend my heartfelt gratitude to Dr. Moyet, the first woman to serve as a WHO regional director for Africa since 2015. Dr. Muay has led transformative efforts including managing the world polio virus and strengthening the region's response to health emergencies. To the honorable ministers of health and heads of delegations, thank you for your trust on me. I will not let you down. Your support underscores our collective resolve to build a healthier, stronger, and more united Africa. I also wish to acknowledge and commend my esteemed colleagues who participated in this election process. Dr. Conro, Dr. Muhammad Lamin, Professor Mustafa Mijawa, I have read and heard your manifestos and I'm inspired by your dedication. I look forward to collaborating with each to move Africa forward. As we face challenges ranging from infectious diseases, non-communicable diseases to climate change and limited health financing. We must harness Africa resilience and and unity. You had my priorities, but the most important will be mobilizing resources and fostering south to South collaboration. We must optimize our resources, refine policies, and amplify Africa voices in the global health discourse. Investing in local capacity, training our health professions, and embracing innovation are crucial for sustainable progress. One of the delegates said, "This journey is very tough for WHO. Allow me to edit a bit. This journey requires collective efforts, courage, and vision of all of us. Let us move forward together to create a healthier, more equitable Africa for generations to come. Thank you very much. and I would now like to invite the acting regional director to address the committee with a short statement. Dr. Chip, you have the floor. Thank you, chair. Dear colleagues, allow me to take a moment to offer my warmest congratulations to our new regional director elect for WHO in the Africa region, Professor Muhammad Janabi. But I'll also like to thank Professor Mijiawa, Dr. Dame, and Dr. Yao for putting yourselves forward for leadership. My brother, Professor Janabi, this is a moment of great significance for you personally, for this organization, and for the nearly 1.4 billion people across our region who rely on who to deliver on its promise of health for all. Your nomination reflects the trust that member states have placed in your Your nomination, my brother, is a is an acknowledgment of your vision, your deep understanding of the needs and aspirations of our region. The task ahead will be will demand courage, clarity, and a state a steadfast focus on the priorities that our member states have offered. But you're not starting alone. You can count on the full support of the WHO Afro team and everyone in WHO. You can also count on the dedication of an exceptional team across our country offices and our regional office. I've come to experience this personally over the last few months. We have done our best to maintain momentum, strengthen internal systems, and lay the groundwork for a smooth transition. I am confident that the foundation is solid and you will lead from a place of strength. I very much look forward to working closely with you during this handover and to supporting you in every way possible as you g as you begin this next chapter of leadership. Once again, thank thank you very much member states for placing your trust in Professor Janabi. Professor Janabi, congratulations and thank you for stepping forward to serve the region. I would like to give the floor to the director general for her remarks. Dr. Chos, you have the floor. Thank you. Thank you, Madame Chair. Madame Chair, honorable minister Luis Mle Kapoto, Vice Chair, Honorable Minister Abdahi Siddi Muhammad Wii, Excellencies, Honorable Ministers, heads of delegation, dear colleagues and friends, I offer my warm congratulations to Professor Muhammad Yakub Janabi on your nomination as regional director for Africa and also to the United Republic of Tanzania. I also thank Dr. Lamin and Professor Mijiwa Mijia and Dr. Yahu on your campaigns for this challenging but extremely important position. Each candidate brought unique skills, experiences, and perspectives to the table, demonstrating the talent and commitment we have within our continent. Professor Janabi, you have earned the confidence and trust of the member states of the region. This is a great privilege and a very great responsibility. This job will demand every bit of the technical, managerial and diplomatic skills you have. I observed those qualities when I was in Tanzania in January to assist with the Marberg outbreak and I had the opportunity to work with you, Professor Janabi and I was very much impressed actually during that trip and you're not alone. You're supported by a very dedicated and talented team at the regional office as you build on the distinguished legacy of my sister, former regional director, Dr. Shidi Moyeti. And I assure you of my support and that of my colleagues in Geneva, including your immediate predecessor who served as acting RD, Dr. Chu and who will be taking the reigns of the WHO health emergencies program. Colleagues, it goes without saying that the incoming regional director will need your full support no matter how difficult things get and it's almost a certainty that they will be difficult. But at the new re-elect said, this is everybody's business. And I fully agree. Both expected and unexpected challenges are part and parcel of global health. It's what we signed up for. The true difficulty is when multiple challenges all land at the same time. That's when the leadership of your incoming regional director will be needed the most to prepare for, prevent and respond to the challenges ahead. These include conflict, the climate crisis, inequality, infectious disease outbreaks, the rising burden of NCDS, anti antimicrobial resistance, and so much more. And of course, Professor Janabi, you're joining at an unprecedented time for the organization. We're grateful for your experience and expertise as we work together to navigate the challenges we face and position our organization to be stronger, sharper, sharper, and more effective in the future. And we have already started using the current crisis as an opportunity to shape up our organization and to make it better. Professor Janabi, you have the faith and confidence of our member states and of the entire organization. I look forward working with you and I look forward to your appointment by the executive board at its meeting following the World Health Assembly. Once again, congratulations. I very much look forward working with you for a healthier, safer, fairer Africa. I thank you. And Madame Chair, back to you. Many thanks Dr. Detros. This concludes consideration of item four. Ladies and gentlemen, we have now reached the closure of this special section of the regional committee. Before we close, honorable delegates, allow me to recall the proposal from the African region for the elective post of the 78th World Health Assembly and of the 157 section of the executive board. As per usual practice, we adapted the relevant decisions and specifically decision five and decision six at the regional committee meeting last year. To summarize, Cameroon, Ethiopia, Liberia and the Gambia are proposed to serve on the general committee. Why Moritanian, Malawi, Chad are proposed to serve on a committee on credentials? Nanibia is proposed to serve as chair of committee A while I in my capacity as first vice chairperson of the 74th regional committee for Africa will be proposed as vice president of the 78th world health assembly concerning the executive board and central African republic are proposed to replace Ethiopia and sineagar as from its 157th section immediately after the 78th World Health Assembly. In this respect, I wish to sincerely thank Ethiopia and Sineagar for having so excellently represented the interests of our region over the past three years. Zimbabwe will be proposed to replace Synagal to serve on a program budget and administration committee and Central African Republic will be proposed to replace Dotto to serve on a standing committee on health emergency prevention preparedness and response. I congratulate all the fellow delegates on their new post and wish them all the best in their work. Before we close, may I now request the regional director at intern and the director general to address the regional committee. Dr. Chu, you have the floor. Thank Thank you Dr. Bto. As we close as we close this extraordinary session, I also want to thank you our chair for your capable leadership throughout today's proceedings. You've guided this session with clarity and fairness. The circumstances that brought us together were unexpected, but the way in which the region has responded with unity, urgency, and an unwavering commitment to due process has been nothing short of remarkable. To the member states, to our member states, thank you for showing what regional solidarity looks like in action. Your engagement today affirms the importance you attach to who's leadership. I would also like to appreciate the WHO secretariat, the legal council, and all the interpretation teams for your invaluable support. Let me join the chair too in acknowledging their nominations for key elective positions for the upcoming WHA78 and executive board meeting. These nominations reflect both continuity and renewal. I want to particularly thank Ethiopia and Seneagal for their excellent services over the last three years. And I warmly congratulate all our member states who have proposed to serve. Cameroon, Ethiopia, and the the Gambia and Liberia to the general committee. Chad, Malawi and Moritania to the committee on credentials. Namibia as well as the chair of committee A and to you an honorable chair as vice president of WHA78. For the executive board, we welcome Kappa Verde and the Central African Republic and thank them for stepping forward at this important time. We also commend Zimbabwe, the Central Africa Republic for their forthcoming roles on the PABAC and the standing committee on health emergency prepare prevention, preparedness and response. These appointments matter especially to ensure that our region continues to have strong a strong voice in shaping the global agenda. Colleagues, today you have filled a vital responsibility nominating who's next regional director for the Africa region. As we all know, this decision comes at a time of great transition not only for WHO but for the global health architecture as a whole. I want to again congratulate Professor Janabi on his important nomination. I am confident that his leadership will further strengthen who's impact across our region. Serving as an acting regional director since February has been a profound honor to me. I want to again express my sincere appreciation to Dr. Tedras. Thank you for your trust and steadfast support in entrusting me with this role. That work continues today and we remain fully committed to supporting the transition. But we now move to the next chapter with renewed leadership and a united region. I am confident that we will continue to stand together amplifying country priorities, advancing reforms and ensuring that who rem remains a trusted partner to all. Thank you all for your service. It's been a privilege to serve alongside you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much Dr. Chu Dr. Tetrus you beh have the floor. I think we have had a very long day and I fully concur with Chu in everything that he had said and thank you so much Madame Chair. Thank you so much vice chair and to all members of the Afro region. Uh you have shown as my friend Aaron said earlier and a very effective uh election. Congratulations and I would like to assure you that we'll support Professor Genevie to the maximum. So congratulations again and look forward to working with you. So thank you Asante Sana.