So we will begin now. Good afternoon excellencies, ministers, partners, colleagues and friends. A very warm welcome to this strategic roundt on data and sustainable financing twin foundations to accelerate universal health coverage. This event is co-hosted jointly by the World Health Organization and the Susan Thompson Buffett Foundation. I'm Samira Asma, assistant director general at WH and my work focuses on data delivery and measurable impact. And it's a real privilege to moderate this important session today. And it feels like a moment when urgency meets opportunity. A moment not just to reflect but to act. To move from fragmented efforts to shared priorities and from parallel solutions to platforms powered by country leadership and sustainable investments. We come together today to strengthen country-led actionable data systems, expand sustainable and innovative financing, and drive high impact actions, especially with a focus on women and girls. We are here to spotlight real world models, solutions, and reforms that deliver real results. This is a moment of momentum. The leaders in this room are forging a new path, bold, focused, and committed to impact. It is my distinct pleasure to introduce our co-chairs, Dr. Ted Rose, Director General of the World Health Organization, and joining us virtually, Professor Senite Faca, Vice President of Global Programs of the Susan Thompson Buffett Foundation. Dr. Ted Rose, over to you. Thank you. Thank you, Samira. Honorable ministers, Professor Site, Vice President, Buffett Foundation, Excellencies, dear colleagues and friends. A warm welcome and thank you for joining us today. I thank Professor Site Faha and the Susan Thompson Buffett Foundation for co-hosting this important discussion and I thank all of you ministers invoice and development partners for your leadership and commitment to data and primary healthcare. We meet at a moment of serious challenges and real momentum. Yesterday's adoption of the pandemic agreement was a landmark moment in global health. Congratulations to all of us and the approval last night of the next increase in assess contributions was a significant step towards a more sustainably financed, empowered and independent who we need that same spirit of cooperation, the same energy and the same commitment to drive forward our work to accelerate progress towards universal health coverage. Data and health financing are both fundamental components of that work as two of the classic building blocks of health systems. And yet in many countries there are serious gaps in boss. An estimated 36 million births a year are not registered and less than 40% of the world's deaths are registered. In Africa only 44% of birth and 10% of death are registered. If deaths are not registered, we don't know what caused them and investments to stop them can be misplaced. In countries around the world, including higher income countries, out-ofpocket payments are still the main way that many people access care. The consequences are dire and the coid9 pandemic made them even worse. As we all know, who world health statistics 2025 report released last week shows that between 2019 and 2021, global life expectancy fell by 1.8 years. the largest drop in recent history, reversing a decade of health gains. Progress on reducing maternal and childlessness has largely stalled. Access to family planning is contested. In many places, safe child births is a privilege, not a guarantee. and women's sexual and reproductive health are under assault. Protecting women's health is essential to protecting public health. Sudden and steep cuts to bilateral aid have made the situation even worse, causing severe disruptions to health services on which millions rely. We are in a health financing emergency. Although many countries are facing serious challenges, they also see this crisis as an opportunity to leave behind the a the era of aid dependency and transition towards sustainable self reliance. That's what many ministers have told me especially the past couple of months. who is supporting countries to make that transition by using wide range of tools including health taxes, pool procurement and public health insurance. We're urging countries to prioritize health in national budgets, strengthen data systems, and expand smart financing solutions. And we ask partners to align external financing support with country owned systems and priorities. The countries represented here today on the panel and in the room are going to share with us today some of the real progress they have made. From expanding domestic financing to pioneering realtime data systems, many of you are advancing solutions that are scalable, sustainable, and rooted in equity. Data and sustainable financing are not just technical matters. They're political choices. They shape who is reached, how quickly, and with what quality of care, and they determine whether we progress or fall behind. The good news is the solutions are known, the evidence is strong and the leadership in this room is real. I have met many of the ministers many times now in Kgali, elsewhere and here now. Today I encourage each of you to bring forward one step your country will take this year. One action to increase domestic financing especially for primary health care. One reform to reduce out of pocket costs. One measurable result on maternal health, hypertension, immunization or another national priority. Progress is possible if we match ambition with political will, collaboration and accountability. held is not a cost to be contained. It's an investment in people, in stability, and in economic growth. I look forward to hearing your priorities and working together to build health systems that are just, inclusive, and deliver results. It's now my great pleasure to hand the floor to my sister, Professor Senite Fisa, a force of nature, a tireless advocate for women and girls and a visionary leader for equity and impact in global health and especially on the agenda that we're discussing today. Her com her her passion and commitment is beyond words. So it's now again it's now my great pleasure to hand the floor to my sister Side. Side you have the floor. Thank you Dr. Pedros and my sincere apologies that I could not be here in person today. It's a pleasure as always to host this event with you and I would like to extend my welcome to excellencies, ministers of health, delegates, member states and global health partners. This has been a landmark World Health Assembly with the passage of the historic pandemic treaty. A huge congratulation to Dr. Tedros for his courageous leadership and your team uh for their persistent efforts as well as member states that worked tirelessly to pass it. I also want to extend my congratulations on the 20% increased and assessed contribution. Both developments show the continued critical role the World Health Organization plays in protecting and maintaining the world's health and member states commitment to sustainably financing the organization. As Dr. Ted shared, the session looks to drive into two critical pillars of health system data and financing. This session emerged from a conversation with many of you in the room that has been ongoing for the last several months. Both data and financing consistently came up as challenges stemming from the recent decline in external funding. We know there are major limitations in the way data is collected and used today. This leaves you health ministers with critical challenges. How can you know what to prioritize when you don't have visibility into your population's health? Finances financing system systems have also been woefully inadequate. And it's not just the quantity of resources, it's the quality of resources. They are fragmented, delivered in parallel, and often with limited visibility for government. But fortunately, our conversations was weren't just about challenges. It quickly turned into opportunities. The opportunity to use this moment to rethink data and financing in a way that best meets your needs and the need of your people. We have incredible examples around the room which we can learn from and that is the aim for today. For example, Rwanda has pioneered realtime data monitoring which among other things can identify exactly where, when, and why maternal mortality occurs. Sierra Leon and Central African Republic are finding new ways to conduct population level survey in the absence of DHS or the demographical survey utilizing their own researchers. This provides models for leveraging national institutions to support population level analysis as well as continuous service improvement. And isn't that exactly what sustainability and resilience should look like? This there are similar examples in financing spaces. Paxing four products, tobacco, alcohol, sugar sweetened beverages, and processed food could raise trillions of dollars while reducing harmful consumption. This is the kind of leadership, for example, Barbados has shown as one of the first 10 countries to tax sugary beverages, and taxes on salty snacks will take effect next month. Meanwhile, Benin has directed new domestic resources to its community health workers program to minimize service disruption. And given the limited fiscal space in many countries, we are now having incredible conversation with the World Bank Group on how to increase concessional financing for health. I am really happy my sister Tam Morti is on this call and we also have welcomed the world the World Bank group's um commitment to expand health services to 1.5 billion people around the world. Honorable ministers, today's session is about learning from you. We hope to leave with better understanding of the kind of solutions you're prioritizing. But we also need everyone in the room to back this priorities. You know for too long global health has operated in the opposite way with solutions designed in the halls of Geneva, New York, London or Seattle and just brought to countries to implement. And what makes the World Health Organization and Assembly different is that you are the ones in charge of making this plans, making the uh implementation plan and being responsible for implementation as well. But internationally or not, what we know is that this effort has in the past undermine governments, the very institution mandated to lead health and countries. And we are seeing the impact today. This is the moment to shift that reality for countries to truly lead and for funders and development partners to start to learn how to follow. Data and financing are a natural place to start because that's where ministers are telling us to start and that's just not an opportunity. It's our collective responsibility to ensure we're building towards a future where health is truly accessible to all. Thank you. And Samira, back to you to facilitate this wonderful conversation. Thank you very much. Thank you, Dr. Ted Rose and Professor Sai for those visionary yet pragmatic opening remarks that have framed both the urgency and the opportunity before us. Let me briefly walk you through the agenda. We will begin with the ministerial panel. We have seven ministers who are with us on the panel who are advancing bold reforms in data sustainable financing and service delivery. Then we will hear from our partners from the World Bank and the African Union followed by interventions from you um uh from the additional countries and the leadership. If time allows I'll offer brief synthesis to capture some shared themes and we will close with reflections from our co-chairs. So now it's my pleasure to introduce our panel of ministers. I will start with Minister Abdul Kafar from Egypt followed by Minister Sabin from Rwanda, Minister Kaputo of Liberia, Minister Walcott Barbados, Minister Somce from Central African Republic and Minister Chip from Malawi and finally Minister Dembi from Serrielon. So I now invite Minister Abdul Kafar to open the panel. Over to you sir. Thank you so much Samira and director general Dr. Tedros excellencies distinguished delegates and colleagues. It's a privilege to address this high level gathering under the world health assembly. Today we are as we reaffirm our commitment to universal health coverage. We must recognize that two levers reliable data and sustainable financing are fundamental to driving progress. But above all, country leadership must remain at the heart of our collective efforts. In our country, we have placed health at the corner of our development agenda. We have expanded access to essential services, strengthened primary health care, and invested in community health systems. However, without realtime quality data, policy decisions remains blindfolded. That's why we are building integrated digital health platforms and national health observatories to monitor quality and equity, efficiency and health outcomes. Financing is an important another pillar. We are aligning public and private investment with national health priorities. increasing domestic resources, mobilization and exploring innovative mechanisms from resultbased financing to digital insurance models to ensure that no one is left behind. But without truly I mean what really binds these efforts together is the country ownership and leadership is not just about setting targets. It's about making bold decisions, owing our data, and being accountable to our citizens. It's about creating a health system that reflects our realities and is resilient to shocks, whether economic, climate, or epidemiologic. We call on our partners to support national plans, align with local systems, and invest in long-term capacity, not just short-term projects. Universal health coverage is not a global template. It's a national transformation and reform, and we are ready to lead it. Let us move forward with a conviction that data informs, financing sustains, but leadership drives. And I thank you. Thank you very much uh Minister Sabin over to you. Good afternoon. Um thank you very much Dr. Tedros, Professor Senite uh my colleagues, ministers present here uh different partners, colleagues. I think this topic is very important uh financing and data. But we may think that we are financing data but I think um the the points being made here is how do we connect financing and and data not just financing uh data systems. Let me start by saying that our traditional planning uh in the health systems especially in low and middle inome countries has been u led by vertical uh disease planning processes. Uh that is a fact and secondly sometimes most of the time uh led by funders planning and priorities and these are the challenge of the past. So what do we learn from from from this um lessons of the past? Uh as some of this funding unplugging together with the funding and also leaving some of the programs um without any uh ground for sustainability and uh ownership that has been mentioned by previous speakers. Um so we've been in many cases forced to uh come up at some point to repair uh or to reflect when uh it's sometime has been lost or delayed. But also we learned uh so many lessons in the past 20 years at least in the context of my country that has forced us to reflect prioritize and grounding our systems uh to what we have as priorities. uh within our means and what we can continue even to do with or without u resources that are coming uh from from from outside. We need partnerships. We need uh to continue to work with different partners for sure. Uh but also we need to build systems that can stay uh with or without external resources. And that's where uh data comes in. And the power of data uh here is all about how do we understand uh the importance of building strong data systems that we help even to utilize the limited resources we have uh precisely how do we invest in the right places not sending money everywhere uh without necessarily expecting that uh a big impact and professor site mentioned the national health intelligence center that we launched uh two months ago in Kari that is a result of um pulling all these data systems together. uh most of the uh systems built by 20 year old 18 years old uh coding teams from our own uh schools in Rwanda coding academy in particular coming together with minimum assistance from professors in u in digital and IT but uh these young people have been able to build uh our first national data systems that is actually driving uh all the sources of information now in one warehouse. We adding uh artificial intelligence analytics to make it even faster and precise and better. And we found that by investing in uh these data systems built locally, you spend less in our programs, you save money that you can do uh also invest in other areas like virtual hospital program that we are also starting uh using this uh national health intelligence center. And we really want to thank our partners uh including um the co-host Susan and Thompson Buffett Foundation and that uh with the support of partners but supporting what we have already in our system in our countries we can actually spend less. It's not about the amount of money. It's how we use the money we we we receive in the right place and precisely so that we also invest in something that we remain with or without external resources even if they are uh stopping any partner stopping overnight leaving uh overnight you can still uh remain and uh don't panic your your system remains with with the resources you have so to conclude I would We as as as systems as countries uh we need to continue invest uh within our our means. Uh we need to have precise uh with our data on what we should be doing but also we need to create new ways of domestic financing uh like you've been doing in the past few months. uh we've taxing uh some I would say is a healthy tax when you tax tobacco, sugar, uh gambling and other areas actually uh not helpful to our to to our to our citizens. But at the end these taxes are collected to invest in uh programs like community based health insurance uh that will continue to serve uh so many people. Maybe I will stop here and u listen from my colleagues. Thank you. Thank you very much. May I invite Minister Kapoorto from Liberia, Professor Sin Knight, Dr. Tetro's excellencies, honorable ministers, distinguished colleagues, partners, and friends. I'm honored to represent Liberia here today at this gathering. As we all know, the critical areas of health data and sustainable health financing are two foundational pillars for achieving the universal health coverage. Liberia's joining towards USC is one marked by progress, resilience, and lessons learned. We have recognized that strong national leadership driven by reliable data and sustainable and predictable financing is essential building a health system on health data. Labra has made some meaningful str. We strengthen our national health management information system, the DHIS2 where we have rolled it out to all 15 counties in the country and that has helped us to monitor coverage and service delivery. But when we came to Rwanda, I thought we had to start all over. So we've we are now trying to look at what Rwanda did is not going to be exactly that but in such a way we want to model it a little bit so we can have the real time data that we saw as it relates to the maternal health the ambulances those ones we did not capture. We are working with partners to capture that. But we are very aware that timely disagregated and actionable data is not just a technical issue but also leadership and data must guide our investments and our policies. On sustainable financing currently as we know the financial landscape around the world is changing. We are looking at a countryled financial model. We work along with partners and the ministry of finance and we have started rolling out the revolving drug fund in our country. So we are piloting it in counties. We also currently validated a public health scheme called the Liberal Health Equity Fund and this fund is in if it's passed because we have to present it to our president and be legislated and it's aimed at reducing out of pockets cost for the vulnerable populations. We have completed our universal health cover framework and is our strategic plan for 2022 to 2020 2031. It prioritizes equitable access to standardized essential package of health services. Our community health program we have expanded it. We have over 4,000 trained community health assistant deployed in all 15 counties. However, we cannot do this alone. We need sustained investment in data, long-term commitments to health financing and global architecture that respects and enable country priorities. Thank you. My colleagues may now speak. Thank you very much. Uh Minister, may I now invite Minister Walcot from Barbados. Thank you. Thank you chair. Good afternoon to all of you. Uh Dr. Tedros, Professor Site, uh colleague, honorable ministers, distinguished delegates, distinguished ladies and gentlemen. At the outset, I want to express my pleasure and appreciation for hosting of this very important round table on health financing and data in Barbados. I listened to some of my colleague ministers. I believe we have a lot of catching up to do and I've already spoken to my colleague from Rwanda before we even started. But I'll just get to it and tell you as it relates to Barbados like other developing count small island developing states we face the growing challenge of escalating cost in terms of financing health care and this has to do with the disease profile but also with the new more modern innovations within health care. Our public health system for many years we were proud of it. We it was based on the beverage meth the beaverage method of financing that is that there was universal access to health care free at point of service and this was being covered from the by the taxation access to taxes. We were proud we had very good records as it related to maternal and child care. We boasted and still do of ex life expectancy of 77 78 years. But then we came across this scourge of NCDS and cancer which is causing severe morbidity in our population is responsible for almost 80% of adult deaths every year in my country. Uh in addition coupled with this we have an aging population who is predicted that about 25 to 30% of our population will be over 65 years by 2030. that brings additional issues in relation to the long-term care of these people in modern societies. I believe certainly in Barbados persons are not as caring for their elderly relatives and you find that there's quite a dependency on the government to provide and the state to provide uh long-term care for these people and this adds further to this strain being placed on our health budget budget. As it relates to government health spending as a percentage of the GDP, we have done very well. We have not reached the the level of 15%. But over the last four years, we've average about 12 12% of GDP. But having said that the vast majority of the services remain publicly financed in the island and hence the we in order to maintain our commitment to equity and universal access we now need to seriously address the issue of financing. uh in two in 2018 we developed a scheme called a a health levy which through the national insurance system uh you were char a charge of 2.5% of salaries uh where the employer paid 1.5 the employee paid 1% and this went these funds were diverted directly to the main tertiary health institutions in addition and we have the we've used we've leveraged fiscal policies to drive health outcomes but also to raise income by way of taxes on cigarettes, alcohol, the sugar sweet and beverage tax. And most recently, as Professor Site said, it was introduced in this year's budget that within the next two months, there'll be taxes on salted um salted snacks which are being imported into Barbados. However, to address these realities, we have been reviewing our options and I must thank uh Paho who for providing consultants who came to Barbados, had a number of stakeholder consultations, met with government officials, finance officials at the private sector, the insurance and civil society to ex examine possibilities as you relate to financial options for Barbados. uh this M the reports are in now and the discussion is with the ministry of finance and I believe I'm safe to say they're mostly ministries of health here the issues that you have with ministries of finance when we start to discuss the matters of uh insurance health insurance and all of this but that matter the discussions have started and it is something that we certainly working on meanwhile we've started some efficient reforms in terms of um spending and fin health we've in including performance-based incentives and smarter I use the word smarter uh allocation of resources for health that is trying to reduce wastage etc and of course we need we keep talking about it but we need to introduce national health accounts we recognize that sustained financing must go in hand in hand with timely and accurate and real-time data and we also recognize the transformative power of digital solutions ions in this regard and we currently have a very fragmented fragmented system as it relates to data and data collection and we are now in the process of procurement and I say in the process of procuring because we've been through the requests of expressions of interest the procurement process we've done the evaluation we've identified the health information system that we need to go with in terms of ensuring interoperability with what we have and across the entire public health system uh in addition with support from the IADB and the Pan-American Health Organization an assessment was done which identified gaps in terms of the governance with the systems that we have and the need interoperability gaps. So as far as that is concerned, I can say Barbados remains committed to universal health coverage and we look forward to a system health system which is resilient and we recognize that to do this we need digital transformation and indeed to identify and introduce a vi a viable and sustainable financing system. Thank you. Thank you very much. It's my pleasure to invite Minister Sce from the Central African Republic. Okay, Merci. Thank you. Thank you very much. Director General, Professor Senate, the Susan Thompson Foundation, distinguished delegates, thank you for giving me this opportunity to share our experience in a transformative partnership which confers upon us dignity and an ability to act. We don't have a lot of time to go into details here. I do believe that our colleagues in their experience have reflected what each one of us would also want to say. But what I want to emphasize is how the how of the matter. I am Dr. Pierre Sce, Minister of Health of the C. As you know this is a country that is exiting a period of conflict 30 years of conflict which have devastated the health system and that is why in our country our health care system is on is being artificially aided. It's supported by the humanitarian sector and that's how our country has survived to this point with relatively low state funding especially due to the crisis we've overcome. When I was a new minister approximately eight years ago, we carried out research on how to evaluate the funding situation and we realized that between 2016 and 2019, 300 uh central African franks, 30 300 billion central a uh central African franks were used were spent in the healthare system in order to reduce maternal and children's mortality. In 2019 and up until this date, our country, the Central African Republic, is one of three countries with the highest maternal mortality rate. And that's approximately and we have spent 300 million 300 billion c uh central African Franks on this in order to resolve this issue. It's not that we didn't have enough money, but how was the money used? That's what made the difference. And what's important here that we've learned from this experience, that is what is important with regard to our country. Our partnership with the Susan Thompson Foundation and with the WHO brought about a new approach to making our money work for us. It not just gave us the opportunity to have funding for the first time. My ministry, the Ministry of Health, had cash money to use. We had funds to manage. Previously, we did have funds, but it was scattered around. We never actually saw the results of that money, and we didn't see the results of the programs at the time. But here, we now have funding that has come to us through the trusts that conferred upon us by the Susan Thompson Foundation, and they took a risk to give us this funding. All of our other partners thought that our government was a risky bet giving us money that we would we would misuse it, misappropriated it and the system wouldn't be viable. So that is an important element that I wanted to emphasize with this funding with these resources we ourselves were able to collect data as we wanted to do it. We were able to collect data that we had never been able to collect before. We were able to carry out research on maternal mortality. As I've mentioned, this these are studies that had never been done before that had ne that had not been done in in over 30 years. Many humanitarian partners carry out surveys without involving the government. They uh publish document they p they make publications on the central African republic without our involvement. These resource they have resources but these resources do not involve the Central African Republic. So what I want to emphasize is the how the money is there but how is it used? We have studies that have been published for the first time and now we're going to be able to take action in order to resolve the issue of m of maternal mortality. We will now be able to have digital systems. The DHS, for example, will have a situation room as well where we are able to predict indicators in real time. We're able to keep an eye on these indicators. We were not able to do this before because the money didn't belong to us. We were not capable of this. What's important in the how here is leadership. Absolutely the leadership which has been conferred upon us which has enabled us to use this funding which has enabled us to enjoy our own to implement our own creativity in this work and that is what's important what I want to say to you is when there is leadership total leadership ownership we had this before but it was in theory only it wasn't in real life when you have that leadership when you can define what you want to do. Identify what you want to do. The results will come and the results will be felt by the population. We have healthcare action and work that is recognized and noticed by the population. Now our information systems involve the population. The population are that the population are epidemiologists. They are our statisticians. This information is all validated by the population involving the health sector and the population. If this population cannot use these data, what the way we work now is we involve the population in our data collection and in the results of that data collection and this informs our leadership roles. for the first time in December 2024, the president of the republic delivered a uh an address to the nation and spent 45 minutes during that address on healthcare and this information. This was informed by our data collection and the population was listening to this address and approved and applauded. So this is a population that recognizes that they are being involved in the process. There is a consensus on what is ongoing now. There's a momentum is as the result of this leadership and the link between funding and data collection funding that belongs to you that you can take ownership of and leadership is noticeable here and that is what enables us to manage this transformation. I'm going to give you one last example of transformation. This is a strategy that we were not able to apply until now. I was a doctor in remote locations and in 1984 in 1984 when I can when I finished my studies I had 10 cesarian operations cases where the mother did not survive because the the mother would only arrive at the hospital after 10 days of labor. And then as a result the cesarian was carried out but the women unfortunately did not survive. I found that it was traditional matrons who took care of these women who delivered these babies. I found these women and I trained them with the help of this state. I trained the midwives in a way in how to avoid or how to reduce mortality, how to carry out this. I wanted to do this but I didn't have the money to do it. I didn't have the independence or the money or the money. Once I had financial independence, I was able to engage in this work. And um here Dr. Tedress will be quite surprised but at the time who said that they didn't want to work together with midwives. They wanted to work with nurses. But for at the time we only had 4 and a half midwives or or medical professionals for 10,000 inhabitants. So it was insufficient and thanks to the resources and the funding that I received, I was then able to enjoy the freedom to carry out this work. Now we have regions where there are no longer any maternal deaths where midwives do not have patients who die. And I'm going to conclude here on that example in order to illustrate this concept of leadership of funding of data collection and how this makes a change. I thank you. Thank you very much. Very inspiring. A would like to invite Minister Kipondo Kipondo from Malawi. Thank you. Thank you so much uh Samir and let me thank the organizers uh the DG and uh the STBF foundation for organizing such an important um meeting and coming at the right time uh on issues of data and sustainability. uh I'm saying it has come at the right time uh because uh uh the changes in geopolitics the withdrawal of aid has exposed the huge huge challenges uh which we have and for some of us a country like Malawi in fact if you ask me what is the impact of the withdrawal I cannot give you a proper answer because I don't have the data I just know that I've lost about 5,000 nurses but apart from that what else we have lost I cannot tell you I cannot compute because I don't have the data I only know that I had a very very successful robust HIV management system where really our patients those HIV positive they didn't have to carry with them a health passport to go to the hospital they will just go there you say your name everything else comes on the dashboard on the screen you don't have to worry about that but if you have hepatitis if you have hypertension if you have diabetes you need to have a health passport with you. So you have one vertical program very very successful robust and then the rest of all the other diseases you need to have a pharaoh with you. Unfortunately 2023 we had cyclon Freddy which affected the uh the southern part of Malawi. We had over 3 million Malawians almost displaced from their homes. You can imagine how many of them they had lost their health passports cuz this is a book. The lost houses and everything in that house. It means you have lost years and years of your health information. You have women, children in the camps where we kept them for some time. They will come to the clinic because we had to open clinics within 24 hours. They had they will come to the clinic. No, I was taking a medication. What kind of medication? It was pink. Now you tell me which medicine is pink. And this is the reality on the ground. So it betrayes the point of the importance of data and I'm so grateful to the STB Foundation because making decisions without data, you're doing nothing. you are doing nothing and you can't have within the country one program very successful and the rest of them it's not about the disease it's about the person and I'm so happy with the uh modus operand of STBF because it aligns with our health strategic plan three for the Malawi government whereby we are saying we have a plan as government and everybody Those who wants to come and assist us, who wants to come and complement complement government efforts, they have to align by the government's plan. This has not been the case before and a lot has already been said by my brother uh Central African uh uh Republic. We have had so many duplications, so many wastage because of having several strategic plans, several agreements. This one will come with their own way and several systems. Unfortunately, some of the health information systems, we don't even own them. They hosted thousands and thousands kilometers away. You have absolutely no clue of what is happening to our information, to our data, cuz that is our data. It's a security issue. We don't know what is being used there. You have absolutely no say. And that is why all of us now we're like Rwanda, Rwanda, Rwanda, Rwanda, Rwanda because they have total ownership, total ownership of everything. And that is the way all of us now are saying no, let's have a common position as Africa. Let's own these things. This is data. Let's own the data. Let's own everything about the samples which are taken from our people. Let's own it. If somebody wants to borrow or use it, we should be in the group in terms of regression and things like that. So data management it is very important for policy making for direction but also it talks to the issue of sustainability as well cuz if you don't have the proper data you end up wasting the much needed resources and for countries like us whereby instead of 80 uh USD per capita we are at 40. We can't afford to waste any resource at all. where we have some of us in Malawi Materno mortality rate is still above 200 not good enough against recommended by who that at least you should be 70 and we're supposed to reach that 70 by the year in 5 years time which is the year 2030 and some of us maternal mortality rate accounts for 14% of the national mortality rate of the country these are real serious issues. So we cannot afford to waste anything. Even if if you talk of human resource for Malawi, we have two health workers for a thousand. Well, DG says at least four for a,000 and some of us we are still at two. So we cannot afford to waste any scent at all. We need to have proper data and we are so grateful that you have some you know organizations which really are focused to making a difference in a very transparent way very very transparent way they come to you you sit down around the table what do you need we need ABCD you know okay we are going to give you so much and when they support you I think it's also very important transparency and accountability should be on both sides on both sides of the table. Most of the times transparency is demanded from us as government but we don't dismand transparency from the ones who have come to support us. So you have pledges being pledged to our countries and then at the end of the day it's as if we cannot absorb the pledge but in the real the reality is that even that pledge did not even come through but we have to account for it. So the way of doing things that's why I'm saying I'm applauding the model operandanda of the uh Susan Buffett uh uh foundation on sustainability as a country Malawi we are also doing a lot we know what that with these challenges we also need to do something on our own we have launched the healthy financing strategy which we are using now just to the private sector the citizens all the CSOS everybody in Malawi that we need to do something we cannot just wait for our partners but also we cannot just wait for government. We need to find innovative ways of bringing in more uh financing or more funding. We can give an example of two. We have now started direct facility funding. We have done this because we have noted that you know most of the facilities for countries like Malaw whereby 70% of their people are in the hard to reach areas they're in the village and in that village we have only one health center and for us from somebody to move from capital to that health center it takes time. So now we have introduced direct facility funding. We also want to to motivate them that they should also have ownership of the funding which comes direct to them. They should not like even a plaster or something. No, they need to have something which goes direct to them and we can even hold them accountable. So we want them also to have a sense of ownership. We have also started in a very very small way what we call a drive. A drive is that whereby with our partners you we have bought a motorcycle for a facility a healthy post in the village that motorcycle they use it for failing drugs. If they have a a a clinic to vaccinate the children they use it to do that on that day. But when it's not being used for that they use it to hire out. People in the village motorcycle is the common transport. There are no cars there. So they're hiring out and they're getting money you know which is being used. It is simple but really it is proving to be a gamecher in a village setup. So we're looking at all these things and of course we're also in the process of you know setting up the health fund which will be you know used for the sin taxes like the other countries but we just wanted to stress the point that sustainability is very very important. In fact, the developments now have really forced us to know when we have been talking about sustainability, but I don't think any of us were serious about it, but now because it's in the face, uh there's that we cannot avoid it. We just have to not just to talk about it, but put strategies to address the same. Thank you so much. Thank you very much, Minister. Now I would like to invite Minister Dembi from Sierra Leon. Uh thank you Samira, Professor Site DJ Tedros. Uh it's nice to come last because my colleague ministers have said everything. I think we could all go home now. But I have a few additional thoughts I want to share with you. Uh, Sierra Leon is going through a major policy shift, a major transformation. Um, as some of my colleagues referenced before, we have these health care systems that are disease-based and they are also funded uh through these diseases. And so, everybody gravitates to the malaria program, everybody gravitates to the HIV program. And at the end of the day is one patient may have malaria today and may have tie for it tomorrow. So we're shifting focus from uh a disease-based intervention to clear patient or client centered care. So that brings to bear all of the interventions but around the person and for us to look at everybody in the country our interpretation of universal health coverage is to follow the life stages from pregnancy. We work with the pregnant woman to ensure that they are healthy and they deliver safely. We work with the babies from zero to age uh six years to ensure that they have all of the health needs that they require. Uh for kindergarten we prepare them for school and at school we have school health that looks at all of the health needs for these children as they go to learn for adults and senior citizens. So you have the whole spectrum from pregnancy to um to senior citizens like myself. So you have a situation where my health needs are very different from the pregnant woman's health needs. So we have to refashion the health response to target this particular health group at the stage in their life. So imagine the shift from diseases now to person- centered care now following the live stages with all of these new metrics and the multi-dimensional view of the need of the person. This requires data. This requires granular data. So we've used in the past DHIS2 to inform our uh interventions. It's gone all the way to district and subdist level. We have um um e-registration for patients. We have M supply for supply chain. But at the end of the day, you need to be a little bit more granular. So I'll site an example as an illustrative example of how data has been useful for us for microlevel planning. We developed a new app in Sierra Leon that's looking at registering pregnancies. And so when you register a pregnancy, we have a complete profile of the pregnant woman. And we are committed, we're committed to stay with that pregnancy till delivery. And so at every encounter, we look at the 360 around the pregnant woman and see what the needs are and be able to provide those needs because we have an interest in the outcome. Not a passive interest, but an active interest in ensuring safe delivery for the mother and the baby. In the same vein, we've established an emergency operation center that's linked up to the whole country. All of the districts feed into this. So on a daily basis, we know all of the pregnancies that are in my country. On a daily basis, we know all of the high-risisk pregnancies and where they are. And we deploy resources to these specific locations based on the need. We've been able to reduce maternal mortality from one of the highest in the world at 1,300 per 100,000 live births to the last recording was about 354 per 100,000 live births. 70 something% drop. and we're dropping that even further because we want to achieve the 70 per 100,000 by 2030. So what I've described here is a shift in policy, a major shift in policy and the value of data in allowing us to be able to get to where we want to go. We have a clear vision of what we want to do in Sierra Leone. The next issue is just financing. How do you finance all of this? And I think there are two aspects of this. One is the supply side, the actual money on the table. The second is how you use those resources effectively to get the delta that you're looking for. I think we had situation where there's multiple funding as all my colleagues have been saying. It's coming from everywhere. Everybody has their own vision for how they want this money spent. Everybody has their own plans for how these funds are being utilized and in the end is very incoherent and it's not resultsbased. You're not looking at the overall delta for the health care of the client of the patient. So what we want to do is to ensure that as we bring resources I mean Sierra Leon is a relatively poor country and and you know we still have we're grappling with a $46 uh per capita health expenditure. So it's it's a small amount of money and we have you know we're about 11.6% 11.7% of expenditure is focused on health but it's 11.7% of what? So, we hope that the economy will grow and that 11.7% will be meaningful. We're looking at instituting a social health insurance scheme that will allow access with pulled risk. We're looking at sin taxes to be able to raise money. But as you raise all of these funds, the important thing is to be able to deploy those resources based on data, informed by data, impacted by data, and looking at not only the data collection and the data quality, but the data analytics that you could turn around to look at how you invest around health outcomes. So, we're really excited for this meeting today. And uh I think for us there's a clear vision for us. The value of the digital uh transformation to help us achieve the the vision is very clear. The funding piece will look for all of our partners to follow four fundamental principles for our ministry of health. One, the Ministry of Health is in charge of health for the country. We've created a vision that's co-created by all of our partners. So there is a clear vision. So what we look from our partners is accompanyment. Accompany us on this journey to fulfill our vision. We also expect alignment. So we don't want to pe people pulling in multiple directions. So if you accompany us, align with us. We are in a hurry. So we're working at a very very accelerated pace. And finally, we want all of us to be accountable to each other and to the people we serve. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you to all um our ministers, your excellencies for sharing such bold and practical reforms truly anchored in country leadership, ownership, transparency, accountability, and the four principles that you shared just now. all being results-based and uh really all interested in improving health outcomes. Before we open the floor, I would like to turn to our two key partners uh to reflect on what they have heard and how they see the road ahead. First, I would like to invite um Ma Morti, vice president for human development at the World Bank joining us virtually and after that we will hear from Dr. Kabur Kaburuku Kaburoka sorry I'm so sorry hi representative for financing at the African Union who is with us in the room uh Ma over to you thank you uh thank you so much uh Samira and uh uh greetings uh to all the ministers in the room uh thank you DJ uh Ted Ross and and San uh Dr. SET for inviting me to this very important session. Um uh uh I believe the issues that we're discussing sustainable financing and robust uh data systems are absolutely essential for universal health coverage. Uh last year uh around this time the the World Bank group set an ambitious goal to help countries to extend uh affordable and quality health services to 1.5 billion people. um uh uh by 2030. Uh I'm very happy to say that uh our interventions, our technical assistance, our financial support has reached 200 million people. Um of course uh this is uh this is a start and there is a long road ahead especially amidst a shifting global health financing landscape as as many of the ministers have already alluded. Uh that's why remain we remain cautious about the ability to reach 1.5 billion people by 2030. But we also see this challenge as an opportunity. Um many country leaders uh including ministers of health represented here today uh have made bold decisions rethinking their strategy for health uh more fundamentally uh focusing on increasing budgets for health um uh increasing the efficiency of spending um and and uh thereby expanding coverage. Um and the twin foundations that we are discussing sustainable financing and strong data systems are the key to to achieving the outcomes that everyone is seeking. So let me start just um by saying a few words uh on on data systems that uh as many have eloquently said already uh need to guide the resources where they can have the most impact based on a national health plan. Um uh at the World Bank uh we are looking to support countries to modernize their data systems and use this information for decision-m exactly as outlined by Minister Dembi from Sierra Leon um uh because I think we can all agree that real-time information is needed to guide decisions um you know starting at the national policy level but essentially also to bedside care um so that um performance can be tracked uh can be measured Of course, corrections can be made and and importantly um decision makers at all levels can be held accountable. Let me just give two examples of what we're doing. Um in Argentina, we are supporting a digital health system uh to manage medical records, appointments, prescriptions and other services. Uh in India we are supporting the digitalization of the primary health care system and this is helping with uh disease surveillance uh primary healthcare inventory management uh preventive care for for NCDS um as well as treatment. Um now let me get on to financing which is the trickier part uh if if I may say so. Um uh we are supporting reforms to increase the financing available for health and the impact that the resources can have on health. Um and this means working with countries to understand the fiscal space that they have but also to define the health benefit package based on disease burden and not the amount of external financing uh that is available. Uh and this is behind the health insurance reforms that we're supporting. uh to give one example here in Kivvoir um the World Bank is supporting efforts to scale the national health insurance system so that coverage can expand from around 10% in 2023 to um 80% ne next year um through public private collaboration. Um Kivvoir is also a country where we have supported a debt for development swap. uh this is helping 30,000 young people in Kivoir attend secondary school. We are really hoping that there can be more debt for development swaps including in in health. Um finally I should say that the problems of small uh um island developing uh states um are unique and and we are working on solutions to support sustainable financing of health um uh in the context of SIDS. Um now let me just say that uh we know that this 1.5 billion target is going to be hard to achieve and progress depends on strong partnerships that reduce fragmentation and align resources. Many of you have said this already. Um uh uh a couple of examples of of things that are coming down the road. Um first of all there's the launch of the uh UHC hub in Tokyo uh later this year under the leadership of Japan and and and and uh the WHO and this will be a platform to strengthen collaboration between ministries of health and and ministries of finance. Uh the uh honorable minister from Barbados spoke about what an important nexus this is that is essential for sustainable health financing. Uh another thing that we hope is coming down the road is uh the deployment of more co co-inancing um to ensure that IDA uh alongside grant financing can help uh more countries invest in sustainable financing and and health delivery reforms. Um this is only the beginning but but uh um we we believe there is a a strong journey uh a long journey which can be a strong journey ahead. Um so I want to close uh by by uh actually echoing the words of Minister uh Dembi. I think uh uh all of us as partners need to accompany country leadership in in supporting expansion of health coverage and uh financing reforms as well as data systems in order to have more resources used better to improve health care. Um so so please uh please uh uh join us as we support country leadership uh to transform today's constraints into tomorrow's progress. Uh thank you very much. Thank you very much Ma and may I invite Dr. Kaburoka to share your thoughts. Thank you. Thank you very much. Can you hear me? Thank you. Thank you Ted Ros. Thank you site. Thank you ministers and congratulations to the pandemic treaty. I think that is a historic achievement. Now you have framed this meeting as listening to our ministers. So we're here to to listen on behalf of the African Union and I've learned quite a lot listening to our ministers. Clearly great things are happening as they should and I'm glad to be here. So I'll be very brief and have just two points. My claim to knowledge of public health was because I spent uh I think four years here in Geneva as chair of the board of the global fund and long time ago I used to be finance minister. So I was involved in allocating resources. So I have only two points I want to make just two and I'll be very brief because everything has been said. One of the most consequential American presidents Dwight Eisenhower who many of you know a very famous president very consequential said things I want you to bear in mind. He said plans are useless but planning is indispensable. Plans are useless but planning is indispensable. There's an American president who was a great commander and former head of NATO. And the reason he said this is that even the most meticulous plan can often fail short due to unforeseen circumstances such as for example the recent cut in foreign aid that was an unforeseen circumstances. You all had great plans. Now uh those of us who are Christians know that in the Bible there is still about seven very years of plenty and seven years of of shortages. So the last 25 years we have lived in the years of relative plenty. Now we're entering a period of relative shortage. And so as you think about uh these issues, it's about planning in the context of less resources than we are used to. It is true in the 25 years of plenty, relative plenty disease burden has come down, child mortality, life expectance has come up. Now we have to maintain those things in the years of reduced availability of resources. I think that's the challenges of your planning and the reason I'm happy you're discussing data is that you cannot manage anything without data. You can't plan if you don't have information. Uh so the conversation around uh data it means you have great understanding you develop flexibility adaptability instead of having rigid plans which fall short as soon as you come against an external shock or some unforing circumstances. It enhances collaboration with external parties and also overcomes uh Tedros you know this something in international organizations we call analysis paralysis I've attended meetings in the last one year about what do you do about health financing and I think sometimes we tend to this analysis paralysis we're in a new circumstances and not about to change so we need to move forward Um hopefully in the many discussions we have had to land somewhere there was a mini summit at the African Union about a month ago chaired by my president who a champion for the AU on domestic health financing and I welcome many decisions which are taken there on domestic resource mobilization better public finance management innovation all these things are important I want ministers of health to understand though that your ministers, your governments are also facing challenges on education, on food security and on paying debt. And therefore, even if we increase domestic resource mobilization, there will still be choices to be made within the health sector and between the health sector and other sectors. in the health sector itself and between the health sector and the other sectors. This has to be a continuous choice we have to make. Look, I want to say that we're prepared to uh to work with you on this. I'm impressed by the plans I've had, but remember Eisenhower and remember that we can do quite a lot even with limited resources at a meeting Tedros and I attended in Keeli which site thanks for convening. uh I gave the example of what happened in COVID. There is no evidence, none whatsoever to say that countries with more resources in per capita terms did better at containing COVID than those with resources. countries who did very well in COVID management like South Korea, like Israel, like Vietnam, like my own had probably less resources than Italy, which Italy had more resources or even the USA. And so we need to think about how do we get more resources, more more health, better outcomes for a period of limited resources. and I know that great things are being done in the countries and the WHO and you'll be there to back you up. Thank you. Thank you very much. Um I know we are at the hour but I would really request few more minutes of your attention and we would like to hear from two countries from the floor. Minister Hung Patin from Beni and Minister Aden Dual from Kenya. a minute each uh would we would appreciate listening to you from your perspectives and then I will pass on to the co-chairs for any uh final closing remarks. Thank you. Merci. Thank you. Thank you very much. I'd like to thank Dr. Tedros and Professor Senate for giving us this opportunity to have this meeting. I would like to make a few comments. Everything's already been said, but with regard to bin in terms of data calculation and collections, data helps us make um community- based decisions, the best decisions. And that's why right now what we're building is a community-based health care system that is on a voluntary basis in order to ensure that the entire community, each community can have access to information. We have 200 households for one community center and we've got health care agencies as well that supervise these community centers and this means that we have deconented decentralized prevention and healthcare promotion and I'd like to thank the foundation for their support. This is a unique model that we've implemented with the help of US aid. We're trying to cover 22 communes out of 117. And with our government, we've put into place $200 million in order to close these gaps. And the foundation has provided us with support here in order to close these gaps entirely and enable us to decentralize these policies and continue them. I do have something else to add in addition to this. Benin has committed that in five years the all of our policy centers will be fully funded by local resources and that means that that's approximately $30 million and when I take a look at the bin budget for this year that's $300,000 million thousand that means that will help us to um covering these community centers. It's important for us to be able to build this health care system so that we can better reallocate these resources to have more results especially when it comes to uh taking fact-based decisions based on data. Thank you. Thank you very much. Minister from Kenya, if I may just invite you to share your reflections to thank who through Dr. Tedros and Susan B Thomson Bav Foundation for convening this uh roundt uh discussion. Kenya is undertaking a very fundamental reforms in its health financing architecture and we are moving from the previous national health insurance fund to the social health insurance fund in order to cover the entire population. How do we how have you done this? We have catered three funds. one is fully funded by the government, the exchure and that is the primary fund to cater for services in level two to level four free of charge. You walk in, you walk out. Then we have number two where is the emergency chronic and critical illness fund which caters for emergencies and when one exhaust his social health insurance uh uh cover and the third one now which is mandatory for all salaried people in our country social health insurance fund which is based on 2.7% of one's income. Regarding data, we have prioritized a digital health superighway through our digital health agency within the ministry of health. And it starts from the household. It starts from the home where we have community health promoters all the way to the primary care networks and all our current existing health information systems will all come under this super highway. What does this super digital superighway does in our country? One, it tracks and trace all health products and technologies to the manufacturer. Two, we use that super highway for tele medicine. Three, we use that super highway, digital superighway to do accreditation and registration of all our health workers, doctors and nurses. And this help us to weed out quirks and unprofessional health workers in our country. It also helps us to improve efficiency in resource utilization, registration and agitation of all healthcare facilities in our country are done under the digital superighway weeding out uh fake health facilities. And finally, we use biometrics for the identification of patients at all our health facilities. And our data, the cloud, our data is stored in our own country. And um really want to ask colleagues, ministers that it is dangerous to to allow your data to be stored outside your country. And finally, I think if you allow me, let us therefore use this forum to reimagine uh the global health financing and the data architecture not just to meet targets but to serve the people. Let us co-create models that will embed accountability, equity and country ownership at the core. Together we can deliver a future where universal healthcare is a reality for all our citizens. Thank you. Thank you very very much. Um I understand that um many of you have to join other meetings and we are really running short of time and we have some requests from South Sudan and Burkina. So so half a minute if I may please request you and then I would like to pass on for closing remarks uh to DG and professor Senite. Uh thank you so much. Uh so Sudan, not South Sudan. Uh I'm Faruk Lur, uh director general of I am the director general of the healthcare insurance in Sudan. due to the war in uh of finance for defense uh budget which challenging the health financing allocation. uh this situation actually uh need different tactics and interventions uh for more resilient health system and more resilient health financing. Uh so these tactics uh and interventions begin uh now we begin with the uh reforming of revenue collection towards earmarked uh tax and shifting the NHIF national health insurance fund uh from premiumbased to tax based. Uh secondly, so the health financing pooling uh by investing uh in data which will absorb new demographic changes in my country uh to achieve equitable and efficient allocation which lead to equitable distribution services. Uh third uh reforming of the uh procurement of services towards strategic parkasing and inclusion of uh private sector. Finally, I recommend digital system to manage health financing through crossber countries data like uh for example uh open IMS and DHIS sponsor sponsored by WHO. Thank you. Thank you very much. My apologies uh Sudan. Thank you for those interventions. A quick uh response from Burkina Faso please. Hello. Thank you very much. I'm I'll be brief, but I'd just like to uh continue on what Dr. Tadris has said that healthcare is more of an investment for development of life. That's of paramount importance and we align ourselves with that. And Ba Faso, our uh president, truly shares this vision. This is a country that is suffering from terrorism. A country that has suffered from a lack of funding, the sessation of funding from a bilateral partnership and 12% of our state budget is allocated towards the health ministry despite the humanitarian crisis despite the situation. So that is something that's important and it is this funding that enables Burkin Afaso to respect his commitments. 95% of our commitments taken with the uh global fund in the framework of funding has been has been uh respected with GAVI. We have also uh paid back what we owed and that was uh $10 million. So in 2025 there's nothing else to make up for. And this funding enables women in our country, even in rural areas to benefit from mamograms, cancer screening, not just in Wagadoo and the other major cities, but in rural areas, they're able to do screening and mamograms, and that is free. Please note, it's free. A second thing that I'd like to mention is that we have implemented what we call a digital minimum ecosystem which provides information solutions, digitalized solutions that improve efficiency and we have implemented that and it has enabled Bhnafaso to reduce by 17% um any fees related to health care for women and people under 25 years of age. We have we are improving our efficiency and allies with partnerships. We've on uh our plan and our budget. I'd like to also thank the Buffett Foundation for their flexibility and their understanding because this is a foundation that trusts Burkinaaso that is providing funding through our treasurer and this is what I would like to share with you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much indeed. And I would like to now invite our co-chairs to offer your closing reflections. Professor Sait and Dr. Ted Rose, over to you. Thank you. Thank you, Samira. Uh thank you, Dr. Pedros. uh all the ministers that were in the panel and our partners uh from the World Bank Group uh M Praerti and uh Donald Kabuka, Dr. Kabaruka from the AU special envoy on health financing. This is clearly a conversation where we have only scratched the surface but in closing I want to highlight a few points we can take away. Uh the first is the clear call around country designed developed and owned data systems. Uh WHO support will be key here to ensure g global comparability while supporting national level systems. So Dr. Tedros, I know we can count on you and your team uh to accompany countries here and I know Samira Asma who's been the force behind the WHO data uh and and delivery for impact unit uh the World Health annual report and the measurement of GPW13 and 14 has has agreed uh to champion this initiative working with the Buffett Foundation and the WHO. So we very much look forward to supporting countries uh on this initiative. Uh second is on how the how of partnership. Uh there is a lot of lip service to country ownership but I think we've heard what that really looks like today and I'll use Minister Dembiy's words accompanyment supporting national plans aligning to local systems and building national capacity. And uh on financing I think we have an incredible opportunity. Uh Dr. has clearly outlined the challenges are not only in health but in other sectors and countries continue to struggle uh servicing their debt. However, despite that, we're going to focus on efficiency uh better utilization uh but also finding corners and and we look forward to working with the bank uh and the using the upcoming UFC hub launch uh in partnership with Japan, the World Bank and the WH as a deadline to hopefully bring a few countries along um on a compact agreement along with the bank to increase financing. And and and lastly uh one other comment I will plug in is we are also working with uh Tom Frieden and his team. We just uh started in Zambia where they're providing technical uh expertise for countries that are looking to expanding into uh health taxes. So in partnership with WHO and other implementing partners, the foundation will be more than happy to help some of his financing financing initiatives as well in addition to directly uh funding government. And I think lastly on leadership, the Egyptian minister said it's best leadership drives uh despite all the challenges, I think the future is incredibly bright because of you know those of you that were in the panel as well as all of you ministers who are in the room. Uh so we very much look forward to working with you. Uh thank you for joining us but thank you for showing up every day for uh fighting for better health and a better world for the world. Uh we look forward to accompanying you on this journey. Thank you and thank you Dr. Tedros and the WHO for co-hosting with us. Uh Samira, back to you or Dr. Tedros if you want to take it and close us out. Thank you Dr. Ted Rose. Yeah, thank you. I think we're very late so I don't want to add anything. I fully agree with what Site said and the only thing I would say is thank you so much and time to act. All the best. Thank you. Thank you very much. Uh everyone have a good afternoon. Thank you.