Hello everybody and thank you for joining us today for this Ask WHO live social media live. Today we're going to be talking about a disease you probably know about Ebola and an outbreak you may not know about of Ebola in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and we'll talk about why it's good that you know about it or don't know about it and how is helping the country to respond to this outbreak of Ebola. I have with me today three people, three experts in the field. So right to my left is Dr. Chiquhi Quuazu. He's the head of WHO's emergencies program. He's the ex executive director of WHO's health emergencies program. Then we have Dr. Janet Diaz. She's the head of safe and scalable care. And she'll explain what that means. It's basically looking after patients with a range of different diseases, especially in emergencies. And we also have with us joining from Bulap in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Dr. Mori Keta, who's our incident manager there. And Mory, I'd like to start with you. Um, at the moment in this outbreak, there hasn't been a new case in 20 days, which is is excellent news. Um, however, 64 people have become sick with Ebola in this outbreak, and of those, 45 people died. Um, Ebola is always a tragic disease, but there's more and more that can be done as we've learned over the years how to manage it. So tell me, how are we managing? How are we and the colleagues from the Democratic Republic of the Congo managing this outbreak? What are you doing these days when there aren't new cases coming? What work do we still do while we're there? >> Thank you. Thank you, Nika. Um I know um Ebola is a very serious disease and a major threat of global security. Uh we were deeply concerned when we first heard about you know some cases being reported in the DRC even though uh uh this is the county 16th recorded outbreak and the third in Casai province at least effective treatment and vaccine are now available for Ebola. So um regarding the latest situation, I think you have just mentioned it. Uh it's worth noting that uh there have been no new confirmed cases for 20 consecutive days, which is a significant milestone. There is now only one uh confirmed case remaining in the Ebola treatment center. His health condition is stable and we expect him to be discharged after two or negative test on Sunday 19th of October. This will trigger the 42 days countdown before the end of the epidemic is declared. So today uh the 21day followup for all the 178 remaining contact will be completed and the contact tracing will end tomorrow. This indicator show we are moving in the right direction but it's too soon to declare victory. We will maintain our current intensity and continue improving the quality of our intervention until the end of the outbreak is officially declared over. >> Thank you. Um, Ebola always demands of us that we stay vigilant because it's such a dangerous virus because it can kill so many people. But one of the things that has really changed over the years, it used to be that if there's an outbreak of Ebola, 90% of the people, so nine out of 10 people who become sick with the disease die. And over the years that has changed and in each outbreak as well, we seem to be able to manage it better. Um, Dr. Keta mentioned that treatments are available, vaccines are available to protect communities. He said that that's continuing as well. Um but I wanted to turn to Dr. Janet Diaz who's really a global expert in Ebola care and ask um two things but I'll start with the first question. So how has Ebola treatment improved over the years? Why is it that we now say that the mortality rate um Ebola ranges from around 30% to 90%. Why is it that we are able to save so many more lives now? >> Thanks Na. Well, there's been uh amazing work that's been done over the past decade um with uh you know various ministries of health with partners to accelerate our optimization of the standard of care. So, optimizing the standard of care as well as the evaluation of therapeutics uh in that context. So, but to to give you a a simple a simple answer one is um early diagnosis. So, we do know the the early diagnosis early recognition of a patient with Ebola. are very early in their disease. If they get into treatment and get the optimized supportive care and get the life-saving therapeutic because for Ebola zire we have two options then their survival can actually be as low as 10% and that's what we showed in one of the clinical trials back in DRC in the north ku. So >> survival as high as 90% >> yeah survival say survival as 90%. >> Just before you go on Janet I just want to unpack a couple of things that she mentioned. So she mentioned standard of care and that sounds very technical. Um and I'll explain what I know of it and then u help me uh if that's not clear. So basically that's the care the treatment um that patients get when they go into a treatment center. It used to be my understanding is when there was an Ebola outbreak you would just take people who are sick out of the community to make sure they didn't spread it but there wasn't much you could do to help them. And now you you run many tests the the health workers in the treatment centers run many tests to make sure people aren't suffering from another disease that their blood sugars are at the right level and so on. So just to make sure the body is as healthy as possible and then you mentioned therapeutics which is treatment so they're actually specific medicines to fight Ebola now. Yeah. Okay. Um so then you were in uh you were in Bilap yourself I think two weeks ago now. What did you see there? What did you see in terms of how we are helping countries to be better ready to to fight an outbreak? >> Well, when I arrived, I actually arrived with with Mory, my colleague, uh in the field, and we were the second team to arrive. It was a team of um uh you know, colleagues from WHO, uh the senior colleagues from the Ministry of Health that were leading the response and uh colleagues, you know, partners as well in the field. And what we found collectively was you know the the local teams had already put into place some of their early interventions but things were still you know uh very very challenging. The area is u very remote. We were the first group to arrive by the airbridge and the helicopter uh to the field. Prior to that everyone was taking the road which was taking many many days to to get there days to get in. So, so what we had found is a treatment center, the beginnings of a treatment center or the isolation and treatment center that was established at the Bape uh general hospital. Um, however, you know, they were working under very complex conditions. The the staff uh there was not sufficient water uh water access and to care for Ebola because of the infection prevention and control measures that need to be in place. You need, you know, stable access to large amounts of water uh to to ensure biocurity and safety. Uh the second was there was uh not sufficient electricity. Uh so at nighttime uh the there was you know the medical team was working in a tent you know small little tent uh outside of the the red zone which was in the buildings of the treatment center that uh they had to work under with flashlights on on their head because we didn't have full electricity to to give light both inside the treatment center as well into the medical um uh the tents that were the medical teams and the clinical teams were were working rounding writing in their papers. So, so really uh limited access to to medicines. There were medicines there to to deliver some of the basic treatments, but uh still not enough and not all the right medicines and not all the right monitoring equipment. They had a pulse oximters, blood pressure monitoring, but didn't have um biochemistry testing yet. So, as you described, we've worked to improve the standard of care with testing of um basic biochemistries or clinical labs, but those were not all available when we arrived. also you know access to oxygen one of a life-saving uh intervention in patients who are critically ill also was not available when we um initially set foot so I find it interesting because the country has seen this is the 16th outbreak as uh Dr. Dr. Keta mentioned um but for each new community affected by the outbreak for each new hospital that's facing an outbreak it's a new and you have to the health workers have to learn how to manage this particular disease. I I have a we have a few questions on on social media now and so I I will Yes. Go ahead, >> Jenn. I do also want to acknowledge what was there. >> Yes. >> Because what was there was the the laboratory, the diagnosis. So patients were able to be diagnosed quickly once they were identified. Now that requires good surveillance, right? Good surveillance, good community surveillance, but that was there and I I think that was a that was a definitely value added because patients were being diagnosed and then um put into the treatment pathway. The second thing that was also there when we arrived was the availability of one of the monoconal antibodies and this is the monoconal antibbody 114 that was actually uh discovered and uh in the DRC and one of the you know past past remote outbreaks and um and that was available also when we arrived. So there was some things of the package of care that were there but there was obviously that's one of the life-saving treatments the monoconal antibbody but other things because of the remote nature and because of the uh fragile health system that that is in that area uh that some of these other supportive care interventions were not um available. So that's what we help bring in and I'll I'll come to you next ch but I just want to mention of course this is social media live for those of you who are watching us on X you can do ask um to put your question in there on Facebook and LinkedIn just put your questions in the comments our colleagues are monitoring for them and they send me your questions and that's how we know what you're asking. Um um one of the questions I'll come to you my for this one actually and then I'll go to you Chuay. Um Jafar Sharif is asking how can we survive? How can we protect ourselves from Ebola? It's one of the key interventions is working with the community to help them those who are most at risk, those who are most likely to catch the disease because it's in their community. Our uh communications teams or community teams work with them to help them understand the disease. Um we work with community leaders so that they can be the ones speaking to the community. So can you explain what messages we what kind of questions people ask us and how we explain how you can protect yourself from Ebola? >> So um I think uh to protect oursel from Ebola we need an integrated approach. uh we have just said uh we now have a vaccine we have a treatment but before being sick I think we need to prevent it and uh vaccine is there for that. So I think uh we are recommending you know to vaccinate you know healthcare workers all those who are at risk in the health area that are affected to be vaccinated and we we are prioritizing the contact. So those who have been in contact with a confirmed case, contact of contact and uh in a very limited area. So uh all these uh people need to be vaccinated. But one of the critical issues is also about you know the IPC measure at the health center and at the community level. We need you know water you know even recently who we have been able to support you know the tracking of the water from around 3 kilometers to the Bape health centers. So we need water in the health centers to avoid uh uh nocomial infections and to also avoid like uh community transmission. So um IPC uh need to be applied at all level at the community and health center level and we also need uh strong communications. Communication is key in Ebola outbreaks. People need to know exactly how to prevent it, how uh to take care of confirmed cases, how to maybe to avoid being contaminated issues are very important. So again, we need an integrated approach, you know, to respond or or maybe to protect uh people who are at risk in in Ebola affected area. >> Thank you. Um Jafar, uh in answer to your question and also we have a similar one from Aminu Laal who's asking how fast the virus replicates in the body before you have symptoms. Who has excellent materials on Ebola on our website. So just search the word Ebola on the WHO website and you'll see some fact sheets and guidance. Um, I know that our community workers help people understand the disease better because there's this sense that as soon as you have Ebola, you'll be bleeding from everywhere and only somebody who's bleeding has Ebola. When in fact, when people are first sick with the disease, they feel like they're sick with as you would with the flu. You're just feeling really unwell, extremely tired, a headache. So, we help people in affected areas look out for those symptoms and help each other. If somebody's having those symptoms and you're in an area where there's an outbreak, um, you have to be very careful and present for care. Um, Chiquay Mory mentioned integrated response and that's something that isn't not an individual that does that. It's a it's a whole of community, whole of government um, and government plus who response. So when you hear integrated response, what does that mean and how does help countries to do that? >> Yeah, thanks a lot. You know, I I be maybe before I answer that, I remember 20 it must be right on 21 years ago when for my first Ebola outbreak a few hundred kilometers from from where this one is happening. You know, we literally went in with nothing other than listen uh look after yourself. I was playing the role Mori is playing today. And we literally also left nothing behind. you know, we did our best managed that outbreak and it was heartbreaking for me as a young epidemiologist at the time leaving Yamu. But this time, you know, it's so fundamentally different to answer your question. Even before we arrived, a sample had been taken, sent to the central lab in Kinshasa. They had sampled it in Kinshasa. When we went, we went with a strong team from the national new national public health agency institute national desante public in DRC. Uh they assembled a team we went together. So a lot of the work that we do on the field and we do on we did in this outbreak whether you know all the the things we do normally manage cases in a facility do the contact tracing uh educate the community go out look for contacts follow them up all of these were led by national level colleagues. So really what you can think about integration in many levels but really integrating of course the different parts of the response but also the different institutions and we work we have worked very closely with the national institutions here responsible both local regional and national in um in uh the DRC. So for for me as executive director of the emergencies program, you know, at no point in this outbreak was I excessively anxious. Once we detected the case, I knew we had a strong team. I knew we knew what to do and I knew that we had a strong national institution in DRC that also knew what to do. The key thing using that word integration is how do we all work together, play to each other's strengths and deliver a good response. And so now 20 days into the response, you know, we're not out of the woods. We have to keep pushing on all aspects. But, you know, I I I I rest assured that we we we understand what we need to do. And the key thing is to keep learning, keep introducing new opportunities that science enables us through every outbreak to learn and integrate it into how we are better equipped for the next outbreak of Ebola, which will come. >> That's the that's the sad part. but every time better able to respond as well. Janet, a very specific, we have many questions coming in and thank you for your questions. Um, we have one from Carlen Gribble who's asking on X, how are pregnant women and breastfeeding women managed both for treatment and vaccination? Um, just to say this outbreak actually started. Uh, the first sign we heard was a woman um, giving birth um, who had Ebola. uh the healthcare workers in that facility. Several of them were also affected and that's why uh Dr. Moricada mentioned the importance of IPC which is infection prevention and control to make sure the health centers don't become um places of amplification of the disease and make sure people know you can still go to the health centers and you'll be treated and well cared for. Um so just back to the question from um uh from Carlen which was how are pregnant and breastfeeding women managed both in terms of how they're treated and vaccination. >> Thank you. Um Carlen, it's a good question. You know, we know uh unfortunately pregnant women uh and small children uh are at high risk for uh death associated with Ebola when they get um infected. So I think number one is is prevention, right? um and uh and that good infection prevention and control services are um are in place across the health system you know the in the health centers and in the uh reference hospital and um and pregnant women are receiving the vaccine. The second thing is around early diagnosis. So it's the same we just have to do it well across all the vulnerable patient populations and that includes especially for the pregnant women when they start to develop the symptom you know if they are on the contact list or if they've had they you know they're in this risk zone that the first symptom the most mildest symptom that it's taken seriously right and gets a good investigation by their surveillance officers and then if it triggers um an alert that that person that that woman person gets a you know brought into the treatment center gets a a test and then we do the care uh and all that care has to be done you know really well uh we always try to have an integrated team so again just to kind of go on the the the talking points of of integration you know we have a ministry-led uh response um but in the treatment center too it's ministryled but it's very integrated with partners so who is a strong partner there to provide technical support we have our NGO partners such as MSF alimma IMC all with a wealth of experience in managing and working in uh Ebola treatment centers including the care of pregnant women. But it's important to have that that that specialist you know that obstitrician uh that is available uh to support um uh the care you know the best care possible for for pregnant women as well. Uh they also are will get treated with the monoconal antibodies. um as would a newborn. If there was a newborn that was uh uh you know that that was um that that one of the pregnant women who was infected gave birth to a newborn, that newborn also would get access to monoconal antibbody treatment uh regardless of the result of their test because they would be so vulnerable and so high risk. So we do have our protocols in place to ensure um access. My understanding it used to basically be if a pregnant woman had Ebola, she essentially would die. So this is a big advance as well and her child was very likely to die as well if she had just given birth and so in the past five ten years that's another advancement that we are so much more able to care for every everybody and anybody who has Ebola. We have a treatment uh we have a question now and I'll go to you my for this one. Um Maria Wilda Taga Silva is Tagodan Silva is asking do we have enough vaccines to contain the outbreak and for preventive vaccination? And you were talking about vaccinating the contacts, the contacts of contacts and the health workers. Do we have enough vaccines for everybody and how many people have been vaccinated so far? Thank you uh very much. Uh for vaccination, I think it's important to uh note that you know two,000 doses of vaccine had been prepositioned in the country before the outbreak of this the declaration of this outbreak. So uh this enabled us you know the first vaccination to begin uh as quick as possible. So uh now um we have been able to vaccinate more than uh 31,000 people uh in the affected health areas. So we do have uh some uh 10,000 doses in our stock in Bulap and uh of course doses are not an issue because we are in touch with ICG and we are expecting more doses here to make sure all the contact and all those who are at risk are vaccinated. Maybe Nika if I can just add to that point on vaccination is just h how many parts of the the this complex picture needs to work together all the time. You know you have science developing new vaccines all the time. You have industry that has to take it from a trial candidate to production. You have to store them in appropriate places at appropriate temperatures. You need the logistics to take it to the field. You need the vaccinators to actually take it to the patients. You need healthare workers to manage the patients. So, you know, sometimes when we talk about 2,000 doses or 30,000 doses, you know, it's almost impossible to explain the ecosystem that works together. So, you know, and that's what we do the best is manage this, coordinate this, bring partners together. And no country can do this on its own. No one organization can do this on its own. And you can't do this bilaterally or just with one firm. And and really that's at the heart of what WHO does is bringing together the world to respond to a specific uh threat that ultimately can threaten all of us. >> I think that's an important point to make because the country has capacity. That's very clear to us as Janet was saying and as Mory was saying there were vaccines already in country. There were treatment in country. There was the capacity. This country has had these outbreaks before. But at the same time, there's always gaps that WHO can help fill. And we do that at the request of the country. We don't send in teams willy-nilly. It's always at the request of the country based on their analysis of what's missing. Based on our colleagues, we have a a country office in the Democratic Republic of Congo. They also work very closely with the ministry and they would be able to tell us what um the requests are and what is needed for us. So that happens at that coordination between who and the country happens at all levels from countries work colleagues working together in the field the people that my is working with daily up to the level of the minister and our director general everyone's working together at the region as well our regional director and our colleagues there um who has deployed 100 people to this response based on specific needs what was needed further help in analyzing the cases in understanding the course of the outbreak understanding may where it might go next experts like Janet who's a world expert in clinical care so that she can help supplement the knowledge of the colleagues who are already there as well. Um we have a question from on X from Ken who's asking us and I think I'll come to you for this one my um Ken is asking how does who ensure accurate information reaches communities during an Ebola outbreak to prevent um fear um and the spread of misinformation? My can you tell us a little bit more about how we work directly with communities? Yeah. Um I think uh on this specific area we used to work with UNICEF and other partners you know because to develop key messages you know for the communities who are affected but also those who even are out of the country or maybe online. we we are using you know uh contextualized messages to make sure that you know people are not uh confusing or maybe are not uh amplifying uh wrong messages. So uh for example at the community level here we now have um a an expert an RCC expert uh deployed by who is originated from Mulap you know she's like in her community in working with the community she speak she speaks local language and she use uh her network to make sure that you know all these uh local partners so all these local leaders are heavily involved in our response and we are also working with UNICEF and uh other local uh NOS's you know to address all the issues and we used to do like u uh to do uh assessment at the community level to get their feedback because the feedback are very important for us to adapt our messages uh to adapt our strategies and to adapt even our interventions. So this is what we are doing on the field jointly with different partners of course under the leadership of the ministry of health and that's really important as well. Who doesn't send people from far away to do that work that needs to be done by and with the communities. There's a lot of work um that's done directly with community leaders because we know they're the they're the best voices. Those are the people that the community trust um and they will come to us as well with their requests. So, we're always very conscious that communications is a two-way street. It's not coming in and giving people messages. It's coming in understanding what they understand, what they have questions about, how we can um provide them information, and who are the best people to convey that information. Um there's a question here on uh on the vaccine and and speaking of miss and disinformation or cur curiosity and uncertainty. Um, uh, Ivanel Peter Kawutzi is asking, "Is it possible that some people still fear or feel uncertain about the Ebola vaccine? How safe is the vaccine? Um, what kinds of reactions or side effects have been observed after vaccination? Should I go to you Janet or is this more for my uh over to you again? >> Yeah. So maybe just to specify that uh you know uh here in Bulap and the surrounding area we are having u huge demand so community are asking because uh they are I think they are aware of the the the disease because as I just said it's not the first time you know for them to heard about you know Ebola in their province. This is the third outbreak in the in the Kasai province. So they are aware of the situation. They are so fair. So they are now asking for vaccines. So of course we can't vaccine everyone. That's why we are using a very evidence-based strategy to vaccinate those who are at risk. Those who are at risk and uh those who are in needs. So this is what we are doing. But of course we used to follow them. You know when the people are vaccinated we used to follow them if there is any adverse event and so on. So we have also a very wellestablished mechanism to collect all the information about you know adverse event to take care of them and uh to respond to any emergencies and so on. So in Bulanu area here we are honestly on top of this issue regarding vaccination. >> This one from LinkedIn an Ulhak is asking how can we differentiate the symptoms of Ebola virus disease because its symptoms are not very specific. Um, that's actually a really good question. As we were saying earlier, there's sometimes people have this impression that it's a the disease starts with those very dramatic symptoms that we've heard about that you think about when you hear the words Ebola, but actually doesn't start that way and it's really important that people are aware. So, um, Janet to you. How can we differentiate the symptoms of Ebola virus disease because its symptoms are not very specific? >> Well, it's it's very complicated. Uh, it can be very complicated, I would have to say. Um, but it's a very good question. But to be honest, at the in at the onset, the earliest symptoms are um our fatigue, our profound weakness, our fever, you know, and and I think some, you know, you can see that with other viral infections, but those are kind of the earliest symptoms we see followed by then um the diarrheal symptoms, you know, the big, you know, loss of uh diarrhea and then vomiting in the GI, the gastrointestinal symptoms and then followed by later the bleeding symptoms. So the bleeding like you said before is actually a very late finding and it's actually you know can be almost like at the end towards the terminal phase of Ebola virus disease. So what we would like to do is get to get to a point where we can diagnose really early like I said before because that's when the opportunities for um best outcome are there. Um and then the things that you don't see um for those clinicians out there, you know, you just develop um different organs get affected. Your kidneys don't work so well, your liver doesn't work so well. Um you get something uh called rabdomiolyis where your your muscles are are also not working. That's why you have so much um profound uh weakness and fatigue. And so so there's a lot of things going on and and as the days go by with the disease without treatment, these things can get worse and worse and worse. So I think you have to be for those clinicians out there sometimes you see a lot of malaria right or severe malaria but if the patient isn't really acting like malaria responding quickly to your antimmalarial you know start to think of other things on your differential diagnosis um you know remember where you are where you're working has has it been an endemic or you know an area that has seen Ebola before so always keep it on your differential diagnosis or you know the possibilities it may not be the number one but maybe it's it's somewhere on there but it always takes one astute clinician and an astute public health um you know public health officer together thinking of the disease because if you don't think then you won't test but if you think about it then you say okay it possibly could be this let's test you know and during an outbreak obviously then you know that your heightened surveillance your heightened um uh consideration of of you know even the earliest symptom if you're a contact would we we would take seriously and that's why that community work is is so important because the people who are most at risk are the people in the communities where the the disease is spreading. Um, of course, other areas need to be vigilant as well and who does a risk analysis precisely to say that where essentially where should people be most worried. So within the country, yes, because people within the country can travel perhaps the immediate neighboring country or anybody neighboring that zone should be vigilant as well. If you're further away, no. U the the risk is is very low. Um, but that's the important of making sure the people who are most at risk are most aware and not just the community members themselves, but as Janet was highlighting as well, the health workers in that community that they are aware and are keeping keeping um vigilant for for those early symptoms. I often think it's been a real disservice to Ebola response that there is this exaggeration or a real focus on those end symptoms which doesn't help in a community that's affected in the early stages. you need to look out for for what Janet was mentioning those early signs. Um the next question is on LinkedIn. It is from Jacob Kashilaka Kashilika who asks, "How is the WHO strengthening integrated disease surveillance and community- based alert systems in border communities?" So that's what we were just talking about that rely heavily on informal transport to ensure the earliest possible detection of a potential EVD case. Um, so this is something that WHO does because it can coordinate with neighboring countries. It can coordinate with other countries who become very curious and want more information when they hear that there's an Ebola outbreak. So, how does WHO do that work with border communities um and anyone anyone else that might be at risk? >> Yeah, Nika, maybe I can take that because um I think we're still all traumatized by the events in West Africa um in 20145 and and that's exactly what happened. You know the first cases evolved in in this small community Koku in south of Guinea in between near the borders of Senon and Liberia and kind of you know our our borders in the African continent are are what they are you know they're not what you imagine full borders to be so we have to make an extra effort firstly to find the cases and secondly to report them and that's why the whole IHR international health regulations mechanism exists so that we support each other. Every country, every member state is empowered and able to share information even without full verification of what it is. You may not even be but once you uh know what the pathogen is uh or the bug causing the illness but once you see an unusual number of cases or people passing away or maybe a healthare worker affected you know anything that would trigger an alert we now have a very robust information sharing not all of it is public because it's shared among the people responsible for doing this work in each of these countries who coordinates this but it's kind of a safe environment for countries to share information with each other so that then they can trigger a response and ask for our support where it's needed. >> And if you're curious about that, actually what Dr. Shiko was just mentioning that we give updates to countries so that they can follow this very often. Much of that same information um ends up in disease outbreak news. It's a a product we have on the WHO website. You can subscribe to them. Uh there's updates, regular updates on Ebola, on other types of outbreaks. So it's a good way to keep track of what is working on. and it's really quite a a detailed document. Um so that gives you a sense of what kind of information who is sharing with other other countries as well because they they are curious they are following closely what's happening in their neighboring country and as um Chiquay said because of the how broad the 20145 Ebola outbreak was how many countries were affected there were some travelers as well um because of that there is extra attention for Ebola when there's an Ebola outbreak so back to what I was saying subscribe to disease outbreak news if you want those kinds of updates Another thing that WHO does is we can bring in money really quickly and um as Janet highlighted as as my mentioned it's so important to move quickly when an Ebola outbreak starts and what enables who to move quickly and to support the countries quickly is a mechanism we have called the contingency fund for emergencies. That's money that's sitting there that we can immediately use for a response. So Ch can you do a plug for the CF and explain why it's not really so much for individual donors but why we think it's important for your countries to contribute to that. >> You know this is a big lesson we learned out of that West African Ebola outbreak that you know what we do in the first 24 48 hours of any response really is is is the determines will this be a small cluster a large cluster a big epidemic or a pandemic. So it's important for us to get out of the door quickly and enable our countries get out of the door quickly. So we've established this fund that enables us to move very quickly. Uh it's supported of course by member states around the world by organizations and we need to keep replenishing this in order to able to continue doing this. So yes, there's we're working very hard on a pandemic agreement at the moment. Our member states are, but ultimately our at the heart of our work, the work we do every day of every week of every month of the year is to detect small clusters and get uh manage it as quickly as possible and the more we are resourced to do this the better. So we really need us to come together not out of charity but out of solid solidarity and that's a principle of of the work we do here. >> Not out of charity and not out of self-interest really. It's it's for the best of everyone in the end. So am I right? Just to make sure I got my figures right. Um in the immediate few days we released half a million dollars and so far $20 million towards this response. So, we just have a few short minutes left and I want to to wrap up with something we've talked about a little bit already, but what we're leaving behind the legacy of uh this outbreak and how the community those health workers will be better ready. So, I'll start with you Janet on the on the treatment center side. We've been showing video here as you've been watching of um of some of the equipment that's come in of some of the treatment centers that have been set up, but can you just speak about that a little bit? what we are leaving behind the water you mentioned already and electricity which will be really important for the community themselves. >> Thanks NA. Yeah, I think it's it's super important to to say that in this is the first outbreak where we've been able to deploy um an innovative uh treatment center uh rapidly deployable um treatment center design and I think that's important because it reflects about five years of work. It's called um the program is called initiate. It is a program that's been sponsored by WHO and WFP partners as well as many academic institutions and other uh partners and we've been working on innovations to improve uh clinical care to improve health logistics during outbreaks. So what was deployed this time to the field in Bulape. It took us a little bit of time just because of the logistics were hard to get our tents in place. But what you can see is a is a is a infectious disease treatment module which is actually a inflatable uh treatment module that has two uh ICU type of beds, a nursing station so you can take care of critically ill patients within that treatment module that can be put up in hours. We also um deployed uh within uh you know kind of these high performance tents which are 24 meter square tents um meter cube tents uh these patient liners which also allowed these transparent patient liners and I guess just to visualize it it means no longer are you inside one building where when you go into the red zone to take care of the patient you have to you have to go in full PPE and you and you go inside and you can't see anything that's happening on the green side in the green zone in the patient in the where staff is in these new design modules. Because of this transparent screen, people that are working in the green zone can actually see the patient that's in the red zone or your colleagues that are inside the red zone that are caring for the patients directly in their full PPE and you can you can interact together. You can actually monitor the patients better. The families also can under monitoring also see their family members inside that are inside the red zone. So this um innovation uh I think has been a it's a gamecher. It's the first time we've deployed during an active outbreak and that's a legacy that we will leave behind uh in DRC and work with the national government on how these because you can after it's done the outbreak we can decontaminate it, get it all ready, pack it up and then can be used and deployed for another uh for the you know for the next outbreak. So um and we'll work with the local teams to make sure they're fully ready to to do that. Um, I'll come to you uh last Chiway. So, so be ready for it. But I'm going to go to you my can you also tell us and since you're right there in Bulap, can you tell us what else who is leaving behind um for people? Leaving behind doesn't sound good, but what what we have built and what we are um uh what people will still be able to use next time aside from the treatment center. >> Thank you uh Nika. I think one of the big achievement for us you know is this uh 3 kilometer water pipeline. Um so it's the first time for Bulape community to have a water drinkable water and so on. So this is u this will be used by the health facility uh which will also contribute to prevent uh infection you know at the health centers but also it will allow community to get you know drinkable water and to also use them uh uh to avoid you know contamination at the community level. This is one of the key uh uh achievement. In addition to that, we also intend to renovate Bul Health centers and other maybe three uh health centers in Bulipe uh health zone because if you take the epidemiology uh you will see uh the most of the cases were coming from three main health areas. Three main health areas. So we wanted we intend to uh renovate uh three health centers in these uh main affected areas. So these are just among others uh you know some of the key uh uh achievement we wanted to to leave behind here. So Bul will be not the same before this outbreak. >> Thank you. Thank you for your work as well. Uh we're always so proud of our colleagues in the field. Thank you my um and then lastly JQU um before we wrap up wrap up we've talked about concrete things we're leaving behind. Do you have a view? Is there something not concrete that we're leaving behind? Is there something in terms of cooperation? Um something that you said you were very reassured during this outbreak that all the steps were being taken. Perhaps it's building on things that we've left behind previously. You know, networks and approaches that we've developed previously. So, if you could sort of riff on that. >> Yeah, Nik. I think the most important thing we're going to leave behind in Bulapi and in DRC is something I experienced myself is is when you have an international team like ours with all our partners coming to a small town, it's impossible to describe the inspiration they derive from it. the excitement about science, the the the you know, it it builds and pushes and thrives and drives so many instincts that will ultimately lead them to seek more for themselves. And that's what that's really the most important thing. I mean the innovation is great. The new treatment center, the vaccines, the therapeutics, all the other tools that we've never had, the water, the electricity, the the committee will be transformed as much as we can. But ultimately, we will never do for Bulap what beyond what they will do for themselves. And the people that will do this are the young people, the colleagues that have now worked with us for uh six weeks and will continue till the end of the outbreak and will be inspired and pushed to do more for themselves. >> Thank you. So, as we said earlier, there have been 20 days now almost three weeks without a new case. There's one person in the treatment center still and uh Dr. Keta mentioned he seems to be doing quite well. He's stable. If all things go well, he will be out of treatment by Sunday. And then the countdown starts to the end of the outbreak. It's two uh two cycles of 21 days. So 42 days from the time that the last patient is released from care. Uh I want to thank you for joining us today and I'll say where you've joined from colleagues. Uh people have joined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and this probably matters especially to you. Nigeria, Laos, Argentina, Ghana, Turkey, Tanzania, Egypt, Loto, Qatar, Malawi, Canada. Uh, shout out to Canada, Iran, Pakistan, Algeria, Bolivia, Bangladesh, and Cameroon. So, thank you very much for joining. Tune in for our next lives. We have these regularly. Let us know what you're interested in hearing about. Um, any topic you'd like to hear. We did one on mental health earlier this week. Thank you again. Thank you for your participation. Thanks you. Thank you for your questions. And thank you, Murray, Janet, and Chiway for joining today. Thank you.