Thank you. Thank you, excellency uh chair, honorable minister Dr. Naldina Jatisa, honorable ministers, ambassadors, heads of delegation, officer in charge, Dr. Katina Burme are the Emirates Punam Ketra Pal Singh. Dear colleagues and friends, are you bow once again? It's an honor to be here and I thank our gracious hosts, the government and people of Sri Lanka for their warm hospitality and steadfast commitment to health and to the World Health Organization. Thank you your excellency. I commend member states and the regional and country offices for the impressive achievements outlined in the regional director's report and which Dr. BIMs outlined uh in her remarks and thank you also chair. I would like to use this opportunity to thank you for um the work that for Katarina's work that you appreciated in every single country there are successes to celebrate and challenges to confront across the region 2024. So important gains in health security, immunization, and essential service delivery. But beyond the statistics, what stands out is the region's focus on equity, reaching those who are hardest to reach, and addressing the social and economic barriers that keep people from care. the continued elimination of diseases such as lymphatic filarasis and traoma and the maintainance of the region's status as free of polio and maternal and neonatal tetanis speak to the region's long-term political commitment. Immunization campaigns in Bangladesh, Myanmar, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea are not saving lives now. their investments in the future and the integration of mental health and psychosocial support into primary health care marks an important shift. I'm particularly encouraged by the region's commitment to transforming health systems through primary health care, digital innovation, and sustainable financing. More than 80% of countries in this region now have costed digital health blueprints, the highest proportion globally. from AI assisted diagnostics in Thailand to integrated digital health records in Maldives to Sri Lanka's transformation of its civil registration and vital statistics system. You're harnessing the power of digital technologies for health. The region has also made notable strides in universal health coverage, aligning reforms in health financing, workforce development and essential services. These are not small feats. They are the foundations on which universal health coverage and trust in health systems are built. And even as financing pressures grow worldwide, as Katarina said earlier, member states in this region have shown that strategic investment, strong governance, and community engagement can sustain progress even in difficult times. The great challenge of our times is that health threats are becoming more complex and convergent. from the climate crisis, antimicrobial resistance, from demographic shifts to digital inequities. In response, countries are strengthening climate resilient systems, developing national adaptation plans and investing in green and sustainable health infrastructure, including climate resilient data systems in Nepal and the new world health in New Delhi, a model of climate responsive design. I thank the government of India for its strong support for this new home for WH's work in the region on AMR. All countries in the region are now contributing to the global data platform and your proactive participation in implementing the amendments to the international health regulations demonstrates your commitment to shared security. The integration of traditional and complimentary medicine into national systems guided by evidence and safety standards is a uniquely regional strength. So too is the region's commitment to communities driven health promotion from healthy cities in Bangladesh and Thailand to grassroots gender-based violence prevention in Bhutan to youthled mental health initiatives across countries. These examples remind us that health is never built in ministries or boardrooms alone. It's built in communities by people who care, who organize, and who act. The achievements in this region are a vital part of the global story of WHO and its partners. They show what's possible when countries own their priorities, partners align behind them, and WHO drives as one. As we implement the 14th general program of work and its sharper focus on promoting, providing and protecting health, this region is already aligned with its priorities. You're charting a path that others can follow. One that proves health is not merely the absence of disease, but the presence of opportunity, dignity, and hope. Let us continue to work together to ensure that every woman can give birth safely, that every child can be vaccinated and nourished, that every adolescent can find support and that every older person can live with health and purpose. As you know, WHO has been undertaking a major restructuring this year at headquarters and in every region, including this region. We began at the top, reducing the number of senior managers and directors at headquarters almost in half. We have now reached a milestone and are ready to move forward. I'm confident as we do, we will do so with an organization at all levels that's sharper, more focused on its core mandate and more able to deliver for member states and the people we all serve. Of course, with more independence as well. Honorable ministers, dear colleagues and friends, I leave you with three requests. First, I urge all member states to engage actively negotiations on the pub's annex to the pandemic agreement and to conclude it in time for next year's World Health Assembly in May. The pandemic agreement will not be complete without the the annex. Second, I urge you to use every tool at your disposal to generate financing for health and improve efficiency as you build a more self-reliant future free from aid dependency, especially given the current ODA climate globally. WHO stands ready to support all member states to do that. And third, I urge you to seize this opportunity to work with us to build a stronger, more empowered, and more independent WHO that's better able to serve all countries. We're considering the current crisis as opportunity. And we know who will emerge sharper, more focused on its mandate, more independent, and your guidance, your support will be very, very important. and I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues in the regional office and with all member states as we work together to promote, provide and protect health in Southeast Asia region and everywhere. Boham is Thank you very much. Thank you.