day and I'm really proud of you and thank you so much. Thank you. I would like to start by thanking him. Thank you. Um, of course I have been listening carefully and um, as Minister Mutahi said, I will repeat many of the things that have been said. Uh but repeating is not bad. We should repeat it until it sinks. And of course when I say repeat, not only saying but also the action as you said is very important. So I hope you will forgive me if I repeat many of the things that you have said since yesterday. Honorable minister uh delegate Tani Muhammad Sihi. Honorable ministers, heads of delegation, distinguished participants, dear colleagues and friends, Bonju atutus. Good morning to everyone. I would like to start by sharing with you the heartbreaking scenes from Myanmar and Thailand. I hope you have seen that the devastating earthquake and my thoughts are with the victims and their families during this difficult time and we stand ready to support us who I would like to ask maybe a minute of silence. Thank you very much. Thank you. and express expressing solidarity to the victims and families uh on your behalf. And I thank President Macron and the government of France for their commitment and leadership in hosting this summit and for all of the partners attending as a demonstration of their solidarity. We live in a world of plenty of course for some and we are the sun. No one in this room went to bed hungry last night. And none of us will go to bed hungry tonight. And yet for millions of people in our world today, right now, that is their daily reality. They're not making plans for their careers. their holidays or their retirement. Their only horizon is today. And their only plan is for how they will feed their families and themselves today. Last night, President MRO spoke eloquently about the health nutrition nexus. Nutrition is the foundation of health and therefore of thriving individuals, families, communities, societies, and economies. As has been said many times during this summit, the World Bank estimates that every dollar spent on early childhood nutrition generates a $23 return. By contrast, where there is malnutrition of any form, disease follows close behind. Under nutrition is an underlying factor in almost half of all dis in children under five years of age from malaria, tuberculosis, diarrhea and other diseases. The other side of the coin is obesity. Even in prosperous nations, accessing healthy, affordable food is a struggle for many. Over 1 billion adults are now living with obesity and diet related non-communicable diseases such as diabetes or hypertension. The longterm costs of ill health due to unhealthy and insufficient diets to economies and productivity is trillions of US dollars every year. That's why one of WHO's top priorities is promoting health and preventing disease by addressing its root causes in the air people breathe, the food they eat, the water they drink, and the conditions in which they live and work in the face of these challenges. How do we support vulnerable communities and make progress against preventable scourge of malnutrition? And let me suggest three ways again which has been said but I'm really glad that we are all on the same page. First, we need to re-energize. Just a few days ago, the UN General Assembly extended the decade of action on nutrition by five years to with 139 countries co-sponsoring the resolution. WHO member states have also prepared a resolution for this year's World Health Assembly extending the global nutrition targets to 2030 and I think the colleague from Ireland had already said it and in partnership with Ethiopia. Second, we need to reassess and given the cutbacks to official development assistance, it's essential that we rethink our work and our goals. That means realigning what we do, doing it more efficiently, and focusing on what works and what has the highest impact. Third, we need to refinance. I thank all donors who have pledged more than 27 billion US dollars for nutrition at this summit. Well done. This funding is a lifeline quite literally for many. At the same time, the constraints on official development assistance we face globally mean all countries to the extent they can must increase domestic investment in nutrition and food systems that prioritize health. So the three re-energize, reassess, refinance My thanks once again to President Macron and to all of you for your steadfast commitment and partnership at this critical time. WHO is committed to working with countries to strengthen nutrition services, provide technical support and help to transform food systems to make them what they should be, a source of health for all. And then I just wanted to use this opportunity also to express solidarity with my sister Sanishtar. I I think she's not in the room. Gavei, the replenishment will be in June. And I thank European Union and Gates Foundation for agreeing to co-host the replenishment. And as she had already invited all of us to be the ambassador, I want to repeat that ask and I would like to ask you to be the ambassador for the replenishment of full replenishment of of Gabi and you know what Gabi means when we when we talk about survival of uh children. So thank you uh so much again and thank you for this opportunity and I have witnessed a great partnership governments international organizations civil society organizations the private sector the academia and that's the way forward the way forward or the rule of the game is together I thank you thank you so Yeah, thank you so much. Thank you so much, Mr. Director General. And uh now to the next uh number