uh to rethink and for and to transform the multilateral governance of global healthcare. The world is in changing rapidly and within the geopolitical equilibriums, the cooperation models and the strategic priorities as well. Spain has a vocation of being a global service. Spain wants and must be at the center of this change process, defending a more effective and just model and a more equitable model which mirrors our own national health care system where health and healthcare is a right and is accessible for everyone. We are in a time where concepts like cooperation, multilateralism, solidarity or uh wealth redistribution which are values that were and questionable are now um being attacked and questioned by interested parties. That's why we must defend this these values more than ever from some attitudes that um care more about geopolitical and economical interests than global health healthcare because global healthcare is literally healthcare for all of us and we can't be safe if we are not all safe and healthy. We know that protecting our health is protecting the health of others. The global health care system has made incredible advancements. It has saved millions of lives and discovered and covered unattended needs. It has become a complex and fragmented ecosystem that must be um be put up to date to be more efficient toward with the new realities. from Spain. We want to advance to a governance a multi-level governance model that is collaborative and coordinated. A network that has to pursue great collective missions like like universal uh healthare coverage, reinforcing health care systems, preparing for future pandemics and combating unattended illnesses. All of this in the context of in the fight against climate change and inequality being inspired by the voices of Machukato and Joseph Stiglish. We uh support a new paradigm where the public leadership will be the one that orients and gives signals and generates alliances with shared missions to prioritize the common the common well-being. The recent um response to the pandemics shows how monalism focused on concrete uh changes can give global responses. For this challenge to work, we need structural reforms that lead us to reinforce the role of the uh WHO as that great um of the WHO as this great authority that coordinates uh the healthcare uh regulations worldwide and to ensure that all regulations and standards go in the same direction and from there to have alliances with the Paname like other organizations like the African Union or the Pan-American Healthcare Association. to reflect the realities of each region. We need to strengthen the alliances between the public and the private sector also with uh international funds, development banks and um other agencies. Only like this we will be able to cross the gaps that exist uh giving bringing new financial and technical resources that can be deployed swiftly and efficiently. creating spaces for permanent dialogue between private and public actors and between donors and receiving countries. And lastly, we need um to be more transparent to reinforce the confidence of the citizenship, the citizenry on the states. But the transformation must not end there. We must reform as well the financing mechanisms for global healthcare. Boosting uh domestic investment throughout um dealing with specific products that are bad for the health like uh tobacco or uh sugary drinks. is complemented by a system that uses resources that are um private, public and corporation resources that have to be boosted by the pharmaceutical industry and the development of scientific infrastructures. This model will allow not only to improve the healthcare systems but also to take advantage of the potential of health as an economic motor engine and a generator of uh of of work also in uh developing countries because healthcare can be an economic engine from Spain in Spain we are convinced that healthcare is a right and it's something for uh for everyone that's why we want to renew the global architecture. We want to lead this innovation with uh the WH at the center and initiatives like Gabby that act in a coordinated way and with well- definfined mandates. Also, we want to renew our um our engagement with this transformation. the are present in the exe executive council of the WHO and in Bron Gabby therapy or the pandemic funds gives us the opportunity and the responsibility to work in the social agenda and we offer uh our universal and public healthcare model with a primary attention integrated in this uh a strong primary attention oriented towards prevention as one of the reference that can inspire the reforms of other countries. is the this sea summit is a historic opportunity. We want to take advantage of it um to lance a platform that uh allows agreeing countries to create um a reform for the healthare system that is more more suited for the challenges of the 21st century. Dear colleagues, today with all eyes on us, we have the responsibility and the extraordinary opportunity to show that we can change world governance. A governance that put people and their health in the center that goes beyond borders and it is sustained unjusted cooperation and uh responsibility from Spain. We want to renew this system with clear roles with enough resources and a clear objective for healthcare and health to be a right for everyone in everywhere in the world because one of the of the threats we face uh makes us better on something that helps solidarity between countries. the force of science and the cooperation built on the common good and we cannot allow us allow ourselves to make take steps backs and to keep being fragmented in a more independent world. We have to create bridges and synapses and not walls. And in this commitment with life, we can't look to the other the other way. Uh when we see the horror of the Palestinian people, they are victim of a massacre that is ashamed to humanity. Today we want to express all of our solidarity towards the Palestinian um people and we um we think they have the right to healthcare and life. Denouncing the system we want to defend it also um goes through denouncing this uh barbarisms that they are suffering. Also I want to recognize all the people that are a part of the network of u researchers and scientists in healthcare in the world. They sustain global healthcare. They give us hopes and and the future with their daily work. They have the support of Spain to keep advancing, innovating and defending a right to global healthcare which is the greatest conquest of our time. This is our moment. Spain is ready to take a step forward in this crucial moment. We want to bet on a coordinated, fair and effective model that where nobody is left behind and where health is at the center and is a right for everyone. Thank you very much. Our the moderator of the of the first segment uh her excellency Amina Grifakim, former president of the of Mauritius is coming in because Good afternoon to all participants. It's indeed a great pleasure and a great privilege also to be moderating this panel. Um the previous speaker has rightly spoken about health as being a priority yet and also a human right. But what we're finding right now in many parts of the world where precisely this is being sacrificed at the altar of debt repayment and uh this is something that we had to debate and this is something that we hope that Dr. Tedros will be able to really set the scene as to what an institution like who is set to set. So I I'll have the great pleasure of calling Dr. Tedros to give his keynote address. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, former President Amina, our moderator, honorable minister Monica Garcia, President Nadia Calvino, and I would like to recognize the presence of Joseph Stigley and Mariana Mazukato. uh my friends especially heads of uh agencies and my colleagues uh represented uh here excellencies, ministers, dear colleagues and friends. Bonardes, it's an honor to have you all joining us today. and to Spain, thank you for bringing us for bringing the world together during this difficult times and congratulations also on the successful Sevilla conference for finance for development. A decade ago when I was foreign minister of Ethiopia, I chaired the third international conference on financing development, the main committee. So I feel in a way as if I have come home because FFD means special to me because of that connection 10 years ago. But that time 2015 as you remember everything was converging the Paris agreement the finance for development the action agenda the SDG sustainable development goals and you name it. These are some of the in the list actually. But things have really changed a lot since then. At the time the Adisaba action agenda was a landmark commitment by the nations of the world in support of the economic health and environmental targets of the sustainable development goals. Today the world looks very different from the optimism of 10 years ago. Around the world, dramatic reductions in aid are having severe impacts on health services in many countries, especially developing countries. We see disruptions affecting millions of people who are missing out on life-saving services and medicines. Health facilities are being forced to close. Supply chains and information systems are disrupted. and out of pocket health spending is on the rise. Although this is an acute crisis now, it's a crisis long in the making. Many health systems around the world have long suffered from chronic underinvestment. For instance, out of pocket spending is the main source of health financing in African countries. At the same time, debt servicing costs in many countries restrict their ability to invest in health. Globally, in 2024, 3.4 billion people were living in countries that spent more on debt interest payments than on education and health combined. These conditions have contributed to heavy aid dependency in many countries. In fact, since 2006, aid has consistently surpassed domestic public spending on health in low-income countries. Much of this aid does not flow through treasuries, but through parallel systems set up by donors. This makes forward planning and budgeting impossible. This over reliance has created a deep vulnerability that has now been exposed. Countries are moving quickly to adjust and in this crisis lies an opportunity. Many leaders, especially health ministers, have told me that the current disruptions are opening the door to help them to leave behind the era of a dependency and move towards sustainable self-reliance by mobilizing domestic resources. Who is supporting countries to navigate this crisis, sustain essential services and to adjust to the new reality. There are many tools available to countries to improve efficiency and generate new revenue for health. For example, by introducing or increasing taxes on tobacco, alcohol and sugary drinks or through pool procurement, public health insurance for the formal and informal sector and by using health technology assessment so that countries get the biggest benefit for their money. Most importantly, countries must improve domestic revenue and tax systems to generate sustainable flows of public funding for health, education, infrastructure, and other essential government services. However, efficiency gains and domestic revenue generation alone will not be enough for many countries who need concessional loans to support the most effective investments aligned to country priorities and flowing through country systems. For this to happen, we need all sources of fi financing for health to work together, including grants, private sector, multilateral development banks, and domestic funding, all aligned behind government priorities. That means moving away heavily in market funds so that countries can set their own priorities. WHO and partners have a variety of initiatives to support countries in optimizing the design and execution of their health budgets through stronger public financial management systems. We have joined with the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank Group to support countries to build capacity for pandemic preparedness through the resilience and sustainability facility. The facility has just announced $700 million dollars will be made available to support Jordan's efforts to address long-term vulnerabilities including public health emergencies and pandemics. This is the first such arrangement channeling these funds towards health system resilience and what the European invest and with the European investment bank and my friend the IB president Nadia Calvino we have established the health impact investment platform and of course and other multilateral development banks. This initiative is already working with 16 countries, identifying priority health investments, costing them, and helping governments build credible investment plans to support their national health priorities. Colleagues and friends, the mindset of aid aid dependency has to stop. The difference between crisis and opportunity is leadership. from leadership from all of us. First, now is the time for leadership from governments to shake off the yoke of a dependency and chart the path to self-reliance. Second, we need leadership from lenders in the form of concessional lending at fair terms. When lower income countries pay more to borrow than high income countries, there is something wrong with the system. And third, we need leadership from generous re donors, but to build capacity so countries can run them themselves, not donation for operational costs and ensure ownership by the countries. We don't need support of earmark projects cherrypicked by donors but for national systems, national budgets and national priorities in alignment with the Lusaka agenda and the principles of one plan, one budget and one report. WHO stands ready to support countries and to work with our partners to turn this crisis into an opportunity. And it's possible. The choices we make now will shape the future of global health financing. We must get it right because ultimately health is not a cost to be contained. It's an investment to be nurtured. An investment in people stability and economic growth. Muchas gracias. I thank you and back to you moderator. Thank you Dr. Ted Ross. Thank you very much. Thank you for highlighting the numbers. 3.3 billion people spending more on debt on interest rate payment than actually on health. But I must say here I come from a country where health has been made free right from independence. And I never forget the oped that the professor Stiglas wrote when he visited us. He said he's been to a country where education is free, health is free, and yet the country is not on the verge of bankruptcy. Professor Zigl, I have the pleasure of calling you on the stage, please. Thank you. I also like to call on the second speaker, Mariana Majukato, and our third panelist, Nadia Calino. Please, thank you. So our sp first speaker our first speaker professor Stiglets um he's of course professor at Columbia University Nobel Prize winner for 2001 in economics prolific writer and today he will talk to us on the FFD conference and then it's a micro global reform to enable path towards sustainable for finance financing for health. I know you are very pressed for time. You have five minutes, sir. Please make your please. Thank you. Well, thank you very much. Thank you very much. And I want to uh second the director general's uh thanking Spain for bringing the world together in uh such a difficult time. Uh this is really a moment uh that we should cherish and I'll come back to that at the end. Uh my task this afternoon is to frame uh the problem of health financing within the broader context of global economic governance. Uh it's especially uh important uh to frame it within the fundamental macroeconomic reforms that are necessary to achieve sustainability. A key theme throughout these meetings on finance for development should be that one needs to look at finance for development comprehensively. All actions which provide more revenues especially hard currencies and all actions which decrease the outflow of funds should be on the table. And one needs to look similarly comprehensively at all aspects of development infrastructure and of course health and education providing health and extending quality of life should be an objective in its own right a fundamental human right and that's one of the things that uh Maitius uh recognized and I wrote in that article if a uh struggling country like Maitius could do it, why can't the United States? Uh I didn't get a strong reception uh from some people uh in the United States uh at to that remark. Um but uh good health is also essential for a productive economy and a strong economy leads to a healthier population. There can be a virtuous cycle when you strengthen health and strengthen the economy or a vicious cycle. In this respect, I should emphasize the distinction between health services, medical care and good health. The former is only a component of the latter. We need development assistance to finance strong health systems that provide affordable services to all who need them. But as professor Marma who served with me as uh one of the co-chairs of the global council on inequality eggs and pandemic uh as he likes to stress we also need development assistance to finance progress on all the determinants of health including nutrition. uh as co-chair of that commission, I should also emphasize the importance of this holistic picture that speaks to how inequalities in fiscal space are interlin with inequalities in healthc care access and with inequalities in the broader social determinance of health. in particular and a particular relevance for this meeting are uh those of the macroeconomic frameworks in which develop developing countries are situated. Today a critical issue inhibiting investments in health is the debt crisis and we've already had some uh numbers uh concerning that. It's become really not a financial debt crisis but a debt and development crisis because it takes away the resources that are necessary for the investments in health, education, infrastructure and all other aspects of development. the features of our current crisis, the explanations for it, why these crises have been so recurrent, why we faced another one just 25 years after the last Jubilee when debt was forgiven are well known. I co-chared uh I I've been co-chairing a a uh Jubilee Commission convened by the late Pope Francis. uh and uh that uh Jubilee Commission highlighted the cause of the systemic failures in the global financial system. uh one aspect of this is that it's the joint responsibility of creditor debtors and the global financial system. The systemic weaknesses have been exposed by the current situation. The pandemic, the war in Ukraine, the ensuing inflation has made uh matters worse. There's lack of resources to fight pandemic made its economic effects larger. Food and oil inflation and the slowing down of the economy made matters worse. Higher interest rates made matters still worse. The reversal of private capital flows have made matters even worse. uh there is a hidden global bailout of private creditors that by the international financial institutions that's going on. Uh and that's not well recognized. The private sector is now taking money out of developing countries. The flow is going the wrong way. Some people could describe uphill. How is that possible? because the international financial institutions including uh the uh multilateral development banks the IMF are putting hard currency into the countries it that money was supposed to be for development but what it's really being done used is to bail out the private creditors uh this shouldn't be allowed it leads to bad lending and disincentivizes rapid and deep restructurings. It's a primary reason why excessive debt can have such adverse effects. There are a whole host of actions which our Jubilee Commission on which Mariana also uh served which can now be undertaken by developing countries, developed countries and multilateral institutions and we've outlined those in our report. While another uh hippoc uh will be more difficult because of the increased complexity of the global financial system, I believe is not only possible but imperative. What is crucial is that we do not impose the kind of austerity that has resulted in the weakening of the already fragile health systems in developing countries as happened so frequently in the past. These actions affect not only overall economic and health performance but also economic and health inequalities. These inequalities in turn adversely affect overall economic performance. Another vicious circle. I want to highlight another aspect of global governance intellectual property. The effects were seen so starkly in the pandemic. Countries who could have produced vaccines and other COVID uh related products weren't allowed to do so and there was a result greater shortages than there need have been. Many countries of course didn't have the capacity to do the production. there wasn't effective sharing and that resulted in a major drain uh on the economies uh far worse in some ways than uh even the uh uh debt crisis. I was shocked that the international community hasn't been able to come together to reform the obvious flaws that were shown during CO 19 and change the rules for intellectual property. It shows a lack of solidarity, a failure to comprehend self-interest and the overwhelming evidence of the power of special interest in our system of global governance. But I don't want to end on such a note of pessimism. I want to share some aspects of uh optimism. Um there has been uh progress in the pandemic and yeah that's in the pandemic treaty and the G20 and extending the production capacity. It's an important step in the right direction. uh the decision uh in New York in at ANGA to start work on an international uh tax convention uh that would uh help support fair tax taxation in many dimensions is important. And most importantly for this meeting uh the compromise the civil compromise that was reached uh uh couple weeks ago in New York uh shows uh the importance of a new multilateralism the world can uh come together uh and including in that bringing the discussions of debt back in uh to the UN uh the civil action platform more broadly uh provides uh a basis uh for the coalition of the willing uh to really uh heighten this sense of a new multilateralism which hopefully can forge a better world for the future. Thank you. Our next speaker is professor Mariana Majukatu have a CV very extensive CV be in in the panel. So, professor professor from University College London who has been very extensively working on this sector. So, the floor's mom and you have five minutes. Thank you. It's good we don't have a timer. So, uh so first of all, thank you so much and especially thank you to my my sister Monica Garcia and my brother Dr. Tedros because we've been working together on these themes for a very long time and it's a battle. It is not easy. If it was easy, we would not be here. We know that the cost of inaction, just like with climate change, is greater than the cost of action. Would any of you say we're much better prepared today in terms of the strength of global health systems than we were when COVID struck where we had excess deaths because of weak health systems where many of the first people who died were actually those heroes who we called essential workers and then COVID finished and we forgot to treat them as essential. In fact, in my own country in the UK, many doctors and nurses were soon on strike again. So, the power of a conference like this is to remember remember what it actually means to put health and not just health, health for all, that's the goal, what I call missions, at the center of how we actually design the economy. And on this ground, I was very honored when Dr. Tedros uh we usually speak Italian, but today we will speak English together. um uh asked me in 2020 to actually chair to set up uh a council called the Council on the Economics of Health for All, he said, "Mariana, go get the best economists." And surprise surprise, I ended up with 11 women economists. And every time someone asked me uh when people said why only women, Dr. Tedros and I would say why the bleep bleep not look at all these other commissions and councils that have been all men. But jokes aside, these were really fantastic 11 women of which one by the way died the first year. Lena Molo from Botswana who used to be the governor of central of of the central bank in Botswana. She died of COVID. It was a symbol of the the huge tragedy happening globally and what we did in the council which I want to revive here and Monica we met in Madrid two weeks ago to talk about reviving it not only in Spain but in Mexico and Brazil and Barbados where we're working with Dr. Tedros, we just had a meeting about this. What we did in the council was a revolutionary step. We said, "Okay, listen. We know we know we must invest in health because it's also good for the economy." Again, COVID 13.8 um trillion uh uh dollars were lost uh because of basically the lockdown and all sorts of different aspects of supply chains and so on and people not working. But that's not the point. Surely that's not the point. The point is if health for all is the goal, what does it mean for how we design an economic system? What does it mean? These were the four questions we asked. How we value health for all, how we finance health for all, how we innovate health for all, and how we strengthen public sector capacity. So valuing health for all means we need to value and measure the things that truly matter, human and planetary flourishing rather than pursuing economic growth and just GDP maximization. If you had a car, you only had one number. If you had one number, how much gas you had or how quickly you were driving, you would crash that car. So, it's not surprising that we talk about dashboards. It's not replacing GDP with another number. It's precisely the kind of dashboard that we put forth. Please look on the website. You can see all our recommendations around not just health for all, but of course, planetary boundaries, financing health for all. We actually have a document that we uh launched yesterday with Carlos Quero, the minister of um of finance here in Spain and Aayanga uh at the World Bank in a session where in a paper called mind the mission not the gap. We said let's stop just talking about financial gaps as though there's a hole to throw money in. Right. Four trillion 7 trillion. You have one minute. Yeah. Ah he spoke more than me. Uh right it's about the structure of finance. What does long-term patient finance mean? MDB reform, NDB reform to be goal oriented, not just cute little projects here and there where the sum is not greater than the parts. Um, innovating for health for all. Brazil is really interesting on this. Instead of just putting innovation here and then hoping for the best, they put it all under one roof, which we know how to do for the military. By the way, the military-industrial complex is very good at investing and innovating on their urgent needs win the war and making sure the soldiers have access to those innovations. For health, we don't do that. We innovate and then we kind of leave it up to random structures on whether citizens actually have health. So they have for example the health economy industrial complex putting health for all at the center of industrial strategy. bring it to the center not far away in the health ministry just like with climate change it's not just for the department of environment and lastly and I will finish on this strengthening public sector capacity for all if we continue to outsource and I say mckenzify our civil service we ain't going to be able to govern this we need to invest within the civil service to work well with business well with civil society in theory we should not be philanthropizing our our health care systems especially especially when those philanthropies are making money from problematic corporate governance structures. That's a different conversation. I do think we're going back to the middle ages but again new you know different concept but we did a study during COVID with UNDP which countries did better in the developing world uh in terms of preparing themselves in terms of building trust with citizens in terms of vaccine roll out PPE roll out it was countries that not coincidentally had invested on the back of previous viruses like the NEPA virus in administrative capacity Kerala in India Vietnam Rwanda Togo This is not up to just kind of random chance. They invested within the civil service to be dynamic, agile to work well in an outcomesoriented way. We only do outcomes orientation, advanced purchasing agreements, outcomes oriented procurement during war or during COVID when it's too little too late. We should not wait for millions of people to die to wake up to what it means to be outcomes what I call missionoriented. So on that, I just want to thank you again, Dr. Tedros for convening these 11 wonderful women who are still at your service and to Monica and Minister Garcia. It's hard to call my sister Minister Minister Garcia uh for all the work you are doing to lead to show the way not just talking walking the talk and it's hard you will come under attack. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you so much for highlighting how health should be considered as investment and not just an expense. Our third speaker is Nadia Calvinho, president of the European Investment. Back the floor yours ma'am. Thank you very very much for for this meeting. Dear Dr. Tedrosia, uh Ker Monica, Minister Garcia, let me share since we don't have so much time. I'm going to focus on three points and I'm going to try to land the points that have been made by the previous speakers. First point is about the idea that health is not a cost, it is an investment. It is very powerful when a minister says it, but it is even more so when a Nobel prize winner confirms that the numbers actually match. And I would say it is also very convincing when a financial institution, the European Investment Bank, the largest multilateral financial institution, development bank, put the money where the mouth is. So this is not only words. We are investing in health in Europe in the rest of the world. Last year in the past 5 years the European Investment Bank has invested over 22 billion euros in health and life sciences. And this is not just numbers as you rightly say Mariana. It's not about numbers. It's about lives that have been changed is societies that have been strengthened is economies that have grown better and faster. Second word I wanted to share with you. The first was health. The second one is partnerships because we can only tackle these working together. And let me give you two real life examples of the success of partnerships. First one Dr. Tedros mentioned it is the health impact investment partner uh platform together with the African Development Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, the World Health Organization to support primary health care in 16 countries that are and we're engaging with those countries so that they own the reform so that they own the projects that we're helping finance. Second very successful example, Gabi. As I said last week when we had the Gabby meeting, the European Investment Bank is transforming pledges into money so that we can really finance vaccine procurement, saving lights lives every day, but also going beyond the medicine and vaccine procurement so that we can build production capacity in Africa because as you rightly said, it is not about procurement. It's not about supplying the goods. It's allow it's about ensuring that these countries have the strategic autonomy and they can have their own production facilities and that is why we're supporting just to give you an example a company called Biovac in South Africa to scale up production and to be able to supply to Gavi in the future. That is why working together and together with one of those philanthropists Marian I say yes to all the money that comes to be frank with you. So uh like the Gates Foundation, we are ending polio and the dream can come true. You know, in the in the next couple of years, we've already eradicated polio from Madagascar working together. That's the power of partnerships. And this brings me to my final word. Mariana was telling me, be careful because English-speaking people may understand the word compromiso in Spanish as compromise. No, compromiso in Spanish is commitment. So let me assure you the European Union and the European Investment Bank being the financing arm of the European Union, we are absolutely committed and determined. We will stay the course because as you rightly said, this is a battle. This is a fight. We're fighting for global health. And I'm really reinvigorated to see so many of you and a lot of young people joining the fight because let me tell you dear friends this this is the good fight. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Um indeed I think you've reiterated again the need for investment and I'm very pleased to see also what is being done for Africa because uh over the covid we saw how we were kind of left behind but now that we're building capacity we're building the infrastructure so hopefully we are going to be better prepared in the event crosswood is it will not happen but in the event that there is another such catastrophe as has been the covid we are going to be much more prepared and of course again thank you thank you for your contribution And now I have the great pleasure of handing over to the future moderator and the floor is yours. Thank you. Please join me in thanking these amazing panelists for phenomenal panel and to these brilliant women for fighting the fight and for carrying this forward. We're now going to be swiftly moving to a discussion on domestic resource mobilization and effective public spending on health. And as you know, at the one campaign, we fight for life-saving medicines. We fight for humanitarian support, but we also fight for a pathway to sustainability. We really believe that countries have to lead. Countries have to define the futures they want and effectively drive it. So, I'm delighted to invite a phenomenal panel to join me. Dr. Jean Cassay of the Africa CDC, Dr. Winnie of UNID, Peter Sans of Global Fund, and Mary Beth Goodman of the OECD. Please join me. So I have a phenomenal panel. I have a phenomenal panel here. Our very experienced and distinguished leaders who are fighting the good fight. Go ahead. Yes. Okay. who are fighting the good fight to really transition us to a stage where our countries are leading the charge on health financing and filling the gaps that have been created. At the one campaign, we have set out a very bold vision that by 2035 all African countries will will be fully self-sufficient in health. Um, and this requires political will, courageous leadership, and a commitment from all our partners around the world. So, I'm delighted to start off with Dr. Jean Cassa, who's been leading the Africa CDC and really proving the role of regional institutions to advance the African health financing issues. Um, you've been emphasizing the growing importance and the unique importance of regional institutions in coordinating health agendas particularly in Africa. Please share in 5 minutes what you're doing, why you believe this is an urgent time and the innovations that you're pushing at Africa CDC. Thank you indeed. Uh excellencies uh dear colleagues and friends so happy to connect again with you. Uh we are here to discuss mostly what we call the uh financing for development. But let me mostly focus on the L financing. As you know for decades the health financing in Africa was led by out of pocket and external aid that was representing almost around 70 to 75% depending on countries and we saw with co it was just time to sensitize us but with what we call the western head cut it's a wake up a wake up that is leading for three major changes. The first one is we are moving from vertical funding to integrated systemwide investment. What it means? I was talking with a minister of health. He was telling me I have 32 strategic plans from diseases, approaches, interventions. How do you want someone to lead a country program with 32 strategic plans not speaking to each other? And this is why we are saying clearly and loudly in Africa, we can no longer afford to finance diseases but we need to finance system. The second one is from dependence to financial sustainability. I think uh Chanel can you bring me the green book? We all of you now you are uh you are familiar with the green book that Africa CC developed with the three major component more domestic resources more innovative financing and more blended finance. Two days ago here in the same room president R was talking about it how this book supported him to raise billions of dollars by putting in place the elf tax. Please go to Africa CC website you'll find it. and Tedos. Thank you for the photo you took of this book. And the third one is from fragmented implementation to coordinated regional action. This is where Africa is playing a unique role. Unique role because we do not duplicate, we connect and we do not replace national institutions, we reinforce them. Africa doesn't respond to call for proposal because we cannot be in competition with our countries with our partners because all of them are supporting our vision for Africa and this is why we think that regional institutions are critical. The role that power is playing in Latin America, the role that ECDC and uh European medicine agency are playing in Europe. This is the role that Africa CDC and now our sister agency AMA we are playing in Africa. I will tell you the role that we are playing is translated in concrete action today. As most of you know Africa cities is leading what we call the um the the the um uh manufacturing of health commodities uh in our continent. One of the legs is the African pool procurement mechanism. Do you know that by implementing this African pool procurement mechanism, we are cutting by 35% the unnecessary budget for elf commodities. We are reducing the price variance by up to 80% and we are also cutting corruption and making the system more predictable. I think just to make it clear for all of us in Africa we are not asking for more ed. We are asking for smart partnership and I want to thank SA with your gave lip. I told you yesterday I will be a champion to support this vision. this gave lip please take time to go to the I think it's the website go to gave web now to Dr. Winnie um you have come to UN AD with a m a multis sectoral agenda for health sustainability social determinance human rights protecting vulnerable populations and intellectual property rights. Please provide some insights into the actions you're taking to really cement country ownership and comprehensive domestic resource agenda. Thank you. Thank you my sister and DD. Is this coming through? Good excellencies, colleagues, friends, I want to start by thanking Minister Garcia under government of Spain for hosting this special event. Spain for hosting this special event. UN is proud to have coorganized it with you. I also commend Spain for leading a much needed conversation on the future of the global health architecture and its financing through the sea platform for action. Thank you. I will speak to three things. One, the deadly HIV funding crisis and how countries are stepping up. I call it a deadly HIV funding crisis. And two, the need for a responsible transition as we embrace new financing models. And three, why debt, tax, and intellectual property justice matter. And I heard our keynote speaker, Dr. Ted Ross, and also Professor Stiglitz speak to these issues. The HIV response is in a deadly funding crisis. We estimate that if PEPA which is the large has been the largest HIV external assistance program in the world bilateral program if nothing comes in place to replace it and we need to replace it then we are going to see 4 million additional AIDS related deaths by 2029 in four years time and 6 million new infections additional by 2029. So it's really uh a a global response knocked off course. Even before this crisis though we were working with developing countries to increase domestic funding through our what we called sustainability road mapaps. That work is accelerating because of this crisis. We see Zambia, Uganda, South Africa, Nigeria, Burundi, Kivoir, Tanzania, Philippines and others increasing their domestic spending on HIV. In face of these cuts, we see Malawi, Kenya, Botswana and others working to integrate their HIV programs into their national health systems and achieving efficiencies. So all this is happening. We are also speaking to donors asking them to support a radial transition because we need the transitions to we need time for these transitions to happen. For that we need more than ever and uh my friend Peter didn't hire me to do this. It's my duty. We need the global fund now more than ever before. This year is a replenishment year hosted by South Africa and the UK and I urge all the traditional and new donors to dig deep. We need the fund. We need responsible transitions to enable countries to develop new diversified financ financing instruments with a stronger tax base. Developing countries need to be able to invest not just in health but in the social determinance of health. They must invest in education, in social protection and in economic opportunity. In Botswana, a country at the heart of this global AIDS epidemic, each additional year of schooling reduces a young person's risk of HIV by more than 8%. One year of schooling and for girls, this is 11%. So to make those kinds of investments, governments need the fiscal space and the truth is they don't have it. So that's why my point number three, why debt, tax and intellectual property justice matter. Two in every three countries in Africa spending more on debt than on healthcare. The continent loses 88 billion dollars per year through illicit financial flaws, mostly tax abuse. Okay. Actually, the continent received in 2023 72 billion while it lost 88 billion in tax abuse while it also paid 101 billion in debt, principle and interest. So you see that for every $1 of aid broadly there are another $2 going out. So this is not a way to achieve development. It's a perverse flow. So health spending is being squeezed. If we if we want countries to spend more on health, we need coordinated global action on a secure rapid debt restructuring and relief. glad that the outcome document commits to an accelerated process of this that involves the United Nations to enabling more progressive taxation of the wealthy and the corporations. I'm going around with my fund. This is my message at this meeting. Tax the super rich because progressive taxation is important. So is the need to close the tax loopholes. The UN convention has started. It took us years to get to that. But now it has started. The negotiation has started. But we are already seeing some rich countries opting out. That's not the way towards enabling countries to raise the domestic resources they need. We know our history. strict intellectual property rules once enabled pharma companies to deny lifesaving HIV treatments. We lost 12 million people whom we should not have lost if ARVs had been shared immediately. We saw that in COVID, Professor Stigley talked about it coordinated. But when there was coordinated action, prices came down for HIV ARVs from $10,000 down to $30 per person per year. Today we have this amazing Lena Capavir, a long acting injectable twice yearly now costing $28,000 on the market in the United States in rich markets. We know from researchers that it could cost $25 per person per year if rolled out at scale. That can happen. We need the coordinated action between the governments particularly the government of the United States, the parent, the host of the company. We need the company and we need to support the institutions that fund global fund PEPA and the rest of us to shape the market. It can happen. Governments should use flexibilities in intellectual property rules to secure access and build their domestic and regional manufacturing. That is why we supported very much Brazil's G20 leadership of establishing a global coalition on local and regional production. We are supporting that and within that we could move for Lena Capavville to be the first product, the first evidence, first fruit of success of this coalition. In closing, I thank you. We must address debt justice, tax justice, intellectual property justice and then develop other ways of global solidarity in development financing that are not the aid model that is unpredictable and also based on charity rather than global solidarity. Thank you. Thank you so much my sister Winnie for a very passionate plea. um you've been an activist for a long time and I I applaud your courage and your vision and you talked about the global fund. So I'm going to move swiftly to Peter Sans who I know has been fighting for global solidarity to drive impact in a tough replenishment here but also the importance of strengthening national health systems. Peter, tell us what we need to do to really drive ownership where African countries are leading the future of their own health systems while we continue to fight for global solidarity for this pathway to sustainability. Thanks and um I want to start actually with uh Jean Cassair's point about recent events being a a wakeup call and there's no doubt that the recent cuts to overseas development assistance have underscored the imperative of accelerating the drive to nationally led nationally financed systems for health no longer reliant on external support. However, this is a journey. It is not a switch to abrupt disruption will derail progress, will leave people behind, will cost lives and different countries are in very different places along that journey. At the global fund, we see our role as being uh an enabler, a a partner to countries along that journey. So supporting, encouraging, incentivizing, but ultimately actually getting out of the way. Our job is done. That's why we have recently uh revamped our whole approach to co-inancing and transition. Uh it's also why we have really stepped up our investment in supporting countries on reinforcing their public financial management for health working in partnership with Gabby uh and with the World Bank because if countries health systems aren't underpinned by robust systems for financial control, dispersement, reporting and accountability. they won't be able to deliver the impact with their own resources that is required as countries progress towards greater selfres alliance. This makes it all the more important for us to be crystal clear where external funders whether the global fund, the World Bank, Gabby, others should focus our efforts. Where do we add most value relative to countries themselves? Winnie referred to one area. Um, our global scale is hugely important when it comes to market shaping and to ensuring accelerated access to innovations. Len Capavir in HIV would be one example. The next generation of diagnostics and TB would be another. The next generation of treatments in malaria is another top priority right now. our investments in health systems capabilities and the global fund is the largest external provider of funding for investments in health systems. But those systems with significant positive externalities like disease surveillance or global public goods like diversified regional manufacturing offer benefits greater than any one country. They offer benefits to the world as a whole. But we must also focus our increasingly scarce resources on where governments can't or won't do things that have big impact on the poorest and most marginalized populations or where conflict politics or gaps in governance impedes access or impedes effective implementation. So in a world where we're not going to have enough money, we are going to have to be incredibly rigorous on making sure we spend it as effectively as possible. And that works at the level of individual institutions like my own, but it works at the level of the system as a whole. And I do think this is a very timely discussion. The civil platform for action is very timely because this is an agenda for change. It's an agenda for change at a national level, at a regional level and the role of the regional institutions as Sean Cassair said, but also as a global level. We are certainly at the global firm, we are leaning into that change. Um, for example, we have just launched, we are undergoing with our partners in countries uh the biggest midcycle rep prioritization exercise involving about $10 billion of programming that we have ever done. And we're also making efficiency changes and streamlining processes. But some things aren't going to change. Our commitment to country-led inclusive decisionmaking is fundamental to the way the global fund works. Countryled because it's countries, not us in Geneva, who decide how the money we allocate gets spent. Inclusive because it's not just governments, but civil society communities and the private sector who need to be involved in the decision-making on those priorities. The need to change does extend beyond individual institutions. As Minister Garcia said, the system is fragmented and complicated and we have to seize this opportunity to make it more rational to simplify it to realize synergies. Um so I think the ambition of the civil reform for action for some kind of joint roadmap for reform is a great ambition and one we are fully uh supportive of. We we this if there was ever a time to be kind of radical about what kind of global health ecosystem we want now is that moment. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you, Peter Sans, for your for your leadership, but also the reforms required to meet the moments in this crisis. And sorry, Ed, I have to say one thing. Whitty mentioned our replenishment, but if I don't, I'll get shot. Um, and we do have a replenishment. We know you have a replenishment is very important. Thank you very much. And we are supporting this replenishment. So, everybody supporting Global Fund replenishment and Gab's replenishment. Thank you. Thank you for the hard work. Mary Beth, we're out of time and you're the last but not the least speaker. I know you you believe in data innovation and creative mechanisms. Please just give us two minutes of an intervention. Thank you. I'll be fast. It's working. Yes. Um Peter mentioned the fallen ODA and I'm going to pick up on that. The truth is that 5 years after the CO 19 pandemic when we saw the exposure of the fragility in our health systems, we're actually now facing another crisis and that's the collapse in the financing that we need to sustain those same health systems. We've seen the debt. We've heard about all the issues. All of these are the successive crises that have brought us here. But it is the unprecedented falls that we're seeing right now in the official development assistance that is causing some of the biggest concern or it should be for the health officials at the OECD. We just last week wrapped up some analysis on what the actual impact of these ODA cuts is. There have been lots of assumptions made up until now, but we can now show you with the data that it is Africa, specifically the LDC's in Africa, that are going to be the hardest hit from these ODA cuts and the health sector is going to have some of the biggest impact. We are projecting a 9 to7% drop in the total volume of official development assistance in 2025. And that is on top of the 9% drop in ODA that we saw in 2024. So the range that I gave you, the 9 to 17% really depends on the levels of support we may yet see come through from the US and a few other donors, but it's going to be significant. We know that depending on how this all plays out, it's going to be hard. But let me put a finer point on just how hard this is. We saw epic spending for COVID during the pandemic, lots of health spending, but we are now going to be back to the levels of spending for health that we saw in 2007 and 2008. That is a 10 to 12 billion drop. And we all know that the the spending will of course rise to meet the challenges when we have a crisis. But this has got some real implications for all of us because as we saw with the pandemic, we're only as strong as our weakest link, right? We know these viruses are going to cross borders. We know that this is going to be problematic. But a finer point on this, the direct implications are very much real for global health security because of the ODA cuts. because 80% of the funding that we see globally for pandemic preparedness and response comes from ODA. That is what we depend on to do the PPR work. So whether we learned the lessons or not during COVID, we really have to do more to ensure that we are stronger than the weakest link here, that we are building up the capabilities everywhere and that we are working now to really service this. I need all of the health experts to also become advocates for increasing domestic resource mobilization. We have got to have countries that are taking advantage of their own ability to spend on health so that we can leverage that to bring in the expertise to bring in the money that is pulled from these other resources because we have got to build up the support at the domestic level to ensure that health spending is addressing the needs for one and all particularly in some of these poorest and most fragile environments where we're going to have to direct the ODA. We know several of the African countries are very exposed right now. We're going to continue doing this analysis to look at Latin America, Southeast Asia, other parts of the world because we are going to have to leverage our resources, partner in ways that we've never partnered before, and really help build up capacities to really weather this storm that is coming over this year and next. Thank you very much. Thank you so much. So I think we're we're leaving with a very clear view of tax justice, health justice, domestic resource mobilization, ownership. But I want to tell you we're moving from a scarcity mentality to a security mentality. And one just released an amazing white paper on that. I'll end with my current mantra which is an EO proverb that says it's during times of crisis that you know who is courageous, who is on innovative and who is strong. We have some innovative and strong leaders in the room here. This is a time to rise up and demonstrate courage and crisis. Thank you to the Spanish government. Thank you to Hime. I'm going to call on Kik now to take us forward. Please join me in thanking this amazing panel. And sorry for going over time. We had brilliant speakers and brilliant minds. Thank you very much. Can I ask the next panel to join me already here so we can expedite a little bit the the timing? I'm very pleased to be here today. My name is Kik Basat. I am the director general of the Barcelona Institute for Global Health is global, a center of excellence in global health research whose core mission is to translate the scientific knowledge we generate into action, catalyze impact and advance health equity. Please join me already the the panel. The panel is Sonia Nishtar, chief executive officer of GAVI the vaccine alliance, Jarbas Barbosa, director of the Pan-American Health Organization, Omar Turay, president of the EcoAS Commission, and Ani Ali, Minister for International Development, Government of Australia. So the last two decades have seen extraordinary achievements for the advance advancement of humanity in the field of of health. These achievements are now at serious risk of reversal unless a commitment is urgently made to sustainably finance the life-saving interventions and health research systems that care for people around the world. One of the fundamental problems in lower inome countries is their heavy dependence on external sources of funding which poses a huge risk to some of the most vulnerable populations on the planet. According to a recent publication led by his global researchers and published this Monday in the Lancet, the impact of cuts in US official development assistance to the health sector could lead to the deaths of 14 million people over the next 5 years. 4.5 million of which being children under the age of five. Most importantly, the very aid that could now disappear has been instrumental to save more than 90 million lives in the first two decades of this century. Hence, the urgency of finding solutions that reduce this dependence by diversifying and making the most impactful interventions in the health sector sustainable. In this panel, we will address crucial elements for the necessary diversification of the health system financing framework, innovation, and regional approaches to sustainable transformations. Let me start with SA. SA Gabi's work over its 25 year history has contributed decisively to key advances in child survival. Based on that experience and looking to the future, how innovation and partnerships for specific health interventions can secure long-term financing and sustainability for essential services like immunization. Well, good afternoon and first of all, allow me to begin by thanking Prime Minister Sanchez and Minister Garcia for for hosting us, for their collaboration, for their leadership in hosting this event. Um, and I also want to thank you all because many of you were part of making the Gabi replenishment successful, enabling us to secure 9 billion in this most difficult environment, $4.5 billion of complimentary funding. Thank you all for your support of Gabi's replenishment. Now you you started your question was about diversification about sustainable financing about innovations about outof-box thinking when it comes to financing and I think it is absolutely critical that while we do that we are listening to voices on the ground you we are talking about solutions to actual problems and we have objectives in mind and I can give you some examples from how Gabby has leveraged uh uh innovations and financing to to tackle intractable problems. For instance, we vaccinate six out of 10 children anywhere in the world. Uh and for that we need to have advanced market commitments with manufacturers to drive down price to facilitate access. Mariana in a former panel talked about um advanced market commitments only during wars while Gabi does it as as regular part of our business and that has really enabled us to drive down cost and provide access uh to six out of access to vaccines for six out of 10 children in the world saving 19 million lives. We've we've vaccinated over a billion children. uh and in order to do that uh we float a vaccine bond uh through the international financing facility for immunization. Uh it's a very important mix of in our financing mix which allows us to achieve our objective. Another example of innovative financing to date has been uh in the co setting. uh as you know there was a liquidity crunch earlier on during co um which and it took months before money could be uh could be raised. So learning from that we've put in place the first response fund the day zero financing facility um a 500 which is a $500 million fund and it and along with $2 billion worth of credit lines from the European Investment Bank and the United States DFC. Um another yet another example of that also from within the COVID setting uh is the particular situation that Africa experienced being back of the line when it came to access to vaccines. And again learning from that we put in place another innovative financing instrument called the African vaccine manufacturing accelerator. um that essentially is a subsidy mechanism which makes milestone payments to incentivize and catalyze investments in sustainable commercial vaccine uh production. And of course there is our breadandbut co-inancing policy that many of you are aware of. um in order to garner country ownership of programs uh Gavi has what what is called a co-inancing policy because countries contribute to the cost of their vaccines their share increases as they as their economic situation improves and ultimately they graduate out of of out of our support 19 countries have graduated. So this is a little bit of a snapshot of how we've used innovative financing, how we've used out of the box thinking when it comes to financing policy in this multilateral context to address specific challenges. Whether it is the challenge of fund mobilization, whether it is a challenge of access, whether it is a specific challenge coming from the implementing countries. uh going forward we are even far more bolder and we have what is called the gave leap reform uh and that reform is predicated on four principles country centricity uh country self-reliance focused mandates for international organizations uh and finite lifespans for operational entities so that we can focus on uh global public goods and I really want to thank brother John Casier was for referring to it. Uh we are very serious about implementing this reform and let me tell you this is not rhetoric. We're quite further along in implementation. We've put concrete measures on the ground which will kick off from the 1st of January 2026. One of the one of the measures we take we've taken is to put more resources at the decision-m discretion of countries so that they can decide what is suited to their context. Brother John also talked about the 32 um strategic plans in one particular country. In some countries there are even more. Uh as I'm I'm a former minister from from the government of Pakistan. The largest department that I ran was the one that they dealt with the reporting requirements of international agencies. Huge fragmentation. Everybody wants reporting on a different line. Everybody wants their money kept in different bank accounts and have different fudiciary oversight um asks. Uh that needs to change. We have to put money at the decision-m discretion of countries and I'm very proud to say that at GI we've already taken that decision and our board has ratified the decision of the management. When I was initially a CEO 14 months before, I started my tenure with a with by visiting countries that we have the privilege of supporting and learning from that we put a reform in place as part of the GVI leap architecture to simplify our operations. We run many grant windows which are not aligned to our strategy cycles. We're folding them into one starting from January. We're making we're we're putting far more money into government budgets parallel with investments in systems. Um and of course we're listening to them. They want sovereignity in vaccine manufacturing. They want self-reliance in manu vaccine manufacturing which is why we're investing in the African vaccine manufacturing accelerator. They are of course under the pressure of um of debt and heavy inflation and have fiscal constraints which is why last week we la we uh launched the MDB multiplier which is basically facilitating access to concessional lending and you would have noticed that alongside the 9 billion that we secured there's a 4.5 billion of concessional lending and fasttrack liquidity arrangements for countries to ease the fiscal pressure uh in in countries And of course we will continue to facilitate our transition. Um but I think what's really important is to bring to bear the reality at the last mile. And I always like to talk about the woman who goes with her two children and sick parents and sick in-laws at home in the hope of finding uh recourse at the last mile health facility. That woman is not interested in knowing how we operate at the global level. That woman wants a vaccine for a child, a nutrition supplement for the the other child. She wants contraceptives for herself. She wants a wheelchair for a sick mother-in-law at home. She wants diabetes medication. She wants high blood pressure medication. She wants a bed net. Uh she's not interested with how we work. And I think financing is the most important tool to merge things on the ground. Which is why one of the fundamental outcomes of interest that we want to achieve through the GVI leap reform is merger at the last mile. And we're aggressively advocating for it. We're aggressively advocating that all of us who bring money to the table put it at the disposal of countries. That we make it easy for them to work with us. that we synchronize and align our grant cycles, our analytics and our reporting mechanisms so so that it is easier for countries to work with us and so that we go to respect their systems and processes and I look forward to collaboration from all of us who work on the ground. Many thanks SA fantastic words. Um, thanks thanks to Gabi for always leading the way in creative thinking, thinking out of the box to actually ultimately solve the problems of the end user that you were mentioning that is the one that needs to benefit from vaccines. Let me switch now to Jarvis Barbosa. Um, the role of regional organizations is critical for the transformation of the system. Jarvis, I am going to ask you to provide us with a regional perspective uh on the challenges and transformative pathways for financing universal health in Latin America and the Caribbean showcasing regional solutions. Thank you. Uh first I want to thank Minister Garcia and the government of Spain not only for having us here for their strong commitment to the global health and but also to providing through I see the a very important support to countries in Latin America in the Caribbean to advance public health priorities like the elimination of cervical cancer. Uh the Americas is the most inequal region in the world. We have the richest country in the world, the United States, and we have a country now, Haiti, that is struggling to keep the most basic public health services open and running. But at the same time, we have had many important achievements in the region in Latin America and the Caribbean. They are progressing, countries are progressing towards this guarantee universal universal health. But we still face some very important challenges. H our most recent report universal health coverage in the Americas reveals trouble data almost 8% of the population incurs catastrophic health expenses and more than 14% forgo care altogether due to cost additionally 40% of met needs stem from non-inancial barriers including service availability organizational inefficiencies and geographic and cultural barriers. I just pick up from my my dear friend talking about vaccination in in countries in Latin America that have 50% of the economy relying on informal economy and 50% of the poorest families has only one adult that has an income and this adult is our woman. H with all the vaccines that you have introduced and this is good news. This woman needs to go 10 to 12 days h to get the vaccines for their baby in the first year. If the health centers are open only 9 to 5 Monday to Friday, this will be a complete better. So we really need to to rethink how we are organizing health service. I think that is also important. I want to to advocate for primary healthcare because for especially live services and the hospitals and high cost equipment we have a lot of advocates out there I don't need to name them but we are uh working with the country to strengthen this vision about the primary health care what we call a renewed and strengthen primary health care that can deliver health promotion prevention surveillance and care for this comp complex epidemiological scenario that we have in Latin America in the Caribbean with an acceptable rates of pregnancy among adolescents with more than 30% of deaths related to noncommunicable disease that are preventable and the disease that we have the tools to eliminate but still uh that is still have in affectable burden on the on the on the sides. So we are working with the World Bank and the IDB. We launched a little bit more than one year ago an alliance to strengthen primary healthcare. We have already 11 countries that that have joined this alliance. This country have mobilized over 7.3 billion US dollars to strengthen primary health care from renovation of health centers, equipments, training for health care workers, but also 1.2 2 billion is is specifically ear market for digital transformation including digital including tele health tele medicine and other ways to strengthen their capacity to improve the quality of care and to guarantee access to people that lives in remote areas. So we are of course advocating that they need to increase the the the way that they are spending the the funds. We recommend 6% of the GDP as public health expenditures. The average in Latin America and the Caribbean is only 4.2%. But we also need to provide a better way to be more efficient with the limited resources that we have and uh this renewal division for primary health care. We do believe that is a backbone of a resilient health system and can uh really really meet all the the public health needs that the population have. Thank you Dr. Barbosa. Maintaining this regional perspective, we move on to a very different context and set of healthcare needs with Omar Tle. Omar, could you showcase regional commitments to health investment as a driver of economic growth and stability and perhaps provide an inspiring example of country leadership on health financing? Um, thank you. Um, let me start by thanking the government of Spain on behalf of Echoas for inviting us um to this panel and for the facilities made available to to us. um during this important global uh meeting. I also uh acknowledge Dr. Tadurus um of the WHO. Um we as African institutions are very proud of the work you are doing. We acknowledge the challenge you are faced with. It is a challenge that we facing back home. May I also the Africa CDC director recognize them. Um responding to the question on the uh institutional frameworks at the region, I think um there will be we can cite a number of um strategic frameworks that have been put in place either at the continental level or at the regional level. But let me site the the principal one and that is the 20 um two 2001 um Abuja declaration on um tobaculosis HIV which is generally referred to as the Abuja declaration. This is the declaration that uh requires member states to allocate a minimum of 15% of their national budgets to um um health. Now the question let's say 24 years down the road where have we been? Um if I look at West Africa, I can point to a number of um progress, a lot of progress, but very few countries or no country apart from perhaps one has attained the 15% um um requirement of the declaration. Um and that country uh I stand to be corrected happens to be Cape Verde. Now if a country has done it, it means all our countries can do it with the right um uh perhaps policies um right um um governance um frameworks. The question uh I I I have is the the my position is health is too important to be outsourced. It is too important to be outsourced and if we have failed to allocate 15% of our budget um to health um sector that is because we continue to outsource the health health financing and this must stop. So in my view the way forward requires uh promoting ownership a we have to take ownership of um this sector. We certainly need to take ownership of number of sectors but we must start with this and education and to take ownership ownership uh we would require a few things. First we need to enjoy a degree of autonomy. The question is how much are we free to allocate resources to the health sector. We have programs with the Bretonwoods institutions that would certainly require certain intervention. The question is what is the policy space that we enjoy in this and we need this autonomy to be able to um allocate sufficient resources um and and and own the programs. We also need to address governance in these um in this sector. By governance I mean accountability. We are we we we we we we are in a in an international setting where we we are we should talk frankly to each other. It is no secret that um accountability is a major problem. Corruption is a major problem in our health sectors and we have to face this to be able to address it. You do have public sector medication in private pharmacies in some of our economies. This needs to be addressed. You can do this. So ownership um autonomy and accountability. This is the first point I think we need to uh address to be able to um meet the requirements of the Abuja declaration. The second point and very quickly is equitable partnership. I think what um some um um panelists have indicated is the fragmentation of interventions. This is a problem. The fragmentation creates problem of ownership. It creates problem of coherence. It creates problem of coordination. We need to address this. Um once we own our programs, partners should be able to work with us in a coordinated manner rather than in a fragmented manner. I think with that we should be able to attain the pro prescriptions of the Abuja declaration that is to make 15% of our national budgets available to the health sector. Thank you very much Omar. Thank you very much. And last but not least, let let me move to another uh regional perspective uh with focus in the Pacific this time. Um an uh what would your vision uh to advance in this new global health financing architecture be and and and what role could the Sevilla platform of action initiative play? Uh thank you for the question your excellencies, ministers and colleagues. Can I uh first start by thanking the Spanish government for hosting this event and to also acknowledge all uh all the co-sponsors and the organizations represented here for the important and incredible work that you do. Uh I do believe this is an incredibly timely discussion. We've heard uh from previous speakers and panelists who have made the case for why it's never been more important for countries to work together and for collective action. It's particularly important in the health se uh in the health sector. Uh my friends, we know that pandemics and diseases don't respect borders and in this respect we all benefit all of us benefit from the new tools and technologies developed through global partnerships. Now over the last two decades we've uh turned the HIV epidemic around. We've enabled 25 million people around the world to access anti-retroviral therapy. We're on the last mile to eradicating polo. We have effective and safe vaccines to protect children from some of the most harmful diseases. Uh indeed, we have much to be proud of, but we cannot stop there. We cannot rest on our laurels because it is increasingly clear that we need to rethink how we enable countries to lead and to fund their own health systems. Countries must be able to access the health products that they need and at fair prices. We need simplified pro processes simplified processes uh less fragmentation of effort and alignment with count's priorities. Uh but I want to stress that this does not mean that we abandon or reduce development funding. No, development funding still plays a critical role in global health security and Australia is committed to playing our part. Now last week I was very proud as the Austral as a representative of the Australian government to confirm that Australia will sustain our strong support for Garvey's important mission and uh I note that Peter has left the room but uh we are also preparing to to announce our uh our new global fund pledge as well. Uh we also need action by global health institutions to strengthen impact and reduce burden on countries. This event uh here in Sevilla and the related global health financing Sevilla platform for action uh which many of us have also signed on to demonstrates the commitments the compromiso if I may use that word from all partners to make changes. Uh, Australia will continue. We will continue to work with all partners to drive reforms towards a more agile, a more sustainable and a more impactful global health ecosystem. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. To conclude this panel, we have three additional interventions. Unfortunately, very very very brief from the front uh row. May I ask if we can have the mics uh available? These interventions are from states and organizations that have just joined the global health initiative of the Sevilla platform of action. So let me ask for very quick interventions from Erica Garrettson European Commission director of human development migration governance and peace in DG INPA Robert Matiro director of programs unitate and an ARU global health ambassador France. Good afternoon. Thank you very much. Thank you for for giving me the floor. Thanks for the amazing panel. Um, in the name of the European Commission, I would like to to confirm that we would like to endorse the the SPA initiative on on global health and global health financing. It's obviously a very important achievement for the from the civilia um compromis to to to have this topic so high on the agenda as we indeed move out of the gave replenishment last week in in Brussels. So the EU together with member states like Spain and France are very happy to to continue engaging in this discussion. I know that there are many EU member states interested in in working with uh partner countries around the world on global health, global health security as well as investing uh in the partner countries and along the priorities that are established by the partner countries. This is really at the core and at the center of our vision for this agenda. So many thanks again uh for Spanish commitment to this and your initiatives. Thank you very much Robert. Claire, sorry. Go ahead and thank you. Thank you very much and congratulations for this special event on health financing and congratulations minister for the Spanish government health strategy. just released. Uh congratulation. Thank you very much. Um and I would like to thank the government of Spain for the civilia initiative and as it was said France alongside European Commission is honored to endorse and to join the Sevilla health financing agenda for action. Why? As the French president Emanuel Macron said just two days ago here in this room, we need a paradigm shift. And to prepare responsible transitions, we need to ensure health sovereignty which requires greater focus and domestic resource mobilization and the use of diversified financial mechanism. And we need to accelerate effort first to build the international financial architecture of the 21st century. What we are doing, second to promote partnership and ownership on development agenda including health financing and third to reinforce the global health architecture. and the international community and France will be involved alongside the European Commission to come together to win the fight and to deliver health for all. That's our duty. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And Robert, if I can ask you for your quick remarks. I have one minute. So, two quick points. The first one is to build on what has been said about innovative financing, but to a plea that we don't go and look for new approaches when we have proven innovative financing models that work and unit my agency was founded on the basis of a solidarity levy on airline taxes. And 20 years later, we're still here because it's that sustainable and not economically disruptive. And we're very happy to have hear the announcement two days ago from France, Kenya, and Barbados that there'll be an eight country coalition to bring such attacks to luxury travel. So let's replicate what we have in the extractive industry in the airline industry and other industries in an economically sound way. The second point is this and again not to repeat we need to use different types of financing and instruments more not to replace ODA but alongside ODA concrete example last year launched with the governments of Kenya and Tanzania Africa's first regional medical liquid oxygen production. It's a program not a project. Projects have a place, but programs are sustainable, replicable, and scalable. And what that does is address four key things that we heard today. One, a crosscutting health issue. It addresses 20 plus health conditions. It's the definition of horizontal, not vertical. Two, it's aligned with national, continental, Africa, CDC, AU, and global strategies, the global oxygen alliance strategy to expand access. Three, it's about regional and local production, building health resilience and health security, but partnering with the private sector in a way that is also sustainable because the companies we're investing in are going to make oxygen for the public sector and sell excess to the private sector and sustain their business model. And lastly uh and not least, it brings blended financing to the table. So the grant financing we receive as unitaid unlocks loans concessionally, guarantees and equity from other funders. So we invest $1 and we crowd an additional three alongside regular grant financing. Thank you. An example that we should replicate elsewhere. Thank you very much Robert. Please join me in a last round of applause for this fantastic panel. Thank you very much. I think the the word of the session is compromiso. Many of you have learned this Spanish word commitment. It's a very important word. And finally let me invite uh let me tell that there will be a photo after the last two talks. So please do not leave the for the speakers to be join us at stage for the last photo. But let me invite Minister of Finance and Planning of Rwanda Muranga Yu and Minister of Foreign Affairs of Spain Jose Manuel Alvarez to join the final session and deliver the last words. Thank you very much. Yeah, thank you very much. Uh thank you very much uh excellencies uh distinguished uh uh delegates as we come to the close uh of this discussion uh on health financing. Uh it's important to reflect again uh on the challenges of health financing uh in Africa and especially uh what uh we can do uh about it. Uh first of all, COVID 19 was a painful reminder uh that our global economy is only as strong as the health of our people. uh it exposed uh fragilities uh in the very systems uh that should uh be protecting us. Also uh it also offered a rare moment of global clarity uh that health uh is the foundation uh of all development and that lesson must not uh be lost. uh across the world today uh millions uh still face the impossible choice uh between seeking care and avoiding uh financial ruin and poverty. Uh this is not just an African problem. Uh it is a global it is a moral it's a economic uh development and strategic uh failure and it demands a global political uh response. uh to address this challenge we need long-term vision and concrete uh financial uh commitments. Uh to follow to address that uh the following should be uh considered especially uh in Africa. Uh first of all uh governments in Africa uh have to prioritize and commit uh to progressively scale uh investments in key health infrastructure and capabilities including human resources. There is a huge capability shortage uh in Africa. two uh in Africa uh we have to mitigate uh the high cost of uh out of pocket uh health financing uh and uh countries should consider uh putting in place uh mechanisms for universal health insurance that suit uh their respective context. uh for example uh in Rhonda uh universal community health insurance where almost 90% of Randans are insured has been very instrumental in pulling uh resources uh for investment uh in the health sector and finally governments and development partners should work uh with the private sector uh to leverage private sector resources especially at scale uh to invest uh in the health sector. In Rwanda, we have made health a pillar of national development. Uh from the community uh based health insurance system that I just mentioned uh to investments in digital services in the health sector uh to the recent partnerships for regional vaccine and manufacturing uh and with uh the right policies and partnerships, even modest uh resources can achieve significant uh results. Uh no country can do it alone. uh health threats are uh borderless. Uh we see HIV, tuberculosis, malaria uh continue to devastate lives and livelihoods uh in Africa but also globally because of inconsistent uh global financing and interventions. Uh for that matter, replace replenishments for the global fund and gave which has just been mentioned are very important. uh there must be the uh uh global fund and gave must be fully fully funded uh given the demands uh that are available. As I conclude uh Ronda supports uh the Savil health financing agenda for action that is grounded in three uh fundamentals. The first fundamental is strengthening domestic uh financing uh for health. two modernizing uh international cooperation. We have to do uh international cooperation in health in a different way and three deisking uh private sector uh financing in the health sector. Uh excellencies uh we should uh build a future where no one's health depends on the randomness uh of uh their fate. Thank you very much. Excellency, excellencies, associates, friends, we live in a time where the health care global healthcare system is in is at a crossroads and the pandemic of the of the coid9 pandemic evidenced our interdependence and our weaknesses, our systemic weaknesses. That's why investing in healthcare as we all know is not only a solidarity matter, but is also investing in responsibility, investing in a healthier and safer world, in a world to the benefit for the benefit of everyone. Protecting the most vulnerable communities in the world. Protecting all citizens in the world is not only fair and just, but it's intelligent. In the last decades, humanity has made incredible advances and advancements to save lives and to promote a healthier and safer world. Um, the mortality of women when giving birth has gone down 40% since the year 2000. Nowadays we lose 40% less children than in 1990. Vaccines and treatments have saved tens of millions of lives from uh infectious sicknesses like a HIV, malaria, tuberculosis and we are really close to early getting polio and the international community has uh has won against the worst pandemic in loss of gener uh in many generations in a record time And all of this is not a matter of chance is the result of the scientific uh progress and the cooper international cooperation that is encared in the international cooperation that is here in this event uh in in the in which the WHO takes part. the funds for for development. The governments like Spain that bet for uh and support these uh global healthcare. The global healthcare architectures has grown uh having new partners and uh organs and creating uh healthcare and and financing for those who need the most. But this growth has brought also fragmentation uh inefficacy and global healthcare is facing a great financing deficit nowadays and without a critical financing mass we will not be able to move forward. The decision from of some of the donors that can advance alone in global matters is key to reduce that financing and is a challenge for all of us for all of those that are still engaged with global healthcare for the uh or participating associate countries but for all the system in it in itself. 42 country countries invest less than 30 uh annual dollars per person in healthcare. Much less that is needed to finance basic services and the the lack of this help has um has brought a lot of countries to be be facing a high risk of uh going back on challenges that we thought controlled like HIV progress or malaria. the health healthc care for women access to vaccinations only to mention the most scandalous ones because it's it's at our reach to um in our reach to avoid this. is the moment to act and we must act together, united to act with uh decidedly to protect the advancements we have reached and to reach the goals of the SDGs of SDG number three, particularly promoting universal uh healthcare coverage and maintaining our advancements and protecting them against the threats to health that are now um going backwards. Spain has started a global healthcare strategy to for the year 2025 uh until the year 2030. And one of the main elements of our strategy is a the renewed commitment with international cooperation in matters of global healthcare. The best manner to ensure progress and to maintain the our mission in the next years is a reform. We need some uni ambitious and integrating action to build a global health care system that is more effective, better governed and better coordinated. We need to reinforce institutions, eliminate uh redundancies and guaranteeing that each euro has the impact we seek for Spain. health and healthcare and it couldn't be any other way is a human right and a public common good. And we also think that a feminist point of view uh based on equitable rights that gives special attention to women because they are always in the most vulnerable situations and for the people that are in the in different collectives is key. That's why when the official help to uh development uh faces a greater pressure in the whole world when very important donors disappear or reduce their financing in Spain we are firm and we uphold our commitment to raise our investment in global solidarity with a legal mandate in for the first time in our history that is introduced in our new cooperation uh law to reach 0.7% of our um uh financing for for the year 2030 and today we announced a realistic and concrete program to uh help us reach uh this goal for 2030. We are committed to a multilateral healthcare system that is renewed and is efficient that has to have the WHO in the center as an organization with the mandate of establishing priorities and sanitary global norms. Uh who then needs better uh financing, better governance and to be centered in its uh technical and governing mandates. That's why we have uh appelled the the call launched from the organization for 2025 to 2028 uh destining destinating 60 million euros for that effort and since March Spain has a place in the executive council of the WHO and we actively participate in the governance of initiatives that are key for global healthcare like the uh global fund gave uh the CTI. We in the last week we have made public some uh ambitious commitments for both for the alliance for vaccinations and for the global funds. uh raising in both cases our um financial apportations or financial or financing comparing to other years. And our objective is key with the global healthcare coverage centered in access to attention and um and innovation and with initiatives that assemble the governments and the private sector and the cyber society to promote a human a bastic human right. as is the right to hell for everybody to be able to reach it. Uh and I repeat, financing must be adequate uh perisible. It has to come from diverse sources that have to coordinate the the raising of national resources with new tools like cons um new innovative mechanisms and with an international solidarity that is constant. Our objective is to create resistant systems that are directed by the countries they are directed to that they give essential services and quality services for everybody and never leaving anybody behind. Throughout the panel we have heard the opinion from academic expert from the WHO different healthcare global healthcare initiatives but we cannot abandon this meeting without a clear commitment to advance and to answer the challenges we're facing. Seia isn't the end of anything. It's the beginning is the end maybe of a thought but it's the beginning from of an action that is committed to uh global healthcare. Spain has worked with international organizations and other countries in the uh sevidia action platform that has been launched in the framework of this conference. These initiatives wants to renew seeks to renew the commitment towards a global healthcare system that is agile, efficient, transparent and centered on uh global healthcare coverage and tackling the more important health um challenges. Through this platform, we send a firm support message to the uh reforming initiatives with three parities. creating a coordinated support to build health care system that are inclusive and sustainable. And secondly, to ask to the global healthcare organizations to give reform measures that improve coherency and reduce fragmentation. And thirdly, creating a a joint road map for the reform at the beginning of next year that will allow us to advance in different initiatives. Dear friends, the commitment of Sevilla, the Sevilla commitment creates a clear path towards the future. But we must accompany, we must follow this ambition with actions, with concrete action in the field of global healthcare, which is urgent but also key for the health of the most vulnerable ones, but also for our own health. We need a renewed vision, a global commitment, a road map that leads us to a um sustainable global uh healthcare that is uh sustainable and equitable. Spain is ready to work with everyone to reach a reform healthcare global system that is uh more resistant and reflects the urgency of this moment. Spain has started doing so already and will double their efforts after tomorrow with really concrete action and we hope all countries in the world follow us with this in in this effort that we have in this country. Thank you very much. We remind the panelist if they can to come here to take a picture.