Good morning everyone. It is an absolute pleasure to be here. Thank you for inviting me to be part of this conversation. Um in the spirit of collaboration and progress, my pleasure, it is my pleasure to introduce two remarkable individuals who are driving global action in health, equity, and sustainability. First, the director general of the World Health Organization. He's the first person from the WHO African region to lead the organization and brings with him a legacy of transformative work. As Ethiopia's former minister of health and foreign affairs, he foreign affairs, he is joined by the CEO of the French Development Agency and the chair of finance in common who played a key role in aligning public development banks around SDGs in the Paris agreement. He also co-hosted the 2024 Paris Summit alongside the IOC. Please join me in welcoming Dr. Tedros and Remy Ru Remy. Good morning. You played a key role in organizing the Paris 24 summit on sports for sustainable development. Nearly a year on, what would you say has been the standout achievement of the summit? And looking ahead, what needs to happen now to keep the momentum going, especially with the current challenging global context? Thank you, Beni. And good good morning, everybody. Um yes, I I had a dream uh back in 2015 few months before Paris 24 was awarded to to France. Um which was to have this kind of moment we're in in Paris and now in in in Loausan. And I really fondly remember our first meeting, President Bar. I think it was in January 2020 uh just before COVID erupted and then you we discussed SDGs and all this agenda you and the journey of IOC and all of us. Um and then you made that uh landmark speech. I think it was July 2020 and that was the that was really the the turning point really at the heart of the the pandemic. Dr. Tedros was also alerting us all of us and you really uh put uh sports as a key contribution for for health uh and for sustainability. And then 2021 was the the faster, higher, stronger together uh moto which was also uh such an important uh change. And so from this message I got uh we prepared uh with your team uh I want to of course mentioned the role of Kristoff Marian James Oi Katya also Tony Sophia of Paris 20 24 my AFD team we we patiently prepared uh this moment uh last July with the support of all my president is here all Olympism 365 members uh created at that time as well. And we made it. I think we made it. We had a significant result in Paris that I want to remind all of you. decastline of political commitments that have now to be uh satisfied by governments in the discussion with NOC's of course at country at country level we had the very strong contribution of the sports world uh the increase of the Olympic solidarity was instrumental but we had also commitments of pitches by thousands by FIFA uh and also by the NBA uh on stage uh in Paris and yes on here the financial sector also committed uh to support to accompany and to invest uh in the sports for development agenda. a year after um I think we made a significant progress. Uh the president reminded us on the political side the the summit for the future I think was a was a milestone. Um and also the G7 in headed by uh by uh by Italy. Um we have pilot countries with FIFA uh especially uh Rwanda, Comoros, Benin where we are already built I think about 20 mini pitches in schools and we have yesterday the global partnership on education was meeting in Paris and we are trying to connect FIFA with all the investors in education and the NBA Clara Mackenzie colleague are also working very hard to deliver their their their their pledge. I want to highlight also the the research uh side which is very important. We know the role of UNESCO. We know CF Juan Pablo is around uh preparing important reports uh about impact measuring impact again to uh uh convince uh investors that they can unlock that potential and I also want to highlight the role of President AJ Bongar of the World Bank. We are preparing for next year in Dhakar a report on the impact of sport for the development in Africa. Madame Madame President, we we know what your foundation and your leadership uh in this um in this in this regard and and last but maybe I will come to that later. Uh I can explain what's happening on the on the financial side. What we need now to keep the momentum growing uh is um uh certainly uh an action plan. So I hope these two days of hard work all together will help us uh set this action plan with KPIs attached strong commitments and we need a timeline uh we need a timeline to make it grow. So make this kind of events regular. Uh, of course we have Cortina coming. We have Dakar uh, of course so important and we have um, Los Angeles. I was there last month. A lot of interest also from the organizers uh, about this agenda and Brisbane. I think Brisbane is very interested on the biodiversity especially uh, priority and of course in between we have you will come back in France for the Alps. We're very honored by it and so you will uh you will ask us if we delivered what we committed in in Paris by 2030. We we certainly intend to be at the rendevu of what we decided all together. Thank you. As you mentioned Remy, we have a couple of important months ahead with Miko and also Dhaka coming up. But Dr. Tedros, at the Paris summit last year, you issued a strong call for leadership and teamwork to help sports and physical activity go further as a driver for better health. With non-communicable diseases projected to rise, the WHO itself warning of growing mental health issues. Um, your message feels even more urgent and more un undeniable. Could you share with us some standout examples of the kind of leadership and action you want to see more of particularly as we head towards the next global meeting on NCDS and mental health? Thank you moderator. I thought I have something. Thank you moderator and thank you prime minister for joining us. very nice to meet you again and thank you for your leadership and also thank you uh my brother Thomas for bringing us all together and also welcome to Christi and the first female and the first African so and I'm the first African by the for so we have one in common um um maybe just want to give like uh what Remy said, give some background before I get to the question. uh we signed an MOU with Thomas in 2020 and then I think it's uh yeah so he was mobilizing I think everybody so he was and the same time and he came to WHO with two bicycles and he left one of the both bicycles actually the standing bicycles in in who one of them I use still in my office um So he influenced me even in becoming physically active uh every every day. Uh but that's how it started our relationship agreeing on uh you know the um impact of sport um uh on on health um you know after people are already unwell you will spend a lot to treat them. Um but that's a sign of failure. Why not you prevent it from happening? And that means promoting healthy lifestyle. And one of them is physical activity. And there are other things you know no smoking uh not drinking alcohol um and and other uh things that you can do to uh leave a healthy lifestyle. So it resonated with us and we said to Thomas of course we should really uh work together closely and then immediately there was a challenge as you remember the challenge was the whole world was under lockdown. Um and the Olympic was supposed to be in 2020 and it had to it had to move actually to 2021. Even 2021 was the height of the pandemics and then um we discussed with Thomas and we started we mobilized our colleagues and we started preparing toolkits on how to conduct a safe uh Tokyo Olympic uh which we did. you you may remember then I think after you know uh things have already behind us we forget but probably that's one of uh the most important things in your legacy to be honest uh I remember the pressure on you and how campaign was mounting to really not do the Olympic but then you have shown courage and um we followed you also and we supported to have the Olympic uh in 2021. I think conducting that Olympic was very very important um for two reasons. one the athletes athlete athletes came together and competed even new records of course spectators and fans were not in the in in the stadiums which was the sad part but the whole world was watching and many people told me later that when we saw that we saw hope that's what they said we saw hope and it's after that Olympic actually the opening up the of the world started and by 2022 we started to really open up early 2020 by 2021 it's already started so people saw hope and I remember also that's the first time when we had strong messages on health and sport whether it's on smoking drinking and so on when we talk about the platform of IOC it's not just to promote physical activity only but to increase awareness and to tell whoever is watching billions of people throughout the world how to lead a healthy lifestyle. So these were the two and was the beginning of our partnership as well which was challenged from the very beginning. Not only IOC but who was also criticized for joining to have that uh Olympic but it started in a very difficult situation and like gold tested with fire and then ever since we're working together and it's growing from uh strengths uh to strengths. So that question when coming to that question this is about leadership so strong leadership which you said um is is very important without which I don't think we would have come together and credit goes to um Thomas and the current non-communicable dis situation globally calls for a strong leadership you know more than 70% of premature Your deaths are due to NCDS. This is not high income countries, middle inome countries or low inome countries. All income levels. It's NCDS which is killing more people than any other diseases. And this is as you know diabetes, it's cancer, it's cardiovascular diseases. And annually, if you want me to put it in figures, 17 million people are dying prematurely under the age of 70. If you can't have leadership on this, what would you have leadership for? That's the question. And if you can't invest in promoting health first, that's the first step. Then what else would you do? Building hospitals, white elephants is not going to help us. The key is in promoting health in the food we eat. It's in the air we breathe. It's in the environment we live in and our own personal behavior. Whether we exercise or not, whether we smoke or not, whether we drink or not. If we control this, of course, some of them are beyond our control and prime minister is here. air pollution. No one has to do anything as individual citizens. I think it has to be the government and other institutions that could help and environment the same. But if we can address this, people can stay healthy and that's what should be our target in who the first pillar is healthy populations. We should first focus on helping people to stay healthy. treating them after something happened is actually a sign of failure. It's after the event has happened, after the damage had happened. So we have to invest in health promotion, in business prevention and that's why health and sports. Thank you so much. Um Remy, one of the biggest hurdles in unlocking sportful potential for sustainable development is financing. The UN puts an annual shortfall for meeting the SDGs at around $4 trillion, which is a huge amount. How do we make sure sports gets the support it needs to play its part? Um well, regarding development, finance and international co cooperation, we all know uh we are in a deep trouble. Uh Dr. Tedros heading WH myself heading AFD we we we face it on a on a daily uh basis m Mr. Prime Minister uh Mr. commissioner. Uh we know uh the whole world somehow is turning to to Europe uh waiting for uh our decision about it by uh the European Council end of uh of June both on development and climate actually before the the BM cup 30 uh in Brazil um and also be before July and the MFF decision. that you will have to take. It's very difficult. Of course, Europe overburdened by expectations but really conveying to to both of you uh what I'm feeling from many many countries I'm I'm visiting and then probably and presidentele could also convey this uh uh this this message. I think we will lose probably about $60 billion US uh ODA in one single year which is unprecedented probably it's onethird of the of the total so it will have impact on the most vulnerable it will have impact on especially uh health education social sectors it will have an impact also on what we are talking today about because sometimes It's not what I think but sometime having sport inserted in development activity still considered as not that serious. I would say we know the impact we know the evidence uh but in times of high pressure like what we are living uh this year uh we have to join forces to protect this uh treasure this agenda we we built uh we build together. It's not something it's something that is structural that is happening. That's really my my my experience my personal belief. Um with due respect uh the ODA uh narrative, the ODA framework born uh in the 1960s uh at times of uh independence uh is uh is going maybe more rapidly than what we thought and we are waiting uh we need uh a new uh anchor a new a new framework and we're in a in a journey and and we I don't know exactly what this new what this new framework certainly something I would say from assistance to investment uh to sustainable inclusive investment what what we are what we are talking about here and we need a framework that would provide a guarantee uh for the most vulnerable uh impacted by uh poverty and climate change together um to leave no one behind. That's the 2015 message and we also need a pot of finance uh for global comments for for health for climate for biodiversity for sustainable IIA I mean all all we know we are challenged uh by and where we need universal effort mobilizing public and private together like like never and we need a new architecture uh to make it happen to to to deploy if we have more ambition and that's what we proposed. I come back to finance in common. this uh initiative we launched also in 2020 uh which is the gathering of the the 530 plus uh public financial institution public development banks in the world all over the place of course multilateral the world bank the MDBs but up to national uh Zeph is here representing DBSA in South Africa and this is this vast seamless architecture I think that is able to originate and deploy and mobilize private all together. It's already$2.5 trillion US dollar investments a year. So we're into the trillions and not the billions. Question is, are we able collectively and our leaders to guide this financial uh power, firepower in the right direction, green and not brown uh up to the most vulnerable places or not? And and to conclude um I really think uh all of us here in this room and the sports world uh can play a crucial role prominent role in this uh redefinition. uh because it comes still comes as a surprise that we we are meeting uh because of course you will help us uh re rejuvenate uh renew this old uh more than 50 years framework we are living uh we are living on and because I think we are able to deliver what we are doing for education the Cesla program with Olympic solidarity what we are doing for with AFD on youth prevention crime in the Azan and region with Olympic solidarity. Uh what we are doing with Elios partners, I mean a very important uh investment fund soon to close a $75 million US investment fund to build arenas in Africa because Africa is missing the places uh to you know beny very well. So we're close to it and I want to thank IFC Proparco and Elios for this result that was announced in Paris and now we will deliver um and of course uh research and and maybe um last point is uh and plea is really to make DAR a massive success. I think if we are talking about development, vulnerability uh climate uh we have a clear uh deadline uh one and a half year from now. Uh I met with Daniel Ibrahim Award yesterday in Paris. I think they they're really up to the task. Infrastructure are building up. uh we are co-investing actually with IOC and AFD uh uh about 200 bill million u US dollar together to make it a huge success and I really want to thank uh the trust of the the Senegalis authorities the Sanalis government which is so important and I really think something very special can come from from Dhakar is the youth Olympic games is the first ever uh crazy as it seems Olympic event in a region where uh one out of three uh youngster meaning sportsman, sports woman will come out by 20 by 2050. And so my dream my dream in 2015 was to make Paris 2024. Uh I proposed the sustainable development games, the SDGs. We made a very good progress in Paris thanks to your leadership President Bar and all of you. Maybe DAR could be and you know President Fi announced that he will organize an event like this uh about sport for sustainable development during the Takar Olympics and maybe at a time it could even become like culture a specification for for future Olympics. I don't know. It's really up to IOC members, but just to say that we we can do more. Momentum is growing and we have a clear timeline before us. Thank you. Thank you, Remy. And great news on the work that's going on in Africa. We have limited time because Anna is going to jump on stage in any time now. Um picking up on that point, Dr. Tedras, um, with the recent economic pressures being what they are, what are the best buys, tried and tested ways of making sure sports and physical activities are generally improving health and how can the sports and the health sector work more closely together to scale up these efforts? I think you're a bit nervous. So, you don't have time. I will try to brief I um from the earlier I was just going to say one thing which I missed is the high level meeting in September I think that's very much related to leadership and we have to use that opportunity the high level meeting in September on during the UN general assembly as opportunity to push uh this agenda um Olympism 365 life is an incredible initiative. This is about active lifestyle. It's reminding ourselves every single day. You know, sports and health cannot be just a one time issue or a few times a year issue. We have to be reminded every day. So I think the high level meeting could be a very good platform uh to uh mobilize uh political commitment for this and the let's move campaign that that we have because with political commitment the resources you're saying could come the key is the commitment of countries but it can be done when there is commitment. I'll tell you one example. I studied in Denmark in 1988. This is 37 years ago. The first thing that impressed me in Copenhagen, Copenhound was the cycle lanes and the number of cyclists. I was so amazed at that time. The link between held and cities was not really clear. You know people even in who people were smoking the director general was smoking. It's true 1988 mind you. So at that time they had and still have incredible lanes to encourage cycling and any country by the way can do it. So in terms of finance or some of the best buys can be done are this and then the other thing is parks for instance with less investment countries cities can do it and that could be for walking if you do cycling if you do walking then the 365 it's continue moving and active lifestyle so it can it can happen but it needs spaces without space it cannot happen then because you don't have time I will make it short. One way of mobilizing resources for many of the things we do is mindset change. Every time we think about some projects to do in some country we say oh who go who is going to be the donor? But there are local resources that can be used. So communities if they believe in the projects they can mobilize resources and from the government side they complain about not having money they can tax alcohol and tobacco and to finance health and sport and health and it's possible to do that so that could be another the financing problem that you have you have said and of course we are in a serious financial problem in who of course the last seven years we have been trying to broaden our donor base and what we have understood is there are ways to mobilize fresh resources and it's happening if the only thing is open our eyes and look for them and and there is and for this one this is sports and health I think they are interdependent the mobil the resource that's allocated for health is for sport and the sport is for health so that that would be uh key and the other is I want to um there are many initiatives by the way that say let's move there's the Olympism but there is now what we have started also working with Qatar on sports and and and and health uh and that could also be an impactful one because Qatar is taking it as a legacy uh uh project and I would like to use this opportunity actually to thank the princes were joining us here uh today. So thank you very much. The finance is if there is political commitment that's the start of everything anything is possible and that's why the let's use the high level meeting the success of it between now and September make it happen and then start from communities we can mobilize resources which is enough to run all these incredible projects that we have. Uh and again I would like to thank my brother Thomas in your new chapter. I wish you all the very best. You have been a great leader. And to my sister Christina, welcome and thank you so much uh for for your leadership. And um uh during the Paris Olympic we had some issues problems and she came and say what's the problem? I say, "No, this was it's okay. No, no, I tell me." Then she resolved it. And then by my my family knew I'm coming to to meet her there. Oh, the president is very nice. She's amazing because they they remember that day. And what I I see then is the Olympic family means operates as one and doing something which was nothing to do with her actually during the Olympic and everybody doing it share to make the Olympics succeed and that's also teamwork and I was so much so much happy to to see that it's not a small thing and even my family noticed it that's all the Olympic family behaves teamwork and solve the problem even if it's not their uh area of uh work. So, thank you so much and uh really an honor to join you. Thank you. Thank you. And as our president mentioned and Dr. Tedus mentioned, we do have Olympic day coming. So, let's move. Make sure you invite a friend, go for a walk, go for a run, and get involved in it as well. But thank you, Dr. for reinforcing who's commitment to working closely with the IOC and the wider sports movement. That partnership is key to tackling the global inactivity. And for Remy, thank you so much um for confirming AFD and the Finance and Commons Network ongoing Beckin for sport as a powerful tool for development. Thank you both. Thank you very much.