immediately after this plenary. Now we go to uh agenda item seven, the awards. Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, the prices we will present today have been established by or set up in memory of an eminent health personality or a leader with an outstanding legacy in the field of public health. These prizes honor individuals and institutions for their remarkable contributions to the different aspects of public health. By awarding these prizes, we celebrate the lifelong commitment and the relentless work accomplished by our very own health professionals across member states from every region of the world with one common goal, health for all. Two years ago, my own country, the Philippines, was incredibly proud when one of our top experts received one of these prestigious awards. And I am delighted to share this pleasure with the other member states and laureates. Today, I would like to commend the executive board, in particular its chair, Dr. Jerome Walut, the honorable minister of health and wellness of Barbados for its leadership in the successful selection of this year's laureates. I have the pleasure to welcome among us laureates of this prestigious prices as well as the distinguished representatives of the founders of the prices. Please refer to document A78 IINF1 awards for more information on the laurat's achievements. I will now give the floor to the director general who will like to say a few words. Dr. Tedras, you have the floor. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. The 2025 public health prize and awards celebrate outstanding professionals and entities who have made a significant contribution to global health and whose work has extended far beyond the call of normal duty. It's an honor to recognize these champions of health from around the world. From China, an inspiring promoter of active aging, dementia care and prevention, and the mental well-being of older adults. From Denmark, a novel approach to suicide prevention and early intervention in psychosis. from Kuwait, outstanding leadership in taking a holistic approach to healthy aging. From Slovenia, a community-based preventive programs for the most disadvantaged from South Africa, a relentless innovator with multifacet local, national, and global contributions to increase access for health for all. and from Tunisia, the deep commitment to incorporate medical ethics into health policies and fieldwork both at the national and regional levels. I congratulate each of the laates for their inspirational contributions to health and well-being and I thank the foundations and institutions who support these awards. I wish to recognize in particular this year Mr. Sasakawa who has done so much to help improve health for the world's most vulnerable people in his collaboration with WHO over 50 years. Go ahead. At a time. At a time when the world faces many challenges, each of you is an inspiration and a reminder of the progress that can be made to improve health and well-being for all. I salute you all. I commend you and I ask you to continue your important work to bring us all together as we work towards a healthier and fairer world. I thank you. Thank you, Director General Ted Ross. It is my pleasure to announce that the 2025 Sasakawa Health Prize has been awarded to Dr. Merit Morento of Denmark. I invite Mr. Yse Sasakawa, chairman of the Nepon Foundation and WH Goodwill Ambassador for Leprosy to address the assembly on behalf of the Sasakawa Health Foundation. Sir, you have the floor. Good morning, Dr. Tedos, distinguished guest. Before extending my congratulations to this year's recipient of the Sasakawa Health Prize, I would like to briefly introduce the work that we, the NIPO Foundation and the WHO have undertaken in the important field of public health, namely the global liposy elimination initiative for the past 50 years. For over half a century, WH and the NIPON Foundation have worked together to end leprosy. The introduction of multidrug therapy immunity by WHO in 1991 transformed leosy into a curable disease. It brought us just one step to to achieving global elimination. However, as the saying goes, in a journey of 100 miles, 99 miles is only halfway. This last mile toward the leprosy free world remains an enormous challenge. Therefore, at this year's World Health Organization Assembly, we once again expressed our readiness to provide 23 million US over the next 10-year period. However, it is not the amount of financial assistance that is of primary importance. Over the period of 50 years partnership, we have come to understand and put into practice that continuity is essential in achieving a world free of leprosy. We remain firmly committed to continue our support for who leprosy initiatives and advance together to meet our shared goal. This spirit of continuity also underlies in the Sasakawa Health Prize. As many of you are aware, following the Aramata declaration of 1978 which advocated health for all and promoted the primary healthc care PHC. My late father Sasakawa established this Sasakawa health prize to uphold and promote these principles for over 40 years. This prize has primarily recognized achievement in the field of physical health with focus on community-based Phits. But today health problems are changing. Now mental health and social factors are very important. Therefore this year for the first time the prize go to work in mental health. I extend my heartfelt congratulation to Dr. Mered Norden to this year's laurate. Dr. Nor to's longstanding contribution to the field of mental health have been of great importance especially on addressing the serious public health challenges we face today especially in suicide prevention. Her research has scientifically demonstrated the effectiveness of early detection and early intervention for mental disorders and highly acclaimed as a method to save the lives of both young and elderly worldwide. Your work, Northern Than is an advanced application of the PHC split for today's mental health practices and it connects strongly with who live life strategy. I sincerely hope that your achievement will continue to promote health in communities around the world. Once again, congratulations. Thank you, Mr. Sasakawa. It is my privilege to present this prize to Dr. Merit Norinto, Denmark. I now invite Dr. Norinto to address the assembly. You have the floor. Excellencies, Director General, distinguished ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I'm deeply honored to receive the Sasakawa Health Prize. I thank the World Health Organization, the Prize Committee, and the Nippon Foundation for this profound recognition. It is a privilege to stand here today, not only for myself, but also for the young people with psychosis, their families, the colleagues and health authorities who have made this journal possible. My work has centered on suicide prevention and early intervention in psychosis, especially for young people experiencing their first psychotic episode. I coined the phrase a long- aaited guest to describe how we should meet them. They are a vulnerable underserved group. They have traveled a long and winding road fighting silent battles with their minds and fragmented healthcare. At first contact, many have experienced hallucinations like hearing voices, uh, delusions like being convinced that they are followed by enemies and isolation for months or even years. They do not line up on waiting list. They wait unknowingly for insight, understanding, and the courage to seek care. I led the OPUS trial, the largest trials uh of its kind involving 578 young people with first onset uh of psychosis. They were randomized to either standard care or intensive assertive treatment. OPU treatment is based on a multiddisciplinary team offering weekly meetings with a primary staff member, recovery oriented groups and family involvement. The results are striking. Fewer symptoms, better functioning, reduced substance use, and significantly fewer days in hospitals and supported housing facilities. So, the evidence is clear. OPUS treatment, early intervention services, it's called, uh, in some other countries, is both more effective and more costefficient. We have implemented OPUS treatment all over Denmark and more countries have followed our example and I think uh more countries will follow our example. This award gives voice to those young people and reinforces that with the right support early enough recovery is not only possible it's likely. And then in a major step forward earlier this week, the Danish Parliament decided to permanently increase the overall budget uh for psychiatry by 35%. It's a major achievement. This will be of benefit for all people with mental disorders in Denmark and I hope it will serve as inspiration for other countries. I accept this award as a call to continue uh and to do more. I share it with everyone working toward health equity and dignity for all. Thank you for this honor. Thank you for your innovative work in mental health and health development. It is now my pleasure to announce the 2025 United Arab Emirates Health Foundation Prize. This has been awarded to Yoshitita Machuets Sakotnik of Slovenia. I invite Dr. Dr. Hussein Abdul Raman Alrand, Assistant Under Secretary for Public Health Sector, Ministry of Health and Prevention of the United Arab Emirates to address the assembly on behalf of the United Arab Emirates Health Foundation. Dr. Aland, you have the floor. Your Excellency Dr. Dr. Teodora, Dr. Teodoro Erboso, Health Secretary of the Republic of the Philippines. Dr. Tedros, Director General of the WH, Excellencies, Ministers of Health. On behalf of the UAE Health Foundation and on behalf of his excellency, Professor Abdul Rahman Alawise, the Minister of Health, it is my honor to welcome you to this August gathering, which celebrates physicians, scientists, institutions, and personalities, contributing to enriching health action, and striving to strengthen the leading role of the WH in safeguarding human health and safety. I also take this opportunity to extend my heartfelt thanks to all members of the WH executive council and secretariat for their efforts in preparing this award ceremony. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the UAE Health Foundation Prize is to motivate health workers, including scientists, researchers, and specialists to make further achievements that benefit health in its various sectors. and that contribute in the UN system in general and the WH in part particular. It is my honor to award the UAE Health Foundation Prize for 2025 to Dr. Yuja, former state secretary of the Republic of Slovenia, in recognition of her exceptional contributions to the promotion of healthy lifestyles and to ensuring equal access to preventive services and health care for all. Dr. Zaknik collaborated with firefighting associations to increase awareness of colorctal cancer screening among men. The award of the UAE Health Foundation Prize will continue to support the efforts of researchers and scientists in the field of health to find more effective methods to overcome all difficulties and address current challenges. In conclusion, I would like to express my thanks and appreciation and congratulations to this year's laurate and to reaffirm the UAE's continued hard work to achieve health and well-being for all. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Alren. It is my privilege to present the 2025 UAE Health Foundation Prize to Dr. Yotita Maets Sakotnik of Slovenia. I now invite Dr. Sakotnik to address the assembly. Distinguished excellencies, members of the United Arab Emirates Health Foundation and Selection Panel, dear WH Director General, I am deeply honored to receive the United Arab Emirates Health Foundation Prize. This award is not only a recognition of my work but a testament to the collective dedication of many individuals working to advance public health in Slovenia. My vision has always been a healthier Slovenia where every individual has equitable access to health services including preventive care. Inspired by the WHO Cindy program, I focused on integrating non-communicable disease prevention in into primary health care with strong support for healthy lifestyles. Slovenia's public health system with longstanding collaboration with primary health care took the lead in promoting and implementing preventive programs and strategies and fostering intersectoral collaboration. Growing up in a less developed region in Slovenia in Pomora region, I set myself a task that the most disadvantaged communities would be given greater attention through initiatives like the health and development program MU mura. We enabled local professionals and NOS's to take active part in community-based preventive programs. To better reach the most vulnerable, we created health promotion centers and mental health centers in primary care. Multidisciplinary teams working closely with social services, schools, employment agencies, and civil society. identify and address the needs of diverse vulnerable populations in the community. These initiatives reflect our unwavering commitment to reducing health inequalities and promoting well-being across all segments of our society. I'm particularly proud of our efforts to involve health professionals and civil society in developing and implementing colurectal cancer screening program that turned out to be a great success both in women and men. Looking back, I now see the lasting value of these efforts. At the time, I just felt like I was doing my job. This award provides a unique opportunity to build on our achievements. I'm thrilled to announce that the prize funds will be dedicated to support the next generation of public health leaders in Slovenia. We will create a program to train and mentor young professionals and volunteers fostering intergenerational dialogue crossborder collaboration and innovative rooted in equity and social participation. I thank once again the United Arab Emirates Health Foundation for this incredible honor. Together we can make lasting differences in the lives of countless individuals at home and beyond. Thank you very much. Thank you for your remarkable contribution to primary healthcare. It is now my pleasure to announce the 2025 His Highness Shik Sabah al- Ahmad Al- Jaber Al-Saba Prize for the promotion of healthy aging of the state of Kuwait Health Promotion Foundation which had been awarded jointly to two lauretts, Professor Hali Wang of China and the geriatric healthc care directorate of the Ministry of Health of Kuwait. I invite His Excellency Dr. Ahmad Alawadi, Minister of Health of the State of Kuwait to address the assembly on behalf of the State of Kuwait Health Promotion Foundation. Your Excellency, you have the floor. In the name of God, the most gracious, the most merciful. President of the 78th World Health Assembly, Dr. Teoddoro Herbosa, Minister of Health and the Friendly Republic of the Philippines. Your Excellency, Dr. Tedros, Director General of the World Health Organization. Esteemed ministers, heads of delegations, ladies and gentlemen, may the peace and blessings of God be upon you. It gives me great pleasure and honor to stand before you today at this esteemed global health forum to celebrate the award of the late Amir of the state of Kuwait. His highness shake Sabah al Ahmed al- Sabah may his soul rest in peace for the promotion of health aging for the year 2025. The state of Kuwait under the lead leadership of his highness the Amir Shik Mashal al- Jabar al-Sabar may God protect him has paid special attention to the elderly recognizing them as a cornerstone of society honoring them as an embodiment of our long-standing humanitarian and social values. From this perspective, this award commemorates the legacy of the late Amir in the fields of humanitarian work and his continued support for global health issues, particularly those related to the care of the elderly. This award which was established in 2004 is a symbol of dedication and recognition of the outstanding efforts made to improve the quality of life for the elderly and ensure their access to adequate health care. It also expresses appreciation and respect for the valuable contributions made by the elderly throughout their lives. The award also serves as an incentive to achieve the sustainable development goals and promote the concepts of comprehensive health in line with the global best practices. The prize is a product of over six decades of fruitful collaboration between the state of Kuwait and the World Health It's a partnership that began with Kuwait's accession to the organization in 1960. On this occasion, I'm pleased on behalf of the state of Kuwait to extend my heartfelt congratulations to this year's laureates, Professor Hui Wong and the director of the center uh the head of the clinical research department and director of the center for dementia care and research from the Republic of China and to the department of health services for the elderly at the ministry of health in Kuwait. This award is a recognition of their work in promoting the health of the elderly and their prominent role in providing distinguished national models for elderly care and an integrated health environment for them. This well-deserved achievement is a source of pride and an incentive for further innovation and dedication in this noble humanitarian field and a reinforcement of international solidarity and preserving the rights of the elderly to healthcare. We ask God Almighty to bestow his mercy and forgiveness upon the sponsor of this award, his highness shake Sabah, and to reward him. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I once again congratulate the award recipients and express my sincere thanks and appreciation to the WH for its effective partnership and pioneering role and to all the workers in the fields of public health and long-term care for their continued dedication and commitment. May the peace, mercy, and blessings of God be upon you. Thank you, Minister Alawadi. It is my privilege to present the prize to Professor Hua Lee Wang. I invite Professor Wang to address the assembly. Professor Wang, you have the floor. Director General, colleagues, and friends. Good morning. I'm deeply humbled and honored to receive the WHO prize for promotion of health agent. This recognition is not only a personal accolade but a tribute to the collective efforts of my team, collaborators and all those who have dedicated their lives to the cause of dementia care and prevention in China and beyond. I'm grateful to the WHO for this honor and his highness Sha Sapaha Al Ahmed Al Japa Al Sapaha for endur enduring this prize and inspiring us to pursue the excellence in dementia care and prevention and promoting healthy aging. To the National Health Commission of China, I express my profound appreciation for the opportunity to be deeply engaged in implementing the national action plan in response to dementia. To my team and collaborators, this award is a collective achievement in promoting public education, standard care, and providing caregiver support with psychosocial approaches for older adults. To the families and individuals living with dementia, I dedicated this award to them because they are the inspiration for our innovative work. To be named the awardee for this prestigious prize is a moment that will I will cherish for the rest of my life. This award is not just a recognition of our past work but a call to action for future endeavors. I promise and would be committed to continuing our journey in supporting people and promote healthy aging, active aging, dementia care and prevention and eventually to promote the mental well-being of old adults. Once again, thank you very much for providing me such an honored prize. Together we hope that we can work together and to make a great differences for the lives of those living in old age, for those living with dementia and their families. Thank you very much. Thank you. It is now my privilege to present the other prize to the geriatric healthc care directorate of the ministry of health of Kuwait. I invite Dr. Fatima Bendari to address the assembly on behalf of geriatric healthc care directorate. You have the floor. Mr. President, your excellencies, distinguished guests, may the peace and blessing of God be upon you. I am honored and proud and humbled to stand before you today at this distinguished international forum representing the Department of Health Services for the elderly at the Ministry of Health in the state of Kuwait to receive with pride and gratitude the prize of Shik Sabah al Ahmed al- Jabar al- Sabah may he rest in peace for research in health care for the elderly and health promotion presented by the WH HO in recognition of the efforts made in caring for and supporting the elderly. This recognition not only reflects the initiatives and the high impact programs we have achieved at the institutional level. It is also a badge of honor that is places upon us a renewed responsibility at the human and national level to continue striving for excellence and innovation in delivering integrated health care services. Services that preserve the dignity, the rights and recognize the invaluable experiences of older persons. The challenges facing health, social and economic systems in addressing developmental priorities for elderly care have become a pressing priority for our health care systems, especially in light of demographic changes and the rising rates of aging globally. at our department and with the support of our wise leadership, we have been committed to developing national policies and strategies in line with the SDGs and international frameworks. This includes preventive, curative, and rehabilitative programs through the expansion of health care and homebased services, the promotion of health and community awareness, the training of medical professionals, and national research and studies to strengthen the infrastructure and indicators related to the well-being and health of the elderly. I thank the WH for this honor and express my appreciation for the support of the wise leadership of the state of Kuwait. I also wish to thank all the leaders of the ministry of health, my colleagues and the uh doctors uh and geriatrics and all those who contributed to this achievement. In conclusion, we renew our pledge to remain loyal to this cherished group and striving for more innovation and development in loyalty and appreciation to our fathers and mothers among the elderly to whom we owe so much and who deserve even more. May the peace and blessings of God be upon you. Thank you to the two laurettats for their exceptional contributions to healthy aging. It is now my pleasure to announce that the 2025 Dr. Lee Jong Wuk Memorial Prize for Public Health has been awarded to Professor Helen Ree of South Africa. I invite I invite Dr. Ils Sua, president of the Korea Foundation for International Healthc Care to address the assembly on behalf of the Dr. Lie Jong Wuk Memorial Fund. Sir, you have the floor. Honorable Dr. Toddo Herbosa, President His Excellency, Dr. Tedos Gabro, Director General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honor for me to announce the recipient of the Lie Jonguk Memorial Prize for Public Health today. The prestigious prize commemorates the late Dr. Le Jonguk the sixth director general of World Health Organization who dedicated his life to building healthier and more equitable world. This year's laurate is Dr. Helen Ree of South Africa, a globally recognized leader in public health who has made groundbreaking contribution in the area of vaccine, infectious disease and reproductive health. as the founder of executive director of the Witz reproductive health and HIV institute. Dr. Ree has played a pivotal role in shaping health care policies that have expanded access to highquality health care especially for women and children. Dr. Ree has also served as an advisor to numerous international organizations including WHO where he has significantly influenced global vaccine policies, pandemic preparedness strategies and efforts to strengthen health systems. Her exceptional work reflects the core values of this award, honoring those who demonstrate an unwavering commitment to public health and equity. On behalf of all of us here, I extend my heartfelt congratulation and deepest gratitude to Dr. Helen Ree. The Legion of Memorial Prize for Public Health will continue to recognize and celebrate individuals whose outstanding dedication to public health inspires the global community in our shared pursuit of a healthier future for all. In close collaboration with Ministry of Health and Welfare of the Republic of Korea, the Korea Foundation for International Health Care remains firmly committed to advancing global health and reaffirm its stealth forced support for the world's World Health Organization in this vital mission. Thank you very much. Thank you, Dr. Il Suha. It is now my privilege to present this price to Professor Helen Ree. I now invite Professor Ree to address the assembly. Professor Ree, you have the floor, honorable president and uh director general, honorable ministers who are here and heads of delegations and to all the colleagues and friends and family that I have here. Um thank you so much for this award. I'm deeply deeply honored. Um, I also want to thank the Korean Foundation and the Korean uh ministry for this honor. It is really it is a lifetime. It is truly a lifetime award and I thank you. So for most of us when we start our careers our ambitions are modest. Uh we follow a defined path or we get some qualifications. Uh we get some we earn some money and we think what we're going to do next. But the paths that we follow are influenced by who we are, by other people, and but what and also by what life throws your way. The honor of receiving the Dr. Lee Jong Wuk Memorial Prize has allowed me to reflect on my career that took me from medicine to research to policy and into communities with the greatest needs. Public health and human rights are intertwined and they're driven by the social determinance of health and access to to care. And this was understood by Dr. Lee Jong Wuk. He was a man of conviction who advocated access to health prevention and care but for all people. As WHO's director general, he transfor transformed the course of the HIV pandemic by ensuring access to medicines for the poorest communities. He warned of pandemics and focused on preparing countries to respond to this risk and he prioritized WH's work with countries with the greatest needs. Dr. Lee Jonguk's priorities resonate with me. I worked and have worked in very similar fields and unexpected life opportunities has allowed me and given me the honor to work in communities with people most in need of care to undertake research on new drugs and vaccines for HIV and infectious diseases. to work on national, regional, and global policies ensuring access to safe medicines and vaccines and to contribute to global strategies for responding to emergencies and pandemics. But this work cannot be undertaken alone and I've been hugely privileged uh and many of you I have met in the the last couple of days to work with colleagues and multi-skilled teams and really outstanding people who have taught me a lot. But I do want to say one thing that the global health world has just been hit with a force quit button and we've been pushed to stop some of the things that we really want to do. Many of our accomplishments and I take my hat off to WH for this have been achieved through the generous support and dedication of so many people and so many countries and we thank you. But these accomplishments are now under threat. But rather than ringing our hands, we should use this opportunity to reimagine global health strategies and sustainability. And this World Health Assembly is definitely focusing on those issues. What we need now is action. We need good science and we need evidence-based policies so we can address the needs of all people, including the most vulnerable. Thank you so much for this award and let us continue the struggle for all people. Thank you. Thank you for your outstanding commitment to improving public health and equity. Before announcing the laurat of the 2025 Nelson Mandela award for health promotion, please allow me to note that this prize was established upon the initiative of the ministers of health of the member states of the African region in 2018 on the occasion of the centinary of the birth of Nelson Mandela. The 2025 Nelson Mandela Award for Health Promotion has been awarded to Dr. Majed Zmi of Tunisia. I invite His Excellency Mr. Miss Los Lissi Nikoski, ambassador, permanent representative of South Africa to the United Nations office at Geneva to address the assembly. Your Excellency, you have the floor. Thank you very much uh Mr. President, honorable ministers, excellencies, distinguished delegates, laorets of the 2025 awards and prizes of the WHO. Ladies and gentlemen, South Africa is deeply honored to take part in the 2025 edition of the annual WH public health awards and prizes. The Nelson Mandela Award for Health Promotion, which I'm introducing, recognizes the outstanding contribution to health promotion by individuals or entities across the world. South Africa is indeed humbled to be the home of a global leader after whom this prestigious award is named. President Mandela was a selfless leader who put the interests of others ahead of his, championing access to health care services for all. In these challenging times, let us draw inspiration from his words when he said, and I quote, "A fundamental concern for others in our individual and community lives would go a long way in making the world the better place we so passionately dream of. Mr. President, permit me to express our sincere gratitude to the director general, Dr. Dedros for establishing this award. And as you have stated upon the request from ministers of health of member states of the African region in 2018 on the occasion of the centenary of the birth of Nelson Mandela and the 40th anniversary of the Alma Declaration on Primary Health Care, a landmark document that focuses on primary health care as the key to achieving Health for all globally. Please allow me to convey my appreciation to the selection panel for the decision to award Dr. Majette Zni from Tunisia which the executive board endorsed at at its 156th session. Mr. President, allow me on behalf of the government and people of South Africa, indeed the Nelson Mandela Foundation to express our sincere gratitude and to congratulate Dr. Majni. We note with appreciation the extensive and impactful contributions to health promotion and patient centered approaches of Dr. especially for some of the most vulnerable including people living with HIV and AIDS, persons deprived of their liberty and victims of violence. He has devoted major efforts to making forensics more humane through multis sectoral engagement by collaborating with other ministries and involving various stakeholders in the development and implementation of programs. May this award continue to inspire your work as well as those of others to follow the path of ensuring health for all and in promoting the social equity ideals that Nelson Mandela represented. I thank you. Thank you excellency. It is now my privilege to present this prize to Dr. Majed Zni. I now invite Dr. Zamni to address the assembly. Dr. Zamni, you have the floor. In the name of God, the most merciful, most compassionate. Mr. President of the 78th World Health Assembly, Mr. Director General of the World Health Organization, honor honorable ministers of health, distinguished representatives of the prize awarding institutions, distinguished representatives of international bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to extend my thanks to the award selection panel for unanimously nominating me for the Nelson Mandela Award for Health Promotion for 2025. I also wish to thank the members of the executive board for endorsing my nomination and awarding me this prestigious award. It is a great privilege to receive the Nelson Mandela Award for Health Promotion and I would like to thank Dr. Mustafa Ferjani, Minister of Health, for supporting my nomination on behalf of the Republic of Tunisia. In 1983, the World Health Organization granted me a two-year scholarship to complete specialized studies in forensic medicine not far from here in the French city of Leon. I stand before you today to return the favor. Upon graduation, I went back to the faculty where I had studied initially, the faculty of medicine in Susa, Tunisia, and introduced the forensic medicine specialty with all its components at the university and health services levels. Health promotion has always been at the heart of my professional career and across the various fields on which I have worked such as the development of medical practice and I have stressed the importance of adopting and incorporating medical ethics in the health policies and fieldwork both at the national and regional levels. The award that I'm honored to receive today means more than just a personal achievement and it is one I share with all those who have been involved in promoting health. It is also a source of pride for Tunisia which has prioritized health since its independence. Indeed, the right to health is firmly enshrined in the constitution of our country. The principles for which Nelson Mandela fought urge us to pursue a policy of cooperation and partnership in sharing knowledge, science, and resources. Health is a common denominator for all humanity regardless of borders, race or policies. and we must all strive to establish health security and a healthier future for all. To conclude, I would like to dedicate this prestigious award to all health workers in various parts of the world affected by disasters and wars in recognition of their perseverance in providing health services under difficult conditions. Thank you. Thank you Dr. Zni for your remarkable contribution to health promotion. Please allow me to congratulate again all the laurats for their inspiring achievements. We hope that they continue their essential work to bring help for all. This concludes the consideration of item seven of our agenda. I invite our distinguished audience to please stay in the room as as item six of our agenda will start shortly. I invite director general, the laurats and the foundation representatives for the prizes and award given today to join me outside the room for a brief photo opportunity of this ceremony.