WH special envoy for climate change and health Dr. Vanessa Kerry for a conversation with FP's editor-inchief Ruvie Agaral. >> What do I >> Hi everyone. Thank you for being here. Um I think we can do a better round of applause for this group on stage. It's a real honor and pleasure to have the three of you on stage. Secretary Kerry, Dr. Kerry, Dr. Tedris. I've interviewed each of you separately, but never together. Um, Secretary Kerry, let me just start with you. Um, these two are here for very obvious reasons. You less so. We're here to talk >> We're here to talk about health. Um >> I've never had my place in life put as >> um but but this is important because um you know this is ANGA week you know hardcore geopolitics is the order of you know the day of business over there which is you know most of your old career but you're here today at a health forum just tell us why and connect the dots for us there. >> Thank you Rob and thank you for the privilege of being here and I'm honored to be here with Dr. Tedros and my daughter. Let me make it clear to everybody. Uh I had to wrangle to get myself in here. Uh uh I wanted to come and be part of this and I I appreciate my my co-panelists in permitting it for the precise reason of the question you just asked. What the hell does health have to do with this? And the answer is everything. Uh, greenhouse gases are pollutants. We used to talk about pollution. We don't now for some odd reason. 7 million people a year die from the bad quality of air. And that's getting worse in parts of the world because of coal fired power and so forth. There's a direct linkage to what's creating the challenge of climate and how you can build community and build adaptation and build resilience to those things. And a community that is ravaged by a disease or doesn't have adequate health care, doesn't have the ability to be able to take care of people is a community that's going to fall apart. And then you have refugees. augmented by the fact that you have stress, you know, heat stress levels that people can't work in, people can't live in. So, it's absolutely imperative that we all connect the dots. And I'm privileged to be able to hear with Dr. Ted Ros and my daughter to do that. Vanessa can give you much more of the particulars of what it's like building this on the ground. But you compare a vision for the planet which we need and the challenge of climate which is really the biggest physical challenge to all of us at this moment in time. And it's a 100% certain. It's not 5% 10% 20%. It's 100% certain that the impacts that have already been coming true already. the predictions of the best scientists are coming true and they say it's going to get worse and that's going to shred the ability of of communities to have the safety and the capacity to grow take care of your kids rather than being in the hospital or taking care of one person or if there is no hospital what happens then the community begins to just shred. So there's a direct linkage here, folks. And it would be wonderful uh to have had a presentation yesterday which didn't push people away and and and give people reason to wonder why they shouldn't challenge the current world order. Uh instead of and and be able to build out a global response that gets the job done. Health is a critical component of winning that battle. and in two terms. One, in terms of convincing people that there's a reason to be engaged and do other things, and two, getting the job done and therefore not having the health crisis that could come otherwise. >> Well said. Um, Dr. Kerry, the last time you were on the stage and you wrote a piece about this in foreign policy, um, telling the world how health policy is foreign policy and that's what I'm hearing here as well. um when you see the level of polarization and divisiveness that we have seen at the UN this week already um and given the work you do in the health sector, what is your sense at a ground level? How do we convince people and policy makers that this is an area that needs more care, more attention, more investment? I we did we talked about this last year and we talked about health being framed as defense and I think the reality is that there is a deep mismatch happening right now and how we're prioritizing billions in defense versus maybe sorry trillions in defense versus 18 billion that we might be spending on health in this moment or need to spend on health. You know we we talked briefly about the polarizing rhetoric that we see today. I I don't think it's actually helpful for us to focus on that really because >> when you >> whether you call it climate change or you call it the greatest conj job, >> climate change is here. We're living it every day in the hotter summers we see in the hurricanes that are slamming at more frequency and uh more ferocity that are affecting our societies, taking away our homes, changing disease patterns. and I'm a physician. And so whether it is delivering direct care to people who have asthma attacks and then they can't go to work or if it is uh building health systems and health system resilience to meet the rising burdens of uh climate change, you know, we're seeing health be a very profound and lived effect. But to mobilize this moment, I think we have to focus on solutions. cutting greenhouse gas emissions that are actually making us sicker and supporting communities to be able to adapt and have the things they need to be safe, prosperous and have opportunity. And one of the key links that I think has to be made and we've talked a lot about this um is that health actually is also wealth. When you look at the decisions getting made in the world today, it's economic. We are making economic decisions. Private sector 1.8 8 trillion of assets now, the highest ever in history. And at the same time, that makes sense. That's their mandate. But how are we building that into sustainability? If they're smart, they're investing in the health and wellbeing of their workforce. Because it turns out extreme heat is costing the United States hundred billion dollars a year in productivity currently. We know that just small adjustments can transform actually that loss into profit and sustainability going forward. And I think understanding that connection is critically important. >> Dr. Tedris, um you must be listening to all of this and feeling like we're all preaching to the choir. Um the WHO is also quite polarized right now. You have, you know, the United States uh doing what it's doing uh with your organization. What is your sense of a way forward? I mean, how how do you bring countries together to focus on the message Dr. Kerry just said? >> Thank you. Thank you by the way for bringing us all together. Uh with John we were foreign minister same time and best allies. We used to work together very closely. Uh and of course later on um as you know championing uh climate change and hell. So I had the opportunity again to to stay in touch with him and of course uh she's the bridge. Venic size the bridge and she is our special boy. Uh so I think you have a good reason to bring us the three of us together. Yeah. >> Um on I I fully agree with Vanessa by the way. We have to focus on the solution and who is passing through a very turbulent um uh what do you call it times uh difficult times. Um it's affecting us significantly. Um but we're trying to see the challenge as opportunity, turn it into opportunity. Um and it's helping us to look inside. Um and we're trying to make the organization more focused on its uh core mandate uh sharper and more independent. Actually we saw this crisis coming in 2017 18. One of the not one of the major risk we identified for WHO's dependency on few traditional donors uh which may have two serious consequences. One um shocks like now uh which causes our the crisis the shock because of funding cuts. And then the second is when some countries come with big money there is also there could be also um could be that it may compromise in our independence. So the solution we proposed then is broader donor base and one of which the measures was for all member states to share the burden and to increase their membership fee which they did by the way. They agreed in 2022 to increase by 50%. This is the highest in the history of the organization. The largest increase was 3% in 77 years. So this was a significant increase 50%. So they have done already two installments by the way. But this has nothing to do with the with the US and the way forward is the same for all countries to share the burden. then we can prevent similar shocks from happening but it can ensure WHS independence as well. So the solution now is to move in the same direction. We're doing that by the way for who we see actually opportunity more opportunity but as you said um the most impacted actually are the countries and we're not worried about who worried more about the countries that have been in fact impacted by the significant aid aid cuts and we're trying to work with them and even the solution for them is for those countries um see they have to see it as opportunity And it should start from inside. For instance, many countries are affected by this mindset of a dependency and cleaning is always inside out, right? Should start from inside. So our proposal is especially I'm from Africa and it just embarrassed me actually to uh have that mindset. We have to clean from inside and try to really move into self-reliance. there are opportunities in our countries in the developing world at large um to finance health from domestic resources and we're advising countries to do that but I'm very much encouraged because many leaders I have spoken to even during the past week and the last seven months um I can see a a change in in mindset and moving into self-reliance and saying we can uh have immediate solutions like taxes on alcohol, tobacco that can generate some money to cover the gaps which many countries are doing and for the long term it could be the public health insurance strategic solution. >> Wow. So self-reliance I think will be the case but they have to look inside and understand there is an internal problem and of course there is the external as well but they have to give priority to the internal address that they can work with all donors to address the external problems as well. So the future is see this as opportunity and try to um ensure self-reliance. >> Dr. if if I can have you pick up there because I think this is a very powerful and hopeful message. Um what is your sense of we were talking about the USAD cuts earlier. Um, how do you turn how are you seeing countries around the world pick up on this and turn the current moment into opportunities on health? >> I I think um Dr. Tedris is right. I mean, country-led plans that are really contextual to the problems, prioritizing um the the needs and opportunities of the community is going to be the way forward. But we need to be clear. The abrupt cuts that we have seen are killing people and it is not making anyone safer or more prosperous. It was just reported, for example, it's going to cost the US taxpayers $6 billion to close US ID. That cost is egregious, but that could be saving lives, right? It's been estimated that almost half a million people have died directly since the cuts have happened. So we can sit here in New York and have our conversations which are important. Yes. And we need to convene and we need to focus on solutions. But make no mistake, people are dying today because of what is happening. And so there does need to be a bridge. There does need to be a mobilization of that 1.8 billion I mean you know trillion profit. We need to be moving that forward into solutions that are thinking about our joint prosperity and well-being, but that are fundamentally saving lives. And it is not inongruent to want to do the right thing and to invest in health and well-being to close equity gaps to make people safer and healthier and still see economic growth or have your household have income or actually do good and do well. These are very feasible pathways and there are solutions out there and it's going to require all of us to lean into those solutions be smart be pragmatic and then to bring that forward to policy makers but to step away from some of this politics we do need to invest in country-led plans Dr. Teddris and I are working together on a couple initiatives along with many other partners, but that are being led by countries to mobilize domestic financing to look at how those individual contributions can be. But again, if the global architecture doesn't shift, it can't change. Africa spends more servicing debt than it does on health and education. That is a problem. So, we have some fundamental things that we have to correct, but we do again need to think about how we can find the viable path forward. the shared language and the understanding that all the goals that we may want, whatever our political or partisan rhetoric is telling us is actually quite aligned and we just need and I think that there are very pragmatic paths we can put forward but it is grounded very much in the reality that we are talking about human lives every day whether it is tons of carbon or whether it is or whether it is aid cuts this is whether people live or die. Secretary Kerry, um I feel like more than anyone else you have done work in the area of trying to find common ground between adversaries. And I'm thinking now about at the height of US China competition, you were trying to find a pathway to speak to your uh counterpart at the time, Shin Hua, the climate envoy, to find commonality. How can we work together on an issue that matters to the world just as health does, climate does? Is there any lesson there? Because it it often feels like given the choice between competing with China or constraining China um and working together on health or climate. Our policy makers here often choose constraining. How do you change that paradigm? >> By do by by doing what you have to do. by proving to people that it makes a difference. Uh when I was climate envoy for President Biden, uh Washington was in fullthroated force competing with itself to see who could be the toughest rhetorically on China and sort of pushing China away. Uh I found working with China, China was a critical partner when we stopped Ebola in West Africa. China was a critical component of our being able to get the Iran nuclear agreement done and to be able in addition to get all the chemical weapons out of Syria during a conflict. First time ever that weapons of mass destruction have been taken out during a conflict. How did we do it? Not just because we did it. I mean we pushed it and we organized it. But others joined in that effort including China, Russia and others. Now, does that mean we don't have conflict with them that we have to address? Of course not. We have countless challenges with China that we theft of intellectual property, uh, Taiwan, weaguers, I mean, you run the list. We have challenges. But you've got to sit down and that's what diplomacy is about. So even in the midst of all the challenges we faced, President Biden allowed me, deputized me to continue to talk with the Chinese. And guess what? Even then, President Xi allowed President Shinja Xia Moa and others. We we made a difference. We got China to agree to list all greenhouse gases. Methane wasn't included. They now list all greenhouse gases in their NDC. We got China to agree that they would cooperate on a special methane reduction plan because methane is a hundred times more destructive than CO2. This is science by the way. Science, mathematics, physics, and science. Uh, and you you got the point. So, so uh it's also so basic it's beyond belief. I mean if we divided the end of this room into two rooms and you had a wall over there and we said all of you you got a choice. One room has all the all the coal burning fumes and everything particulates are coming out in that room. The other room has pure oxygen. Which room are you going to walk into? 100% are going to walk into the room with pure oxygen. That's the choice we face with respect to the climate crisis. It it what what is our problem? Our problem is we are burning fossil fuel without capturing the emissions. If you capture the emissions, you have a whole different debate. But we haven't proven we can catch those emissions and build it out at scale and affordability. We can build out renewable energy at scale and and and with you know confidence. So these choices are just so fundamental. And I came to the conclusion thanks to my daughter that we've got to get we have to change the narrative. We have to get people to understand what is really at stake here. The ability to work, the ability to live, the ability to build community, the ability to be healthier, the ability not to crowd our own hospitals at home with the with the detritus of what we burn without capturing those emissions. So, we're voluntarily continuing, some of it, not actively choosing to, but not making the choices that would prevent it. And we're not doing that. So, it's acts of omission and acts of commission that come together to create this crisis. And and we just, you know, what do they say when when when when you're digging a hole and getting deeper and deeper in the hole, the first thing you got to do is stop digging. >> Mhm. >> And that's what we have to do. and and the benefits will just be extraordinary in our ability to be able to address, you know, real issues globally. You you're not the leader of the free world just because you beat your chest and say we're so exceptional. We're exceptional because we do exceptional things. Dealing with AIDS in Africa, you know, what Bill Gates did was exceptional. what America did helping to get a generation of children who are not born with AIDS which makes a huge difference to all the other choices you face in building community in life. So uh you know I think uh I think that we just have to hold our ground and and continue to fight. I believe I am actually very optimistic. I'm involved in trying to accelerate the energy transition and I see all kinds of technologies that are ready to come online. We can win this battle, folks, but we got to get the deniers and and the and the disinformation artists out of the way and use the full power of our country and of our brains to get the job done. >> Welcome to our dinner table. >> I love it. >> Can I be invited? >> We allow We at least get to eat. >> Yeah, we are. We are way out of time. Um, uh, Dr. Tus, I'm just going to give you like maybe 30 seconds. Bring us back to health when you listen to a message like that and the power of diplomacy, uh, done in the right way. Um, what hope are you drawing from the moment right now? And are there any green shoots you're seeing that could bring a message like that to your domain? hope I think um you know this year for instance I can give you one example uh there was negotiation on pandemic agreement for the last three and a half years um and it was approved last May were skeptical many were skeptical but it was approved meaning it shows you that multilateralism is alive and well despite the noise. So that gives me hope and I can give you a long list actually what happened this year. Uh but I think that is very uh that's very important and enough because this is an international treaty that all member states have agreed to uh move on. >> I love that. Thank you for giving me hope. Thank you for giving everyone hope. Secretary Kerry, Dr. Kerry, Dr. Please welcome the Rockefeller Foundation senior vice