Hello all, I am Fadila Shahib speaking to you from W2 headquarters in Geneva and welcoming you to our press conference on global health issue issues with a special focus today on the humanitarian situation in Gaza. Um by now you may have received uh our uh report about estimating trauma her re rehabilitation needs in Gaza uh with a news release uh to speak about these issues. Let me introduce colleagues who are here in the room and we have several online starting with Dr. Fedros Adanom Gibriosis who director general we have uh with us also uh Dr. Maria Monkov, interim director, department of epidemic and pandemic management. Dr. Janet Diaz um head of safe and scalable care unit and just back from DRC and we have Dr. uh Chiquhi Quzo who is the uh executive director health emergencies program and we have also with us Dr. Jeremy Farrar, assistant director general uh for um health promotion, disease prevention and care. And uh the last person in the room is Dr. Terresa Zakaria, team lead for humanitarian and disaster action. We have also online Dr. Rick Peoplecon, WHO representative for the Palestinian for the occupied Palestinian territory from Gaza. And we have also Pete Skeleton who is the main author of the report that we will be talking today about and he's joining us from uh Beirut. Now uh without delay I would like to hand over to Dr. Tedros for his opening remarks. Dr. Tedros, you have the floor. >> Thank you. Thank you Fedila. Uh good morning, good afternoon, and good evening. It's now been one month since the government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo declared an outbreak of Ebola virus disease near the town of Bulap in the center of the country. So far, 64 confirmed and probable cases, including 42 deaths, have been reported. Nine people have recovered and been discharged, and 13 others are currently being treated. We have now five days. We have now had five days without any new reported cases, which is good news. But more than 1,800 contacts are still being monitored. The area in which the outbreak is occurring is very remote, which is helping to contain it, but also makes the response very difficult logistically. For example, WH has had to build 2.5 kilometers of pipes in order to supply the area with water. We have also equipped the Ebola treatment centers with oxygen concentrators, which can be a life-saving treatment for the most sick. Prior to this outbreak, health centers in the area had no access to concentrated oxygen. This week, WHO published our strategic preparedness and response plan with an appeal for 66.6 million US dollars to support WHO and our coalition of partners in implementing the national response plan. Once again, I congratulate the government for its response to this outbreak and its leadership. As you know, next Tuesday, the 7th of October, marks two years since the horrific attacks on Israel by Hamas and other armed groups, in which 1,200 people were killed and 251 people were taken hostage into Gaza. Those attacks led to two years of conflict in Gaza in which more than 66,000 people have been killed, 70% of them women and children. Thousands more are missing, presumed dead. Who welcomes the peace plan for Gaza proposed by President Trump and supported by other countries in the region and beyond. We welcome the proposal for an immediate end to the conflict, for the release of all hostages, for the resumption of humanitarian aid, for the reconstruction of Gaza, including its hospitals, and for peaceful and prosperous coexistence for Palestinians and Israelis. Two years of conflict have devastated the health system and inflicted relentless suffering on Palestinians. Currently, only 14 of Gaza 36 hospitals are functioning, even partially. Health and humanitarian workers, including who staff, have been on the ground throughout the conflict under extreme and unsafe conditions with minimal supplies, food, transport, and fuel. Some have paid the ultimate price. According to Gada's Ministry of Health, almost 1,800 health workers have been killed and at least 543 aid workers. WHO's work has been built on three main pillars. First, delivering essential health services. WH is the main provider of medicines and medical supplies in Gaza. Over the past two years, we have provided supplies that have supported more than 22 million treatments and surgeries. We have coordinated more than 50 emergency medical teams made up of medical experts from around the world who have operated field hospitals, clinics, and delivered essential services across the full spectrum of health needs. We have provided almost 17 million liters of fuel to health facilities and ambulances and we have supported the treatment of more than 500 severely malnourished children. The second pillar of our response has been on public health intelligence, early warning and prevention and control of communicable diseases. Together with our partners, we led a vaccination campaign that protected 600,000 children from polio. We're working with over 700 health facilities in Gaza and the West Bank to track the availability of health services and resources. And we're working with almost 100 health facilities to monitor and respond to dis outbreaks. The third pillar of our response is health emergency coordination. Over the past two years, we have coordinated 88 partners in Gaza and 35 in the West Bank through various technical working groups. Together, we have provided 31 million consultations and care for 1.6 million trauma cases and 2.6 million mental health related cases. The destruction of civilian infrastructure in Gaza is immense and will take a long time to rebuild. The damage to people physically and mentally is even worse. New data from who illustrate the extent of the harm that has been done to the people of Gaza and their health system. In addition to the 66,000 people killed, almost 170,000 people have been injured in Gaza. WHO estimates that at least one quarter of those have potentially life-changing injuries that require immediate and ongoing rehabilitation. The most common injuries requiring rehabilitation are blast injuries to legs and arms. Other major injuries include amputations, burns, spinal cord injuries, and traumatic brain injuries. Severe facial and eye injuries are also common, resulting in significant impairment and disfigurement. Of course, rehabilitation services are also essential for people with non-communicable diseases and disability. But just when they are needed most, attacks, insecurity, and displacement have put them out of reach. The explosions that cause these injuries also destroy the health facilities and services needed to deal with them. Over the past two years, who has verified 1,719 attacks on health in Gaza and the West Bank, resulting in more than 1,000 deaths and 1,800 injuries and to that famine in some parts of Gaza, unsanitary saving living conditions, disease outbreaks, and severe ongoing stress. Many of this with severe injuries and non-communicable diseases need specialized medical care that's not available in Gaza. Since the conflict began almost two years ago, WHO has supported the evacuation of 7,841 patients for medical treatment outside Gaza. Since the Rafa crossing was closed in May last year, WHO assumed responsibility for coordinating all medical evacuations. Most evacuations are for trauma, cancer care, heart disease, eye care, and congenital anomalies. Egypt, the UAE, Qatar, Turkey, Jordan, and European Union countries have been the largest recipients of medical evacquis. And I thank all those countries for opening their arms to these patients. However, about 15,600 patients are still awaiting medical evacuation, including 3,800 children. And at the moment, we're only able to conduct evacuations once a week. I call on more countries to open their arms to these patients. I call for medical evacuation to be restored to the West Bank including East Jerusalem and I call for the frequency of evacuations to increase. WHO was in Gaza before this conflict began. We have been there throughout and we will continue to be there as long as this conflict lasts and when it ends as all conflicts do. We will be there to help rebuild Gaza's health system and its people. But as I always say, the best medicine is peace. Two years of conflict have brought nothing but death, destruction, and dises and despair. The most courageous choose peace. So I call on all parties to this conflict to choose peace now. Finally, today is Yomkipur, the holiest day of the year for Jews. I wish all those who observe it to May this Yom Kipur bring peace, forgiveness and renewal. Padilla, back to you. >> Thank you, Dr. Tedras. Uh, now I will open the floor to journalist question. uh please raise your hand using the raise your hand icon and unmute yourself. I will start with uh Carmen P from Politico for the first question. Carmen, please go ahead. >> Thank you so much Fella for giving me the floor. Um there have been a few reports over the past week that um the WH staff um had a no confidence vote against um Dr. Tedrus's restructuring plan and I was wondering if he um wanted to say anything about that and is there any plan to respond to that in any way. Thank you. >> Thank you uh Carmen. Um maybe Dr. >> Patrick should be online. Patrick >> no >> no he wasn't able to attend. Carmen um I will I will ask this question to our colleagues and come back to you in a written form. Is this okay with you? >> Yes. Thank you. >> Thank you. >> Yeah. Maybe I can I can say a few words. Um because um the question is very important. Uh as you know we have started the restructuring some months ago now. Um, of course, part of this restructuring is um, you know, separating our colleagues uh, which is very very painful. The reason I say that is the WHO staff uh, have been working under extreme pressure especially during COVID pandemic and this is not what they deserve. But of course due to the funding cuts that all UN agencies and other institutions are exposed to uh we had to restructure. We had no choice. So from the start what we have done is we outlined three principles. uh one is um transparency and second is fairness and the third is humanity. So we have used this during our prioritization and not only that we have also made sure that the prioritization is focused on the core mandate of the organization. So all the uh selections for positions have been done based on functions not focused on on people who occupy them. So as far as I can tell you by and large the process was good but of course like any process they there may be uh some faults and that's why we have the transparency and fairness committee and the transparency and fairness committee looks at uh applications from staff who have applied or um alleged maybe lack of uh fairness but by and large the process has been uh very good and the ARC reports in the ARC committee uh in all the ARC committees staff association have been members and they have signed all the ARC um uh reports uh and issues they have asked or they have raised during the committee meetings uh have been addressed. Many of those that that that could be addressed. But um in the ARC report maybe a few issues have been raised in significant compared to the number of uh prioritizations and so on from hundreds for instance a few cases and a good number of those have also been been addressed and if there are pending issues they will continue to be to be to be addressed. uh and um uh we have a robust uh mechanism and and and process. So if any staff has uh issues, they can use those processes and any issues uh that has to be addressed uh are being addressed and will be addressed. Uh but with regard to the um general assembly uh meeting that you have cited, this is a headquarters staff association only. Uh and this restructuring is being done throughout the organization in the headquarters all regions and also country offices and an assembly where slightly higher than 100. the staff have voted compared to a 10,000 staff I don't think represents the real uh feeling of of our staff. So I think from the information in your reporting that I I have seen I think it's very important to include uh the figures and show um you know what the figures figures mean. um reporting it in general saying staff have said this uh I don't think will represent the reality because as far as I know it's slightly more than 100 people compared to the 10,000 staff we have that uh have uh voted and expressed their their concerns. Of course, we have encouraged our staff to use all means uh to you know ask for their rights and we still uh adhere to that because uh since we said we believe in transparency, fairness and humanity. uh any activity whether it's by one person 100 or whatever number is acceptable as long as uh you know this um is you know desired by by our staff. So it would be good if you can in your next reporting probably uh include the numbers and not generalize as who staff because the numbers will tell you uh a different story. But I would like to assure you again um that we take this seriously and we will do everything to protect the rights of our staff. We don't need any reminder to make sure that our process are transparent, our process are fair and also uh a humane approach is is is followed because we do it because we respect our our staff and we understand through what situation they they're going through. Um but we have to understand also that the organization should emerge from this process stronger so that we can uh help the people uh or continue to support uh the people uh we we we serve and we're trying to use the current crisis as opportunity and I believe that who is emerging stronger sharper focused on its core mandate and more uh independent and the reform we have started some years ago is helping us minimize the impact of this uh crisis. As you may know in 2017 and 2018 we have identified reliance on few traditional donors as a major risk. not one of the major risks but the major risk because it affects the organization in many ways and at that time we proposed broadening the donor base and the reason we did that is we anticipated the same shock could happen seven years ago. So we saw it uh coming and with broader donor base we can absorb shocks like this. uh but not only that with broader donor base not that's not dependent on few traditional donors we can ensure who is more uh independent and as you also may know uh our member states have agreed with the proposal on financing reform and increased their assess contribution by more than 50% they have agreed to increase the assess contribution by 50% % This is historic because in the se more than 70 years of its existence the organization the largest increase has been 3%. 3%. 50% is very significant and very historic and the contribution which is coming from that decision to increase the assets contribution by 50%. has helped us to minimize the impact of the crisis. For instance, the number we're separating from our organization are reduced by half because of the funding we got through the assess contribution. The crisis would have been more impactful if we didn't have the finance reform. And this comes from our respect to our staff knowing full well even seven years ago how the financing model was impacting our the morale of our our our staff. So the measures we have started long ago has really helped in minimizing the impact and the number separating is actually less than half that would have been separated without the reform that we have started. So I can assure you that by and large our process is successful. But of course there will be complaints and we are addressing them one by by one but that's a small proportion of you know the um all the uh number of prioritizations that's been that has been has been done and that's being uh addressed. So thank you for that question. a bit unexpected but u I think it's very important and it has to be it has to be uh addressed then thank you >> thank you Dr. Tedros. Now I would like to give the floor to Iman Kheriji from Kuna News Agency. Iman, you have the floor. >> Thank you so much. I'm sorry for this obvious question, but I should ask it. >> Dr. terrorist. You said that over the past two years WH has verified 1,719 attacks on health system in Gaza and the West Bank. Could you clearly said who is responsible for this strikes or this attacks? And the second question, if you have any comment on um on uh Israel preventing the freedom flotillaa who uh that was carrying baby formula and medicine to Gaza from entering Gaza, could you comment on that? >> Uh thank you. Uh Iman, we have Dr. Rick Pipper from Gaza and he will take uh the question. Rick, you have the floor. Um I would like definitely to add some other things on Gaza but I think all the attacks of healthcare so who um it's mandated to to um to assess to analyze and to report on attacks on healthcare that's what we do but we are not attributing we are not attributing uh the attacks on healthcare so I don't I don't want to go into those details again we are not an that's not crime investigating uh bureau or organization but we are uh we are trying to report as factual as possible that's why we are checking three four five times more tax on the healthcare and we analyze and and and we monitor and of course there has been way way too many uh um attacks on on the healthcare so the criteria is also on this so-called SSA platform and and we can share it with you u later on if you allow me I want to maybe not now if it's possible I want to say I just come back from from national complex and I want to maybe add one or two other comments uh on Gaza if that's uh possible >> yes please go ahead >> okay first of all I I understand that uh DG have been uh very much alluding to the updated reports of WH on on injuries ies. So I will not go into details just to mention that every time I come back I was here again six weeks ago every six week I'm here for a couple of weeks the suit is uh changing and unfortunately um everyone who's been on the ground so regularly we are absolutely not surprised with the analysis we are part of that that if you think about it one more than one quarter one more than one quarter 165 166,000 injured people needing life lifelong assistance assisted technology and and and and care. Uh it's shocking and we see it all over just coming back from NASA medical complex um the the largest hospital currently in um operations in Gaza Khan units is completely flooded. We've seen of course a massive exodus from the north. Uh it's estimated that there's still between two to 300,000 uh people in the north. So that means that roughly 8 800,000 people have gone south hospitals NASA was already flooded. Now again it's everywhere in every corridor uh you see patients and in this having witnessed over the last two years so many of these patients children with if it's amputations or or other patient is spinal cord injuries the most horrific burns crush injuries etc. uh we need to think completely different about rehabilitation and I want to stress that so we are trying to already support that now but this will be an an major component u whenever there will be a proper ceasefire and peace I said to be work uh to be working on I want to say something about health functionalities and and specifically of the uh the north the hospitals in the north so currently so within Nasar medical complex I also met a number of staff for Shifa Medical Complex and senior staff and other staff. Uh so Shiva Medical Complex the largest hospital used to be the largest hospital in Gaza 6 to 700 patients and even until very recently we we reported on on this uh six seven weeks ago that capacity was of 300% 6 to 7 800 patients. Currently you talk about 40 40 impatients more than we were told by their colleagues the Hellsborg senior staff that they estimate more than 90% of the staff have left Shifa uh it's very difficult very difficult to access for the for the people um there is the only two functioning it's functioning the dialysis unit is still function ing and for the rest it's a bit of an a trauma but it's more like a trauma stabilization point cannot even say more about that then so we have in the north in the north currently I think it's even less than eight six to seven hospitals which are partly minimal functional in Gaza city serving an incredibly vulnerable population the people who have problems leaving for all kind of reasons they don't have the funds they don't have nowhere to go etc. Uh we have seen 44 health service points which went out of services between 11 and the 28th of September. Uh included like the Ron TC pediatric hospital completely nonfunctional the St. John I hospital non-functional the ministry of hospitalic hospital nonfunctional Hamat rehabilitation sample non functional and what I said Al a hospital minimum minimal functional and and and Shifa we cannot even call it minimum functional we will try to and I'm afraid we were already asked very quickly WH we've done this before we will be asked to actually medevac the remaining patients in a number of hospitals and when feasible take off take out some of the the the supplies. There was a WHO in UNICEF mission to run TC to uh to take out incubators etc which was unfortunately refused. It never arrived. We also will be asked to to to medevac uh patients already as soon as tomorrow and we will report on that as well. declining shortages. I mean like the medical supplies all over but currently we we are also planning for another missions to the north to bring some of the supplies but we have to be very clear what we are bringing because there's there's actually so few health workers left what they can do. So you talk about mainly u some trauma supplies some gaues some antibiotics etc. What is currently in the south and everywhere there can huge shortage is on blood supplies including the the blood components anything related to blood transfusions we have procured as WH but we currently struggle to get it into Gaza so that's another thing I to uh to be raised I want to leave it there thank you >> uh thank you so much uh Dr. Preper. Now I would like to invite Nina Larson from Ajan France Press to ask the next question. Nina, you have the floor. >> Yes. Hi, thank you uh for taking my question. I wanted to also ask about the the number of life uh changing injuries that um you've mentioned. Um there seems to be a very big uh increase. Um, and I was wondering if you could say whether this uh is because there's been an escalation uh in the numbers of people being injured or if it has to do with with back counting maybe. Um, I was also wondering if you have an estimate of the number of children amputees. I'm sorry I haven't had a chance to read the report itself. So, um, if you have numbers on that. Um, and also what would you say it it says about the way this um this war is being conducted that so many people and so many children are are suffering such um horrific injuries. And sorry, finally, just to follow up on the question earlier about the WHO reform. Um I was wondering if you could say how many people have been um laid off so far and um and what uh when the next layoff uh announcements are expected. Thank you. >> Uh thank you Nina. I would like to invite our colleague Pete Skelton who is joining from Beirut to take the first question. Pete you have the floor. >> Thank you colleagues and thank you very much for the question. I think if I can start actually just by expressing my appreciation to colleagues on the ground and uh partners who contributed to this report. I think we're 32 different organizations providing services that have provided input into the report. Uh and also to to express I think very deep sorrow at the fact that we have um rehabilitation colleagues that were injured this morning in Gaza and in a very difficult situation and one colleague killed as well not from from who but from an external organization. Um regarding the question I think the numbers that we see are really in line with the initial report which we presented. So we've seen uh the same trajectory followed and in and indeed the the numbers that we present are very much in line with the initial work that we did in the same period last year which is that this 25% uh of all of the uh injuries are expected to be lifechanging um within that on the side of the amputations and children. So we have a lot more data now in terms of age disagregation and we see very clearly that around a quarter of injuries are in children as well. And what we've seen is that children appear to be uh disproportionately vulnerable to amputations and a particularly high number of amputations in children under five identified in the report from one particular data set. I should say with the report and we're very very clear on this. We draw on a number of different data sets. Broadly the data is is consistent and reinforces the same things that we've been saying throughout. But there are enormous challenges in collecting sort of accurate and up-to-date information in Gaza and those challenges persist. So we we've done uh the uh the best job that we can in terms of compiling multiple different sources to give the best overall picture of the situation. Uh and I think most of the other details are contained within the report but I'm happy to add any followup. Thank you very much. >> Uh thank you Pete. Um Rick, do you have anything to add? >> Um yeah maybe I would thank you very much. I also would like to add that for me and that's not surprising but it should be shocking for the whole world that we see a speed set we see the same tra trajectory. So the uh uh this assessment was done based on on from January till May and now actually from January till July 2025 from January 2024 to July 2025 and it is really shocking to see that that you see the same number like roughly one quarter one quarter for patients the the injuries are so serious I mean lifelong um rehabilitation uh will be required the number of childrens I and Pete have referred to relatively high in including the the amputation we have seen consistently uh reported on what we didn't report on and we we it's definitely report of course also the the mental health trauma which is actually associated with a lot of the the injuries we talk about and we hardly touch on that I mean like to see and that's of course a complete different discussion and and um well also complete different uh needs. Over to you. >> Um, thanks so much. I would like now to invite uh Malori from BBC to ask the next question. Mallerie, you have the floor. >> Thank you very much. Could you provide an update on the situation of malnutrition in Gaza, specifically among babies and children, and if there's been changes after some more aid has entered the strip? And in relation to that, if you can comment uh specifically on supplies and any shortage of baby formula for infants. Uh thank you, Mallerie. Um I would like to ask Rick, do you want to take this question? >> I'll try. So, so just to go back to malnutrition. Um and I think also say something about wash u we've seen multilutrition related deaths 400 validated and and and 101 of these are children of which eight 80 are below the the five years old uh we the the centers the mal nutrition centers actually which are currently functions only actually four so there's four uh mold nutrition uh centers which are still functional because RTC was also uh lost. Um there were and and Ron Tishied that that uh that other actually would affect another 132 children and nutrition response. We continue to face major operational constraints including the critical shortages of therapeutic foods and and and which are needed in this therapeutic feeding units like this called F75, F00 and the RUGF etc. Insufficient space to also expand the the the some sub centers within existing facility displacement orders from Gaza city also heavily disrupted program and implementation and raising actually the default rate among children enrolled in this life-saving nutrition services. So we and then actually in the combination when you talk about it so another combination on water and sanitation that 1 million uh people are accessing less than the emergencies minimum of 6 liters drinking water per day according to the recent recent assessments by uh by water sanitation hygiene partners. So I think coming back yes you see a little bit more food on the market. true prices are still have dropped a little bit but are still relatively high but I think everything what what we've seen and and I think all the former reports of course have have referred to that it will take time before this is uh before mutrition actually before you see it a different trend uh on this u also the food diversification is still an a massive uh problem um and again overall the prices for for for for general population are still way too high over you. >> Thanks so much Dr. Piper. Uh Terresa, >> thank you very much. I think it's a very very pertinent uh question considering this is also the lives of very very young uh people in Gaza that we're looking suffering and also at very imminent risk of dying. I think beyond what the numbers are actually saying as what Dr. Rick has already elaborated on is we're only seeing the tip of the iceberg when a child actually requires treatment because of complications due to severe acute malnutritions. There are thousands of others who are on their way into that same condition if insufficient humanitarian aid is actually delivered rapidly and by all means possible. And so this is why we keep on calling. It's not about the malnutrition cases and those who end up in treatment centers that we need to focus on. It's also the risk of all of the other children, pregnant lactating women, and the general population of Gaza who continue to suffer from the deficiency, food deficiency, from insufficient access to health care and other very, very basic necessities in order to survive. And this is pertinent for Gaza, this is pertinent for Westm as well as in all other countries where people are suffering from conflict and natural hazards. Thank you. >> Thank you so much. Um I would like now to invite Pretty Patnik from Geneva Health Files to ask the next question. Pretty you have the floor. >> Thank you for um taking my question. Um I was wondering uh I had two questions. One was um whether who can actually comment on um you know the implementation of the Geneva Convention with respect to um Gaza. And and the second question um is a followup on on the no confidence vote. Um I wanted to know what specific measures will be taken to restore uh faith among staff and member states as a result of this vote which I understand is not uh legally binding. Thank you so much. >> Okay. Uh >> maybe >> yeah, >> maybe if I just jump in on the no confidence vote and say that this was a vote by the staff association, some members of the staff association in Geneva. There were approximately 200 votes. We have a population of about 3,000 people in Geneva. So, I wouldn't necessarily say that it's representative of the population in Geneva. One, um, and two, I don't think it's a no confidence vote in the DG or the organization itself, the management. It is more around the prioritization process where there are a number of questions that staff are asking and we're in the process of addressing those questions with the staff. So, perhaps I leave it at that. Thank you, Fella. Thank you. Um, yeah, thank you. On the first part of the question, I think it's important to highlight that we as an organization, we contribute to upholding the Geneva Convention. We're present where humanitarian needs are present. We care for those who are wounded, who need health services. And we continue also to monitor the public health risk that these individuals are facing and call for everyone who has influence, member states, parties to conflict to actually adhere to these conventions and make sure that access to health care is secured, that attacks on health care is actually ended forever. um and that eventually then conflicts could end because that's the only way that we can actually restore the health of all of those who have been affected by these. Thank you. >> Uh thanks so much. I can see that our legal council Derek Walton uh is um maybe he he can also answer this question. Uh Derek, you have the floor. Thank you very much. I hope you're able to hear me well. Excellent. Uh yes, in terms of a question about the application of the Geneva Conventions to the situation in Gaza, I think it's to point out WH is is not is a humanitarian and development agency and needs to apply needs to remain neutral in terms of conflicts. So it's not our role to attribute um uh uh attribute, blame or aortion uh culpability for attacks uh under the Geneva Conventions. That said, the director general has made very clear on a number of occasions uh in calling on the parties to the conflict in Gaza to abide strictly by humanitarian law and in particular the Geneva Conventions. uh and it is very clear that under the Geneva Conventions attacks on health care are are prohibited uh and can never be tolerated. And so the um the uh Geneva Conventions certainly uh certainly apply in that context and parties must continue or must apply them rigorously. Um but as Rick said earlier when we were talking about attacks on health care our focus is on identifying what has happened uh rather than on aortioning blame and attributing legal consequences to those actions. Thank you. >> Um thank you uh Derek. I do not see any other uh hands so maybe we can close this press conference. Oh okay. So um as many journalists expressed interest in the situation of Ebola and we have the opportunity to hear from Dr. Janet Diaz who is just back from DRC. Maybe Janet you can uh say a few words about the situation of Ebola in DRC and uh our actions there. Uh but we may start first by Dr. Chu for the overview and then we come back to you. Thank you, Dr. Chiquay. >> Thank um yeah, on on the outbreak, it's a month now since we started responding to a new Ebola outbreak in the DRC. Um one of several alerts that comes into our organization across the world every single day, goes through verification processes and ultimately was confirmed. Really excellent work by our colleagues at the national level. got the sequence for this train almost within 24 hours and which then triggered a whole chain of activities. Uh firstly in getting to the location very remote location together with our UN partners we set up an airlink and started deploying the first staff both from our teams and the national public health agency in in Kenshasa and that has led to a series of activities. who immediately released $2 million US from its contingency from our contingency fund for emergencies that enabled the initial uh response and and basically things have moved on fairly well since then. We recently over the last couple of days launched our strategic response plan that still requires a little bit of resourcing to support the work happening already. This uh has gone fairly well up till now. We are on the fifth day without a case, but we are by no means out of the wood. So, we have to keep pushing on all the various strands of the response. Uh Janet, my colleague, uh who will speak to you shortly, was one of the very first colleagues that deployed to the field almost immediately has just returned in rotation. The next team has been deployed. So uh she will now share a few words on the response on what WHO has done with our our colleagues, our partners and critically uh the capacity that has been built locally in their national ministry of health, their national public health agencies in response to the outbreak. So let me ask Janet to just share a few words on the actual response and our experience from the field. >> Thanks uh Chuway and thanks for the opportunity to to give a brief update from the field. So I just arrived back a couple of days ago. So, excuse me if I'm a little tired. Uh, you know what we found there, as Chuway has already described, it is a remote area, difficult to get to. Uh, logistics are really hard. So, I just want to commend the the local workforce um and the and the initial teams that went out there from the national uh uh public health institute as well as the partners uh that were there um with the first teams to pretty much set up the response. Uh so I think the work that has been done in the past three weeks has been an incredible feat based on the logistical challenges that were that we encountered um collectively. One of the areas um uh when you are working in such a remote area and when you have logistic challenges and your resources are limited right and you're depending on the airbridge or the helicopter to bring you the supplies and things that you need. You have to make good decisions on the ground to make sure you prioritize the right activities that can be done with the resources that you have. And I want to commend the leadership of the incident manager of uh DRC and how uh that that leadership team, the incident manager with partners, WHO obviously there as well, how we made decisions to do the right activities around the cases and and in the field. What we saw was a real collective work to to treat to to get around all those confirmed cases to do, you know, the best contact tracing follow-up that we can do to make sure the ring vaccination even to those remote places where you have to go on a motorbike to get to those contacts to vaccinate them. That that happens and that was happening to get the vaccine supply in there before we had the cold chain set up so it doesn't you know so it's still good and you can still deliver it to patients. So all this type of activities really well planned and really difficult to execute but was and is happening now. Uh getting good infection prevention and control teams to the households of the confirmed cases to ensure decontamination to stop spread of infection. Again a very kind of surgical approach to outbreak response that had to be done to be efficient with what we had in regards to care pathways and treatment. you know that's my area of work um specifically really working within the system the the structures where our initial treatment center the initial treatment center had been set up was the general hospital of Bulap and that is you know a resource limited hospital it didn't have uh consistent access to electricity for example or consistent access to water so together jointly focusing on the basics can we get the water system strengthening can we get a generator to augment the electrical supply. Can we get um uh the facilities, the circuits in place for good infection prevention and control and biocurity starting from the basics as well and together collectively with the local teams with our partners um such as and I do want to acknowledge the partnerships and the collective work that has been happening in the treatment center with um to support the ministry of health with MSF uh with ALMA with uh IMC uh even with World Vision vision and WFP who's providing nutritional support to those patients in the treatment center really a collective effort to ensure the best standards of care in place. Currently, we had been working on establishing a new treatment center. So to move the patients from this treatment center that we're using right now within the in this within the hospital and we're using innovative uh innovations that we we've been working on for years with partners how to deploy faster treatment centers uh with good visibility so that the monitoring of patients can be done better from the green zone um and that uh and that um and that also the community perceptions of the treatment centers are are more positive. I want to highlight a few things that we had improved while we were there. Uh you know that had been going on um that we were working on while we were there. One was also the access to optimized supportive care again doing the basics well uh and through partnerships and led by the INRB that they were able to in addition to have you know the rapid diagnostics the gene experts for the PCR testing also to have a bi a biochemistry point of care test and that may see seem something simple but it was actually difficult to get to the field but with that and with access to medical oxygen which was also by concentrators we were able to really improve the quality of care uh by getting those very sick patients individualized patient care uh through correction of of electrolytes and those things. And finally, just to acknowledge again all this the the staff that's working there, the local staff from the hospitals and the and that area that has been, you know, uh relocated to work within the treatment center, their bravery, their commitment uh to best caring for those patients and then with the partners, us all collectively supporting so that those patients can get the best care uh possible. Um maybe and then final comment on the access to therapeutics because this always comes up as well. Uh again to to the strengths of the uh of the national team the INRB where they did have stockpiled um one of the life-saving monoconal antibodies uh that was found to be life- saving in a clinical trial that they conducted in 2019. So that was available and has been available um uh to treat uh confirmed patients uh and uh under the close monitoring of the colleagues uh from the National Institute of Biomedical Research, the INRB. So so thanks. >> Thank you so much Dr. Chu uh Dr. Diaz for this important update. Now I think it's time to close this press conference. I thank you for your participation. We will be sending the audio file and DG u opening remarks uh right after this uh uh press conference and please don't hesitate to contact the who media team if you need any uh other information and with that I would like to hand over to Dr. Tedros for his closing remarks. Dr. Tedros please. >> Yeah, thank you Fedila. Thank you to all members of the press for joining us today and see you next time.