Chair of the RC honorable minister Leono Tandin Wanguk honorable minister Dr. Nalinda Jiatisa officer in charge Dr. Katarina Beame and RD Emirates Punam Ketra Pal Singh my sister honorable ministers heads of delegation excellencies dear colleagues and friends good morning and it's an honor to be here with you today I thank the government of Sri Lanka for its hospitality in hosting this year's region Regal committee. The last time I was here in Colbo was for World Health Day 7 years ago in 2018. That year was who 70th birthday, but it was also Sri Lanka's 70th anniversary of independence. So I was here to celebrate both WHO and Sri Lanka and I congratulate Sri Lanka for its many achievements in public health since independence. By the way since 2018 I can see the lots of changes also in Colbo. So congratulations especially focused on health. Health care in this country has been free at the point of delivery since 1952. very shortly after independence. As a result, although Sri Lanka is classified as a lower middle- inome country, it had the health profile of many highincome countries. Almost every woman who gives birth does so with a skilled birth attendant. Almost every child receives routine immunizations. You have defeated malaria, eliminated lymphatic ferasis and maternal and neonatal tetanus. And Sri Lanka was the first country in Asia to ratify the WHO framework convention on tobacco control and also the first to fully implement the framework. I congratulate the government and the honorable minister for its partnership and for the significant progress we have made together. Just in the past year, who is proud to have worked with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education to conduct the global school health survey of almost 3,000 children in 40 schools. We also developed an integrated community model for mental health care to facilitate transition of patients from acute psychiatric institutions to community-based rehabilitation. We have also worked together on programs for cancer substance use digitalizing civil registration and vital statistics and more. Honorable ministers, service of delegation, dear colleagues and friends, I recognize that this is an uncertain time for the region and the regional office with the regional director on leave. I thank Dr. Katarina Bema for her willingness to step in to the role as officer in charge. She has my full support and I ask you all to give her yours. I also thank the staff of our regional office in New Delhi and our country offices for their continued commitment to serving the people of the region. As you all know, these are difficult times for the World Health Organization and our staff as we go through a process of downsizing and restructuring. Over the past few weeks and months, we have been through a painful process of saying goodbye to a large number of colleagues. These are people who have served the world in many ways including under extreme pressure during the coid9 pandemic and do not deserve to be treated this way. Nevertheless, I see this crisis as an opportunity and I'm confident that WHO will emerge sharper, more focused on its on its core mandate and more independent. At this year's World Health Assembly, member states sent a very powerful message that a strong and empowered WHO is what they want. First, the approval of the next increase in assess contributions was a major step forward toward stab's financial sustainability and to protecting it from future shocks like this one. And second, the adoption of the WHO pandemic agreement was truly historic, demonstrating that in this divided times, countries can still come together and find shared solutions to shared problems. And it shows that multilateralism is alive and well. And that's what brings you together this week. Your agenda covers many issues of shared importance. Universal health coverage, health emergencies, antimicrobial resistance, smokeless tobacco and and more. I also look forward to joining tomorrow's ministerial round table on healthy aging and primary health care. I'm also pleased that you will be looking at ways to enhance the transparency and integrity of the election of regional directors based on the recommendations of the executive board. In particular, we commend to you the idea of an evaluation group to assess the sustainability and qualification of candidates. Thank you all once again for your commitment to promoting, providing and protecting the health of the people of your countries and the region as a whole. I thank you. Thank you so much. >> Thank you very much Dr. Ted Rose Abanam Gabrias, director general of WH for the sentiments expressed. And with that, ladies and gentlemen, in order to present the keynote address this morning,