Hello and welcome to WHO's social media conversation on cervical cancer elimination. My name is Tonga Namjasurin. I head up WHO's health advocacy and communications unit in the department of communication. Today, World Health Organization together with communities and countries around the world is marking the very first World Cervical Cancer Elimination Day which has been approved by WHS countries this year. To speak about this uh challenge and learn about what countries and communities are doing, I have two guests in the studio today. Let me first introduce Dr. Ying Ling Wu from Malaysia. She's doctor and working as a professor of obstetrics and gyne gynecology at the University Malaya Hospital in Koala Lumpur. And also I have Dr. Prebo Barango who is the WHO's lead for cervical cancer elimination initiative. We had our third guest Karen Nakavala from Zambia who is a powerful advocate a survivor of cervical cancer. She could not very unfortunately join our show today because there are some um power outage issues right where she's living. But we are welcoming all of the community advocates and people interested in this topic ask questions with hash ask who on Twitter or X or on all of our other platforms as comments. So let me start this show by asking Yingling about the real experiences in the communities. You're working with patients, parents every day. What are the most common questions they ask you? >> Thank you very much, Tunga. I work in Malaysia and in the background you can see the KL Twin Towers and like many countries, we have women from different walks of life. some from the rural area that may not have so much access to health care whereas in Koala Lumpo women have access to health care but overall women still present 50% of them present with late stages which is stage three and four. Now we know that in the early stages those that are detected by screening they don't have much symptoms but those who are presenting late like stage three and four which is a common situation in countries from lower middle inome setting will have quite a lot of symptoms such as bleeding leading to severe symptoms. They have pain in the pelvic region and occasionally they present with shortness of breath because of the severe anemia and respiratory symptoms such as cough. So these women generally are the soul bread winner of their families, the sandwich generation, looking after the older generation such as their parents and children and therefore usually they neglect their own health and the symptoms are quite advanced by the time they present to the hospital. So today the very reason we are having this conversation is WHO together with countries agreed on uh one of the most ambitious goals for public health of this decade uh if I may say to eliminate this disease by 2030. Um so I'd like to ask you Preo uh a little bit on the background. how did this goal came about and what is who and country's ambition uh to reach the target. Thank you very very much Tunga for that. Um so the the cervical cancer is a disease of inequity. It's it's it's something that um we've for for a long time um there's been tools to combat this disease. It's c we know the cause of cervical cancer is caused by the cancer causing strains of the human papilloma virus HPV for short and there has been vaccines that when administered is effective in preventing this HPV infection. There's also been effective screening mechan methods to screen women like Nigling mentioned that are often asytomatic to screen them and those that have precancerous lesions to be treated of the precancer thereby preventing them from having cancer. And of course we also know that um early detection of those with symptoms and treating them prompt promptly and effectively prevents death because these women represent their mothers they contribute significantly to to their societies. So this these approaches are there and because of this inequity the stack inequity in the mortality and um incidents from cervical cancer the WHO director general in 2018 issued a call to action that we need to eliminate cervical cancer and that uh was the crux of the WHO um now developing the global strategy which is premised on three key pillars. One, vaccinate girls um by 15 years with HPV vaccine. Two, screen 70% of women at least twice in their lifetime. And those that are um positive or have cervical disease should be effectively treated. 90% of them should be effectively treat treated. If this is done, modeling has shown that it will place if if this is done by 2030 and is maintained, modeling has shown that all countries in the world will be on track towards eliminating cervical cancer, meaning we'll have an incidence of less than four per 100,000. As things are now, some countries actually have an incidence of over 50 per 100,000. So vaccinating, screening and treatment will help bring down these incidents to to such a stage that it is no longer a disease of public health interest. >> Thank you for mentioning the equity and just to give a bit more background on the cervical cancer topic. So this is the fourth common cancer among women and as Dr. uh Yingling mentioned uh in many countries including in her country Malaysia, women come too late uh for treatment because there's been very low rate of testing and diagnosis. But the elimination initiative is partly made possible because we can actually prevent this cancer. There is effective vaccination. In fact, this is seen as the only second cancer that is preventable uh because of the effective vaccines. So that's why there is a global effort going on worldwide in schools, in communities, in clinics to reach the new generation, the younger generation, girls and boys in in in many areas to reach with vaccination so that we can eliminate this disease. So this is actually a very dramatic scene if you can imagine that the current generation who is getting sick and coming uh to testing and treatment quite late whereas we imagine a new generation that would not have to worry about this disease in a few years time. So I'm coming back to you uh Yinglin about vaccination. What is the situation in Malaysia? Well, I'm very proud to say that Malaysia was one of the first countries to ever start a national school-based vaccination program. We were one in the forerunners. Um we started a national school-based program in 2013 2010 fully fully funded by the government and among all our 13year-old girls. We started initially as per guidelines with three doses uh per girl followed by two in 2016 and now just last year our girls are getting a single dose as supported by the recent data. So this is a very exciting time because not only have we started the vaccination program 15 years ago, we are also starting to um screen our women with HPV testing and fortunately in Malaysia treatment is available. It's we have to just uh navigate access to such care. >> This is great news. you know really taking and leading uh taking the lead in terms of vaccination but I want to go back to some of the women uh that you are working with on a daily basis. So when they you you mentioned that they are coming quite late uh for diagnosis but what are the typical symptoms um generally cervical cancer show? Uh would people be able to know if they have dis the disease or not? Okay. So, I treat cervical cancer daily. Now, as with most cancers, we have four stages. We have stage one, stage two, stage three, stage four. In general, the ones that are early stage one uh cancer, they don't have any symptoms and those are generally detected by screening. Whereas if they become bulky or you go to stage two, stage three, stage four, imagine there's a growth in the neck of the womb and it's getting big and the organs that are close to it are the bladder, the uh bowels and the pelvic region. So what happens is if there's a large growth, women may complain of bleeding in between their periods. Bleeding when they have sex. Um bleeding sometimes when they they have um some effort in urinating or moving their bowels or they get pelvic pain. Uh pain when they pass urine and pain when they uh empty their bowels. So those are quite advanced stages. But if they don't have pain, one of the most common ones would be abnormal bleeding in between periods and after sex. >> So what would be the tests if somebody is worried or if somebody uh would like to check out what should they do? >> Right? This depends on which country they are from. So I know in many countries they there are community uh health care workers but in our country such as in Malaysia we have a government clinics what we call primary care clinics or with GPS. Now I I want to say that screening the screening that we're talking about is for women who are healthy and who don't have symptoms. Now these women should go for screening when they do not have any of these abnormal symptoms. That's why it's very hard to get women who are well to go and see a doctor or see a health care professional because when you talk about screening, it should be done when there's no symptoms. But if they have symptoms, then they should see a a doctor whereby the doctor will then do a pelvic examination and often they will use a speculum uh to look at and inspect the cervix and take a biopsy or take a a tissue biopsy. So that's how a diagnosis is made. Um so we have to make a difference or differentiate screening before the cancer happens and diagnosis for when you have cancer already. So two very different situation and we're hoping that women would actually attend screening before they have any symptoms. >> So that that is great. So just for guests and people who are watching us on WH's various social media platforms to remind you that today we are discussing cervical cancer elimination. Today it is the very first time um the world global community is marking cervical cancer elimination day. This is an official WH campaign to be marked on the 17th of November um everywhere around the world as this has been approved by WHO's member countries this year and you can ask your questions on X with hashtag ask and all of the other platforms. You can enter your questions or comments as comments and we will be reviewing and calling them out here on the platform. So I'm going to ask a question that has come from um uh I don't have the name but somebody who's watching us from Pakistan uh there are misconceptions about vaccination and the HPV vaccine still remains unknown by many people including women especially in rural settings. So what would you say to people who are seeing watching and maybe hesitating and doubting about the vaccine about these misconceptions? Perhaps I will start with you Yingling. Do you see such misconceptions in your clinic with your patients and how do you respond to them? We we are very fortunate because uh we don't have um a big antivaccine um group here and I think it's been very clear that the HPV vaccine is a vaccine that will prevent cancer. It will prevent mothers from getting a a uh it will prevent young girls from getting a cancer in the future. So here uh we've worked together with uh schools with educators uh with the religious authorities. So your question is from Pakistan. So we worked with the mufties and the to actually say that this vaccination among girls will prevent them from getting cancers in the future and to look after the health of ourselves in the future as women is extremely important. So in a sort of um interdisiplinary way, Malaysia has done very well to ensure that our girls are vaccinated. So we've even done studies in um we we've done questionnaires for teachers in schools back in 2010 when I did a survey among uh the secondary school teachers. While they do not understand the full biology of HPV, they understood that this was an investment made by the government to ensure that our girls will be protected from cervical cancer in the future and therefore they were extremely supportive. So I think where countries don't have a a high awareness um the schools the NOS's the educators everyone can come together to raise the awareness particularly in a in a era of social media. >> Thank you. Um indeed uh vaccines of course it's very important and uh when it comes to young girls, parents, teachers, health workers, they all need to know about the vaccine and be able to communicate. And with social media, we also know that there are a lot of algorithms and there's just a lot of choices of information. So it is very understandable that people have just questions and doubts and the best line of advice in those cases would be to uh reach out to health workers and uh people like Ying Lling who are actually dealing with real people uh in real life you know uh experiencing this issue so that you get uh reliable dependable uh evidence-based information. So that would be the best to ask um health workers and also of course check the information of the uh health authorities who have approved information. But it is very understandable that with social media that we would be getting information from everywhere and for our audience to really be aware which information to use. So with that I want to come to you Preo. Um we spoke about vaccines which is happening quite successfully I understand in already there are already 150 or so countries that are introducing this vaccine so that the new generations of girls women families they will not experience cervical cancer uh as part of these global efforts um and I u can you please a little bit tell about the vaccine what is it and also about the global efforts that WH is focusing on where are the successes and what are the challenges you are seeing. >> Yes, thank thank you very much for that. Um so first um just to quickly touch on the issue about the safety of the vaccine um who has the global advisory committee on vaccine safety and for since the vaccine was introduced more than 16 years ago with over 600 million doses um we know that HVAC HPV vaccine is very very safe um very safe and um it's it it will prevent infection with encogenic HPV and will also thereby prevent cervical cancer. That's one. Now initially it started with three doses and Yingling mentioned that uh the progression that Malaysia has gone through three doses um and then there there was two doses and right now um for the past two years who's advisory group on vaccine has actually made the recommendation that one one dose schedule is as effective in and offers protection as two doses. for those that are not HIV positive, meaning it provides an opportunity to expand and increase coverage for HPV vaccine for girls. So it it it provides that opportunity to to to expand coverage. Um like you mentioned, there's been 155 countries in total that have introduced HPV vaccine as part of their routine services. um 158 countries if you me if you include countries that have partially included HPV vaccine the vaccine is safe and uh and we we we've been seeing progress um but globally it's we are still not yet at the 90% coverage for HPV vaccine currently it's about um 31% coverage globally for HPV vaccine and we are hoping that um With more and more countries scaling up HPV vaccine coverage, we will be able to be to achieve that 90% target. Thanks. Thank you so much, Prep. So, our audience may have caught it. So, vaccines are there. They are extremely safe and effective and it is already a great global movement that is happening right now. We should really note on this very first world cervical cancer elimination day that there are 155 158 countries that are looking into and introducing scaling up these vaccinations to young girls and women. Uh but at the same time we have a long way to go to achieve the global goal of achieving 90% coverage. At this moment it's only just about 30%. So we need everybody's support. uh everybody's uh sharing and learning and educating each other about cervical cancer so that we can really um maintain uh and benefit from this global effort. So I'm going to ask a question that's come from uh one of our um um members of the audience. Um so there are actually several really interesting questions. Let me ask maybe with hopefully a specific one. Amanda is asking how many strains strains do the HPV vaccines cover? So, uh the virus may have several different uh many many types of course. So, the vaccine how effective would be against the different strains. >> I'd love to take that question because it will then emphasize the importance of screening. Now we know that there are about 35 types of HPV that affect the anogenital tract but only 12 are significantly associated with the development of uh cervical cancer. So when we look at the current vaccines that are available they cover um most of them. So there are two main vaccines that are available in the market. one that covers the two encogenic types which is type 16 and 18 whereas we have the nineve valent vaccine that will cover seven types. This means that for us for even for the vaccinated population while you can prevent 90% of the cancers when they become older when they become adults there's still a small proportion of women that are still at risk of developing cancer. And hence vaccination alone is not a foolproof method. While it may significantly reduce or reduce it between 70 to 90% incidences of cervical cancer in a country, it will not totally eliminate the need for screening or eliminate the incidence of cervical cancer. So most to answer Amanda's question, there are three common ones. one which covers um HPV 16 and 18 and the other one that covers five additional types. So the vaccines that cover 16 and 18 will prevent 70% of cancers whereas the other vaccine that covers that has an additional cover will prevent 90% of um the incidence of cervical cancer. I hope that answers Amanda's question. Uh thank you so much for that. I also have a question from Hang Savanara and Yingling you may answer or pre you could add to that. So um um the question is how to explain HPV infection transmission. Uh mostly or people debate um it's from husband or from uh sexual partners or uh some say it's from hygiene. Um and there is also uh advice uh screen together with the husband or the partner. So uh can you explain the transmission roots? >> This is such an important um question to answer and I I thank you for that question. Essentially HPV infection we need to understand the first thing is that it's a very common infection among men and women very common infection. In fact we know that 90% 80 to 90% of men and women at some point in their lives are HPV positive. So it's it's contracted by sexual interaction. It's a sexually transmitted infection, but we don't consider it a sexually transmitted disease because it doesn't cause vaginal discharge. It doesn't cause infertility. It doesn't cause any pain if it's just an infection. Now what we understand now is that our immune system plays an extremely important role in controlling the infection and therefore for most of us who have been exposed to HPV infection if their immunity is weak. For example, Prebo said that you know for those with HIV they need three doses of vaccination. We know women with living with HIV have six times higher risk of cervical cancer. This just shows that the immune system is so important in controlling HPV infection. So we would say HPV infection is common. It is acquired by a skin-to-skin contact most commonly by sexual um interaction. When we say skin-to-skin contact, we really need microabbrasions on the skin. Do you know that it is nearly impossible to grow HPV on a petry dish? You can take swabs, you can take anything, but you cannot grow HPV on a petry dish. It is so difficult to for HPV to actually multiply itself. It actually needs the skin, the machinery of a differentiating skin or what we call the epithelium for HPV to replicate. Which means that even if I suck in HPV by air, I touch HPV, I cannot cannot get an infection through contact, through poor hygiene, through all those ways. This is so important. It is not an airborne infection. It is something that is transmitted skin-to-skin with microabbrasion. Um I I hope that answers the question because it's quite a difficult concept for people to grasp and therefore it's associated with so much stigma. >> Yes, correct. So the part of the question was also a little bit about um you know so do we need is is is it advisable to do couples testing or is it necessary that the other partner sexual partner tests for this infection. >> The answer is no. The reason why we test for HPV is that we are identifying the risk of developing cervical cancer. We're not testing for an infection. We're not performing a sexually transmitted disease panel. So for example, if someone young comes in and says, "Oh, I want to have a sexual infection uh panel such as chlamydia, gonorrhea, HIV, we do not include HPV there because it is not a disease that we want to detect. What we want to do with HPV screening is to look and identify the risk of developing cervical cancer in individuals with a cervix. So in male partners, we don't need to screen them because we don't have any we don't have a means of detecting precancer. Uh it is a common infection which most of the time it doesn't lead to anything. Can you imagine? The studies have shown that if you screen men that are healthy, up to 70% of them will have HPV in the oral cavity in the um ano genital area. But it's not disease. But what do you do with all these anxious men then? [laughter] >> Thank you. That's an interesting question. But it's such a complex um disease um and there are many people who would be affected. uh but it's also very specific the fact that we focus on women and when it comes to vaccination the priority on girls as well. So hopefully with the start of the world cervical cancer elimination day from today onwards there will be a lot of conversations around the world in different languages in uh in different communities um in families um about this disease so that we understand it better. um starting from individual actions we could take but also you know um reminders and uh for for other people in our in our families uh because it is quite different and I think we are quite early in our conversation. Thank you for that. And I want to call out one more question, but I also miss um of course Karen Nakavala who was supposed to join us from Zambia because she set up an NGO called Teal Sisters and she's one of the of the formidable survivors and champions and advocates amplifying the voices of women and survivors of this cancer. she's she couldn't join because of the power outage in her uh community at the moment. But it's rather experiences that our a course on X you could add the question I have for pre PBO it's again one of the people who are watching us uh Ankita Basnik on Facebook was asking what um how can we as NGO get involved in this work and I also see another question on the screen from another member of the audience. Civil society should be key in this global effort and what is who's advice? >> Yes, thank you very much. um civil society organizations and advocates and non-governmental organizations are actually key to because they are closer to the grassroots and they also are able to hold governments accountable. Um so the their role is diverse and what they can do there is the from organizing screening campaigns to matches um to raising awareness campaigns you know having competitions with um engaging with the with with schools um providing correct information to to teachers to schools in terms of um like we mentioned now on vaccine safety um raising awareness um on on screening where the what the the misconceptions about screening and ensuring that this is taken up and taken up at scale also raising awareness on on on vaccine. Uh today is world cervical cancer elimination day and um we've had those um several other NOS's you know some are lighting up um supporting lighting up key monuments in in different countries in teal which is the color for cervical cancer elimination. um holding debates and also ensuring that you know governments and um um starting that conversation with governments and and the communities on the need and the value of eliminating this disease that is very common and it is easy to it's a it's a lowhanging fruit. So the role of civil society organizations like the one Karen is leading and the ones that several other um organizations in all the countries of the world are doing is key. Um we have an informal partners uh platform where we meet with partner with cervical cancer elimination partners that range from vaccination to screening and treatment and even patient support and it's a platform where you know they they are able to um provide supports and um look at what is happening globally and see how they can key into this global movement. So NOS's um are key to maintaining the momentum from this for this global movement. Thank you. >> Thank you for that. So the message to all of the community members and if you are representing a civil society group um I mean your country may be one of the nearly 160 countries that have already joined this goal working to eliminate cervical cancer by 2030. Even if not, you can join all of the global discussions. There is WH. You can also engage your ministries of health, your local health authorities, health clinics, doctors like Yingling who are working with uh community members every day to learn more about this effort and really join this work. There are many opportunities. I would like to ask you again Prevo um just to state for our audience once again that we have this goal by 2030. The goals are 90790. Right now we have been this is an amazing global effort. There's a lot of uh commitment that have been made by countries. We should acknowledge them on the very first several cancer elimination day. But what is exactly the coverage rate towards these targets so that we know what needs to be done. >> Thank you. Um so there's been a lot of there's there's actually a lot of optimism that we are making progress. We are making progress in terms of screening. Like I mentioned more than 155 countries have introduced HPV vaccine and there's need to scale up um um to other countries. We also know that um screening for women the 70 targets is actually the one that is worth performing and in most LMIC screening is still using visual methods um that are not um high performance meaning that they have low sensitivity and specificity. So the the the the encouragement and the guidance is that countries should adopt and adapt using high performance tests such that the HPV DNA self um testing offers. And this HPV DNA um has the advantage that it it also has self sample collection option so that women do not necessarily have to go to the clinic and get an internal examination by the clinician to test to screen for HPV. They can collect the sample themselves and then provide it to the healthcare worker. This frees up the time of the healthare worker um and also ensures that you know women can do this screening at their with their privacy if they so choose and healthcare workers are able to now de you know put enough time to only examine those that need to do it. uh for screening the coverage is quite low in several countries and we are who we are supporting countries in terms of seeing how um they can scale up particularly using high performance test for screening. um treatment capacity is also low and lowest in in most LMIC's and the challenge for for for this is basically the challenges for the health systems in terms of pathology services um in terms of um um medical professionals for oncology experts in several low and middle inome countries. these are lacking and there are efforts to ensure or look at mechanisms to support maybe through south south collaboration um to see that the countries are able to support each other in scaling up um treatment but like I said treatment um the coverage is really really is is is low um and there's room for us to make progress thank you >> so there is so much more to be done and Everybody's support is needed in this effort. So I'm coming to you Ying Lingling. You already are in, as you said, we are lucky in Malaysia, you are one of the champion countries of this global effort and showcasing what can be done and how can be done and bringing in more partners. But what would be your call to action today to everybody who's listening us, but also all of the other decision makers in other countries? I want to say that beyond the action of governments, the responsibility can lie on us to accelerate the effort to vaccinate and to screen and to treat. As PBO shared, the elimination target is not going to be achieved by two papsmears or two visual inspection. It is with two HPV DNA test in a lifetime. So we need to ensure that women will have access no matter where you live. 70% of these women will have access to HPV testing. I remember before this call that we were chatting uh Karen said she was going to attend a meeting at the World Bank and she wants to ask this question. How do we get enough funds? How do we ensure that women no matter where they live will have at least an opportunity to have an HPV testing? And I think we should ask this question very seriously as a soci global society. How do we ensure that 70% of women if not twice a lifetime will get at least one HPV test in their lifetime? That is what I'd like to say. and treatment. Many countries still do not have a radiotherapy machine which is the main way to treat advanced cancer and so we need to ensure that equity can be corrected if we were to achieve the global elimination of cervical cancer. >> Thank you. So in our lifetime but also in just a few years. Um so that is the global co goal to eliminate uh cervical cancer uh by 2030 and there is really a lot could be done because there are tests there are treatments and most importantly there is a way to prevent a whole new generation of women, girls and families to prevent uh from this type of cancer. uh this is currently the fourth common um cancer that women are experiencing. So this is a challenge of our time. So uh we really appreciate everybody joining today's social media conversation. Just to state a few countries where people uh have joined and asked questions. Trinidad, Tobago, Azerbaijan, United Kingdom, France, Australia, Nigeria, uh, Pakistan, Ghana, Iran, Indonesia, Uganda, um, Thailand, India, Malawi, Vietnam, Kenya, UAE, Djibouti, and many other places. Thank you so much. This is WHO's social media conversation dedicated to the very first World Cervical Cancer Elimination Day which will be marked every year on the 17th of November. Please spread the message to conquer this preventable cancer. Thank you so much to my guests and thank you for everybody who watched us today. >> Thank you. >> Thank you very much.