Your excellency zera uh I hope I said it well. Uh, your excellency first lady Ahmina Erdohhan and Your Excellency First Lady Mahiban Ali, Your Excellency First Lady Tamara Bhuch and Your Excellency First Lady Anadas Lorenzo and Your Excellency First Lady Nahmed A and Your Excellency First Lady Lucracia Pinado um and my friend Dr. James Downing. Honorable ministers, dear colleagues and friends, I pass I try to address all first ladies by name because I just wanted to also appreciate your your presence and thank you so much indeed for your commitment and I hope I have pronounced your name properly and I thank Usbekistan and St. Jud for organizing today's event and for their leadership and partnership on this issue. Seven years ago at the UN high level meeting on non-communicable diseases I had a meeting with Dr. James Downing where he introduced me to a young cancer survivor from El Salvador called Gabo. Not too long ago, Gabo's form of childhood cancer would have probably been a death sentence in countries like El Salvador. But thanks to the treatment he was able to receive with support from St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Gabo was in remission. The next night, we became friends with Gabo, by the way. And the next night I was due to speak at the global citizen concert in Central Park. This is some years ago. And I decided to take Gabo with me to join me on a stage to tell the crowd his story. Gabo's story. When he told them he was in remission, the place went wild. It was a wonderful moment for the crowd to hear the story of a cancer survivor and they are the kind of moments that WHO's partnership we sent you is creating. Every child with cancer deserves a fighting chance no matter what country or community they are from. That's why we launched the WHO global initiative for childhood cancer. The results, like Carlos said, tell the story. So far, more than 400,000 children in 80 low and middle inome countries have benefited. We're moving steadily toward our target of 60% survival by 2030. the same at that in the political declaration being considered tomorrow. Last year, we launched the global platform for access to childhood cancer medicines so that every child can have access to life-saving medicines. Thousands of children are already benefiting. And today we met Samira together, a seven year a 17-year-old cancer survival from Usbakistan. By the way, she is one year younger than my uh daughter. Her story is an inspiration and shows why this work is so important. Excellencies, our progress has only been possible thanks to your political leadership, the dedication of advocates and our partnerships. The collaboration between WHO and St. Jude Children's Research Hospital is a cornerstone of that progress and we're committed to building on it. and let's work together to make sure that every child gets the care they need, no matter who they are or where they live because everybody deserves a fighting chance. And then maybe you will ask where Gabo is. I think he's studying medicine. He told me when I met him several years ago, he will study medicine. But not only that, he will be the director general of the World Health Organization to take my place. And that's the chance we're giving to the kids, hope. And imagine what Gaba wants now. Without >> the support he got, I think he wouldn't have that that hope. And that's what you're doing today. Thank you so much. Thank you so much Dr. Tedras for your leadership, your guidance.