Thank you Dr. Vivc Morty. Thank you for your leadership. African Union Youth Envoy, Miss Chico Pemba. Honorable ministers, excellencies, distinguished commissioners, dear colleagues and friends, thank you all for joining us today and I'm honored to launch the report of the WHO Commission on Social Connection. When we established the commission, it was to shine a light on the hidden yet serious threat of loneliness and social isolation and to help to help us respond with evidence and urgency. I extend my gratitude to the commissioners for their leadership and for this timely and important report. Health encompasses not just physical and mental well-being, but also social well-being. a principle enshrined in the WHO constitution. However, social well-being is over is often overlooked. Even though we're more connected through technology and social media than ever before, many people still feel isolated and alone. Loneliness isn't just about not having company. It's a deep feeling of disconnection that can harm our mental and physical health. The commission's report reveals that one in six people experience loneliness with particularly high rates among youth and in lowincome countries. This social disconnection presents a serious public health challenge with far-reaching consequences increasing the risk of heart disease, stroke, depression, anxiety, dementia, and premature death. In fact, loneliness contributes to over 870,000 premature deaths each year. The impacts of social disconnection are felt not only by individuals but also by communities and nations. Rapid urbanization, shifting demographics, digital transformation, and rising inequality are changing the ways we relate to one another, often leaving people feeling disconnected, unseen, and unheard. These challenges were recently acknowledged by the World Health Assembly which adopted a landmark resolution on social connection. The commission's report provides both a diagnosis and a road map offering evidence based actions that governments, communities and individuals can take in four key areas. First, we must elevate social connection at a public health priority by embedding it in health policies, systems, and services. This includes integrating social connection into national health policies, disease prevention strategies, health promotion, universal health coverage, and emergency planning. Social connection must be recognized as a fundamental aspect of health. Second, coordinated cross- sectoral action is necessary. Systems alone cannot tackle this issue. We need collaboration across education, housing, digital policy, culture, civil society and beyond to create environments where connections can thrive. Third, we should invest in what works. strengthening community infrastructure, supporting research and innovation, and scaling up evidence-based interventions, especially for vulnerable populations are essential. We must use digital tools wisely to enhance, not replace human relationships. Lastly, we must value social connection in our everyday lives. This issue extends beyond policy. It's fundamentally about people. Each of us has a role to play. Reach out, listen, and make space for others to feel seen and included. Connection is vital not only for public health, but also for our shared humanity. My friends, social connection is not a luxury. It's essential to our health, our societies, and our collective well-being. With this report and the recent resolution, we have the tools, evidence, and momentum we need. What's required now is commitment and action. Only by working together with intention and understanding can we build and rebuild the essential bonds that make life worth living. I thank you, Nalina. Back to you. Yeah. Well, thank you so much, Director General Tedros.