for coming. We really appreciate the fact that you could create time to come address the speakers at this sixth world conference of speakers. Please, you have the floor. >> Thank you. Thank you, honorable President Tulia Axen, honorable secretary general and my good friend Martin Chungong. Honorable speakers, good afternoon and welcome to Geneva and thank you for the invitation to address you today. In the aftermath of the second world war, the nations of the world came together in the recognition that the only alternative to global conflict was global cooperation. In 1945, they formed the United Nations and in the World Health Organization. The constitution of the WHO became the first instrument of international law to affirm that health is a fundamental human right. But it went further saying that health is fundamental to the attainment of peace and security. That conviction remains as relevant today as it was 77 years ago. In this divided and divisive times, health is one of the few areas in which countries who are otherwise political and economic rivals can work together to build a common approach to common threats. Exhibit A is the pandemic agreement which member states adopted at the world assembly in May this year. After three and a half years of negotiation, the nations of the world showed that it's still possible for countries to work together and to find common ground for a common purpose. Some people spread false information as you remember about the agreement and others said the agreement would not happen. There were sharp differences between countries. Many doubted it would succeed but it did and the nations agreed on the pandemic agreement. The adoption of the pandemic agreement was truly historic, a major win for health, but also for multilateralism in general. It showed that multilateralism is alive and well. came at an especially significant time. As you are all aware, WHO has also been affected by cuts in aid by the United States and other countries. At the same time, in every crisis, there is an opportunity. And I'm confident that WHO will emerge from this situation stronger, sharper, and more focused on our core mandate, more empowered to serve the nations and people of the world. And we're making all the restructuring and change. But of course, WHO is just one small part of a much bigger picture. Around the world, dramatic reductions in aid are having severe impacts on health services in many developing countries. We see disruptions affecting millions of people who are missing out on life-saving services and medicines including vaccines and health facilities are being forced to close. Supply chains and information systems are disrupted. But again in the crisis lies an opportunity. Many leaders from the developing countries including from Africa have told me that they also see this current crisis as an opportunity to leave behind the era of aid dependency and transition towards sustainable self reliance. who is supporting countries to make that transition happen by identifying tools to improve efficiency and generate new revenues for health from domestic sources. For example, by introducing or increasing taxes on tobacco and alcohol through pool procurement and public health insurance. As speakers of parliament, you have a key role to play in seizing this opportunity, mobilizing domestic resources and facilitating the transition to sustainable self reliance. It is in your hands. Honorable President, honorable speakers, secretary general, let me leave you with three key requests. First, moving the pandemic agreement to completion. The task now is to complete the remaining negotiations on the annex on pathogen access and benefit sharing for submission to the World Health Assembly in May 2026. This is a critical aspect of the agreement so that countries sharing virus samples also share in the benefits such as for vaccines, diagnostics and treatments. After it passes the health assembly, it will be in the hands of parliaments for ratification at the country level, meaning in your hands. Parliaments will be the ones to ratify the agreement and to translate global consensus into national legislation. That brings me to my second request. As you know, there has been a lot of mis and disinformation about the pandemic agreement that it will seed sovereignity to WHO and give us the power to impose mask or vaccine mandates or lockdowns. That's completely false. The agreement says explicitly that it will give WH no such powers. It will be implemented in countries in accordance with your own national laws. We seek your support in speaking out against this false information and this deceptions. Finally, we ask for your leadership in advancing sustainable financing for global health. This year at the World Health Assembly, member states agreed to further increase who WHO's assess contribution, but it must now be fully implemented. Predictable, flexible funding enables WHO to respond more quickly to emergencies, support preparedness and deliver on our mandate. Also prevent the same shocks like happening now from happening. It's parliaments that can keep governments accountable for their commitments. Your advocacy and leadership are vital in implementing this commitment in national budgets and appropriations to protect and promote health for all. As I have said many times, health is not a cost. It's an investment in peace, stability, and prosperity. Honorable speakers, I offer my deep appreciation to the interparliamentary union for its strong collaboration with WHO. I'm pleased to also remind you that WHO and the IPU now host an annual global parliament for parliamentary forum during the World Health Assembly every May in Geneva which we host with my brother Martin. It's a unique opportunity to bring the voice of parliament into global health decision making and we hope you will join us there. I thank you all for your commitment to multilateralism and to building a healthier, safer and fairer world for all. I thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. colleagues on your behalf, I would like to extend our appreciation to the uh director general of who Dr. Tedros for the insights you have given us and I can assure you all the uh requests that you have brought to us in terms of budget laws and also holding our governments accountable we will do that because we are the ones also who oversee the ratifications of international agreements in our respective countries. Uh colleagues, I would like now to hand over the chair to our speaker from Malta, Speaker Faria. Please take over from me from now. Thank you so much.