Hello to everyone from Geneva from WHO headquarters. My name is Tariq and I welcome you to uh uh our regular uh briefing on world uh global health issues today June 27. As you have seen in the media advisory that has been sent to you, we will have a special uh update uh from WHO scientific advisory group for the origins of novel pathogen or SEO. We will have with us the chair of SEO and Dr. Tedros will introduce her in a minute. Uh I will now uh introduce our guests here, our speakers who will be answering your questions. Obviously with us is Dr. Dedrris Tanum Gabrius, WHO Director General. With us is also Dr. Mike Cryan, executive director of WHO health emergencies program and the deputy director general. Maria Bankerov is Dr. Maria Bankerov is the director at interim of epidemic and pidemic threat management. We have also with us uh Mr. Nabil Tabal who is incident manager within uh uh WH who WHO health emergency program. Uh Dr. Kate O'Brien is our director for immunization vaccines and biologicals. We also have uh Dr. Terza Zakaria who is the unit head of uh humanitarian and disaster action. We may also have some other WHO expert and speakers if need be to answer some of your questions. With this, I will give the floor to Dr. Tedrris for his opening remarks. Thank you. Thank you, Tik. Good morning, good afternoon, and good evening. Today, WH is publishing the report of the scientific advisory group for the origins of novel pathogens or SEGO on the origins of COVID 19. We're honored to be joined today by SEO's chair, Dr. Marik Venttor, who will present Sego's findings in a few minutes. But first, some updates on other health issues around the world. WHO welcomes the ceasefire agreed between Israel and the Islamic Republic of Iran and we hope it holds. Iran has reported more than 600 deaths and 5,000 injuries and Israel has reported 28 deaths and more than 3,200 injuries. Between the 13th and 25th of June, who has documented nine attacks on health in Israel and five attacks in Iran, impacting health services and causing deaths and injuries among health workers and patients. WHO will continue to work with Israel and Iran, including monitoring radiological and nuclear risks. This week, WHO participated in nuclear emergency exercise organized by the International Atomic Energy Agency to test emergency preparedness and response capacities and identify areas in need of improvement. Meanwhile, in Gaza, the situation is beyond catastrophic. Only 17 hospitals are functioning even partially out of 36 across the strip with no hospitals operating in the north of Gaza or Rafa. In the last two weeks, 500 people have been killed while seeking food aid at Nan militarized food distribution sites and routes, resulting in a surge in injuries and taking a severe toll on hospitals in Gaza City as fuel, water, and medical supplies are depleting fast. Meanwhile, hunger stalks everyone, making them weaker, sicker, and more vulnerable. Since the start of this year, an average of 112 children have been admitted every day for treatment of acute malnutrition. In recent days, WHO managed to retrieve fuel supplies from our warehouses to support hospitals. Over the past few months, WHO has supplied over 1.7 million liters of fuel to health facilities, ambulance service providers, and partners. This week, WHO delivered medical supplies for the first time since the 2nd of March with nine trucks carrying essential medical supplies, including blood units. These supplies will be distributed to priority hospitals in the coming days and more are in route, but it's only a drop in the ocean given the immense health needs. Since the conflict began, who has supported the evacuation of more than 7,300 patients from Gaza Strip. But since Israel's blockade began on the 18th of March, we have only been permitted to evacuate 294 patients, a tiny proportion of the more than 10,000 people who still need medical evacuation. WHO thanks Italy, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, and the United States for receiving evacuated patients. Who calls for access for food, water, fuel, medical, and other aid at scale through all possible routes. Now to Sudan, the forgotten crisis. The ongoing civil war means people are dying from a lack of access to health services and medicines. Ongoing f fighting has displaced more people than any in any other crisis in the world. Health facilities are either out of service or only providing limited care and diseases are spreading fast. Kolera has spread to all but one state of Sudan with a waring spike in Kartum state. With who support, the Ministry of Health completed a 10-day kera vaccination campaign that reached more than 2 million people in Kartum state and we're already seeing signs of improvement. WHO and partners are stepping up the response in other states and exploring options to strengthen the response in the inaccessible states of Darur and Cordovan through delivery of critical kera supplies, vaccines and medicines. Just last week the Al Mujad hospital in West Cordovan was attacked and 40 civilians including children and health workers were killed. I urge the world, do not forget the people of Sudan. Humanitarians and civilians must be protected at all times. We need urgent funding and we need access to make sure people receive the health care they need. And above all, the people of Sudan need peace. On Wednesday this week, I was in Brussels for the replenishment of the Gavia lands. Vaccines are among the most powerful innovations in history. In 1974, WHO founded the expanded program on immunization, EPI, to harness the power of vaccines for the world. Since then, EPI has helped to save about 154 million lives. Since 2000, under five mortality has dropped by more than half globally, thanks largely to the power of vaccines and the work of Gabi. So, I was very encouraged that donors pledge more than 9 billion US dollars to support Gabi's work over the next five years. In addition, Gabi implementing countries are investing a record 4 billion dollars in their national immunization programs over the next 5 years. This is very positive news at a difficult time in global health with drastic cuts in aid and mis and disinformation about vaccine safety. Protecting children from life-threatening diseases takes more than just vaccines. It takes trust. It's important that parents, educators, health workers, and community leaders understand vaccine information clearly. When people know the facts, they can make better, more confident decisions. False claims and the distortion of scientific evidence are dangerous. For who vaccine safety is central to our decision making who looks forward to its continuing partnership with Gabby to build on our success and reach more children with more vaccines faster than ever before. Now returning to our main subject today, the Sego report on the origins of COVID 19. The coid9 pandemic with the most severe health emergency in a century. It left an estimated 20 million people dead wiped at least 10 trillion US dollars from the global economy and caused enormous social and political upheaval. And we cannot talk about COVID 19 in the past tense. Although the crisis has passed, the virus remains. It continues to evolve, continues to kill and millions of people continue to live with postcoid condition or long COVID. The pandemic taught the world many painful lessons and over the past five years who our partners and many countries have put in place many initiatives in response to those lessons. We established the WHO hub for epidemic and pandemic intelligence in Germany. The mRNA technology transfer program in South Africa to boost manufacturing in the south. The global manufacturing training hub in the Republic of Korea. The biohub here in Switzerland. The interim medical counter measures network. The global health emergency corps. Together with the World Bank, we established the pandemic fund and more. As you know, at the World Health Assembly last year, WHO member states adopted a package of amendments to the international health regulations. And last month, after three and a half years of intense negotiations, they adapted the WHO pandemic agreement, a landmark instrument of international law to make the waters the world safer from pandemics. Over the past five years, we have learned a lot about COVID 19. But there is one crucial question about the pandemic that we have not yet answered. How it started. Understanding how any outbreak, epidemic or pandemic starts is essential for preventing future outbreaks. It also it's also a moral imperative for the sake of those who lose their lives to them. In late 2020, the World Health Assembly gave WHO the task of studying the origins of COVID 19. In 2021, I established the scientific advisory group for the origins of novel pathogens or SEO, an international multidisciplinary panel of 27 independent experts. Sego was established with two core mandates. First to develop a framework for the types of studies that should be performed to understand the source of emerging and reemerging pathogens with epidemic or pandemic potential. Sego completed this first part of its work last year. The second part of its mandate was to take forward the study of the origins of COVID 19 which it has been doing in parallel with the first part of its mandate over the past four years. Today who is publishing SEO's report and I would like to invite Sego's chair Dr. Marik Venttor to present the findings. Dr. Vtor is distinguished professor and research chair for one health surveillance and vaccines at the university of vit vit vish at the university of vit vatish rand in Johannesburg South Africa. Sorry about the name but I think you will understand. Vit Vrand Marik, you have the floor. Thank you, Dr. Tedros. Good afternoon, good morning, good evening. Um, ladies and gentlemen, um, so I would like to tell you about um the SAGO independent assessment uh on the origins of SARS KV2. Um, so our focus is really the science. So I would like to tell you what the science is. So the SEO is the independent um independent assessment and and deliberations on the origins of SARS KO2 is primarily based on published scientific reports and build on the WHA China joint March 2021 and SAGO 2022 reports. We also evaluated available intelligence reports and invited presentations by scientists from China as well as international scientists and experts um discussions during close meetings between November 2021 and June 2025 to cl clarify critical unknowns. Not all the information requested has however been shared or investigated um at this stage. um SAGO evaluated the currently available scientific evidence that may support or dismiss the current major hypothesis on the origins of SARS KV2. So these include firstly um hypothesis one on a zonotic transmission from animals either directly from bats or through an intermediate animal host to humans. Most scientific data and accessible published scientific evidence currently support this hypothesis. However, SEO is not currently able to conclude exactly when, where, and how SARS KV2 first enter the human population. The closest known precursor strains were identified in bats in China in 2013 and in La um in 2020. However, these strains are too distantly related to SARS K2 to be the direct source of the CO9 pandemic. The Wuan seafood market in Wuan, China, played a significant role in the early transmission and amplification of the virus with 60% of early cases in December 2019 that could be traced to the market or lived in close proximity to the market with a risk of exposure to visitors or animal products from the market. No evidence exists of widespread human or animal cases prior to December um anywhere um else. So two lineages were identified at the market which um support prior evolution in animals or in humans rather than a single source. The metagenomic evidence um identified several species of wildlife that were present in the market um that can be considered as potential intermediate host and that may have infected early human cases. Comprehensive upstream investigations um at the source of wildlife specy trade at this market and other markets in in and around Juan is however still lacking. It is therefore not yet clear if the one seafood market was where the virus first spilled over into humans um or if it occurred through upstream infected human or animals at the market. The second hypothesis that look at an accidental lab um laboratory related event either during field investigations or a breach in lab bio safety and bio security. Much of the information needed to assess this hypothesis has not been made available to WHO and SEGO despite repeat requests to the government of China and therefore this hypothesis could not be investigated or excluded. data provided um in or provided in intelligence um reports was also assessed but was um tend to be very speculative based on political opinions and not based um backed up by science. SIGO and WHO have requested further information from member states including the government of China, Germany and the United States of America to um on an unpublished report that has been reported in the press. However, at the time of writing, the required information had not been provided um to WHO. The third hypothesis um that looks at introduction of SARS K2 into animal markets via cold chain um processes and subsequent infection of humans through contact with products sold at the market was evaluated in the WHO China March 21 um and SIGO 2022 reports. No additional evidence to support this hypothesis has become available to suggest that the transmission of SARS KV2 to humans from frozen products at the one seafood market occurred or at any other market at the start of the pandemic um in one. More data is required to prove this hypothesis. Hypothesis four um a del um to look at a deliberate manipulation of the virus in the lab and subsequent by um safety breach. Seago analyzed the genome structure of the virus and any related publications and reports but did not find scientific evidence supporting this hypothesis. There's also evidence that these mutations and recombination events occur in corona viruses in nature. This my hypothesis is also um remains largely unsupported by other scientific and intelligence reports. SAGA will re-evaluate these hypothesis should additional scientific evidence become available. But to conclude, while a zonotic origin with a spillover from animals to humans is currently considered the best supported hypothesis by the available scientific data, until further requests for informations are met or more scientific data becomes available, the origins of SARS KV2 and how it entered the human population will remain inconclusive. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. inventor and thank you so much for your leadership of SEGO over the past four years. We recognize that this has been a very difficult task on a very complex and often contentious issues. I also thank each of the 27 members of SEGO for dedicating their time and expertise to this very important scientific undertaking. We know that SEO's members have not agreed on every point and that's to be expected. Earlier this week, one member of SEGO resigned and three other members asked for their names to be removed from the report. Sego has advanced our understanding of the origins of COVID 19, but much of the information needed to evaluate fully all hypothesis has not been provided. WHO recognized that China has shared some of this information but not everything that we have requested. Despite our repeated requests, China has provided hundreds of viral sequences from individuals with COVID 19 early in the pandemic. More detailed information on animals sold at markets in Wuhan and information on work done and biosafety conditions at laboratories in Wuhan. WHO is also aware of intelligence reports performed by other governments around the world on the origins of COVID 19. We have also requested access to those reports. Neither WHO nor Sego has yet had access to this reports or their underlying data. As things stand, all hypothesis must remain on the table, including zonotic spillover and labik. We continue to appeal to China and any other country that has information about the origins of COVID 19 to share that information openly in the interests of protecting the world from future pandemics. WHO and SEGO remain ready to evaluate any further information that comes to light and we remain committed to continuing and concluding this vital scientific undertaking. Tik back to you. Thank you very much Dr. Tus and thanks to Dr. Venttor as well. So the Sega report will be published on our website immediately at the end of this press conference. Also a press release that will contain the link to the report uh will be uh sent to uh uh our global media list and in case you don't receive it don't hesitate to contact us. So uh now we will open the floor to questions. Please uh click the icon raise hand if you have questions and clearly identify yourself. Uh we will start with uh Nina Larson from Ajan France Press. Nina please go ahead. Yeah. Hi, T. Thank you for taking my question. I appreciate the briefing. I had a quick follow just a quick uh question on the Sego uh stuff and I had another question. So, I hope you'll bear with me. Um, I was hoping that you could tell me um I was hoping you could tell me if you are continuing with the work on if Sega will be continuing because that was a little bit unclear from what was being said. And then the question I wanted to ask was about vaccines. Um, I wanted to ask how concerned um the WHO is uh about the decision by um US health secretary Robert Kennedy Jr.'s 's newly appointed advisory committee on uh immunization practices and its decision to oppose the use of um uh thimmerrosol as a preservative in flu vaccines. Um because I'm wondering if you think this preservative actually presents a risk or um how that risk might com uh compare to the risk of influenza and what you think this might do to vaccine confidence worldwide. Thank you. Thank you very much Nina. I think for the first question we will go to Dr. Maria Vancerov and then after that uh Dr. Kate O'Brien may answer the second one. Thanks very much uh TK and thanks Nina for the question. So first I just want to reiterate the thanks to the 27 members of SEO who thoughtfully and robustly debated um the origins of co 19 over the last three and a half years. It was an incredibly challenging task as Dr. Tedos and both Mariki have stated. Um this group of sego are members. These are independent uh experts who as who answered a call um to join an advisory group. Um normally advisory group members have um a lifespan of about two years but we actually extended their membership so that they could finish the two major core tasks um that were uh given to them. one was to do the global framework which they published last year and second was to provide an independent assessment of co 19 which we are publishing today. So um the plan will be that once this p publication comes out which you will see uh shortly after this press conference um we're thanking all of the members for the incredible work that they've done and the significant amount of time that they have provided to WHO to provide this advice and to provide this work. Um we plan to issue issue another open call um for experts um for SEO and that will be launched in January in July 2025 but this is part of the normal process of who advisory groups this is nothing different from SEO versus other advisory groups but to really answer your question um the work to understand the origins of co 19 is unfinished there's more work that needs to be done we at who recognize a significant amount of research that has been conducted in China and globally by incredible scientists from around the world. But we need more to be able to rule hypotheses in and rule hypotheses out. So the work does remain unfinished and as Dr. Tedos has said and as Mariki has said, it's not just a technical um exercise. There is a moral imperative here to really understand because we need to do much better, be much more precise at preventing epidemics and outbreaks into the future. Thanks so much about the question um regarding thyarosol. So thyarasol has been reviewed multiple times by multiple agencies including uh who uh it's clear from the evidence that there is no evidence of harm from the use of thyosol. Thyrasol is an important ingredient in some of the vaccines where where we're using multid-dosese vials and it um is preventing and reducing the risk of contamination of that vial after multiple punctures in the vial to put to uh to draw up doses uh from from a vial to immunize uh different different children. So for some of the vaccine supply this is an very important um ingredient uh in order to asssure that we have the doses that are needed uh to protect children from uh serious and life-threatening diseases. An effort has been made uh an extensive effort has been made to remove thyarosol out of an abundance of caution um from uh the vaccine supply. But again, I want to emphasize that the evidence um does not indicate that there's a risk of thyosol um even for those vaccines where there is um uh continuous need to have vials uh that have multiple doses in them and and that this is the preservative. So the big question is really just um uh assuring that the um the public understands um that uh there has been a a a thorough review of the evidence around the safety of thyosol um and that we continue to need um vaccines that um some of them have thyosol in them but but certainly everything has been done uh to to reduce uh any potential risk risk um which has has has not been demonstrated to to exist um for the US. The vaccine supply um is really a question for uh the US to address and whether or not um they need to continue to have uh vials that have multiple uh doses in the vial. But I I just want to emphasize uh the importance of uh safety reviews um and safety evidence. um it's the top priority for all vaccines um and this evidence has been reviewed thoroughly. Thank you. Thank you Dr. Wankerov and Dr. O'Brien. Next next question Helen Branswell from stats. Helen, thank you very much, Carrick. And doing this um briefing. Um I understand why the world wants to know the source of the CO 19 pandemic. I I don't actually think at this point that uh anyone's ever going to be persuaded one way or another by new evidence. But be that as it may, um, is WH concerned that this issue has become such a political football that people are tossing it around and using it uh as we a weapon against each other instead of doing the work that needs to be done to make sure that spillovers, if they occur, are caught quickly. and extinguished and that lab leaks are the or that the risk of lab leaks uh is diminished by by better lab safety protocols. I mean it feels like everybody's so concerned about what the origin is as opposed to trying to stop the next one. Is that a concern for who? Thank you. You that's a very good question. Well, we start with Dr. Yeah, thanks Helen very much for the question. Um, of course we're cons concerned about the politicization of any scientific topic, any public health topic, certainly one that has caused at least 20 million deaths worldwide and is still circulating. Um, the director general established the advisory group this SEO um to bring the conversation back to science. This is what this group has attempted to do over the last three and a half years. This is what this group and Mariki can comment on this about the discussions that they had, you know, and how robust those were um in terms of bringing it back to what do we actually know? What does the data tell us? What does the science say? And what you will see in the report literally said what says what does the science say? Um and it also highlights what we're missing. And so what we've attempted to do always here at WHO, but through the SEO as well, is to bring the conversation back to the science because yes, you are correct. There is a lot of politicization of this. There's a lot of moving back and forth and it's distracting the discussion, as you say, from the real work that needs to get done. Is the world safer now for the next pandemic? Are we ready for the next pandemic? And you've heard the DG say many times, yes and no. So many more capacities exist now. But this politicization of what's happened certainly with COVID doesn't make the world safer. And this is why it's so critical that governments continue to invest in surveillance, comprehensive surveillance, not just in humans, but smart surveillance in humans, in animals, at the animal human interface, that those detection methods are really robust for the threats that we know exist, but also the ones that might be there because of environmental suitability or where animals are moving or trade patterns or sale patterns. And I can go on and on. You mentioned laboratory biosafety and biocurity. There's a lot of expanded capacity uh for laboratories for detection methods. This expansion started before COVID and it was accelerated over the last 5 years. We have a laboratory biosafety biocurity manual. We have to make sure that that is implemented. It should not be taken for granted that labs that are working with pathogens are always doing those under the safest conditions. This is why we work so closely with member states to make sure that the governance is in place, that these labs um are evaluated, that the research is evaluated to be done under the safest conditions possible because we do know lab leaks can happen. They've happened in the past, they will happen in the future. So, I share your concern um that we're not having the right conversation. However, I'm very grateful for these 27 scientists. I'm very grateful for all of the scientists that have really put their efforts, the governments that have supported the research to be able to understand this because it isn't a simple answer. We need to be much more precise. It it's not just zooonautic or lab leak. It's what were those exact conditions that took place for this pandemic to begin. It's not about blame. It's about actually getting much more precise about preventing the next one. So that's what we are focused here on and extremely grateful for the 27 members of SEO who helped us to achieve the report that you will see later today. Thank you Dr. Vanc. So we will go to uh uh Tanu Sun who is with Guang Ming Daily. So son if you can unmute yourself and uh please ask your question. Uh yes can you hear me? Yes very well. Yeah. Uh the first uh uh thank you for organizing this press conference. If I don't if I understand uh correctly, will the SAG group be disbanded after today? And the next question is uh what specific scientific progress has SGO made so far in investigating the origins of emerging uh pathogens? Are there any new leads or hypothesis uh currently being uh prioritized uh for research? And the next question does um SAGO have uh does SAGO have any new plans to conduct on-site investigations into the origins of COVID 19 in the future? If so, which countries or or uh regions are considered potential the targets for such investigations? And thank you very much. And uh sorry and the new SAGO group will have any new responsibilities uh later. Thank you. Uh thank you thank you S for those questions. They're very good. So maybe we can start with Dr. Wanker and I'm sure Dr. Venttor would like to add as well, but maybe Dr. Ra, would you like I'll cover the first and the last part of that and then it would be great if Marie you could cover the the question related to the advances that Sego has made and the leads that they've made. So just to say you asked the question of is Sego going to be suspended that's that's not quite the right term. So this is an advisory group and per our normal processes there's membership is about two years as I said before this group has actually been extended to about three and a half years almost four years now. So they've reached the end of their term and this is the natural plan for this. Um we will have another open call which will have new terms of reference because this SEO group the members of this particular SEGO group actually finished the work. So this is part of the normal procedures. Um and again I want to thank all the the members of SEO for staying on longer than the two years. So we'll we'll let you know when the new terms of reference the new call for members will be up there. In terms of the the on-site investigations, I just want to highlight two things and I think Mariki, you you should cover this as well. Um, in the SEO 2022 report where they published their preliminary findings, there were a number of studies that were recommended in China, but also globally to follow up some of the missions that had taken place in China. So, there's more work to be done globally. However, we really need to focus additional and further information from China because this is where the first cases were reported. So, there are a number of studies that have been recommended. We've we've articulated those a number of times. We can point to the report where they're all listed. Um, but there are a number of investigations that relate to animal studies, relate to studies of humans that were working with animals in different markets related to some of the early potential cases um in China. We've done some follow-up studies in Italy and in other countries to look at wherever a sample tested positive, let's say in December 2019 or November 2019 to follow up and confirm or or not confirm those results. So, this is a global search, but it really is important to make sure that the comprehensive studies that need to be done in China where those first cases were reported are conducted. And again, thanking the work that's already been done, but more work needs to be done. Maybe over to Mariki. Dr. Winter, please go ahead. Okay. Um, yeah, thank you very much for the question. So, one of the um outputs of SAGE was actually to develop a global framework um that is specifically aimed at investigating the origins of novel pathogens. So uh we used the basis of this framework uh to to do the um independent assessment study on CO. So it's not the only virus that we we look at but it was the one that it was most widely applied to now initially. Um so it really focused at early investigations at um at human studies so human epidemiology at animal human interface studies at environmental studies at genomic studies and at biosafety and biocurity studies as well. uh we have made um uh or or released statements on impox last year as well when it um it occurred the first time and made recommendations on that um and SAGE will continue to do that. So as new pathogens occur uh they will um make recommendations and also um be involved in investigation of the the origins of those pathogens. So it's been a honor serving on as the SAGO chair and um I also want to um reiterate you know the scientists that were involved were all international experts and they were um enormous input from everybody. Um so this group is not being let go as Maria say we are basically at the end of a extended term already. Uh many people may apply to carry on um but there will probably also be new members. Thank you. Thank you very much Dr. Vente and Dr. Wankerov. So next question, John Cohen from science. John please. Do we have a John Cohen? John, could you please unmute yourself? Um, can you tell us the name of the scientist who resigned? Um, three signs. John, John, uh, we didn't hear the beginning of your question. Can you start again, please? Yeah. Can you hear Can you hear me now? Yes, now it's okay. Thank you. Sorry about that. Can you tell us the name of the scientist who resigned and the three who removed their names and if they gave reasons what their reasoning was for their actions? And secondly, can you point to any new data or new analyses from the report? You mentioned that it's definitive that this was from December of 2019 in China, which suggests to me that you've ruled out the corology and viral evidence from other countries that China has pointed to with China arguing that it did not begin in China. So that sounds like a definitive analysis. Are there other is that correct? And are there other definitive analyses or data points that advance this? Thank you, John. Uh, Dr. Vanker, please. Hi, John. Thanks for the question. So, when the report is released, you will see the names of the individuals who of members who asked to be removed from the report. Um, we respected their wishes. I just want to say that all 27 members contributed actively um through the course of the last three and a half years and this is only a recent development but you will see the names um and we just wanted to thank them and respect their wishes for asking their names to be removed because they didn't agree with the total uh report um and that's part of how these groups happen as as DG said in his remarks there not everything was agreed and that's to be expected in science um so we respected those wishes I I'm going to ask Mariki to ask answer the second part of that question, but I did want to um just caveat something in your question about definitive. I think right now and what you will see in the report and what Marie has said is nothing is concrete. Nothing is concluded with absolute certainty and that's part of the problem that we have right now. Certainly on the earliest cases, there's a lot of information that suggests that there was circulation in December. how far back that goes, if it goes into November or even earlier, that's extremely difficult to be able to state. Um there was one large serial survey that was done in Wuhan with 43,000 blood samples and the results we were told is that all of the samples came back negative. Um we've asked for further seros surveys to be done um in and around Wuhan with people who are working with animals, certainly animals that are susceptible to SARS KV2. Again, this is an area in which we feel more work can be done. This is also you remember in December 2019 there was an active flu season. There are other circulating respiratory pathogens. Some of the earliest case definitions for COVID you had to have a CT exam. There had people were very severe. Um and at the start of any outbreak certainly at the start of a pandemic you're going to miss the mild cases. And what we know now in terms of how the virus spreads and how people could have asymptomatic all the way through severe disease and death you're certainly going to miss some early cases. Um we did follow up in a number of different countries where there were indications of positive samples in Italy and France and and Spain and there's a number of them that there's a table in the report and we followed up on each and every one of those. Having said that if there are labs in countries that have samples clinical leftover samples or blood samples or corology it's worthwhile to have a look but that ne needs to be done strategically because what what the evidence does tell us is that there was low level of circulation then. So you have to have the right methods to do so which is why global collaboration is important but I think Mariki will probably want to add. Uh Dr. Venter would you like to add something? Um yeah sorry um u I think Maria covered most Sorry I'm frozen. Sorry. uh Maria covered most of uh what I would like to say as well. So um although we say uh no cases um circulated earlier, it really means that it did not circulate at a high enough level that we detected it. Um the corology from one was all negative according to them. Um we we know that the case definition initially in one was very strict and that mild cases would have been missed that way. And so individual cases that we've looked at um that were traced back to the 1st of December for example were actually mild and initially not recorded but they were hospitalized later on. So we think that um the severe cases uh you know were detected there probably lots of mild cases may have been missed but we don't see active circulation at a high scale in countries outside of um of China or outside of Wuan that's been reported to date. Of course, it needs to be followed up as all signs. Maybe we will find something in the future, but at this stage, um there doesn't seem to have been widespread uh cases or circulation of of SARS K2 outside of Guan before um or early in in 2019. Thank you. Thanks again. Thanks. Thanks again. So, let's move to next question. Carmen Pound from Politico. Carmen, please go ahead. Thank you so much, TK. I just wanted to understand a bit more about what the disagreements were regarding the report. Um, as you've already discussed, there's a lot of speculation about the origin of CO 19. And um, I believe that um, you know, whatever the disagreements were could also be easily be speculated one way or the other. So I was wondering if you could provide more information about um you know why the people the three people who wanted to be taken off the report what if there's some parts that they didn't agree with if there's some sort of like minority opinion um that uh they drafted to kind of explain their position on that. And if I may real quick, I saw that the WHO published um an announcement about um you know anti-obes obesity medicines based on semaglutide and the risk of a eye condition. Um and I was wondering if anyone could address that and say how how significant that is and how concerned people who have been taking these medicines or are taking them should be about this. Thank you. Um thanks thanks K. I think for your for your second question really best is to send us uh send us an email and we will find the the the expert in house who can answer that one. So let's go back to the first one on sego. Dr. Wankerova. Yeah, I'm I'm going to start with that one because for our normal procedures for advisory groups, we consider um the deliberations in each of the meetings strictly confidential and that is on purpose so that all of the members can have the discussions and the robust discussions that they want to have. Pretty sure you can imagine the kind of serious debates that would be done. When you look at the report, you will look at how rich it is in terms of all of the different content. If you just look at the discourse in publications, you can see that there's many different views that people have. I think, you know, frankly, the fact that, you know, we cannot reach complete consensus is not necessarily a negative thing. This is showing that this is science and science is incredibly hard and especially when you don't have all information. The aim of of SEO was to have a fair, a factual, and an evidence-based report. To not be able to say exactly what happened, you know, with the certainty that we would have liked um just shows how difficult it actually is after three and a half years. But we I do want to just say that the the discussions, the deliberations are confidential amongst the SEO members. Thank you very much. Uh and uh yes again Carvin please send us an email on the other topic that we will try to to help. Uh I think we have a time for one more question. We have Logan Sierra from Swiss news agency. Logan please go ahead. Do we have a Lauran Sierro from a Swiss news agency with us? Can you hear me now? Uh yes, Lauran, we can hear you now. Please go ahead. Sorry. Um so now we have a pandemic accord even if we have to negotiate the paps. So a question on what might change in the future and the future work of the next seo if the name will remain. What do you think that that uh historic agreement might change in the condition for uh uh the work in similar cases uh in the future? Maybe uh both Dr. Venttor and and Dr. Tedros. Thank you. Thank you Laurian. So the question is on pandemic treaty and and uh and and the sego and what's the what's the combination there? So Dr. Monov. Yeah, thank you. So the the work of of this advisory group will continue. It will have new terms of reference. Um they've like I've said before they've finished um their first term and actually in the in the context of what we've asked them to do that work is complete. The terms of reference are being advi revised. Now remember SEO was not set up only for SARS KV2. It was set up to develop this global framework. Um and it for the study of the emergence of novel pathogens or reemerging pathogens. There are many pathogens that reemerge. There will be new pathogens that will emerge and it's to apply that global context each time. Sego produced a report related to EMPOX and looking at the reemergence of EMPOX made recommendations on what studies need to be done. We anticipate that SEO will be utilized for this focus of looking at the emergence of any known pathogen in a new location for example or any novel pathogens going forward. This is really the global framework is really the first time all of this information and what studies need to be done from environmental studies all the way through looking at audits and laboratories put together in one framework elements always existed but they were separate. So what we want our member states to be able to utilize this global framework going forward and we expect the new SEO will be able to look at how did this framework work was it well should it be revised and to make it better for the next time but we also anticipate SEO to be advising on other pathogens with epidemic and pandemic potential. Thank you very much Dr. Vankerov and uh this uh brings us to an end of today's press briefing as we have said. So the Sega report uh will be uh will be uh online uh shortly and we will send to our global media list press release that will contain the link to the report. Um as always uh the the opening remarks of the tetris will be posted and we will have audio and video file as well uh sent to you in the next couple of hours. With this I will give the floor to Dr. Tedras for his closing remarks and I would like to thank also Dr. Venttor for being with us today. Thank you. Thank you, Tariq. Um, as some of you may know, today is Dr. Mike Ran's last press conference with WHO. And over the past five and a half years, in particular, since the coid9 pandemic began, Mike has provided an authoritative source of information for the world's media. So, you know that it's not a news to you. And I know that many of you value his experience, his knowledge, and his Irish way of saying things. Who will not be the same without Mike, and neither will our press conferences, but when he says, "I'm tired and I need to go," it's very difficult to keep him. Uh Mike, my brother, my general, my friend, thank you from all of us for everything you have contributed to the health of the world's people and to keeping the world's media informed. Maybe I'll try to say it in uh Irish. Gor is it correct? Gorot Mahot means uh thank you Mike and we wish you every success and you know that we will miss you but we know also how to find you so you cannot hide from us. Um but I would like also to invite you maybe to say uh thank you to uh the media to the press. Uh but from me um thank you for joining us uh today uh and really appreciate and Mike please. H well you caught me by surprise. It's very it's rare that I'm speechless. Um, no, I just thank you to all. Um, it's uh, uh, it's a it's been a a long road, 8 years leading the emergencies program, and I can tell you it's a 24-hour 365 job. Um, and it's been a great honor, Tedas, to lead in on your behalf and on behalf of all of our wonderful staff and our partners, the people out there on the front lines because we sit here in Geneva in the gilded cage, but those people who serve on the front lines of emergency response and the front line of public health intervention um across all the agencies and across all the programs and the ministries of health, they're the real heroes of global health and um it's been an honor to serve them, an honor to serve of you. Um, the fourth estate is very important to me. You and the media are very important to me. And especially in a world that's so fragmented, uh, your role is more important than ever. And I think the role of public health leadership is more important than ever. Uh, one needs to be courageous at times like this. It's easy to be brave when there's nothing at stake. Um, it's hard to be courageous when everything's at stake. And I think we live in a world where a lot is at stake. Immunization is at stake. Peace is at stake. Health is at stake. Honesty is at stake. The truth is at stake. So I think we have a common cause. We may bash up against each other from time to time. Your job is to keep us accountable on behalf of the people we serve. Um our job is to enlighten you as to what the real issues are. And when I look around the table and see the people who are sitting here, especially you, Maria, who've enlightened the world and Kate and uh Teresa and others and many who sit sat at this desk. It's been um it's been wonderful to watch people grow and people engage and do that. But just one point on what we said today, someone did ask about does this distract from who seos and all of that. the investigation of the origins and the investigation of of what happened, the forensic understanding. We all do this in our lives, you know, we look back to see where did we make mistakes, where did it go wrong. And there's a huge positive aspect of that to help you move forward. And there's also a very negative aspect of that. If that's manipulated and if that's forced and that's done under pressure, it can cause dysfunction. So all of you out there, it's just in your normal lives, how much is enough? Uh what we're looking for is improvement. If looking back uh and creating more tension where we should move forward to create cooperation and participation and improvement uh many a relationship was saved by the ability to uh to what would you call it managed obscurity where uh complete truth doesn't necessarily benefit the relationship and I think that is the case between our member states. We've moved progressively in cooperation in the IHR revision of 2005 and into the IHR amendments revision under Ted Ross the pandemic accord. We're actually learning better ways to cooperate globally on epidemics and on emergencies. Tedros mentioned the pandemic accord and other and you mentioned the pandemic fund and many other initiatives. So are we getting better at this? We are uh institutions like Gabby institutions uh the the medical countermeasures network we're getting better. Are we perfect? No, we're not. Um we are getting better. But in this um era of collapsed funding uh of mistrust in public institutions of the uh in my view the the attacks that international uh UN and NGO organizations are under this is not helping. Uh but certainly we need to continue to to look at uh at at origins and and everything else. But if that's only been driven by political outcomes, if that's only been driven by the intent to hurt, if your intent to investigate is only to punish, you will never have justice. If your attempt to investigate is to be enlightened, then you will find justice uh through the process. And I think we have continually have to find that balance u in this. So yes, do we need to continue? Yes. Would I I like to know uh what the origins of this virus are? Yes. Because we want to be able to shut the door, close the trap door so that virus can never uh escape again. But there are many many other viruses in the world. So that ability to be able to have the framework for investigating these and it's not in the pandemic accord and it's not in the IHR amendments but who knows maybe as time goes by in the next round of IHR amendments the actual specific investigation of the origins uh will be enshrined in law right now what we have is a framework we have a framework that's been approved by our member states that's enough to move forward so with that uh Tedos thank you for your leadership for your friendship. Um, it's been a it's been a blast to say the least and uh your personal courage uh is always a an inspiration to me and uh this organization could not be better late. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you again uh Mike and thank you also to members of the press for joining us today and see you next time.