surprise you maybe by speaking in German mentioned and for those who don't know German that means healthy is a human right I think that's what wrote us all together so I like that uh saying in German so that's why I have memorized it and I can say it without uh support but thank you to Katina for teaching me this special word. Um I will try to address some of the colleagues who are speaking at the uh opening. Uh but I would like to start from the outset by saying all protocols uh observed because we have many dignitaries in the room that should be addressed but I will focus on those who will be speaking at the opening so you will forgive me. Honorable minister Dr. Jalila bin Alside Joan Hassan Jawad Hassan Honorable Parliamentary State Secretary Dr. George Kipels he's joining us were virtual and minister special adviser to prime minister Dr. Hannan Alawari and my sister Dr. Sa Nishtar and my friend Alan Donley and Hatij Betton. First happy 9th anniversary to uh H20. We started G20 same time WHO and H20 and this was at the invitation of Angela Merkel who has a strong commitment to held and that was actually the first time WHO attended the G20 ever since uh we are attending G20 meetings and which is going actually from strength to strength and has become a good platform for the World Health Organization and many reasons reasons why I would say that but I don't want to take time uh on that and maybe we'll discuss about that some other time but I just wanted to use this opportunity to thank uh former chancellor Angela Merkel on this and thank you all for joining us today both online and here in Geneva and I thank Alan and Hatij and your teams for organizing this event and for your advocacy and support for global health in general and for WHO in particular. As you know, 2025 has been a year of both challenges and triumphs for WHO. Last month's the World Health Assembly adapted the pandemic agreement, a truly generational accomplishment and a landmark in the history of WHO and global health. So there is good news in the middle of all the crisis our world is facing. The assembly also approved the next increase in assess contributions for WHO, putting us on the path to a more sustainable and resilient future. Something that can help us to prevent the same shocks from happening and to make who more empowered and independent through assess contributions or membership fee. This comes at a critical time as WHO and the entire global health world are facing a financial crisis with drastic reductions in official development assistance by many countries and multilateralism under attack. In the face of these disruptions, we're tightening our belts as we realign and transition to a new phase in the organization's life. But in every crisis there is an opportunity and we are confident that we will emerge from this situation stronger, sharper, more focused on our core mandate, more empowered to serve the nations and people of the world. But of course, WHO is just one small part of a much bigger picture around the world. Dramatic reductions in aid are having severe impacts on health services in many countries. We see disruptions affecting millions of people who are missing out on life-saving services and medicines. Health facil facilities are being forced to close and health workers let go. Supply chains and information systems are disrupted and out of pocket health spending is on the rise. Who is supporting countries to navigate this crisis and sustain health services. But again in the crisis lies an opportunity. Many health ministers have told me that this crisis can also help them to leave behind the era of aid dependency and move toward sustainable self self reliance by mobilizing domestic resources. There are many tools as you know available to countries to improve efficiency and generate new revenue for health. For example, by introducing or increasing taxes on tobacco and alcohol or through full procurement public health insurance for both the formal and informal sector and by using health technology assessments to ensure countries get the biggest health benefit for the money. Most importantly, countries must improve domestic revenue and tax systems to generate sustainable flows of public funding for health. Uh but not only that to education, infrastructure and other essential government services. However, efficiency gains and domestic revenue generation alone will not be enough for many countries who will need concessional loans to support the most effective investments aligned to country priorities and flowing through country systems. In this regard, I welcome the H20 report on health's taxonomy, which offers a way to catalyze much needed dialogue between health and finance actors across both public and private sectors. I also welcome the H20 report from the legislator's initiative on NCDS and mental health led by the G20 G7 health and development partnership. As you know, seven out of 10 of the leading cause of death are due to NCDS and mental health conditions affect nearly 1 billion people worldwide. And yet the world is unlikely to meet the target set in the sustainable development goals to reduce premature mortality from NCDS by one by 2030. This year's high level meeting on NCDS and mental health at the UN General Assembly is therefore an important opportunity for countries to make concrete commitments to address NCDs and their risk factors in this new economic reality. Fortunately, there are solutions at hand. We know what works. WHO has compiled an evidence-based list of recommended best buy interventions that offer the best return on investment. Addressing the root cause of NCDS and their determinance requires working across sectors, education, finance, urban planning, agriculture, environment and others. Gabi earlier in our morning round table were was telling us about her experience in in Pakistan how that part is actually the most uh crucial bringing all partners to work on the same goal. Let me leave you with three requests as we move forward together in this uncertain times. First, we seek your continued commitment to universal health coverage built on the foundation of strong primary health care to expand access to services for NCDS and mental health. Second, we seek your support for countries on their journeys towards self-reliance based on domestic financing in line with the landmark resolution on health financing at this year's World Health Assembly and the new report on health taxonomy. Next week's Gabby replenishment will also be vital for supporting immunization in many countries, ensuring hard one gains are not lost and I hope you will continue to support Gabi. And third, we seek your advocacy for concrete outcomes from the important meetings this year, including the conference on financing for development in Civilia, the high level meeting on N series at the UN General Assembly in September and the G20 summit under the South African presidency in November. Thank you all once again for your support and commitment to the World Health Organization and to our founding vision. The highest attainable standard of health, not as a luxury for some, but a right for all. Genshin mention rest is a human right. Thank you very much. Thank you very much Dr. Ted Ross to Alan and her teacher for those welcoming remarks. Uh the last thing Dr. Ted Rosed was in German and I think we'll get an assessment of his German