and financial strain come with real costs to caregivers health and mental health, employment and quality of life. When caregivers don't get the support they need, neither do the children and adolescents for whom they care. That's why it's vital that together we care for caregivers because it's right and because it works and the evidence is clear. A who systematic review in 2022 of more than 400 randomized control trials showed that evidence-based caregiver programs significantly increase nurturing care, reduced maltreatment, and improve parent and child mental health outcomes. Structured support protects the mental health of caregivers reducing distress while increasing confidence, coping and well-being. And in turn, it improves the social, emotional and cognitive development of children and adolesccents. It strengthens educational outcomes and future productivity. and it reduces exposure to family violence, harsh parenting and malreatment. Providing the support that caregivers need requires a whole of society approach linking health, social protection, education, labor, and community systems. WHO has defined an evidenceinformed approach to support caregivers through the health system. This resource provides specific guidance on how health systems including school-based health services can strengthen parenting behaviors, promote support seeking and support the mental health and well-being of caregivers. And we have seen success in countries here in Spain. All national, regional, and local child and adolescent well-being plans include strategic areas and actions designed to foster positive parenting. In Brazil, caregivers and local advocates initiated a program to train families of children with autism in their own homes and communities. It worked so well, the Ministry of Health scaling up the approach. Jordan has also made significant steps to integrate evidence-based parenting interventions in primary healthcare and community centers. In Kazakhstan, parenting support centers linked to schools have been introduced in all regions. In Thailand, there has been great progress in building partnerships between ministries and integrating caregiver support into national policies across sectors in the Philippines and Tanzania where parent support programs are widely implemented. WHO has been working to map implementation challenges to provide governments with actionable recommendations to overcome gaps in service delivery and strengthen program uptake and retention. Your Majesty, dear colleagues and friends, at a time when many countries are facing fiscal constraints and health systems are stretched beyond their capacity, caregiving plays an even more important role in the health and well-being of children and adolescents. Let us commit here and now to building systems that enable caregivers to care with confidence, protect their own mental health, and provide nurturing and safe environments in which children can grow, learn, and thrive. This forum is not just a space for dialogue. It's a launchpad for action so that caregiving is recognized at the cornerstone of healthier, more equitable, and more compassionate societies. And finally, I would like to congratulate Spain for the successful Sevilla forum. Despite all the challenges, the outcome was uh excellent and I hope that will also contribute to the forum that we're discussing about today. so much as gracias and I thank you. Thank you. Uh thank you Dr. Ted Ross. Uh, I'd like now to introduce a very