Chat, Fiji, Georgia, Andras, Ireland, Malawi, Maldives, Muritania, Peru, Qatar, Tokmanistan. Is this proposal acceptable? As I see no comments, I declare the committee on credentials as proposed by me appointed by the assembly. Subject to the decision of the general committee, the committee on credentials will hold its meeting on Tuesday 20th of May at 14002 p.m. in room 22. Let us now turn to the agenda item 1.2, the election of the president. In accordance with the rule 25 of the rules of procedure at each regular session, the house assembly shall elect a president and five vice president who shall hold office until their successors are elected. You have before you a white paper which contains names of delegates proposed for consideration following consultations within their respective regions as well as their respective countries to consider no the nomination of the office of the president of the 78th world health assembly. I recall that in accordance with the practice of the regional rotation which the assembly has followed for many years, the president of the 78th World Health Assembly should be chosen among delegates of the members of the Western Pacific region. I understand that Dr. Teodoro Habosa, Secretary of Health, Philippines, is proposed for the office of the President of the 78th World Health Assembly. Is this proposal acceptable? In the absence of any objections and as it appears that there are no other proposals, I suggest in accordance with the rule 80 of the rules of procedure that the assembly approves the nomination and elects its president by acclamation. Dr. Teodoro Habosa, Secretary of Health Philippines is thereby elected president of the 78th World Health Assembly and I invite him to take his seat on the rostroom. Congratulations. Excuse me. ies, honorable ministers, ambassadors, delegates, director general, I would like to thank this assembly for their trust in electing me as the president of the 78th World Health Assembly. I would like to express my appreciation to my predecessor his excellency Dr. Edwin Dolot Minister of Health and Wellness Botswana for his contribution to the last World Health Assembly. I would also like to thank Dr. Yungi Gi for opening today's proceedings. I now have the pleasure to invite Miss Elizabeth Balm Schneider, Federal Counselor of the Swiss Confederation, to the rost room to provide her welcome remarks. Thank you, President, Mr. President, Director General, ladies and gentlemen, your excellencies, delegates, on behalf of the Swiss Confederation, it is my pleasure to welcome you here to the 78th World Health Assembly. It is an honor to have the opportunity to greet you here in Geneva, which is a icon of world health governance and international diplomacy. The World Health Assembly is being held this year in exceptional circumstances. As we all know, our world is going through many, many crisis and they underscore more than ever the need for strengthened international solidarity in a universal framework of multilateralism based on solidarity which is both effective and has legitimacy. the WHO and incarning all the areas of our cooperation internationally speaking in terms of health. Incarnates are collective and individual responsibility. The theme of this assembly, one world for health reflects the collective efforts we shall have to make to achieve our objectives. I should like to echo the campaign of the WHO Foundation. Let us unite for world health, quote unquote. Health is not a luxury or a privilege. It's a right and a fundamental one. Since its establishment in 1948, WH has been working tirelessly to guarantee health for all. It has helped countries to strengthen their health systems. It draws up standards and legal provisions, coordinates assistance in times of health emergency, and promotes fair and equitable access to health care. This is not just a technical organization. It incarnates our collective responsibility to providing health as a worldwide public good. Past crisis have proven that when we act together, our prospects for achieving success are greatly improved. The eradication of smallpox is a shining example of precisely that. If we are to achieve further successes on that scale, we need a strong, flexible and effective WH. That's why in the name of Switzerland, I should like to reiterate three priorities which we think are essential and on which we should focus. First of all, we need to invest in resilient health systems in order to offer protection to our people. Secondly, we should aspire to achieving specific tangible results as a result of multilateral discussion and cooperation. And thirdly, we must stand side by side with the WHO, which is reformed and agile and able to respond to current challenges. macroeconomic instability and geopolitical tension are trying the international system hard at the moment and therefore the role of Geneva as the world capital of health is suffering from it too because WH can't escape from these problems it needs to tackle them head on while still discharging her core responsibility that responsibility is ours as well as member states since this session of the executive board last February The management of WH has shown determination to refocus, adjust the organization and adapt it to new financial realities. We welcome that commitment. We urge member states to continue to support the organization in this process and to unite behind her general goals. We support a WHO which can carry out its mandate which has sustainable and predictable financing and support with a clear and realistic strategy. The organization's action must be carried out through its fundamental missions. These being the preparation of standards, the implementation of recommendations and advice based on scientific data, the coordination of an international response to world health crisis such as the fight against non-communicable diseases or the management of health emergencies related to climate change among others. It should also of course provide support to countries to help them maintain and develop resilient healthare systems. The decision to increase assessed contributions to get by 2030 2031 to 5% of the total budget is essential because assessed contributions are a key component of the financial stability and independence of the organization and those are things which Switzerland will continue to support. In addition to assessed contributions, the investment cycle and its adoption is a further important step forward. Enabling member states to guarantee the use of their voluntary contributions. The application of this new mechanism requires however more coordination within the organization and among the various health ministries and donor partners. and this will be decisive in achieving sustainable financing for the WHO. It is my pleasure to announce on this topic that Switzerland is going to contribute to the 2025 2026 investment cycle with voluntary contributions of 80 million United States dollars. This support, this support reflects our deep conviction that a WH refocused on her core mandate and having a higher level of performance deserves such support. We urge that the ongoing financial reform be consolidated and demonstrate the WHO's efforts to rationalize and improve her governance will be echoed in and by her partners. The financial reform of the organization is a priority matter for it but it's not the be all and end all. Governance also needs to be improved and this also is a major priority. The agenda of this assembly shows that the first stages of governance reform are going in the right direction and we need to continue to move in that direction together. Switzerland as a member of the executive board will continue to be fully committed and stand behind this process and we urge all member states to also support this reform. In addition to budget and governance, I'd like to emphasize the importance of having a holistic vision of global health. With its unique ecosystem, Geneva offers an excellent stage for building our shared vision and strengthening cooperation, especially in the face of upheavalss in the international system and in the world at large. In these circumstances, it's essential that we all cooperate better, take advantage of synergy, and improve the way we work. The various reform processes underway, and the work the director general has been doing on and through them prove that we can have a more focused and effective and stronger multilateral system. We need to take this opportunity to increase the impact of our action over the long term, reduce duplication and avoid fragmenting the multilateral system. Ladies and gentlemen, this assembly also takes place at a historic moment with the planned adoption yesterday of the uh tomorrow I apologize of the pandemic treaty. This we think should be considered an encouraging signal to international cooperation and to multilateralism and proof that both of them work. I would like to pay tribute to all the delegations who work so hard in order to reach a consensus on this. I'm happy that dialogue compromise and the Geneva spirit guided you in the work you did. This agreement represents a unique opportunity, an opportunity to build our capacity in terms of preventing and responding to pandemics and includes the experience and the lessons we've had and learned since the COVID pandemic. It's also based on an approach founded in equity. However, the work is not concluded. We still have to work out the details of a system for pathogen and sharing of exchange of pathogens. We need to make sure that our treaty is practical, easy to implement and works properly. It is essential that the pandemic treaty be integrated as well into the priority setting policy of the organization. Switzerland attaches great importance to what will be a very strong political signal when we adopt this treaty. It is a signal that we are organized and ready to tackle future pandemics. And it's up to each country to evaluate the treaty according to its own national procedures. However, we're not just talking about that treaty. There are other key issues to be discussed at this assembly and there are some to which I'm very attached and which I'd like to mention. We attach particular priority to mental health especially that of children and young people given the exponential growth partly as a result of the use of digital media. We would like this issue to be taken into account by this assembly in its discussions and the same we hope will be true of the UN high level summit on non-communicable diseases this autumn. Second point, access to data and digital development. These tools are essential in developing our health systems and WH can make a major contribution to developments by providing guidance and advice and focusing on its position in Geneva which is a hub in terms of data production and management. We support the global digital strategy and hope it can be updated. In conclusion, medical and health professionals are at the heart of any health system. There is however a worldwide shortage of trained personnel. That's true for my country as well and this remains a major challenge. WHO's code of practice on international recruitment of medical staff adopted about 15 years ago I believe remains as topical as ever. is the foundation for sustainable and ethical recruitment of health staff. This shows how relevant and vital who's action is on the ground on a daily basis. The organization's role is more important now, I think, than it has ever been. Switzerland strongly supports its support and assistance to vulnerable groups, whether they're affected by war, conflict, or climate change. These problems increase violence, make it difficult to get access to health care systems, and further the spread of disease. In a situation where we're juggling many crisis and have to tackle them all at once, Switzerland supports WH strongly in its role of leading international coordination on health related matters. Protecting international medical staff and their missions is essential. Health should never be a target for anybody. It's a public good, a public good for the world and it's at the heart or should be at the heart of international safety and security. The World Health Organization, ladies and gentlemen, is the only real global platform for cooperation on health matters which has legitimacy, respect and can do the job. It's the only international organization dealing with health which is run by its member states. That's the reality and that means shared responsibility. WHO doesn't only need to reform and adapt to new realities. She also needs and we as her member states also need to demonstrate that we are ready to reconsider our relationship with the organization and ensure that we offer her our full support. The decisions we take this week will show us the way to go. We hope we need to bear in mind our shared vision of one world for health. A world where healthcare does not depend upon your passport, your level of income, or where you were born. A world where health for all isn't just a slogan, but a reality is a result of strong health systems, strengthened international cooperation, and a WHO which is wellprepared to discharge her responsibilities. Before concluding, may I invite you to the traditional welcome reception which will take place today in the se bar here in the palion after the plenary this afternoon. Thank you very much for your attention. Microphone please. microphone, please. Thank you, counselor. We shall now turn to the nomination of the offices of the vice presidents of the World Health Assembly. I would like to recall that since a member of the Western Pacific region has filled the post of president, it would be equitable to choose the vice presidents from delegates coming from the other five WH regions. In this regard, the following proposals have been received. Dr. Dr. Jalila bent als Jawad Hassan Bahrain Dr. Sed Raman Bangladesh Mr. Haime Arnan Urego Rodriguez Colombia Dr. Judith Bidllo Hungary Dr. Luis Mlick Poto Liberia. Are these proposals acceptable to the assembly? In the absence of any objections, I take it that it is the wish of the health assembly to elect by acclamation the five delegates mentioned for the post of vice president for the 78th World Health Assembly. I congratulate the vice presidents on their election. I shall now determine by lot the order in which the vice presidents shall be requested to serve should the president be unavailable to act in between sessions. The names of the vice presidents have been written down on five separate paper slips which I'm going to draw by lot. This will be number one. Yes. Number one, Dr. Sedur Raman, Bangladesh. Number two, Mr. Haime Ernand Urego Rodriguez, Colombia. Number three, Dr. Luis Maple Kipoto, Liberia. Number four, Dr. Judith Bidlo, Hungary. And number five, Dr. Jalila Bint Al-Saied Jawad Hassan Bahin. There will be seating arranged for the vice presidents in the first row in front of the podium and I suggest the vice presidents take their seats at the second plenary session. We shall now turn to the election of the chairs of the main committees for the office of the chair of committee A Dr. Espirans Lavenda Minister of Health and Social Services Namibia has been proposed. Is this proposal acceptable? In the absence of any objections, I take it that this is the wish of the health assembly to elect Dr. Esperans Lavenda of Namibia as chair of committee A for the office of the chair of committee B. Mr. Sir Katarinsna Drazzek Las Kroskowska, director of the department of international cooperation, Ministry of Health Poland has been proposed. Is this proposal acceptable? In the absence of any wish of the health assembly to elect Mrs. Dreszde Lasovska of Poland as chair of committee B. We shall now proceed to the composition of the general committee in accordance with rule 30 of the rules of procedure. The general committee consists of the president, the five vice presidents, the chairs of the committees, committee A and B, and 17 delegates to be elected by the assembly. In order to have an equitable geographical distribution of the general committee, I propose that the assembly elect the remaining members of the general committee as follows. four member states from the African region, four member states from the region of the Americas, two member states from the Eastern Mediterranean European region, and one member state for the Southeast Asia region, and two member states from the Western Pacific region. The secretariat has circulated in advance a white paper containing proposals for the nomination of the 17 other members of the general committee. And I shall repeat this proposals. Bahamas, Bhutan, Cameroon, People's Republic of China, Cuba, Denmark, Ecuador, Ethiopia, France, Namibia, I'm sorry, Gambia, Liberia, Libya, Malaysia, Sudan, Tajikistan, United Kingdom of Great Britain, and Northern Ireland. Uruguay. Does the assembly agree with this 17 proposals? I see no objection. I take it therefore that this is the wish of the assembly to elect this member states as members of the general committee. It is so decided. Before we complete our business, I would like to address some of the housekeeping matters. The general committee will hold its first meeting today once this plenary has concluded. The members of the committee should proceed to room 23. May I remind you that according to rules 30 and 31 of the rules of procedure, attendance at the general committee is limited to its members and to no more than one member of each delegation to the health assembly not represented on the committee. I would also like to remind you that the next plenary will convene subject to the decision taken in the general committee with the following program. The presidential address item 1.4 adoption of the agenda and allocation of items to the main committees. Item two, report of the executive board to the 155th and the 156th sessions and on its seventh special session. And item three addressed by Dr. Tedros Adadam Gabracatus, the director general. In accordance with rule 49 of our rules of procedure, I would like to remind the delegations that wish to propose a resolution or decision to send a draft to the secretariat today. We now suspend the official program of the Flenery. This meeting is adjoined. Yes, I do. Yes. American when they go back. Thank