of the climate change convention and the discussions also on Ron Harris convention on climate change. >> Mr. Director J, you have the floor. >> Thank you. Thank you. Chair cochair, can you hear me? >> Yes. Proceed, please. >> And can you see me as well? Yes. [laughter] I don't see you in summer clothes though. >> Yeah. Yeah. It's a smart casual, but we had a family photo today. So, I wanted to have a formal look. So, greetings to you, Ambassador Tovar, from your beautiful country from Bell. Um so greetings uh our co-chair also mattel our vice chairs uh ambassador deamini Dr. Hannah and Dr. B and um Medlin, honorable members of the Eig, excellencies, dear colleagues and friends. Uh good morning from Brazil and I'm sorry I can't be with you in person. As you know, I'm here for the COP 30 leader summit where is working to make health much more prominent in climate change negotiations. As you know the best argument we have for climate change is actually health. People understand when we tell them that asthma in children is increasing, cardiovascular diseases is on the increase and malaria and deni are invading new places. So uh I think using the held argument will be continuing to use the held argument will be very important and indeed there are many similarities between what's happening here in Bon and what's happening there in in Geneva like climate change the threat of pandemics is a shared threat that demands a shared response like the UN framework convention on climate change The pandemic agreement will be a powerful instrument of international law and a powerful testament to multilateralism. And like the negotiations here at COP 30, I know the negotiations there in Geneva are not easy. I know that differences remain and that they have you have much hard work ahead of you to bridge those differences. But you're doing the most important thing that that's talking to each other and listening to each other. Thank you for the spirit of open and frank dialogue that you have shown this week. It is that spirit that gives me confidence that not only will you meet the deadline, but you will deliver a pub system that's operational, functional, and most importantly that saves lives. My thanks also to the bureau for its steady leadership. On behalf of the entire WH secretariat, I reaffirm our full support for your work. Together, we're shaping a framework that will help to make the world safer when when not if the next pandemic strikes because in the end, solidarity is our best immunity. My thanks to you all once again and I wish you a safe journey home and thank you and co-chair back to you. >> Thank you very much Dr. Tedris. Please enjoy my country. So before we proceed to a formal closure of the session, I'd like to invite the member of the bureau to address a few words if they wish that has not been rehearsed. So, sorry.