Hello and welcome uh to WHO and today's virtual press conference on global health issues. It's Thursday 10 April 2025 and we're here at WHO HQ in Geneva. Please, first of all, accept to my apologies. We're having a huge delay today, but I hope topic-wise we can at least make it up to you. Um, my name is Christian Lindmire and I'll walk you through today's press conference. Now, let me introduce the participants here in the room. We have first and foremost Dr. Tedras Alanam Gabrius, director general for then we have Dr. Mike Ryan, executive director for WHO's emergencies program. Dr. Maria Vancerkov, director interim um for epidemic and pandemic preparedness and prevention. On her side is Dr. Abdi Rahman Mahmud, director interim for alert and response coordination. Then we have Dr. Tanavulich, executive officer for universal health coverage and life course. And to her side is Dr. Daniel uh no Daniel Thornton, director for coordinated resource mobilization. On the other side of Dr. Mike Ryan, we have first uh Dr. Kate O'Brien, director of for the department of immunization, vaccines and biologicals. Then we have Dr. Calypso uh Chalkidu, director for health financing and economics. And last but not least, we have Dr. Rudy Edgars. He's director for integrated health services. Um we have a number of colleagues online who I will introduce when we come to it. But to mention one, we also have Dr. Rick Piporn. He's the WHO representative in the occupied Palestinian territory. With this enough from me and over for to Dr. Tedros for the opening remarks. Thank you. Thank you Christian. Good morning, good afternoon, and good evening. At our last media briefing, I spoke about the impact of recent funding cuts on global health. Since then, WHO has compiled feedback from more than 100 countries to understand that impact and the support of those countries need to mitigate it. The results show that severe disruptions to health services in three quarters of countries and closures of health facilities in one quarter of countries. We also see increased out-ofpocket payments for health care in one quarter of countries. They also report job losses for health and care workers and disruptions to information systems and the supply of medicines and health products. In response, countries are revising budgets, cutting costs, and strengthening fundraising and partnerships. WHO has been working with countries for many years to support them to transition away from aid dependency to sustainable self reliance based on domestic resources. We are now supporting countries to accelerate that transition to avert the health impacts that this sudden and unplanned cuts are having. For example, South Africa's parliament has approved an additional $1.5 billion dollars for its health budget this year. Nigeria has allocated an additional 200 million dollars to held in its 2025 budget. Kenneth Health Ministry has requested an additional $250 million US dollars from the national treasury to support health services and Ghana and many others are also taking steps to bridge their financing gap. Countries are asking for who support for innovative fundraising and targeted technical assistance and who is working to provide that support as best we can. There are several principles that we advise countries to follow. First, prioritize the poorest and prevent exposing them to impoverishing out of pocket health spending. Second, protect health budgets and resist reductions in public health spending. Third, donor funds should be channeled through budgets instead of parallel donation systems and aligned with national priorities based on one plan, one budget, one report. And fourth, avoid cutting services or closing facilities and absorb as much of the impact as possible through efficiency gains in health systems. This can include improving procurement, minimizing overheads, pooling purchasing of goods and services, and using health technology assessment to guide decisions on which services and products provide the biggest health gains for the money. There are also several tools that countries can use to generate new sources of revenue. In the short term, immediate measures include introducing or increasing taxes on products that harm health, including tobacco, alcohol, and sugary drinks. countries including Colombia, the Gambia, Philippines, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Timorstee, Thailand and more have all introduced such taxes in recent years and seen consumption decrease and revenues increase. In the long term, countries that don't already have social and community based health insurance can introduce it in which individuals or families contribute a small amount to a fund which finances health services. Not all of these measures will be right for every country, especially countries that have weak tax collection or a large unregulated informal sector. These countries will require significant loans from development banks at concessional rates and the right terms. Who is working with affected countries to identify which measures are best for them and to tailor those measures accordingly. Now to Gaza, where a complete blockade since the 2nd of March has prevented all food and medicine from entering into Gaza. In addition, in the past week, 75% of UN missions within Gaza have been denied or impeded. This blockade is leaving families hungry, malnourished without clean water, shelter, and adequate health care and increasing the risk of disease and death. WHO took advantage of the precious ceasefire to resupply the health system and our warehouses. After 6 weeks of blockade, those supplies are dangerously low and will run out in two to four weeks. Unless the siege is lifted, 180,000 doses of routine childhood to a childhood vaccines enough to supply pro and protect 60,000 children under the age of two have not been allowed to enter, leaving newborns and young children at risk. Since the breakdown of ceasefire, almost 400,000 people are estimated to have been displaced again with no safe place to go and almost 1,500 people have been killed, including 500 children. The health system is only functioning partially and is overwhelmed. Meanwhile, healthcare continues to be attacked. Since the conflict began in October 2023, more than 400 humanitarian workers have been killed. On the 23rd of March, the Israeli army attacked a medical and emergency convoy, killing 15 health and humanitarian workers. Despite security risks, access restrictions, and dwindling supplies, who is staying in Gaza and will continue to deliver supplies, train health workers, support emergency medical teams, medical evacuations, surveillance for epidemics, and primary health care centers. Yesterday, WHO and our partners evacuated 18 patients and 29 companions to Norway, Malta, Luxembourg, and Romania. However, more than 10,000 other patients are still awaiting evacuation. WHO calls for the urgent lifting of the aid blockade, the protection of health care, and impeded humanitarian access across Gaza, the immediate resumption of daily medical evacuations, the release of hostages still detained in Gaza, and above all, a ceasefire. Peace is the best medicine. Now to Myanmar. 10 days after the earthquakes that hit Myanmar, over 3,600 people have been reported dead. 5,000 are injured and almost 200 remain missing. Across the affected areas, people continue to face significant health challenges, including trauma related injuries, mental health issues, and lack of access to care for non-communicable diseases, including diabetes and cardiovascular disease. With limited access to safe water, sanitation, and hygiene, there is an increased risk of disease outbreaks, including cholera, malaria, and deni. Fiveel's facilities have been destroyed and 61 damaged. WHO and our partners are strengthening the surveillance and we have deployed experts to support response operations. So far who has delivered 140 metric tons of specialist medical supplies and more is expected to arrive from Dubai today. These supplies are being used by mobile clinics providing emergency care to the affected communities. 15 emergency medical teams have also been deployed made up of volunteer international health professionals to support our work. WHO has launched a flash appeal for8 million dollars and we ask countries, philanthropies, individuals to contribute including through the WHO Foundation. Late last week, WHO convened more than 350 experts from 15 countries to test for the first time a new initiative for deploying and connecting health expertise during health emergencies, knowledge and people, software and hardware. The today's simulation called exercise polaris tested who's global health emergency core, a framework designed to strengthen count's emergency workforce, coordinate the deployment of search teams and experts, and enhance collaboration between countries. The exercise simulated an outbreak of a fictional virus spreading across the world. It was a rare opportunity for governments to test preparedness in a realistic environment where trust and mutual accountability were as critical as speed and capacity. The exercise showed what worked well including rapid information sharing and coordination of surge responses. It also showed what needs to be strengthened including connections between technical leaders. Exercise Polaris reaffirmed that all countries must continue investing in their emergency health workforce and in scalable mechanisms that can expand rapidly and in a coordinated manner during crisis. Finally, today WHO issued our first guidelines for the diagnosis, treatment and care of menitis. There are an estimated 2.5 million cases of menitis globally each year. Many viruses, bacteria, fungi and parasites can cause the disease. The most dangerous form is bacterial menitis which kills one in six of the people it strikes and leaves many others with lifelong disabilities. These new guidelines are designed for health workers to use and will help to save lives, improve long-term care and strengthen health systems. They also contribute to the global plan to defeat menites by 2030. Christian, back to you. Thank you very much, Dr. Tedras. Let us now open the line for questions. To get into the queue, please use the raise your hand icon uh to flag your hand and then unmute when it's your turn. And the first question goes to Nina Larson from AFP. Nina, please go ahead. Yes. Hi, thank you very much for taking I was um hoping that you could say a little bit more about the about the impact of uh of the cuts on WHO itself and then also um given the state uh that you I mean that you described at the beginning here about um the what seems to be a very fragilized um global health system. uh if you could say if that is adding to the urgency of completing a pandemic agreement this week um and how you see those discussions um proceeding and if you expect them to complete this week or if you expect them to continue. Thank you. Thanks Nina. I think that's touching upon a large range. Mike, do you want to start? Yeah, that was my may wish to come in. Um yeah, I think uh when we consider cuts and we consider everything else, I think we need to be very cognizant of the fact that within an organization like WHO, there's always an opportunity to evolve structures, to evolve our budgets to be more efficient. I think today of the people in Myammar, I think today of the people in Gaza. I think today of people around the world who've lost their HIV therapy or their TV therapy or children who haven't been vaccinated dying of measles. And in the hierarchy of suffering uh any suffering at who is in the hapony space compared to what people around the world are suffering. Uh however we recognize that we are um in a situation where with the advice and with cooperation with our member states we need to contract the amount of money we absorb as an organization in order to do the work we do with our member states and and in the field. And we're doing that and we're approaching that very very responsibly in terms of cost containment, resource mobilization, looking at the priorities in the organization that we already set with our member states for a 5-year cycle which would start in January next year. Within all of those deliverables, we are working at all levels to prioritize those deliverables, to work with the member states to agree what is the adapted work we will do, what is essential and must continue, what can be uh scaled back or postponed a little and what can actually stop. And in the end of the day, we have to talk about what we can't do anymore while trying to maximize all that we do do. We've also got to look at the model of delivering that in terms of how we're structured in terms of organizational design and how that's delivered and that's something we're looking at as well. We're looking at our budgets and where that budget is spent. Is it spent here in Geneva? Is it spent at the countries? How we utilize our partners outside? Are we using our partner networks you saw in the in the exercise Polaris? We're leveraging our partners to work more with us. uh so we don't have to expend as much resources and our member states and their their wonderful institutions can pick up more of that burden. So much is happening. It's happening in a very compressed period. You know, we're doing a a lot of uh organizational work and evolution in a compressed period of time. And because of that, many of these processes aren't sequential, aren't linear, they're happening at the same time. And and and you know, we have to be honest, that's causing stress within the organization. And I'm really sorry and for our own staff in the sense that as things move like this, it's very easy for people to become disrupted and unsettled. And I have to say I admire the staff of the World Health Organization and the way they have faced this difficulty with huge courage, but also with the needs of the people we serve right at the center of their concerns. And I believe when you focus on the people that you serve, you tend to find ways to get that done better and get that done more efficiently. So I'm I'm really pleased with the the process so far. We have some deadlines. Uh we have to have a new budget on the table for the World Health Assembly and in reality in advance of the World Health Assembly so the member states can consider it. Uh and in line with that new budget, there will have to be a a new set of priorities and obviously an organizational design that can deliver that. Um we hope to deliver that on time. We will deliver that on time. If I'm looking to the man to my left, we we will be delivering that on time. And uh and uh the organization uh the the stimulus for this is is um is obviously um something that we didn't want. Neither did health systems in the countries need this stimulus. The good thing is our organization through many years of transformation has become quite agile and we've become quite adaptable and the similarly at health systems at national level have actually had to adapt to a lot of changes in the international financial situation. They've seen donor funding dwindling over time. They've had to look for other sources of domestic financing for their health systems. So in a sense the team here in Geneva working with Dr. Ted Ross have been working for years. In fact, I think part of Ted Ross' manifesto coming in was to transform the way health systems were financed. So, this stimulus is not welcome because it introduces a level of sometimes panic to the process and everyone gets very scared. But I think uh the the outcome of this as was DJI said in the speech is an acceleration of what's already been done. Um and we may uh be able to uh come out of the end of this as an organization but also as health systems in better shape. But not because of this stimulus because the system our systems and government systems have already been adapting to the realities of a new world over half a decade or more. Um uh uh with regard to the pandemic agreement yes I mean clearly the pandemic agreement is not a panacea. It deals with the future pandemic. It doesn't deal with all of the issues that concern people's health around the world. But there is no question that having a framework for cooperation between sovereign states when it comes to the next pandemic is the basis for collective action that is needed. It is required and will save lives uh and it will uh be an efficient way to uh deliver. Um recent modeling done with the World Bank and others looking at financial impacts of pandemics and annualizing the cost of pandemics over many years show that if any agreement or any action or any investment were to shift the trajectory of the next pandemic by 1% or more it would pay for all the preparedness activities that are envisaged. If someone asked you if you give me 1% uh if you want if you move or change your behavior 1% uh you're going to get all of the resources you need uh to be able to to live your life as you want. You'd say wow only 1%. So that's really where we are. Small changes in the trajectory of the future pandemic will save hundreds of thousands if not millions of lives. And um the member states are downstairs right now. Uh they're negotiating. Uh I must say they're they're incredibly hardworking people. They've been here every night this week until after midnight. Um they're doing their best and they're making steady progress. But there are difficult issues on the table and this is where we have to all have to respect the sovereignty of each nation to approach a negotiation coming from their sovereign position and then seeing what they can work do to work together. This agreement is not an agreement between WHO and nations. This agreement is an agreement between sovereign nations for collective action which WH will obviously support and facilitate depending on what they agree. Um nothing is ever won until it's won and nothing is ever lost until it's lost. So I won't presume to make a calculation as to how uh far forward we are but I can tell you as a public health practitioner having a framework that brings nations together and plans for the next pandemic will save thousands if not millions of lives. Thank you. Thank you Mike. I think Mike has covered uh most of it but I just wanted to focus on u the impact on who of course in my speech I focused on the impact of the countries affected because of the termination of the aid. Uh but as you know who has also been affected um we actually saw this coming and as Mike said some years ago this is in 2017 um one of the major risks we have identified not actually one of the major risks the major risk we have identified was who reliance on few traditional donors and we said at that time we need to stop this because if any one of the traditional donors who withdraws uh we may not be able to uh absorb uh the shock. So that's why we have decided at that time as part of the transformation to broaden our donor base and we have developed several instruments for instance the investment round which is starting to deliver. the WHO Foundation was established which is starting to deliver and also we asked our member states to increase the membership fee of the 194 uh countries which broadens the donor uh base and of course uh we saw it coming although we didn't expect that it would be the the US but we knew it could anyone of the traditional donors could could do that and that's why we had the uh uh instruments So the solution going forward is to implement to accelerate the implementation of the instruments we have designed to broaden the donor base and the outcome of the implementation of uh this reform will be who is stronger and even more empowered that can absorb any shocks in the future. So this is something we have actually um identified as a problem and which uh we have instruments to tackle. Then it's a matter of accelerating those uh in instruments and then on um the um changes we're doing in order to address some of the acute um challenges as as Mike said we're doing prioritization trying to focus on on core value um and who will definitely be right sized sharpened uh but we can make it more impactful as well. Uh so that's what we are doing and I hope uh uh this is an opportunity for who to im to emerge stronger and and and more empowered. So the prioritization and so on is also another area that we hope uh will will help us in strengthening the organization. And then the last on pandemic agreement. I just wanted to add only and I just say what actually Mike said. The member states are working very hard late into the night and so impressed actually and listening to each other and addressing the concerns that are coming from um member states and finding a middle ground. And I think with that kind of commitment uh I hope they will uh reach a deal and uh uh but what I see the hard work and so on is very impressive and um I hope uh they will reach a deal. They should continue to listen to each other and find a middle ground of course but I hope they will do that. Thank you and Christian back to you. Thank you very much both Dr. McRine, executive director, WHO emergencies and Dr. Tedras. Um, next question goes to Carmen Pound from Politico. Carmen, please go ahead and unmute. Thank you so much, Christian. Um, I just wanted to ask if there's been any outreach to the White House from the WH for um, talks um, about the withdrawal. Obviously, we talked about this in the past, but um you know, the US president has seemed to leave the door open for that. So, I was wondering if um there's been any more on that um in the last few weeks um if there are any any talks planned with the US about um you know, what they would want um to continue staying in the WHO. And the other thing I wanted to ask was about the Ebola prevention and response. Um there's been some confusion here um and some sort of like contradictory statements about whether um the US is still participating in that. And the last I heard was that that was still the case that the US um was still um you know paying for Ebola prevention and response in Uganda. So I was wondering if um the WHO is seeing that. Is there any cooperation for example still ongoing between the US and um the WHO and the um response to the Uganda outbreak for example? Thank you. Thank you Carmen for those. Let me see where we start. Um those on the Ebola or on the financing Dr. Mahmud maybe for the Ebola. Thanks so much. uh in terms of collaboration with USCDC and the US government, we've been working very closely with them in both in Tanzania and Uganda uh in responding to the outbreak. But as I mentioned previously, it's not the response, it's the system that supports the system. there. So a lot of restriction on the core funding with the lab collection, the lab transport system, the APC, the management of the west, a lot of those funding have been cut. So technical collaborations have improved and we continue collaborating with them. But the broader aspect, you can't isolate Ebola response from the broader investment in the health system. So that's the biggest challenge that we've been having and it's taking as Dr. Tedros mentioned countries to submit resources to the budget which takes some times. So the the challenge we're having right now is while the collaborations have been improved both at the country and also with our colleagues in Atlanta but the broader investment required for the health to successfully manage an outbreak will require support in their point of entry where thousands of people are workforce required is the collection of the samples is the supplies required for that. So I think the the main challenge is happening is twinkling wrinkling small small steps have been taken but it's not enough to respond to a large outbreak like Ebola. Thank you Dr. Muhammad and Dr. Tedros please. Okay. On on the engagement, no formal engagement has started yet, but informal reachouts uh we're we're we're doing uh as you know, we have I think shared the three-prong approach. We have one is the accelerating the implementation of the um um you know financing instruments we have that's resource mobilization which I said earlier. Second is uh sharpening who make it more focused on uh its core mandate and reducing expenditure. And the third is engaging the US. So we still have it in our um we have it in our three-pronged approach and we're engaging informally but no formal engagement has has started. What do they want? I mean from what they want if it's in the executive order there are clear four things I think re reform uh payment um um they also mention about COVID management and the force um I think is who independence. So these are actually good reasons to stay than than to leave. I think I said it in the past when it comes to reform, who is doing the largest uh reform in its history since 2017. It means we are open to reform. So if reform is an issue, then they can bring it. We can consider because we're receptive. That's what we're doing actually for many years. And then the second on on uh payments of course this is decided by member states but if they want to pay less that's actually what we have been doing since 2017 you know working for broader donor base means the contribution of the large traditional donors will decrease but this will not come like tomorrow after tomorrow or next year but in the next 5 to 10 years the contribution of the traditional donors will significantly decrease bas based on the approach that we started in 2017 because our donor base will be abroad. So if that's what they want and that's what we have been doing since um uh 2017 and the instruments we have designed are actually starting to deliver. So it's better to stay inside and then help in uh making sure that the um changes for sustainable financing that we started actually succeed. So it's not a good reason to to leave. And then the third on COVID management, of course, we tried our best. We have done our best and we learned lessons from uh the COVID and we're implementing lots of changes as you know the biohub we created here, the Berlin hub which is to improve surveillance, the pandemic fund with the World Bank to improve financing of preparedness, the UHPR, the peerreview mechanism and you name it. So that cannot be an issue. We did our best and we're also improving some of the uh challenges we have all seen as as a global community. And then of course the force on on um independence of who the first one is attached to to to uh this the reform we are doing and also in our actions. I think what we're doing is to make WHO more uh empowered and independent and if that's what they want they can stay to contribute to make WHO more independent but as many of you know when the answer is no especially something that contradicts the values and principles of the organization we have said no many times and that's publicly so we uh are clear about our values and principles and we try to be independent no matter qu the consequences that may have because we say no and if that's what they want that's exactly what we're doing we have been doing the last few years so um this is I think um um as I said earlier the four in the executive order are good reasons to stay and I hope there will be some formal engagement for a very honest and candid um dialogue to for the US to come back to the World Health Organization. I said it many times that the US withdrawal from WHO, it's a lose-lose. It's in the best interest of the US to stay in WHO. Um it's a health security that keeps the US safe and the rest of the world safe by being in in in WHO. And it has also many other benefits for for the US to start to stay within the WHO family. and all the investment has been doing is in its own best interest and that's what uh we believe and I hope uh they will reconsider and join the you know reconsider and join the WHO family. Thank you much Dr. Tedras. Um one hand went down so the next question goes to Carrie Cullinan from Health Policy Watch. Carrie please go ahead. Thank you Christian. I see that there's 193 million outstanding members assessed contributions. So, I just wondered whether it was going to be possible um for the WHO to get that money um because obviously it would help a lot with with with your financial situation. And then a clarification on the earlier question, the pandemic agreement. I wasn't clear that if agreement is not reached tomorrow, is there a window of opportunity for them to continue with the talks up until the World Health Assembly or is a hard is it a hard stop tomorrow? Thanks very much. We seem to be one one topic only today. We'll uh want to go over to Daniel Font maybe want to start with Mike Ryan. Ryan, Dr. Mike Ryan, please. Daniel speak to the to the issue of assessed contributions. Um but my understanding is that uh assessed contributions or membership fees from member states are to be paid upon until the moment of departure from the organization. So therefore any ar should be paid in advance. That's the legal position. um um the reality of what may happen. I think if Daniel can speak to with regard to the uh the pandemic agreements you specifically asked the just to clarify the question Christian they don't agree by tomorrow oh if they don't that was it sorry thank you uh if they don't agree by tomorrow the member states will do what the member states do we have gone through 13 rounds now and some of those meeting those rounds have been multiple meetings and at any time that the member states require more time the secretary will do whatever it takes to get them more time to get them venues to create the conditions in which they can negotiate. Um the reality is we're up against that time now. And if you consider that many member states will have to consult their capitals or we'll have to uh go back and have a discussion with higher authorities. Uh the the practicalities of having more negotiations before the assembly and then going back to capitals. So ministers of health can come in. Remember the meeting in May, the World Health Assembly is a classically a meeting of ministers of health. It often involves heads of state quite frankly. So the people who will make the agreement at the assembly are are at a higher level. So you can imagine that the sooner negotiations can be concluded uh the sooner we can prepare that process. Um they don't have to have every dot eye dotted. They don't have to have every comma agreed. There can be a few little things that need to be resolved. For example, the text will require a kind of a a legal oversight and the legal teams in countries and here will have to what they well they they term it a legal scrub where they just have to look at the language and how it's used and the terminologies and the spellings. So there is work to do to prepare for the adoption of an agreement. So therefore, realistically, we are talking about this week um this week till midnight. If they want to add on more time this week, they can do that. I'm sure Ted Russ will turn around. If they want to stay and do it next week, they'll be here. Um that's their call. The member states will have to make a judgment themselves of how close they are. The negotiators downstairs are not WHO negotiators. The negotiators downstairs are negotiators assigned by 193 sovereign states, right? Or 192 sovereign states in this case. Um, and they will decide what happens next and we will facilitate whatever they wish. We will obviously offer them advice around timelines and what's realistic and what can be done in advance of the assembly. So, as Tedra said, they're making progress. Uh, and we will wait till tomorrow. I I I'm I'm always someone who's very reticent to to to admit that you won't make it and then add on more time because in my world uh work fills time. Uh and if you make more time, the work will just stretch out to fill that time. Now, there is a time that's needed and there are real issues. Member states, people may may mock them and say, "Oh, there's only a word here and a word there and why can't they agree?" Some of these things have meaning legally. They have meaning politically. They have meaning ideologically and getting member states. The great thing we should celebrate is that there are currently over 190 member states in a basement trying to find a way to work together, trying to find language that will protect 8 12 billion people from the next pandemic. We should be celebrating the very fact that they're in the room given everything else that's happening around the world geopolitically and geoeconomically. Uh this is a real shining example of uh our leaders, the people you all out there vote for, the people who you call your governments are desperately trying to find a better way to do business together when it comes to protecting the world's population from the next pandemic. They should be commended for that. They should not be mocked for making slow progress. Things that matter sometimes take time. Um because if they're done properly, they will last a long time. And the more care we take now, the more chance we have to have a robust agreement that all member states will buy into and will live by and abide by. And for me, that's a very important um process for us who work in the front lines. I look at these texts and and you can say, "Oh, what difference does it make?" It makes a huge difference because what it does is it sets out the rules of the game between member states. It sets out the aspirations of the member states and it gives us working in public health the kind of support we need. It is exactly the same as a police force or uh any other thing you want to do. If you operate outside rules then the rules are only as good as the rules I made up yesterday. The great thing about an international rulesbased system is we all agree how the game is played and we really do need to play a better game in the next pandemic and this is the way to do it. Okay, I will I will take the assess contribution. Uh on the assess contribution, uh the member states have agreed to increase the assess contribution or membership fee in 2022 by 50%. This is part of our reform sustainable financing as I said earlier and the 50% is paid through installments and the installments the first installment was paid for the program budget 2425 after the decision in 2022. So this has nothing to do with the US withdrawal. This is something that's part of the reform we started in 2017 and the decision has been made made in 2022. The first first installment has been done for the program budget 2425 and we hope the subsequent installments will also be done during in in in due in due time. I think the um 50% is expected to be completed by um that's the 20 30 2031 um program uh budget. By the way, this increase of 50% agreed by member states is the largest in the history of the organization. Uh the assess contribution has been very constant until 2023 with slight increase I think twice or three times for a maximum of 3%. This shows the commitment of our member states uh to um uh you know ensure sustainable financing for the World Health Organization because that I think um funding membership fee um ensures who uh empowerment. Uh so we hope member states as per their decision uh they will uh honor their decision or as per their pledge in 2022 um they will honor their their pledge and that's what we're expecting. Thank you. Thank you very much Dr. Tedras. And now the next question goes to Pretty Patnik from Geneva Health Files. Pretty please go ahead. Hi, thanks for taking my question. Um, I was wondering if WHO wanted to comment on uh uh you know the the slew of tariffs that have been uh uh slapped across countries and how that impacts uh uh pharmaceutical supply chains uh not just medical products uh not just medicines but also other medical products. Has there been an assessment of what it's going to how it's going to affect uh your operations on the ground for example apart from increasing costs? Thank you so much. Thank you very much Prity. I'm looking at Dr. Chalku. She's director of health financing and economics. Calypso please. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, the tariffs are a big problem. And the problem is also that uh when it comes to subsaharan African nations, some of the poorest nations uh with the smallest economies, the weakest economies seem to have been the worst hit. So countries such as Lutu, Madagascar, uh, Kodiva, a large chunk of their, uh, GDP could be wiped out uh, by the tariffs if they continue, if they if they're sustained. And these are the very countries where, uh, external aid, a large chunk of which does come from the United States, um, is also critical to finance their healthare system. So some of these countries up to 30 or 40% of the total spend on health comes from aid and a large proportion of that is US uh aid. So it's unfortunately um several things several pressures that uh are challenging and will affect the way these countries function. Now tariffs are not pharmaceuticals are are excluded. However most of subsaharan Africa is reliant on imports of pharmaceuticals. the continent is a net importer of pharmaceutical products. And so if you put this together with the fact that the more general financial crisis, devaluation of currencies, depletion of foreign exchange reserves and very sticky inflation, if you put all this together, really the bill for importing pharmaceutical products is uh is going to get bigger. And again at the same time we see uh institutions such as PEPA uh USAD who uh purchased on behalf of countries uh and donated in fact products for specific diseases especially HIV, TB, malaria those uh um sources are also now being frozen or or or posed indefinitely. So it is a very critical situation. Thank you. Thank you so much Dr. Jakadoo and it looks like the next and last question goes to Jen Riby from Reuters. Jen, please go ahead. Hi there. Thanks for taking my question. I just wanted to ask about the measles outbreak in the United States and if who would like to see any more action being taken and also if WHO is working with or hearing from the US CDC about that since I think we had a notice out in at the end of March, so little while ago now. Um so yeah an update on that and is enough being done. So thank you very much Jen. Measles outbreak where Dr. Koban please. Yeah thanks for the question. I'll just remind folks that measles is one of the most infectious viruses and so measles anywhere is in fact measles everywhere. Um the US is a country that had eliminated measles in the year 2000 which means that the only cases that are occurring in the US are coming from importations of measles and then the spread of measles uh within the population um in areas um subpopuls subcommunities in the US that have insufficient immunization rates to stop the spread uh of the virus. And um also just a reminder that uh measles is a deadly virus. I think people forget just how sick and how dead uh that virus can make you. Um and so it's a serious illness notwithstanding that not everybody who um is infected with measles has a serious case. I think what was um is clear is that the US is um is working to uh control the outbreak and to shut the outbreak down. It is a multi-state outbreak. There are cases um as we reported in in our disease outbreak news um report there are cases in um many states. Um obviously the center of it is in um in in Texas. Um and the most important thing and I think this has been clearly stated uh in in uh in by many uh people including uh the secretary is that the measles vaccine um is the most important uh intervention to stop this uh outbreak and to end the risk uh to individuals who are not immune. Um so I think for any country um as long as an outbreak is going on um not enough is yet happening. we we could only say enough is happening when in fact the outbreak um outbreak has ended. I'll just point out also that we have had a a huge increase in the number of outbreaks um over the past couple of years largely related to the backsliding and immunization that occurred over um the period of the covid pandemic. So there are 58 countries that have not just outbreaks but what we categorize as large and disruptive outbreaks in the past 12 months which is a substantial increase compared with the number of countries having um large and disruptive outbreaks in the preceding or uh uh 12 or 24 months. So this is um not just about one country. It's about uh action being needed on the part of many countries um to really get a handle on measles and to shut down measles outbreaks and to continue making progress um to get to elimination um which every country has made a commitment to do. Um, so I think those are are the main points and I think uh I'll just end that um those comments by just again uh um reminding you that measles vaccine is an incredibly safe vaccine and it's incredibly effective vaccine. Two doses of measles vaccine confers um upwards of 95% efficacy and a single dose uh confers over 90% efficacy. So, anybody who does not um uh who has not been vaccinated um should certainly um be uh doing whatever they can to uh to get get vaccinated especially among young children who are some of the most at risk for severe consequences. Thank you very much Dr. Ko Bryan, director for immunization and um vaccines and biologicals. Thank you very much. With this, we've come to the end of our questions. Thank you all very much for participating. Um, we will send the audio files and Dr. Tedra's remarks soon after this briefings. For all other questions, please write to media inquiries at w.int. And with this, over from RI and back to Dr. Tedras for the closing remarks. Thank you. So, thank you to members of the press for joining us today and see you next time.