We were joined by Dr. Shibli, the Director of the Sudan Office, and we truly welcome all media professionals, journalists, and media figures—the fourth estate—who give us the driving force to work in health, as well as the driving force for this country to achieve, God willing, a near victory and peace for the Sudanese motherland. The visit was only one day, but it was extremely important. It will certainly shed a great deal of light on Sudan and the reality of the Sudanese people, especially in the field of health and humanitarian needs. Dr. Tadros, thank you, had agreed to this since the previous meeting last May. He promised to visit Sudan and fulfilled his promise, coming from within Sudan to be a voice for Sudan, calling for more support, more bridging of gaps, and addressing health needs. Also with him was Dr. Hanan on her second visit, the first being immediately after assuming her position, which had a very significant impact and role. The visit covered most of the planned activities, which consisted of raising awareness about the health and humanitarian situation in Sudan. The doctor is well aware of this through joint meetings with the leadership of the World Health Organization and the leadership of the Federal Ministry of Health.  Likewise, through field visits to the Children's Hospital as a model, the hospital's situation was assessed, along with the general state of hospitals, the situation of children in that hospital, cases of malnutrition, and the situation of the displaced community during previous periods. A visit was made to the displaced persons' shelter this morning, and the extent of their suffering in accessing water, healthcare, and shelter was observed. The meeting also included very important interviews with the country's leaders to hear about the reality of the country. Interviews were held with General Ibrahim Jaber, His Excellency Deputy Malik Agar, and the Humanitarian Aid Commission to learn about the procedures. Following this very important event, which you are attending, a presentation will be given about what is known about Sudan. Of course, Dr. Tadros has visited Sudan dozens of times; this is his first visit. However, this visit is of particular importance. After this visit, there will be a meeting with the Commander- in-Chief of the Sovereignty Council as a conclusion to the visit. We hope that this visit will bring much good to Sudan, and we ask God Almighty that peace and security will soon prevail in Sudan. Thank you very much, Dr. Haitham Mohamed Ibrahim, Minister  The Federal Ministry of Health, in this statement, considers the visit of the Director-General of the World Health Organization, Dr. Tedros Adhanom, to Sudan, which came during exceptional circumstances the country is going through, as confirmation of the strategic partnership to achieve common health goals, effective cooperation, and the organization's role in supporting efforts aimed at advancing the health system and working to deliver all aid to all those in need in Sudan. It also works in partnership with the Federal Ministry of Health to combat diseases and epidemics in a way that achieves human health and community safety. The floor is now with the Director-General of the World Health Organization, Dr. Tedros Adhanom. Peace, mercy, and blessings of God be upon you. Thank you, thank you, Minister, for so much time. Human crisis government. For me, and I have long respected the generosity, courage, and kindness of its people, and so this is why the situation in Sudan today saddens me very much, but I'm also sad to see that the crisis is not getting the attention it deserves. The international community yesterday supported a pediatric facility in Sudan which provides life-saving care for children.  Infants suffering from acute malnutrition. I was shaken by the state of many of the tiny children. The Federal Minister of Health, Mr. Ali Al-Har, welcomed everyone present and confirmed that he had lost count of the number of times he had visited Sudan. Therefore, he feels a strong sense of belonging to this country, and this situation in Sudan deeply saddens him. However, what saddens him even more is that the crisis is not receiving sufficient attention. Yesterday, he visited a hospital and spoke with patients. He received numerous testimonies confirming that the patients had been displaced repeatedly. Today, I visited the hospital where internally displaced people from various parts of the country gather and can access essential primary health care services. These services are being delivered at another health facility that supported Sudanese people. Sudanese are suffering through a perfect storm of crisis. Over five days of conflict, the largest level of displacement in the world is occurring, with displacement in some parts and a risk of this in others. 25.6 million people, over half of Sudan's population, are expected to face high levels of acute food insecurity disasters, including  Flooding leading to bursting dams, disease outbreaks including cholera, malaria, dengue fever, and with the risk of emp. Today I visited a center for displaced people where I witnessed the difficulty of accessing basic primary health services. I also saw the interventions carried out by the World Health Organization at a center near the Sudanese shelter. Sudanese people are suffering from successive crises. More than 500 days after the war, the largest level of displacement in the world. The risk of famine threatens more than 25.6 million people, which represents half the population. Natural disasters could lead to the collapse of infrastructure, as well as the spread of epidemics and diseases such as cholera, malaria, dengue fever, measles, and the risk of debt restructuring. There are also significant numbers of people exposed to sexual violence, and there is a collapse of the health system, as more than 70 to 80% of health facilities are not functioning. The World Health Organization and its partners have alerted Sudan.  The crisis and conflict in Sudan will create many obstacles and risks. However, there seems to be a lack of attention to this problem from the world. The international community seems to have forgotten Sudan and its health system amidst other problems occurring in the region. That is why I am here today in Sudan with my colleague, Dr. Hanan Balkhi, the Regional Director for the Eastern Mediterranean of the World Health Organization. We are meeting with several partners to discuss how to mobilize resources to meet the immense needs in Sudan. According to available information, there are more than 10 million dead, 10 million displaced, and more than 2 million refugees in neighboring countries. This represents the largest displacement crisis in the world today. The scale of the problem and the emergency is enormous, and the response to these emergencies is insufficient given the magnitude of the problem facing the country and the inability to provide services across borders. Humanitarian relief is desperately needed. The conflict has left some 25 million people, more than half of the country's population, in need of humanitarian assistance. Of these, 14.7 million require aid for a range of purposes. All 25 million people, and additional resources, are required to meet their needs. We are calling on the world to wake up and help Sudan out of this night of suffering. Under these dire circumstances, we face a severe shortage of funding. There are also numerous attacks on healthcare and humanitarian workers, with over 100 attacks on healthcare personnel. Furthermore, there is an inability to secure borders and crossings, preventing the delivery of humanitarian aid. This war has left more than 25 million people, representing half the population, in urgent need of humanitarian assistance. Of these 25 million, 14.7 million require extremely urgent assistance, costing approximately $2.7 billion. Unfortunately, only $2.7 billion has been allocated.  With half this cost, we must focus on all those in need, who represent 25 million people, not 14.7 million. Therefore, we need more support and resources. We are now calling on the community and the world to wake up and help Sudan in this agonizing nightmare it is going through. We are leading the way in providing healthcare, and not just some states. We are blind to what is happening due to insecurity on the ground. We need to scale up vaccination coverage against cholera, polio, and other diseases spreading in affected areas. We need a massive increase in funding from the international community to scale up the response. If we do this, we will save millions of lives, predominantly children. We must not fail the people of Sudan. Thank you. What we need is an immediate ceasefire because the best medicine is peace. We also need to protect health facilities and their staff. We also need to ensure the sustainable delivery of supplies and humanitarian aid. We also need to increase our capacity for investigation and preparedness.  In responding to disease and epidemic outbreaks, we need to accelerate and increase vaccination coverage to combat epidemics such as cholera, polio, and measles. We also need more support from the international community to expand this response. If we do this, we will help save the lives of millions who are now on the brink of survival. We will also help those in need of peace and tranquility after their suffering, and we will help provide the country with the hope it deserves. We cannot and will not let the Sudanese people down. Thank you very much, Dr. Hanan. Dr. Hanan, Regional Director for the Eastern Mediterranean Region of the World Health Organization, please speak. Thank you very much, Dr. Hanan, and thank you, Your Excellency the Minister. Thank you very much, Dr. Tadros. Of course, I cannot add to what Dr. Tadros has said regarding the role of the World Health Organization. My presence here today, for my second visit in six months since assuming the position of Regional Director, demonstrates my great concern for the Sudanese people as a whole and my commitment to addressing all their needs.  What we can do to increase supplies, as the doctor mentioned, in terms of technical, material, and moral support, and I don't want to take up too much of your time, except to say that our hearts are with you, and we will continue to raise our voices and the challenges facing the Sudanese people to the highest platforms, God willing. And God willing, we will be hand in hand to rebuild Sudan. Thank you very much, thank you Dr. Hanan Balqi, thank you Dr. Tedros Adhanom, Director-General of the World Health Organization, for this talk, the visit and its importance, and the organization's concern for Sudan. Now we open the floor for discussion and questions to the media and international and local agencies. Please start by stating your name and place of work. Welcome, my friend. My second questioning, crossing other, who, any, those, including other. [Music] Peace be upon you. Huda Hamza, Editor-in-Chief of Al-Hayat newspaper. Today we heard information about the spread of some epidemics, the plague, in some areas of Omdurman, meaning in the health sector. How accurate is this information, Mr. Minister of Health, especially since there are returnees and some who haven't left? To the Director-General of the World Health Organization: many of the insistent ones are not adhering to the guidelines. Death means a promise, and much political support is a response to Sudan. Humanitarian needs are being addressed, not political ones. So what is its role, and what is the organization's role in the post-war period, especially as we have said in many epidemics? In the name of God, the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful. Muhammad Mustafa asks: Mr. Director of the organization, what are you doing to protect healthcare workers and pay their costs? There were previous experiences in member states where the organization paid the costs of medical teams working in the field during the war, as happened in several countries. Medical personnel are now working in extremely complex conditions, and these personnel are not being supported, nor are their financial obligations for this work being met. On the other hand, the organization is in great need now of many medicines and medical teams. There are no field hospitals currently being established by the organization. What are you doing about this? I mean, the question, Madam Minister. In the name of God, the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful. Muhammad Al- Hassan H., Editor-in-Chief of Sudan City Newspaper, journalist, and member of the General Union of Journalists. First of all, we thank the Director for the information he explained, but we tell you, we have a minister who is  He might not know me, but he's a war minister and a man of action, meaning he works tirelessly, day and night. He's one of those things we don't want to create, and we're following you, your TV channel, Your Excellency. So, what you said, the deception you mentioned, the deception you mentioned, the Middle East director, I think it's enough for us. We just want you, the sleeping world, the First World, the Second World, to help Sudan, and for you to be the vanguard so that people can help. In the name of God, the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful. Thank you very much for all the questions and thank you for your interest in this topic. Of course, Doctor, it's time for a visit. First, regarding the supplies that were provided through the Adré crossing. First, regarding the first question, regarding the aid that was provided through the Adré crossing, of course, we warmly welcome the decision of the Transitional Sovereignty Council to open the Adré crossing. This is one of the very important crossings for aid to Darfur and even Kordofan via the cross-border from Chad. Of course, all organizations have provided aid in the last few days, from the day the crossing opened until today.  They were in trucks with various aid shipments. Regarding the World Health Organization, they delivered 92 tons of medical aid over five days through the Adre crossing alone. Of course, we prefer aid to go from Port Sudan via the cross-border route, through all available roads, but the Adre crossing is an additional option. We delivered 92 metric tons specifically for areas under the control of the Rapid Support Forces. As the World Health Organization, we don't differentiate between areas. Our mission is to provide basic health services to all Sudanese citizens, wherever they are. This is the message, even from the Ministry of Health: all citizens residing in Sudan are under the Ministry's responsibility. We work with the Ministry of Health to provide aid wherever they are, regardless of the current political and security situation. Regarding the organization's role in the post- war period, this is a very important question. Many of you were here with us in this hall at the previous press conference when we discussed polio and the role of strengthening the health system during emergency response. We have a response plan.  Currently, we are addressing the emergency, but at the same time, we are working with the Ministry of Health to strengthen the health system, including personnel, hospitals, health centers, protocols, medications, and so on. Dr. Hanan Balkhi, the Regional Director, spoke strongly yesterday about the role of drug production in the Arab region as a whole, including Sudan. This is part of strengthening the health system, and of course, this includes personnel, hospitals, and so on. Regarding salary payments, I'll leave that to my friend and dear Dr. Haitham; he can speak about that. But as the World Health Organization, we are trying as much as possible to support health frameworks. However, as Dr. Tedros spoke yesterday with the Authority and officials, in all our meetings with donor agencies, we encourage bilateral grants between countries. Many countries, especially those friendly to Sudan, are providing assistance, and this assistance can include strengthening the health system, including personnel and medications. I mentioned some figures regarding the provision of medications and aid.  Medical supplies, but I also spoke about the need to strengthen the health system. We must think about how to produce medicines in the Arab region, including production in Sudan. This is the best way to achieve sustainability in medicines, not just an immediate response. Regarding condemning the Rapid Support Forces or others, we, as the United Nations, the World Health Organization, condemn what is happening on the ground, regardless of who is responsible. We don't have the ability to know who is responsible for what is happening on the ground, but we strongly condemn it. Dr. Tadras spoke yesterday about 102 attacks on hospitals and health personnel across Sudan. This is what has been verified, but it is much more than that. We, of course, condemn this, regardless of who committed it. Thank you very much. And I give the microphone to Your Excellency, the Minister, for some answers regarding the questions directed to us. This is a special conference on health. I am visiting for other things, and I can answer them all, God willing. But this conference is for the Director-General of the World Health Organization.  International and in honor of the questions that were asked, we promise a separate conference, God willing, in the normal nearness for this visit. The topic is the current one and the last one. Possible, Mr. Hassan 25 all sudan this covers areas under rsf under the government you know the whole the whole country and for us for who what we say is we need everybody all sudan need support and using all me it could cross line it could be cross ‏or it could be other me and from our engagement with seni officials including his  excellency the minister they are committed to do that and exactly what they do and they will give us all the support to support all Sudanes who need our support wh they are wh they are so that's we also saying to the international community toal is 25 and all 25 me po as wh are and not be forg that's on the second of as one of the jour resources are not flowing as as needed especially if you take the 25 million population as a as a population that needs support i think so  far what we reach now is not more than 8 million so in order to do to  reach all 25 we need resources and as has been asked who and other million un partners and beyond will do everything to mobilize the resources and i hope the international community att sudes and the needed m in time save lives iit hospital yesterday and i have seen children was and i sp to ‏some of the and they me they have actually displaced many times and that's why and the impa you can children and wom and the vics of this war are actually those who hav contributed to the war these are children and wom  and in a camp ear today we visited we met a child also who hasn't been to sch years and impc and why in my spe ear the best med and i hope there be a political solution end the war and i believe i believe there a and all las solu and ev after brings fam brings displacement 10 12 people were displaced inter extern brings dises forg dises by the way gender based vi anyu allose than you and i come difficult sitan this is  not time bead i fisan I spoke in my Sudanese words in  There is a dire need for aid, and I confirmed that the number of people in need of assistance is 25 million. We will provide all necessary means to reach these people in need through internal crossings or even borders. We spoke about supporting Sudanese people everywhere, considering the need for 25 million people, and we have only reached 8 million. We urge the international community to give sufficient attention to the humanitarian crisis in Sudan. I visited a children's hospital where I saw children suffering from severe obesity and a dire need for treatment and food. I spoke with mothers who are also suffering. I also visited a camp for displaced people and witnessed the suffering firsthand. Therefore, as I said in my speech, the solution lies in peace. If the will exists, the solutions are there because the only solution is peace. War brings with it microscopic illnesses and diseases that are easily forgotten. The solution is peace. Greetings to the Sudanese people. I feel sadness for what is happening in Sudan, and I emphasize the call for the international community to contribute effectively. Thank you very much, Dr. Director of the World Health Organization, and Mr.