Your Excellency, welcome to this solemn and public ceremony of the Royal Academy of Medicine and Surgery of Murcia, in which the appointment of Honorary Academician will be made official, with the presentation of the corresponding medal to His Excellency Mr. José Vallesta Germán, Mayor-President of the City Council of Murcia, who accompanies me at the head table. Also during this solemn ceremony, the prize sponsored by the Cajamurcia Foundation will be awarded, which the Royal Academy of Medicine grants exceptionally to those individuals or institutions that have made outstanding contributions to the advancement of medical sciences or have carried out relevant health or public health interventions. This prize, by unanimous vote, has been awarded to the Director- General of the World Health Organization, Dr. Tedros Adonai Gebreyesus. Unfortunately, Dr. Gebreyesus cannot be with us in person, as was our wish and his interest, and is participating via the online connection established with the headquarters of the World Health Organization in Geneva. Few events are held by the Royal Academy of Medicine and Surgery of Murcia with such solemn and unique character; this is one of them, and due to its importance, it is being held in this exceptional setting.  This is the plenary hall of the Murcia City Council. At the opening ceremony of the 2024 academic year, held in this very place, the mayor reminded us that it was here on May 29, 1811, that the founding academics of our institution first met. Therefore, what better place to celebrate this special event? On behalf of the Royal Academy of Medicine and Surgery of Murcia, I express my gratitude to the municipal corporation for providing us with this venue. I also wish to thank, in these opening remarks, the authorities who are with us today and all of you who are following this event in person or virtually. Thank you very much. We will now proceed with the presentation of the special prize of the Royal Academy of Medicine and Surgery of Murcia to Dr. Tedri Sahan Gebreyesus. The Secretary General, the Most Illustrious Mr. Manuel Sánchez Solís de Querol, will now read the minutes of the award ceremony. Most Illustrious Mr. President of the Royal Academy of Medicine and Surgery of the Region of Murcia, Your Excellencies and Illustrious Academicians, Your Excellencies and Distinguished authorities, ladies and gentlemen, with the President's permission, I will now read the extract of the minutes of December 21, 2023. This Royal Academy of Medicine and Surgery of the Region of Murcia, in extraordinary plenary session and under the presidency of His Excellency Mr. Manuel Segovia Hernández, in compliance with the provisions of the statutes of this corporation and by unanimous vote, agreed to award the prize of the Royal Academy of Medicine and Surgery of the Region of Murcia to His Excellency Dr. Tedros Alonso Gebreyesus, Director-General of the World Health Organization, for his contributions to the improvement of global public health, and especially for the leadership he exercised in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. There being no further business to discuss, the session was adjourned, which I, as Secretary General, attest to. In Murcia on April 24, 2024, the floor is now open to the Academician, His Excellency Mr. Francisco Victoria Humilla, who will read the laudatory speech of His Excellency Dr. Tedros Alonso Gebreyesus, Director-General of the World Health Organization.  World Health Organization, President of the Royal Academy, Your Excellencies and Illustrious Academicians, Your Excellencies and Illustrious Authorities, Ladies and Gentlemen, my first words are of gratitude to my colleagues on the governing board of the Royal Academy of Medicine for having honored me with the task of preparing this laudatory speech for a person of such high dignity as the Most Excellent Mr. Tedros Adrian Leves. In researching his career, I have seen the merits and recognitions that this person possesses. It has been an honor to delve into his biography. Dr. Tedros was born in the Eritrean city of Asmara, where he studied and graduated in Biology at the university. After his biology studies, he obtained a Master of Science in Immunology of Infectious Diseases from the University of London and a PhD in Community Health from the University of Nottingham. He was appointed an Honorary Fellow of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine after completing his studies. Upon returning to Eritrea, in Ethiopia, he directed the regional health services and subsequently served for more than a decade as a minister in the Federal Government of Ethiopia, first as Minister of Health and then as Minister of Foreign Affairs.  As Minister of Health from 2005 to 2012, he led a comprehensive health reform based on the principle of universal health coverage. Under his leadership, Ethiopia expanded its health infrastructure and implemented innovative financing mechanisms and expanded primary care. One of the program's main results was a 60% reduction in maternal and infant mortality. As Minister of Foreign Affairs from 2012 to 2016, he placed health at the center of political debate at the regional and, above all, international levels. Dr. Tedros led the negotiation of the Addis Ababa Action Agenda. Adopted in August 2015, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda was a major international success and paved the way for the development and adoption of the agenda we know today as Agenda 2030, the Sustainable Development Goals. In December of that same year, the United Nations achieved another international success with the Paris Agreement, adopted at the COP21 Climate Summit. Climate change has a considerable impact on health, and this agreement addressed a significant portion of the environmental factors influencing climate change. For health, the 2030 Agenda is the result of the broadest and most participatory consultation process in the history of the United Nations. As everyone knows, it comprises 17 major goals and 169 targets to be achieved by 2030. Of these 17, number three is dedicated to health. This goal, with its 13 targets, constitutes a detailed public health program and a bold commitment to achieve, among other things, universal health coverage, providing access to safe and affordable medicines and vaccines for all, ending epidemics of communicable diseases, substantially reducing the number of deaths and illnesses caused by air, water, and waste pollution, reducing the maternal and child mortality rate, and reducing premature mortality from non- communicable diseases by one-third. The integration of the Sustainable Development Goals into the policies of the World Health Organization is evident; one only needs to look at the section on the website where the WHO Director-General reflects his message of priorities and objectives. This section is called the Director's Vision. From this Director's Vision, I have extracted a paragraph that is indicative of the strength of the goals and the commitment of the Organization.  World Health Organization on the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals: The Director-General says, “I believe the global commitment to sustainable development offers a unique opportunity to address the social, economic, and political determinants of health and to improve the health and well-being of people worldwide. Achieving this vision will require a strong and effective WHO that can meet new health challenges and achieve the health targets set out in the Sustainable Development Goals.” Before being elected Director- General of the World Health Organization, he held numerous leadership positions in international health, including Chair of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, Chair of the Roll Back Malaria Partnership, and Co-Chair of the Board of the Partnership for Maternal, Newborn and Child Health. Dr. Tedros was the first Director-General of the World Health Organization elected by the World Health Assembly on May 24, 2022. He was re-elected for another five years after taking office as Director-General back in 2017. Dr. Tedros has spearheaded the most significant transformation in the history of the WHO.  This organization, which employs more than 7,000 people and has offices in 150 countries, has received numerous accolades from Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, who was named by Time magazine as one of the 100 most influential people of 2020. Among these accolades are honorary doctorates from the Swedish University of Umeå, the University of Nottingham, and Newcastle University. Dr. Tedros has distinguished himself throughout his career for his work promoting access to healthcare for the most vulnerable. In 2011, he received the Jimmy and Rosaline Carter Humanitarian Award, originally established by former US President Jimmy Carter, for his work in public health. Since 2011, he has received numerous awards from foundations and institutions. Without mentioning each and every one of these numerous awards, I will highlight, due to its relevance, the Human Rights Award granted in 2020 by the General Council of Spanish Lawyers for his significant contribution to the fight against [unspecified crime/violence].  In the fight against injustice and in defense of Human Rights, the WHO Director-General is the face of an organization that has been on the world front lines since the declaration of the COVID-19 pandemic. As we all know, the origin was the outbreak and spread of a new coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2, which causes a severe acute respiratory illness that the World Health Organization named COVID-19. With the COVID-19 pandemic, the WHO faced the most serious emergency since its creation in 1948, a crisis of unsuspected severity that, originating in China, spread rapidly throughout the planet. The leadership exercised by the World Health Organization, and at the head of its Director-General, Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, was key at that time. This Royal Academy, with the awarding of this prize, intends to recognize the effort made by the institution and its Director-General during those difficult times. The prize awarded by the Royal Academy of Medicine, which will be presented this afternoon at the headquarters of the World Health Organization in Geneva, symbolizes and represents an abstract and stylized structure of a heart, created by the internationally renowned artist Francisca Muñoz.  Manuel Herrera and Francisca Muñoz are in the room. She is the artist who designed this sculpture that Dr. Tedros will receive, and to whom we express our heartfelt gratitude for the bold and exemplary design. The sculpture that Dr. Tedros will receive seeks to honor and recognize the dedication, commitment, and humanity that defines medical practice. There is no time for more; many things have had to be left unsaid. Nevertheless, I trust that what has been said has sufficed. The fundamental purpose of this laudatio is none other than to recount the reasons that the Royal Academy of Medicine had for awarding the prize to Tedros. On behalf of the Royal Academy of Medicine and Surgery of the Region of Murcia, our most sincere gratitude for his contribution to global public health. I have said below, at the headquarters of the World Health Organization, Dr. Pedro Albajar Viñas, corresponding academic of the Royal Academy of Medicine and Surgery of Murcia, on behalf of the Academy, will present the Dr. Tedros Jesus Award in recognition of extraordinary leadership and commitment to global public health, particularly his work during the COVID-19 pandemic. Royal Academy of Medicine andal Now Dr tedros is Welcome to speak doctor tedros ades your excellency professor Dr Manuel Segovia Hernandez President of the Royal Academy your excellency Jose balesta herman May of mur the most illustrious Dr Manuel Sanchez solal secretary general of the Royal Academy of medicine and of msia distinguished guests Dear colleagues and Friends bonus evenings Good Evening from geneva and I'm really Sorry I can't be with you in person but Thank you so much for inviting me to the family and I  will One One Day Come to visit you and I'm deeply honored and humble To accept This award Which I receive with the deepest gratitude not only on my behalf but on the on behalf Of The whole Who family I also congratulate your excellence Mayor Jose balesta herman on your appointment as an honorary academician of the Royal Academy the Royal Academy is an enduring Legacy of One of the oldest traditions of Medical schools dating back to its founding in the year 1243 by the King of Spain Alfonso de simo The wise Who is also  proud to have a Close connection with the region of Mursia with  whom We have collaborated for the past 15 years on the control of neglected Tropical dises specifically We have focused on the most prevalent entities in Europe such as chagas disease Which Part particularly affect Travel migrants adopted children the region of mursia has published pioneering scientific evidence on control of these dises and made impressive achievements including Being the First region in the world to eliminate congenital chas disease excellences Dear colleagues and Friends just a couple of weeks ago Mark the 76th anniversary of the founding of the world Health organization Who  was born in the after month of the Second World War and the realization That The Only alternative to global conflict was global cooperation Our constitution Was the First instrument of International Law to affirm that the highest attainable standard of Health is a fundamental right of all people without distinction today at least 140 countries recognize the right to Health in their own constitutions and yet around the world that right is often unrealized or Under threat at least 4.5 billion people More Than Half of the world's population Are Not fully covered by essential Services and two billion people Face financial hardship due to  out of Pocket Health spending outbreaks  disasters conflicts and climate change are all causing Death and disability Hunger and psychological distress the covid-19 pandemic exposed gaps in Health systems in Every country and even many High income countries were taken by surprise the impacts of the went Far Beyond the Death and caused by the virus itself disrupting societies economies and Health systems as You Know It eroded Trust between people governments and institutions F by a Torrent of Miss and disinformation and you well aware of the Ways In which the pandemic exacerbated geopolitical tensions globally the key issue now is whether We Will learn  the painful lessons the pandemic has taught Us Because history teaches Us that the next pandemic is not a matter of If but When If a New pandemic began tomorrow we would Face many of the same problems we faced with covid-19 to be sure In response To The lessons covid-1 to Us Who Our member States and Our partners have several established initiatives to make the world safer from Future pandemics for example working with the world Bank We have established the pandemic fund to Support countries to strengthen their pandemic preparedness and response capacities to increase regional Production of vaccines We have established the mrna Technology transfer Hub  in South Africa and a global training  Hub for biomanufacturing in the Republic of Korea to improve the world disability to detect signals of outbreaks faster We have set up a New Who Center For collaborative intelligence In Berlin To strengthen International sharing of biological samples and sequences we establish the dou of bi Hub in switzerland and we're also working on a New mechanism for more equitable access to Medical Counter measures including vaccines diagnoses and treatments but there remains One key missing ingredient a binding agreement framework or ensure better International cooperation to prevent prepare for and respond to Future pandemics Which was so badly  lacking during the covid-19 pandemic That's why Who memb ST are Now negotiating A legally binding agreement On pandemic prevention preparedness and response in short the pandemic agreement aims to enhance global cooperation to ensure a more consistent and coordinated global response to global threats it aims to enhance sharing of information about pathogens with pandemic potential to ensure a more rapid and effective global response and it aims to enhance sharing of Medical Counter measures including vaccines and therapeutics to ensure a more equitable global response at the Heart of that agreement is the same principle that was there When Who was founded 76 years  aug Equity. Because in the end, health is not a luxury for those who can afford it. It's a fundamental right for all people. This is the right for which I will keep striving. Thank you once again for this great honor. Many thanks again. Thank you for accepting me into your family and hope to see you soon. Thank you again, Your Excellencies, Your Illustrious Academic Gentlemen, Your Excellency, Your Illustrious Ladies and Gentlemen. The academies of Medicine in Spain arose as institutions dedicated to cultivating and disseminating knowledge, as well as fostering the professional development of physicians. In their origins at the beginning of the 19th century, the most important role of those first academics of the Royal Academy of Medicine and Surgery of Murcia was the fight against the epidemics of cholera, yellow fever, and malaria, at the cost of their own lives. Today, the academy, although heir to its history, has other very different obligations, and among them is that of giving notoriety to the excellence of those people or institutions that have contributed in an exceptional way to the improvement of the health of citizens. It is for the reasons stated above that the creation and awarding of a prize such as the one we have presented today is justified. As you have seen, it consists of a beautiful sculpture that presents the doctor-patient relationship. So, let's acknowledge the artists who created the sculpture. It is an honor for me to address you today to pay tribute to Dr. Tedros Adonai Jesus, Director- General of the World Health Organization, for his outstanding leadership and commitment during the COVID-19 pandemic. From the beginning of this unprecedented health crisis, Dr. Tedros has demonstrated exemplary leadership at the helm of the World Health Organization, guiding the international community with wisdom, determination, and empathy. Dr. Tedros has played a crucial role in coordinating the global response to the pandemic, working tirelessly to promote collaboration among countries, scientists, and public health organizations. His focus on solidarity and international cooperation has been fundamental in addressing the unprecedented challenges posed by the coronavirus, ensuring that no nation was left behind in the fight against COVID-19. He has also been a passionate advocate for evidence-based decision-making, urging world leaders to follow expert advice and make informed decisions.  His recommendations, based on sound data and scientific evidence, and his commitment to transparency and clear communication have been fundamental in maintaining public trust and mitigating the spread of misinformation at a time when the world was facing a health crisis. Dr. Tedros and his team have been a voice of calm and leadership, inspiring millions of people around the world with their determination and optimism. Their tireless work has saved lives, protected vulnerable communities, and laid the foundations for a fair and equitable global recovery. Thus, in recognition of his extraordinary leadership and commitment to global public health for his role in the COVID-19 pandemic, it is a privilege to pay this tribute today to Dr. Tedros Azón Jesus from the Royal Academy of Medicine and Surgery of the Region of Murcia. With this award, we say thank you, Dr. Tedros, for your exceptional service to humanity. Dr. Tedros and his team have been a voice of calm and leadership, inspiring millions of people worldwide with their determination and optimism. Thank you very much for your service to humanity.