Hello, good morning, good afternoon, good evening from the World Health Organization. A warm welcome to our WH social media live today. We are coming to you from our main studio at our headquarters in Geneva. And today to mark World Diabetes Day, we're going to talk about a disease, a condition, an experience that is really important to all of us. Maybe you have diabetes. Maybe you know somebody, a loved one, a family member, a colleague who is experiencing diabetes, or maybe you're just curious about health. Whatever the reason, welcome. I'm inviting you to join in our conversation. I am GA and I am here today with two amazing colleagues. Uh uh Doris Chu first of all on my side here who is a medical officer and an expert in um uh maternal and perinatal health and Ora James who works uh for the global diabetes compact and uh we're going to have a bit of a frank conversation with you. The reality is more than 830 million people are living with diabetes today. This is a massive increase. Less than a generation ago, we had 200 million. I am actually one of those 830 million who is living with diabetes. But we can get into that later. I was quite shocked that half of this number that's more than 400 million people are not diagnosed yet. So act they actually don't know that they have this condition and what the risks are. And that's why we thought we could have a nice conversation about these two. Let me start the conversation with Orya. Ora, you are very passionate about this and there's a very personal reason for that. But you've turned that personal reason that is being diagnosed with type 1 diabetes as a child um to really address the public health and the global aspect of this work which goes well beyond diagnostics, medicines and compliance. Is that correct? >> Yes, it is. Thank you Gia. So tell us about about let's uh set the foundation so that everybody knows what we're talking about. What is diabetes? Tell us about the different types that we're hearing about. >> Sounds good. Well, first of all, thank you Gia for introducing me so kindly and it really is first of all a privilege to be sat beside you both today in person, no less, to chat all things diabetes. Uh I live with type 1 diabetes. I was diagnosed in childhood and I now work full-time in diabetes advocacy here at WHO. So you could say it's not a lie to say that this is my favorite topic. But fundamentally diabetes is a condition, a health condition that occurs when blood sugar levels become elevated, become a little bit higher than usual. And there's, as you've mentioned, several different kinds of diabetes. And I want to highlight three of them here for you today. Type 1 diabetes, type two diabetes, and gestational diabetes. And I'll start off with type two diabetes because type two diabetes is actually the most globally prevalent. It is the most common type of diabetes that we see. And type 2 diabetes is a metabolic condition. It occurs either when the body doesn't produce enough insulin or when the body doesn't effectively use the insulin that it produces. And one thing about type 2 diabetes is that it can in many cases be prevented. And prevention looks different for everybody. But some of the things that you can keep in mind with regard to type 2 diabetes prevention, it can look like trying to have really balanced nourishing meals that are higher in protein and fiber and a little bit lower in sugar and saturated fat. It also looks like integrating physical activity into our daily lives, whether that is walking or taking the stairs. And it looks like maintaining a healthy body weight and also not smoking tobacco. Now, another type of diabetes is type 1 diabetes. And type 1 diabetes represents less than 10% of the global diabetes population. But don't get me wrong, that is still millions and millions of people living with type 1 diabetes. And type 1 is a chronic autoimmune condition. So it actually occurs when the immune system goes rogue, you could say. The immune system gets overactivated and ends up killing off beta cells in the pancreas. And beta cells are very important cells because they produce insulin. And of course, in the absence of these beta cells, the body cannot produce any insulin at all. And that's one of the biggest differences between type 1 and type two diabetes. With type two diabetes, the body can still produce some insulin, perhaps not quite enough or perhaps not used very well. But with type 1 diabetes, there's no insulin production at all. And one really important thing to note is that insulin is necessary and life-saving. So in the absence of insulin, you pass away. And that's why access to insulin and affordability to insulin is so crucial in the diabetes world both for people living with type 1 diabetes but also for people living with other types of diabetes. >> So let me jump in there. You talked about type 2 diabetes which I have actually now. Uh but um uh that can be prevented with some of these lifestyle modifications. It requires education. It requires a whole set of things right and healthy living basically healthy nutrition uh exercise. What about type 1 diabetes? Can it be prevented? >> So type 1 diabetes at this point in time cannot be prevented at all. There are not at this time I say because I'm very optimistic known actions that we can take to prevent the diagnosis of type 1 diabetes. But while we're on the topic of prevention, I think it's also always really important to talk about the environments and the systems that we live in because increasingly globally we live within environments that increase risk factors for the diagnosis of type 2 diabetes. >> Tell us what those are. What are those risk factors? >> Uh happy to to unravel them here. I think there's a lot that I can go into, but for instance, a lot of people live in environments where healthy food options are not as accessible or affordable as unhealthier food options or food options that might be quite high in saturated fat or in sugars. I think as well globally a lot of people don't live in environments or within systems where it's easy to integrate physical activity into daily life. You know, are is your community walkable? Is it shaded in the summer? Is it safe to go outside? Is it socially acceptable to be outside? Are there green spaces? Are there places of recreation where you can safely uh kind of embark in physical activity? And then I think another important topic to bring up is this idea of health education. Increasingly, we live in a world where there's health education and there's also health misinformation and it can be very challenging to identify what actions you should take and who who you should listen to. And even when you have the privilege of receiving a robust health education, you also need to have the resources and the capacity to be able to act on it. >> The buck doesn't stop with education. >> Absolutely. And and and there's so much to unpack here. But before we move on to uh diabetes during pregnancy, which is another uh very important thing that we want to talk about especially today. Ora, tell us tell us about your experience about being diagnosed as a child and what uh you know how it impacted your life very very briefly. I'm I'm sure our audience is very interested in that. >> I'm uh well I'm always happy to talk about my life and I I'll share a couple tidbits but just before I forget because I know we're going to move on. The third type of diabetes that I wanted to briefly mention in my intro is gestational diabetes. And I know that you both will talk about diabetes in pregnancy, but just to finish my type one, my type two, and my gestational. Gestational diabetes is a type of diabetes that occurs specifically in pregnancy. It impacts about one in six pregnancies. And that prevalence is one of the reasons why it's so important to have good visibility um and good investment in gestational diabetes. But to to move it back over to me and my story, um I will perhaps just share really quickly my diagnosis story because I think it's really relevant. I was on a road trip with my family at the time, pre-diagnosis, and I was drinking liters and liters. >> You were 10 years old, is that right? You were you were quite young. Yes, you were a child. I had >> just turned 10. >> Okay. >> And with my family, I I was drinking all this water and my parents couldn't understand. And when the water ran out, I drank the juice. And when the juice ran out, I drank the yogurt. Um, and my parents had no clue what was going on. I was had this unquenchable thirst. And of course, the flip side of drinking a lot of fluids is that you just have to go pee all the time. I had frequent urination up the hoo-ha. Every 20 or 30 minutes, I needed to use the washroom. And as you can imagine on a road trip, that's not very easy to do. We needed to keep stopping the car and going off the side of the road. And alas, >> and at this time as well, I was dealing with extraordinary fatigue, tiredness. >> In fact, when we went outside to go on walks, I used to sit down in the middle of the path and cry. I just felt so tired and I was very skinny. I was verging on emaciation so you could see my ribs. >> And after this trip, I was taken back to British Columbia where I grew up. I went to the hospital and I was immediately admitted to the pediatric intensive care unit where I lived for a little while because I was so sick. And needless to say, I was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes. But we came to learn that my diagnosis story and these symptoms that I experienced, the extreme thirst, frequent urination, the fatigue, the weight loss are all classic symptoms of type 1 diabetes. And it's a story that I've heard hundreds of times since and the people that I know with type 1. But it's important to note that a lot of people living with diabetes don't experience any symptoms at all. And so while it's really powerful to know these symptoms, many many people especially those living with type two don't experience any. It's one of the reasons why diabetes is kind of known as a silent condition because it doesn't announce itself and to that or I suppose that is one of the reasons why it is so crucial to stay connected to your health system to your health care provider so you can get tested and diagnosed in a timely manner. >> Absolutely. And you know some don't experience and then even if you do experience it's sort of lost in general life >> uh who is not thirsty sometimes you get up few more times to go to the bathroom people are fatigued so so my diagnosis uh I I didn't know for some time because of that but I because I had my father and my mother are both diabetic I did know that uh urination extra you know um going to the toilet more times at night was a symptom. So when that happened to me, I went to my doctor and said, "Okay, maybe I'm no longer pre-diabetic. Maybe I'm diabetic now." But but you can either not have the symptoms or you can miss it for something else. So we'll we'll come back to what you did with that diagnosis in a bit because I really um today's theme is about that diabetes affects all ages and all stages. And one of the most um sort of uh precious stages in in most people's most famil family's life is when you know uh you're pregnant and and you're excited and you're going to have a baby. But diabetes can raise its head during pregnancy. So um let me turn to you and and let's talk about the topic of today. And today I think WHO is releasing a new guideline on diabetes during pregnancy. and it shows up in several ways. So over to you Doris. >> Thanks so much Gaia and thanks again for convening us here today with Orianu. It's wonderful to have this opportunity to speak. Um I think this is really fantastic that WHO has really put a focus on diabetes and diabetes and pregnancy in general. Um I think as you said pregnancy is often seen as a very precious time. Um but there's almost a may be a misconception that pregnancy is only among very young healthy women and there are lots of reasons why but if you look at who's getting pregnant and how they come into pregnancy not everybody is completely healthy completely fit. Um and so we're seeing many cases um as we've been as Ora mentioned about one in six women will have what we consider diabetes in pregnancy. And now when I use the term diabetes in pregnancy, I mean you could have type 1 diabetes and become pregnant. You could know you have type 2 diabetes and get pregnant or you might not have had any prior diagnosis, go into a pregnancy and during the course of your pregnancy become diagnosed with diabetes. And so broadly speaking, all of this is considered diabetes and pregnancy. Um, and I think it's staggering when you think that I might say one in six, but that's 21 million pregnancies that are affected every year. And it's just a staggering number of women and families that are affected by this. >> And so, okay. So, we we know there are three types. We know that there is a risk to both the mother and child. Can you talk us through uh some of those risks if you are pregnant and you're diabetic whether it's uh type 1, type two or what we call gestational diabetes. What are the risks to both mother and child? >> Sure. >> Yeah. I I think so in pregnancy so pregnant women can experience certain conditions. The one major one is uh preeclampsia and this is when you have high blood pressure associated with your pregnancy and other some other symptoms. And if you have diabetes, any flavor of diabetes, um you're at elevated risk for that. Um you're also at risk for having a pregnancy that's complicated by certain things. Um the worst might be uh still birth. So we worry about uh still birth stillborn babies. Um we also worry about babies that are born pre-term and sometimes those preterm babies are being uh delivered early because mom has preeclampsia. So there is a little bit of a pushpull. um babies born to moms who have diabetes in pregnancy can be um too big in weights. Uh they eventually can grow up to having diabetes themselves. Um and so there's really a lot of uh effects that can happen during the course of her pregnancy and even uh for the for the child and for the mom afterwards. >> So I mean as he was speaking I was thinking about my experience. I'm a doctor so obviously diabetes was not a new issue for me. I had patients with diabetes you know but then uh during a routine antiatal test uh mind you we had very few at that time I think maybe two or three during the whole nine months um I had uh we did the glucose tolerance test and they said okay you know now you have this and I remember I was quite you know sad and very quite devastated uh because um it seemed like you know what did I do wrong am I harming my baby so I I lived with that for a little But then um my my uh baby actually soon after she was born she uh had I had preeacclampsia and then soon after she was born she had um convulsions I think because my blood sugar was high her blood sugar went low and it was really really hard. It was really hard and I was reading your guideline from yesterday and it said 70% of women who have gestational diabetes are likely to develop diabetes within 28 years. So it was almost to the dot 29 years 30 years after my daughter was born I was diagnosed with diabetes. So you know I'm thinking I'm reading our guidelines who guidelines. So these are not just statistics you know it many of us and I think many of the people who are online now are either dealing with this or they may not even know yet. So it's it's really really um it's very compelling the science we have the data we have. So how do we where do we go on from here? What's next? So can we talk a little bit about I think we didn't finish talking about the if you have diabetes there are complications not just for the baby but as it progresses with time to the mother or or anybody with diabetes what are the complications of type 1 and type 2 diabetes. >> I'll ask you Orya. Yeah >> thanks Gaia. So the complications of diabetes, it's similar to the complications of high blood sugar levels. When your blood sugar levels are elevated for sustained periods of time, it can really stress out multiple body systems. And this can take the form of stressing out your heart. So you'll be more at risk of cardiac events. If you have elevated blood sugar levels for a long time, uh it may impact your brain as well, increase your risk of stroke. It'll impact your kidneys, increase your risk of kidney failure. And I think also something to note about elevated blood sugar levels is that it can lead to damage of nerves and blood vessels. And so almost everywhere in your body there will be the use of nerves and the use of blood vessels. But two complications to point out that are quite prevalent uh is diabetes retinopathy. So damage in the eyes that can lead to to blindness and also um loss of circulation and loss of healing ability in our extremities. And I know in particular people living with diabetes need to be very careful with our feet, one of our extremities because if we get injuries there, the healing process is often slower and that can lead to uh to amputations in some instances. But one note that I want to make about diabetes complications. I know sometimes when I speak with people who live with diabetes, there's this feeling that if they live with diabetes, they absolutely will experience complications or that diabetes and diabetes complications go hand in hand. And I want to bring a little bit of clarity to that. You can be diagnosed with diabetes, find a management regimen that works really well for you, that's sustainable, and never progress to the point of dealing with diabetes complications. And similarly, I also want to make the point you may have phenomenal diabetes management over many many years and still experience diabetes complications and that's not a reflection of who you are. All bodies are built differently. Some have insulin resistance. you know, we have various kind of chemical and biomechanical differences in our body and diabetes complications are often something that can be prevented and even when they aren't able to be prevented, we have lots of strategies for managing them long term. So I think you know as you're speaking I'm thinking of another fact that we know for sure is that most people with diabetes live in low and middle inome countries right where this kind of care and followup >> is either not available or it's available but it's not accessible um and and uh we still do see amputations in in those countries and these are completely avoidable right um so so we are really this is a chronic disease meaning once you have it it's a lifelong condition, but it can be managed. But to manage it, it's partly on you. It's partly on our uh families and our communities, but it's also on the health systems and how we deal with health systems, and that's sort of who's job as well. Much of our advice is public health advice on how to organize our health systems so that this care can be given easily uh in an appropriate way. Um so, so I just wanted to talk about that a little bit as well. Um maybe we start going to um we start going to our questions because people are already reacting and and they have questions for us. I know we've got a lot to unpack here. Um I mean um uh maybe on LinkedIn says most people uh most of people suffering from diabetes um it's good to acknowledge others who are not diabetic and tell them how to prevent it. And that's where we started right. So good health advice, good nutrition, health education, physical activity, uh going for routine checkups depending on your age and stage in life. This I would say is what we need to do. 840 million people, that's a lot of people, right? And if more than 400 million don't know, I think it it's time to start reading up on on how to prevent. Um can we ask also I wanted to invite everybody who's listening who's who's tuned in to start asking your questions and you can ask them as comments but on X you can use # ask wh so keep your questions coming in you've already started um there's another uh comment on x diabetes uh care still feels very more reactive than proactive and I think that's speaking to what we said right early screening Easy access to testing can literally change the outcomes. Curious to hear what WHO's take is on making diagnostics more accessible for people who can't always get to clinics. So before one of you answer that, I wanted to say as part of uh diabetes uh World Diabetes Day, WHO had a group some testing done on our premises and apparently about we found out about 20% of the people who got tested had elevated blood sugar. Um and so that's really important to note to because it was available in our office, people got tested and we're talking about a country like Switzerland and Geneva. So what can we do to make diagnostics uh more accessible? Uh do you want to have a go especially during uh pregnancy >> during pregnancy? So the the guideline that we've released today is really talking about those who we know have diabetes. Um so we haven't gone into the issue of diagnosis and screening but what we do get into is the issue of testing and uh for blood sugar during pregnancy and maybe I can uh found out where I was at. So there's testing for blood sugar and I think one of the things that's really important to realize is that the the guideline really wants to bring out this uh sense of individualized care. So they're, you know, when we talk about evidence, we talk about trying to figure out how often somebody should be checking their blood sugar and pricking their fingers. Should they do it before or after at the end of the day, it's really about having um doing any test is better than no test. And that's one thing. And then when you do have that test, it's talking to your healthcare provider about what does that mean in the context of who I am, where I live, and the care that I can receive. And so it's about individualizing that aspect for during pregnancy in terms of your daily management. Now the diagnosis of uh gestational diabetes in pregnancy um I'll I'll have to say uh stay tuned on that because that um who guidelines will come out on that in 2026. But it is um it's not an easy uh issue to look at the science of diagnostic tests and how these things come to uh availability in health systems and um and really across the board because there's going to be differences in terms of who can receive and who can have these kind kinds of things. >> But one one of the pushes we are doing at WHO is much more integrated care and care closer to communities. So we understand if you already have um you know to go from your house find child care leave your children or leave your job or take time off and then travel 5 10 15 kilometers to a health facility you're unlikely to get tested. >> Absolutely >> right. I know from my lifestyle I it it's an effort to go to the doctor to have routine tests. So making it available, affordable as closest to you is what health systems primary health care uh uh approach is. And of course who also works to promote diagnostics uh which are more affordable and portable as well. I mean there were times we would have to go to a big city to get your blood sugar tested. Now you can do it uh sometimes uh not just at home but in primary healthcare facilities or closer to where you live. uh do you want to add something on the diagnostics because I know uh it's it's quite a important area and and the question of accessibility of diagnostic and treatment is a challenge. >> No, thanks guy I appreciate the opportunity to respond. I think if you don't mind I'll blow it open a little bit. I think that diagnostics and getting the early diagnosis of diabetes in every single case it's really an asset but once you have that diagnosis everything that comes after it is also of paramount important and I can tell you a little bit perhaps about what the global diabetes compact is doing for the diagnosis and the management of diabetes but to start us off just to share the global diabetes compact so to say the diabetes team here at we kind of have a double barreled vision we have the vision of preventing diabetes where possible possible and then we also have the vision of having equitable, comprehensive, affordable and quality treatment and care for all. And there's a lot of different pathways that we try and embark on this health system strengthening. And one of the things that we do and of course highlighted today is that we release technical products also known as guidance, recommendations, publications about how to best diagnose and management and deal with diabetes and related conditions. Another thing that we do is try as much as we can to do regional and country support. So to really work directly handinhand with our member state governments with ministries of health to do health systems strengthening from the ground up. Guidelines in many cases are kind of a top- down approach but we want to balance that with making sure that we're working with people on the ground as well. And a last thing that we do that I really quite enjoy I'm quite passionate about is the engagement of people living with diabetes. We really firmly believe that engaging people in the design and the implementation and the monitoring of our health uh initiatives is a way to make our work more effective and more strategic and even to say I think that the meaningful engagement of people with lived experience. It is a necessary action and one that should be widespread through all corners of public health and global health >> and and in a way that's why we're doing um you know many things including this social media life because people don't live in traditional communities anymore, right? They may not consider their physical neighborhood as a community. You could be an online community. uh you know you we we form communities in many different ways but in involving communities including people with diabetes with lived experience and also family members. I mean I I was a family member of a parent with diabetes for a long time and you know it changes everything. It changes how you shop. It changes what you eat. It changes how you uh pay attention to a parent you know um it it actually changes your whole family. So and and that's really important. you wanted to add something on that? Yeah, >> pick up on that. I think one of the things that we saw when developing the guidelines was actually the ability for the woman to actually receive some of and implement some of the recommendations like better diet or exercise really needed a supportive environment of the family. So for instance in some cultures it's the it's the woman it's the mom who's cooking but if everybody else wanted to eat something else it would be really difficult for her to skip stay to this um you know diabetic diet that was being uh prescribed. So having the understanding and having the support of family members on how we're going to how she was going to change her diet um would be really important for her to be able to achieve her goals um for diabetes care during pregnancy because I think there's you know we've been talking about this but it's really it's this integration of how do you change your life um and know that you will do the best that you can and if you you So, one of the things that was great, I think, in the recommendations is that we don't talk about very strict strict numbers that you're getting to. It's about saying get to the best place that you can cuz that's better >> and maintain that >> and maintain that. And the other thing to to what you had to say, Gia, I think women often feel very guilty when it's not when that number's not perfect. And I think that's a very difficult place to be in. And I think what we want to say in this discussion is that um one you every person will do the best that they can. And diabetes during pregnancy is specifically hard because you could have been perfectly controlled outside of pregnancy, but because of what pregnancy does to a woman's body, it makes it more difficult for her to take good care of her diabetes. And that's where the additional support will be really helpful. And I think that that's where knowing how the health system can come in, knowing how the family and community and listening to people who've experienced this. I mean all of us sitting here uh it it is what makes this a better set of how can we speak to better care. >> So we're really speaking to how to live with this, right? How we live with it. And it is very complex actually. You were talking about I mean I I I raised the issue of feeling guilty. My my daughter's 30 now. I hope she's on social media live today and you know every time she has a new health condition I think oh what did I do you know like what did and and I think nobody acknowledges the the stress that women go through and not just mothers but I think whole families and fathers as well there is a question that's sort of sideways related in LinkedIn how how much does stress uh play a part in the occurrence of diabetes >> do we do we know this yeah [laughter] I know stress accompanies it. But do do we know this? Yeah. Do >> you know what? I don't think that I can speak to the mechanisms between stress and the diagnosis of various kinds of diabetes. And I think kind of as a side note, the mechanisms of diabetes diagnosis are really quite multiaceted and complex. We know that there's genetic components, ethnic components, age is a risk factor. We know that we're a product of our environment and our systems. And of course, there's lifestyle factors. there's kind of there are factors on multiple levels of our lives that end up impacting our diagnosis of diabetes and it can be really challenging scientifically if you will to isolate how much of an impact any one factor has. Um but I can say just related to the topic of stress that stress and diabetes management as a topic has very much been looked at and speaking from personal experience here. I can say with absolute certainty with every cell in my body that stress makes diabetes management more challenging. If we have external factors in our environment that are stressing us or in our family or if there are something that we're holding on our mind or our heart or if we're having challenges navigating our mental health. All of those things impact our diabetes management and it's one of the reasons why it is so crucially important to be kind to yourself when you're living with diabetes or managing diabetes. You know, to give yourself the kindness and the patience that you'd give to anybody else that you love. It's really easy to become ashamed or angry with our diabetes management. By golly, I think I, you know, I feel it on a daily basis to be frank when the numbers aren't exactly where I'd like them to be. I feel really strong emotions and it's been a long process, 16 years straight in fact, of trying to find that balance between the pursuit of health and also the pursuit of sustainability. >> I I think you're really speaking to I mean that's my experience too, not just with diabetes, other chronic health conditions I have. I find if I know the figures too frequently, >> it's a source of stress and I know in my brain if I don't monitor it enough that will lead to something not so good. So I had to personally find how you know that balance which makes me feel I'm managing my health without being consumed by this idea I am not healthy. Now remember we said in who in 1948 when we were created health is not the absence of disease. Again uh we can live with disease and be as healthy as possible right and and we know with the rise of non-communicable diseases. So diabetes is one. We've got cardiovascular disease. We have the rise of cancers. We have chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases. This is the number one you know the most prevalent set of diseases. It's killing more people than any other group of diseases combined. So we are in this era of where we have to manage our health and it may and we cannot identify with disease to say we're unhealthy. So you know you know and and of course mental health is playing into that. Um the second thing I want to say is there are questions that obviously we can't answer here but this will we will take this back to our experts and we will keep updating the information we have on our websites based on the questions you ask. Um another thing with stress is and I and I think I wanted we when we were preparing for this we talked about it. It may not be so prevalent now and Ora you said you have type 1 diabetes. I said I had gestational diabetes and type two, but I remember, you know, 30 years ago when my dad had diabetes and now my mom has diabetes, there was great stigma. He didn't want to admit he had diabetes and that affected the way he got care and in fact he died at 59 years old. I lost my father when he was a young man, relatively young man, you know. Um, and I I want to talk through that that stigma. I mean we purposely admitted we have this condition and we identify with it but but tell me about a little bit about how you in this in the work you do uh see stigma and how it's being addressed. >> No thanks Gia it's uh diabetes stigma is without doubt it's a it's a subject that's really close to my heart actually and I can reflect personally on the way that judgment and stigma impacted my own life. Um, I think perhaps I I might start off this answer actually with a little bit of advice. There's a lot of information around diabetes, misinformation, unfounded information that ends up alienating people, isolating people, making people feel judged or less than or needy. And one of the best things that we can do as an individual, as a community, as a society is to approach the topic of diabetes with kindness and with curiosity. The fact of the matter is that diabetes is complex. And I know I talked about this earlier. And of course, in some cases with type two diabetes, it is related to individual actions, but it's also deeply intricately related to our environments, to our systems, to access to health care, to our genetics, to our age. And I can't help but think that my own journey with type 1 diabetes, my relationship with myself and my own diabetes management would have been transformed as a child had I been met with kindness and curiosity rather than judgment and unsolicited advice. And maybe on that topic, I know that, you know, when it comes to our loved ones and our communities and our friends, we want them to live the healthiest life possible. We want to help them. We want to actionably help them. And sometimes that takes the form of telling them what to do. You know, I think you should do this or try this or read this. And what I actually recommend when it comes to living with diabetes and supporting people who are living with diabetes is to not tell but in still instead ask. What can I support you with? How can I help you? What can I learn on your behalf? That is one of the ways that as a society and on an individual level we approach or we can diminish the impact of stigma. Stigma and stereotypes. It is known that that becomes a barrier to care. It becomes a barrier to acknowledging that you have diabetes, a barrier to management, a barrier to seeking out care, a barrier to seeking out community. And by golly, community and empathy is one of the most powerful non-medical things that we can invest in. In fact, for everybody living with diabetes watching today, I mean, for everybody in general, I urge you to not diminish the impact of community and empathy. When I first met other people living with diabetes, I went to diabetes camp as a child, the first few days I actually just cried for two days straight because for the first time in my life, I felt like I wasn't isolated and I wasn't alone. And I think the combination of finding our community and investing in our community and really promoting kindness and curiosity, that is how we approach stigma and that is how we make sure that everybody living with diabetes feels empowered to talk about their condition and seek out the care that they need. >> So that that's sort of bringing our conversation full circle and I think it's it's about time to wrap up soon. Just to let you all know and to let you know that we have audiences from Iran, Lebanon, India, Nigeria, Benin, Ghana, Indonesia, USA, Pakistan, Vietnam, Trinidad and Tobago, Bhutan, Afghanistan, Ethiopia, Nigeria, Somalia, Guinea, Bisau, Liberia. I don't see Switzerland, so my children are not on. [laughter] I'm I'm very disappointed. [gasps] Um, so um, you know, before we wrap up, there are questions about, you know, my grandparents had diabetes. it skipped my parents' generation. Can I get it? Um, so I think the simple answer is genetics is one part of it. The prevention part, especially if you have a family history, it's all the more important to have a healthy diet, to have proper um, exercise, to find ways of um, having good mental health, relaxation, um, all of these. But I think Doris, we were talking yesterday about all the advice we can give, including WHO and and all of our experience and knowledge and lived experience. Um, it may not suit you. And what we really want you is to uh get the get the best advice for you from your healthcare provider and that's even more important during pregnancy. So, as we wrap up, what would be some of your final thoughts for um for the audience? You already talked very eloquently about being kind, being accepting, being supportive. Is there anything else you'd like to tell people? >> I think perhaps my I'll reiterate one of the points I made before because it's the thing that's changed my life most with diabetes and it's that we don't gain a lot in the pursuit of perfection. When we get obsessed with a certain definition of health or success, it's really easy to lose oursel in the process. And for me, and I encourage everyone living with diabetes out there, that when you pursue your health and you pursue your diabetes management, you make sure that you don't forget also pursuing happiness and fulfillment. You can't have one without the other. And in fact, diabetes management is most sustainable when we don't forget the happiness and the fulfillment aspect. >> Thank you. And what about you, Doris? I mean, it's a really important to it's the topic today. It's the guideline is coming out today. I I see you're smiling because you worked very hard on it with a group of experts. What's your takeaway here? >> I think the most important thing is knowing that if you have diabetes, you're living with diabetes, you can have a healthy pregnancy. And I think for many women that that is something that they really need to hear. If you are living with type 1 or type two diabetes and you're thinking about becoming pregnant, talk to your doctor. If you find yourself pregnant, talk to your doctor. And if you get diagnosed with diabetes during pregnancy, you can manage it with your doctor. And a lot of what Orya told told us about living with diabetes, it's applicable for women who have diabetes during pregnancy as well. But I think it's really good health inside and outside of pregnancy. It'll come together. And our goal is that we make this transition from pregnancy outside of pregnancy to be really seamless. And so I I really think that the most important thing is it's possible to have a healthy pregnancy and really doable. >> That's wonderful. Now before we go, I just because we are on social media platforms and there's so much conflicting information on these platforms, I want to ask you a question. How do you know what you hear, see, experience on social media or any media is the right information? So um I wanted to because we're on these platforms, I wanted to end with a couple of points um including for myself, for my family, colleagues, and for you. when you hear something um about a disease, a health condition, I would say the first thing is to listen carefully, but take a breath, first of all, don't automatically share what you see. It doesn't matter how compelling it is. Uh practice a little bit of skepticism. Think about it and ask these questions. Have I heard this before? Is this consistent with what I've heard in other places? Where does this information come from? Is it from a reputable organization? For example, World Health Organization. Our job is to look at the evidence um related to diseases, related to health, how to improve health and to really uh have very robust science to give you this advice. So, this guideline for example, uh I would trust it because it is evidence-based. Um and then really think about how this affects you. Now, there were some questions that came in on social media. Does herbal treatments uh uh you know um u non-traditional treat uh traditional treatments work for diabetes? Again the best advice for treatment for care is from your healthcare provider. Many medicines come from plants from herbs. But we need that very rigorous process of making sure it's effective and it is safe for and and then we will recommend that as a treatment. So please uh exercise patience, cautious skepticism but I hope today has been useful to you. Hundreds of millions of us are living with diabetes. It is an invitation. This diagnosis and an invitation to take care of our health even better, to eat better, to exercise, to get regular advice, treatment and followup and monitoring from your health care provider. Um, I want us if we can to think about how diabetes affects our lives, the affect the the lives of our families and our loved ones and to be more supportive, to be more kind, and to be curious about what we still need to find out. I will see you in another social media live on another topic on another day. But for the time being, I wish you a wonderful day, great health and remain curious about your health and how to improve it. Thank you all for joining.