es former president my good friend former president sle former president Amina excellencies dear colleagues and friends thank you for the opportunity to join you today and my thanks to President Muhammad for his leadership in convening us to chart a new course for the health financing and governance on our continent. The summit builds on the leadership of President Kagame and the work of the Africa Union to strengthen the reliance of African nations on their own resources to finance the health of their own people. And it goes a step further acknowledging that finance alone will not take us to the aspirations of the Lusaka agenda for countryowned investmentoriented sustainable health systems. We must address the deficient global healthure. >> As you all know, >> I was up for 45 minutes because of my IT band hurting so badly. the most serious disruptions to health systems since the peak of the coid9 pandemic. According to who's latest analysis, health aid is projected to decline by up to 40% this year compared to just two years ago. This is not a gradual shift. It's a cliff edge. Life-saving medicines are sitting in warehouses. Health workers are losing jobs. Clinics are closing and millions are missing care. We must all adjust to this new reality. But in this crisis lies an opportunity. an opportunity to shake off the yoke of aid dependency and embrace a new era of sovereignity, self-reliance, and solidarity. Many African leaders have told me they're ready to make that transition as President Muhammad is demonstrating. And that's the critical first step. political commitment from the highest levels. The responsibility for financing strong, resilient health systems rests with governments. The most efficient and equitable source of health financing is the national budget. Ghana is leading by example. Earlier this year, the parliament passed reforms to increase financing for the national health insurance scheme, filling the gap left by donor withdrawal and delivering on the president's president Muhammad's bold commitment to free primary health care for all. That's what sovereignty looks like. And thank you, Mr. President, of course, private capital and philanthropic capital are both very important, but they can only complement public financing and they cannot replace it. And more money alone is not enough. What's important is how effectively that money is used. WHO's work with countries has shown that up to 13% of health budgets in low and middle inome countries go unspent due to weak public financial system. That is money lost but more importantly it means lives lost. WHO is now working with governments and partners here in Africa and elsewhere to strengthen value for money in several ways. By developing essential health benefit packages and cost effective policies. By supporting countries to introduce or increase health taxes on tobacco, alcohol and sugary drinks through pool procurement and investment in domestic manufacturing. By integrating donorfunded vertical programs into government-led systems based on primary health care and through public health insurance and through better budget execution using digital public health financial management system. We must also confront the structural constraints. Debt service burdens are crowding out social investments and donor funding often bypasses national systems, making long-term planning almost impossible. We cannot ignore the broader economic context. In 2023, Africa received 74 billion US dollar in aid, but lost $90 billion to illicit financial flaws and $55 billion to corporate tax exemptions. So Africa lost much more than it gained from aid and this is unacceptable. One practical solution is health taxes. A-50% price increase on harmful products like tobacco, alcohol, and sugary drinks could generate an additional 3.7 trillion dollars globally within 5 years and save millions of lives. Beyond domestic reforms, global change is essential. WHO is using its pres presence on global fora from the G20 to the European Commission, the Sabia financing for development to the UN and the bricks group to call for a more democratic, fairer and accountable global health architecture. In May, the World Health Assembly adopted a landmark resolution led by Nigeria, our my brother here, Muhammad Pate, and co-sponsored by over 25 countries, including Ghana, South Africa, Seneagal, and Zambia, calling for more domestic investment and deeper governance reform. It reflects the Lusaka agenda and the principles of one plan, one budget, one report. WH's mandate is to support governments in building strong, resilient, inclusive health systems guided by evidence and grounded in equity. Let me be clear. Africa does not need charity. Africa needs fair terms. As President Kruma said over 60 years ago, I quote, "We are not interested in handouts. We seek a new international order in which health and development are global rights, not privileges for the few. This is not a dream. It is a choice. The difference between crisis and opportunity is leadership. We need leadership from governments to invest in their people and their health. We need leadership from credit creditors to offer concessional lending at fair terms. We need leadership from donors to strengthen national health systems, not create parallel ones. Ultimately, health is not a cost to be contained. It's an investment to be nurtured in people in stability and in prosperity and the leadership by President Muhammad now to address these issues is very timely. Thank you your excellency and let's seize this moment not just to repair but to transform. Thank you Medasi. So the response to midas is and as you channel your innerwin Come our