live. Okay, let's start the meeting. Welcome everybody. It's a a pleasure to see all of you here and let's begin our today's WHO information meeting on the composition of infla vaccines for use in the northern hemisphere 2026 season. We are honored to have Dr. Chikui Hikawazu, executive director of the WHO emergencies program in WHO to open the meeting. Dr. Hikwisel actually he's not able to join us in person or virtually um due to uh a scheduling conflict but he has kindly recorded a video of his opening remarks. So let's uh watch the the video of Dr. Chu's uh recorded messages before we move to the agenda of today. Good morning. Thank you for joining us today at the competition of the viral vaccines for you. The 26 27 each year season reminds us that is far more than a seasonal income. The causing up to billion millions of severe cases and thousands of respirators. I just before we considered the threat of engineer in the broader economic demand. This work continues to mean our focus. The past northern employers have seen them have been particularly challenging. The emergence of 201 pattern and the heavy strain of health systems underscored how quickly can surprise us. These guys are a powerful reminder of why our workers and why our visit. Among the tools we have the seasonal vac vaccination remains one of the most effective ways to prevent illness and to save life. Updating vaccine composition by the US nuance is direct impacted vaccine cycle from surveillance collection to manufacture procurement deployment and post vaccination studies all stretching the systems we depend on for when the next pandemic threats emerge. None of this would be possible without the exceptional surveillance effort of a country that will continue sharing through the global surveillance and report system. Today, GRI brings together a 165 institutions across 130 countries, areas and terries. A global family that has worked side by side for nearly 75 years. It is one of the longest standing global disease surveillance systems since 1952. It has proven to be an irreplaceable asset not only for seasonal influenza but also for the work that we do on zonotic influenza on RSV and most recently on SARS KV2. I also want to particularly acknowledge our partners in vaccine manufacturing and our many international collaborators. Your commitment across public and private sectors is essential to keeping the annual influenza vaccine cycle functioning smoothly. As we begin this new cycle, I wish you a productive, insightful, and successful meeting. Thank you for everything that you do. >> This is really very well said in Dr. Chu's message that the update of infla vaccine composition twice a year is not just a tradition. It is a scientific necessity and thanks to the giz, the global influenza surveillance and response system. Um this necessity has been met efficiently and reliably. Okay. So we're also pleased to have uh Dr. Maria uh Van Kokov, director at the interim of the department of epidemic and pandemic management uh uh be here with us on site and uh we would like to invite Maria also to say a few words. Maria, >> thanks. Good morning everybody. Um thank you Wjing. It's a real priv privilege to be here with you today. I wish I could have been here with you all week. I come in at the end where you are announcing your recommendations, but uh I know the incredible amount of work that has gone into this. Um particularly thank W Jing and her entire team. I see Christian here. I see Dimmitri. I see Magdi and I'm going to forget others who are here. The it's the heart of uh the secretariat that really keeps this engine running. And I thank you for your dedication and your hard work and all of you who have put in this work. I am I am struck I was saying a little bit earlier I am struck by how incredible the Gizra system actually is. How long it has been in operation. How many countries, how many labs, how many partners are involved in this and what you do is an asset to the world. We right now in the world of global health are trying to trying to bring more people together and you have demonstrated for more than 75 years how this is actually done. how you keep this professional, how you keep this scientific, how this drives decision- making and how those decision-m actually is translated into saving lives. So, thank you for what you do. Thank you so much for holding these meetings, but the meetings in between are just as important as the composition meetings themselves. So, thank you um to all of you who are here. Thank you to our partners um who are outside of Giz to industry to manufacturing um to help us turn this data uh into the reality of actually keeping people safe. So good luck today uh and it's a privilege for me to be here with you. >> Thank you so much uh Maria. I would also like to extend a warm welcome uh to all of you here uh in person in Istanbul as well as many more connected via YouTube live stream. Um welcome to this meeting. Um by the way my name is Wing Xang. Uh I'm the head of the newly structured WHO global respiratory threat unit which includes the global influenza program. Um okay. Um so let's move to the agenda here. Um as in previous meetings that uh that the chair will be one of the adviserss of the committee which developed the recommendation that's that's going to be announced today. Um for this meeting Dr. The Ottoma Anglehart from MHA, the medicine and health products regulatory agency UK has been invited and also he has kindly agreed to serve as a chair of this meeting. Now I would like to open the floor. Um are there any objections against this arrangement? hearing now. Okay. So, Dr. Otma Angelhat is the chair of this uh information meeting and with this I pass over to Ottoma. >> Thank you very much Wenjing and also a warm welcome from me everyone who's here and who's online on the YouTube live stream. Um as Wing said my name is Otto Anglad. from the WHO ERL at the MH in the UK. It's always an honor to chair this meeting and a privilege and I'm really happy to do so. Um I know you're all keen to hear the results of what we discussed uh in the last week. So we that's of course not just the people represented here in the committee but it's lots of other people in the institutions of the committee national influencer centers and then we have support from uh University of Cambridge from modeling groups as well as from the veterinary sector such as offflu and together we looked at lots of data uh digested the data discussed and came to some decisions before we go to these decisions though I would like to uh ask everybody around this table here to introduce themselves. So these are the members of the committee. So maybe we can start on this end. >> Good morning everybody. Um my name is Patrick Reading. I'm the director of the WHCC in Melbourne. Nicola Lewis and I'm the director of the WHOCC in London. >> Good morning everyone. My name is Pearl Bamford. um from the WHO essential regulatory laboratory in CRA in Australia um the therapeutics good administration. >> Good morning everybody. Uh I'm Dian Wong, director of W2C Beijing, China. >> Morning. I'm Richard Webby from the WHCC in Memphis. >> Good morning everybody. My name is Wasili Marino from WCC in Kova, Russia. Good morning everybody. This is Hideiki Haseawa, director of the WCC Tokyo. >> Uh thank thank you very much. I would also like to mention that Dr. Rebecca Condor from the CC in Atlanta participated in the uh VCM consultation this week but she's unable to be here uh today for the information meeting and with this I think we should go in media's race we should uh get the presentations for the summary data of the different uh components of the vaccine as well as data as usual we start with H1N1 and this will be presented by Nicola Lewis from the collaborating center in London Good morning colleagues. So as is tradition I'm going to present firstly the global influenza activity and then move on to present the AH1N1 PDM9 viruses hopefully. Right. Okay. So here you can see a slide showing um the number of specimens tested for u for influenza by gizeris um by the reporting period that we're looking at. And you can really see that we have a significant quantity of viruses that have been submitted by the national influenza centers through the network for us to analyze. The proportions are very much in line with um the number of specimens that we've had to test in previous years. As you can see here, you can see the trajectory of the green line for 2026 and indeed the end of the green uh the red line from 2025 to be very much in line with those that we've seen for previous reporting periods. Is that better? So when we look at the global circulation of influenza viruses, here you can see the uh trajectory and the dynamics of influenza circulating globally from 2024 through to 2026. What you can see in the middle is the uh dynamics that we saw and the proportion of influenza A, influenza B and and um H3 and N and H3 and N1 in 2025. And you can see that we really saw a higher proportion of H1 viruses. When we move through to 2026, you can see that we really saw an inversion in that um proportion where we saw more H3 viruses than we saw H1 viruses. when we look for the northern hemisphere versus the southern hemisphere here again you can see the northern hemisphere has had a significant amount of influenza activity particularly in recent weeks but we also saw the season start slightly earlier than we have in previous seasons. Conversely in the southern hemisphere we actually saw um continued circulation beyond the normal period that we would expect to see. So here you can see we saw southern hemisphere circulating throughout the uh months of July, August, September and indeed increased activity through into the latter part of 2025. When we look at the proportion of um influenza split out by subtype and type, you can see here that as I said previously, we really saw a larger proportion of AH3 viruses than we saw of AH1N1 PDM9 viruses and a very small proportion of B viruses. When we look at where influenza was actually circulating here, you can see that we've got the countries and the areas and the territories that have uh collaborated with the WHO collaborating centers and we work very hard as a network to um the national influenza centers providing us with material that we can then go on and analyze to understand how these viruses are evolving. Here we see influenza activity split out by uh region and you can see that we have heterogeneity in the kinds of viruses that have been circulating in different regions in the northern hemisphere. We've really seen a strong predomination of influenza A viruses but we've also seen influenza Viruses continue to circulate in the latter part of 2025 in some southern hemisphere countries. This is a collaborative effort and as you can see here, here's the total number of viruses genetically characterized by the WHO collaborating centers and really in line with the different proportions of viruses that we've seen circulating, we've seen reduced perhaps proportionately reduced numbers of AH1N1 PDM9 viruses sequenced relative to September 2024 to January 2025, so last year's reporting period. Whereas we've seen a stronger um number or a higher number of AH3N2 viruses genetically characterized in this reporting period really reflecting the different proportions of viruses that we have circulating. And again we have not detected any B amagata viruses in this reporting period. We also antigenically characterize these viruses. So here are the proportions really mirroring the genetic analysis that we do. These are the proportions of viruses. We then move through to antigenic characterization to understand the phenotype of the virus as well as the genetic sequence. And you can see that we've proportionately characterized more H3 viruses antigenically than we have AH1 N1 PDMO9 and B viruses. So now I'm going to move on to talk about the AH1N1 PDMO9 viruses in this reporting period. So this is a reporting period from September 2025 through to February 2026. And again, as we've seen, we've had a significant number of viruses submitted to the um collaborating centers, but really not so many as we've seen for the H3s. Where has AH1N1 PDM9 been circulating? Well, you can see here we have had some circulation in northern hemisphere countries, but we've really seen AH1N1 PDM circulating in the more tropical regions of the world, some countries in South Africa, and also in Oceanania. What we've also seen is the continued genetic diversification of the AH1N1 PDM9 viruses. And here you can see this illustrated globally where we've got the proportion of different subclates circulating in different countries shown on this map. And what I'd like to highlight here is really that we've seen a shift away from the C do 1, C1.9, and C193 viruses to see that the D.1, D.2, 2 D3.1 D3.1.1 viruses have really started to predominate in many regions. This this mirrors some of the findings that we heard about in the September VCM meeting. You can also see that the D3.1 viruses have predominated in some regions. For example, in Europe, whereas when we look at the Americas and some countries in Asia, you can see that the D3.1 viruses are predominated. So, it's not really one sizefits-all. We see genetic heterogeneity in where these viruses are circulating and in the proportions the viruses are circulating in different regions. When we look at the clay frequencies here, you can see it's really mirroring what I showed you in the previous figure that we've seen a predomination of the D3.1 and the D3.1 viruses through time in this reporting period. But really the D3.1 viruses are really strongly predominating in recent weeks. We can also look at these data by region. And here you can see these two particular claves we're focusing on here. Um you can see that in many regions these viruses have predominated the D3.1 D.3.1.1's but in some regions one or other of the claves have predominated. So you can see here that um the dynamics do tend to alter depending on which region you're looking at. We also analyze these uh the sequence data in phoggenetic trees and here you can see the phogyny of the AH1N1 PDM9 viruses in this reporting period and I'd like to acknowledge the University of Cambridge for um presenting for allowing us to use these figures. As with previous um VCN cycles, what you see here is the fogyny where we look at the interreationships of the different sequences and you can see on the right hand side the clades marked off. So here you can see that we've seen in recent weeks a shift from predominance of the C1.9.3 C1.9 viruses shown at the bottom part of this phoggenetic tree. And you can see that we've moved very strongly for the D3.1.1 and the D3.1 viruses to predominate in recent weeks in many geographic regions. The geographic regions here is shown by the tick marks in this part of the figure and they relate to the legend the map legend on the left hand side of this slide. So if we look in a little bit more detail here, you can see that D311 viruses have predominated in Europe whereas in other geographic regions there's been a more mixed pattern in co-irculation of these different genetic groups. We can also use antigenic ctography to understand the interreationships between the viruses that are circulating, the antigenic interreationships of the viruses that are circulating. And what we can do is color the particular strains that we're showing in the antigenic map by the genetic group that they belong to. So here we have an antigenic map using data from the collaborating center in London. And you can see that the University of Cambridge has kindly colored these circles which represent the viruses. These circles according to their genetic lineage. So you can see here these light blue viruses are the C1.9 viruses and then these darker purpley virus circles are the D3.1 and the D3.1.1 viruses. These antigenic maps are overlaid onto a grid and each square on this grid represents a two-fold difference from the HI assay. So when we think about antigenic evolution, we can quantify the way that these viruses are changing. We also have data here from the collaborating center in Melbourne. And what you can see in these antigenic maps is that the viruses that have been characterized antigenically in this reporting period cluster very closely together. So they're very antigenically similar to each other in both data from the collaborating center in London and also the collaborating center in Melbourne. What we can also do is interpolate a serum circle. This gives us a visualization of the viruses that are being well recognized by a particular serum in the antigenic analyses. And so here we have a serum circle interpolated over the map representing the cross reactivity the viruses that are recognized by the aisori 11 2025 cell serum. Um so this was the southern hemisphere vaccine recommendation and you can see many of the viruses that are currently circulating are well recognized by this particular feritancy. We also look at the number of viruses that we can analyze that don't react well in our HI assays. And here again I've taken the Amazur 11 2025 cell component and really we see very good recognition by Ferrisa raised to this virus for the majority of viruses that have circulated in this reporting period. We also use human corology to understand what the imunological recognition is. And here we've got um human serum panels and these people have been vaccinated various different age groups but these people have been vaccinated with an a Wisconsin 672022 like cell component and you can see for the C1.1 C1 um 93 viruses you can see good recognition but as I said previously in recent weeks we've really seen a predominance of the C of the D3.1 and the D3.1 viruses And you can see some loss of recognition by iminological um characterization in these human corology panels. So in summary, the BH1N1 PDM9 viruses, these viruses circulated globally, but they did not predominate in any particular region. The vast majority of the HA genes of the viruses that were genetically characterized in this reporting period belong to the caid 52A1 virus caid but particularly subclades D3.1 and D3.1.1. When we look at the antigenic characteristics of these viruses, we assess them using feritis. And for the reporting period, we really see that a Wisconsin 67 2022 light viruses and egg propagated a Victoria 48972022 light viruses from the 582A1 clay recognized viruses in both the 582A and the 5821 clades. Well, however, as we've seen previously, post infection feritans are raised against the 5A2A um clay in particular shows some reduction in recognition of viruses from the now predominating D3.1 and D3.1.1 subclades. When we use Missouri 11 2025 in our HI assays, we see improved recognition of the currently and the recently circulating strains. When we use human corology to characterize these viruses, we can see that when compared to the responses of cell culture propagated a Wisconsin 672022 AH1N1 PDM9 like vaccine reference viruses, some vaccination geometric meanitis were significantly reduced for some of the recently circulating strains particularly if they were from the D3.1 and the D3.1.1 subglades. Finally, I'd like to show you the antiviral susceptibility data. And in this reporting period, we uh genetically or phenotypically characterized 1,161 AH1N1 PDM9 like viruses. 15 showed evidence of reduced susceptibility to neuronase inhibitors. Seven had an A as an H275 YNA substitution and eight had an I223V and S247N substitution. We also characterize and analyze these viruses for um any particular um evidence for reduced susceptibility to the endonucleus inhibitor marbil. And in this reporting period of the 1,331 AH1N1 PDMI viruses, none showed evidence of reduced susceptibility. With that, thank you very much. >> Thank you, Nicola. We now move to H3 and two and Dr. Hidei Hava will present the H32 data. Okay, good morning again. Uh, today I'm going to present uh about the uh global circulation of the A3 and2 viruses in the context of the uh vaccine composition for the uh 25 26 27 northern hemisphere recommendation. Okay. Okay, first look at the number of the uh AH3 and two viruses detected through the giz and the as you see here in 2025 uh the uh at the uh week 37 the number of the detection of A3 and two increased And it peaked within the 2025 and it did decline after. And this is the uh uh global distribution the uh detection uh percentage percentage positive of the S3 and viruses and the S3 virus is detected uh across the regions and specifically the uh it was detection higher in the northern hemisphere uh North America and Europe and the Asian countries and also also detected southern uh hemisphere as And if we look at the clay distribution of A3 and2 viruses and 2 A3 A1 clay was uh predominated among them the J2 and its descendant lineages were uh uh distributed and the it means that the uh continuous diversifying this uh J2 uh subgrades and the uh majority of the regions that the uh subcl play the K dominated uh uh but the uh co-agulation with the other J2 uh lineages such as the J2 and J2.3 in the South America and the J2.2 and the J2.4 in uh some African countries. This is credit frequency of S3 and2. And as you see here uh during this reporting period the uh percentage frequency of the uh subgrade K is continuously increasing and the uh if you look at the circ uh frequency by regions. uh there are many regions in in many regions the subre K is predominated and in some uh regions such as the South America the at the beginning of the uh the reporting period the uh J.23 to the three is predominated but it is declining afterward and now the uh dominated by the subtra K. Okay. And the uh this is the number of andically characterized by the uh WCC's. And when we look at the anenic analysis by the HIS assays, the uh first look at the uh uh against the uh 25 26 northern hemisphere recommendation v uh vaccine viruses uh which is grade J subgrade J2 and the antic against a district colombia 27 2023 like cell growth and the URAI uh 10136 ROV 2023. three uh egg propagated viruses. uh this antisera uh feron sera uh showing the reduced uh reactivity against circling viruses among the RCC's and the reactivates against the anticerase against the 2026 southern hemisphere recommended vaccine which is a as 1359 2024 like uh serated virus and the Singapore GP P 2238 2024 uh egg propagated uh viruses. uh the uh it is the uh better uh recognition by the antis by these uh ants against these vaccine uh viruses and this is the also same as the when we look at the neutralizing assays from the cc's okay and this is the uh uh phyoggenic provided by the University Cambridge. Thank you very much. As you see here, the the lineage of the J.2 is uh continuously diversifying. Um and the in some parts you see you can see the J.2.3 2.3 detection during this reporting period which is uh the we can see the region by the color uh in the map and the it shows just the southern South America and for subgrade K previously called the J.2.4.1 4.1 uh is detected in the uh in the variety of region in the uh across the regions. Okay. And this is the example of the hi and genenic analysis. uh this is provided uh from the uh CC Austral and the uh the circulating of viruses here is reduced reactivity against the cell uh anti cell against the cell propagated kachia and the uh it is the uh better uh recognition by the uh cell propagated Sydney and egg propagated Singapore viruses. It is a 2026 southern hemisphere recommendation. uh but the uh if we look at the um reactivity against the uh antis against K uh self-propagroated eggated uh the recognition by hi assay is better and this is cardioraphy of the H3 provided by the University of Cambridge and the uh the based on the data from the CDC Atlanta and CC Tokyo NID and you can see the clustering of the uh Jet 2 viruses here and the uh it is the evolving the distinct directions the one is towards the J.23 and the other is towards the 0.2.4 four and further uh de further evolved towards the uh subgrid k here and this is a serum circle uh of the against the uh daring 1415 2025 cell like serum and the right side is the daring 1454 2025 egg uh uh egg like serum circle shown here. Uh this covers the vast majority of the uh so K viruses and human corology uh was examined using the uh adults uh and elderly and children human serum and compared to the uh vaccine uh virus district Colombia uh the uh it's all cell viruses and the uh viruses in the uh subgrade Z.23 and subgrade K is significantly reduced. So as a summary, the vast majority of the virus belong to the J.2 subcrade expressing HJ uh N122D and K276E substitutions. The HA genes have diversified with many subra J.2 and J.23 and J.2.4 4 and K formerly designated as J.2.4.1 and during this reporting period the subra K virus were detected in all regions and predominated in many countries there was still circulation of other J2 subrades notably J.2 or 2.3 in South America and J2.2 or J.24 to four in African and Asia and antigenic characteristics is shown here. The post infection feritin steroids against the cell culture propagated 8 district colombia uh 27 2023 like and egg propagated acroatia 10 136 RP 2023 like uh subgrade uh 02 viruses representing the uh composition of the northern hemisphere 256 infl vaccine showed poor recognition with recently circulating subgrade uh J three and J24 and the sub K viruses and Ferray against reference viruses from J.2.3 subra showed a good recognition of viruses expressing HA from J.23 to the three but poor recognition of other subsidies and a post infection ferret arrays against cell culture propagated Sydney 1359 2024 like and the egg propagated Singapore GP 2022 238 2024 like J2.4 viruses representing southern hemisphere 2026 infl vaccine recognize most J.2.4 four viruses and many subcl viruses as well. However, uh subar K viruses and J24 viruses with HS substitution of F79V S1 144N N uh 158D I 160K T328A were better recognition neonized by post infection ferris against cell culture propagated a Darwin 1415 2025 like and egg propagated a Darwin 454 2024 like South K viruses human corology studies were conducted using the serum panel by HI and virus neutralization assays with recent circulating A3 and two viruses with HA genes from sub Z.2 Z2.2 Z2.3 Z2.4 4 025 and K. And when compared to titles against self propagated a district Colombia 27 2023 like vaccine reference viruses post vaccination HIGMTS or virus neutralizing title GMTs against many of the recent viruses and also testes were significantly reduced in many serum panels. So antiviral susceptibility uh we calculate the a genetically and phenotypically the uh susceptibility against antivirals and we examined the 4,458 influenza A3 and two viruses and genetic and definitive analysis two viruses shows evidence of the reduced susp 1119 V substitutions and also characterize the 4,828 a2 viruses uh the accessibility against the uh the the nuclear endonucle inhibitor maroxil and the uh nine shows the uh reduced susibility against the uh induc inhibitors three has pi 38t substitute ution. Three has a P AI 38I T substitution. Two had a P AI 38 IM substitution and one has a P AE 199 EG substitution. Thank you. Uh thank you Hideki. We're now moving to influencer B and the data will be presented by Patrick Reading from the CC in Melbourne. Okay. Um I will run through the influenza B virus uh data now. So as we can see um if we look at uh the 2025 season which is in red um we only have a a small number of influenza B um activity towards the end of the year compared to a lot of um uh numbers at the start of the year. And if we look at the pie chart here, which is for the reporting period that we're currently looking at, you can see in brown that it's really quite a a very small proportion um of the overall viruses characterized that are influenza B viruses. This is showing influenza B activity over a number of years. Um if you look at the 2025, you can see that there's a big peak in brown. This, as I pointed out in the previous slide, was largely due to the activity early in 2025. The blue um shows those viruses that were lineage determined as B Victoria viruses. And this again highlights that since um 2020 there's been no detections of B Yamagata lineage viruses. If we look at the influenza activity um we can see that it's generally quite low. Um there are increased areas of activity in Africa, in India, in South America and I would highlight that more recently there has been um increasing activity seen in North America, Central America and also in South East Asia. So let's consider the viruses themselves. And here we have the fogyny um of the influenza B viruses. All viruses belong to clage 3A.2 2 and the 38.2 viruses have diversified into clades C.1 through to C5. If we look at what's being shown here on the the map, um we're really focusing on the C5 subclades as well as the C do 3s. So if we look at the C5s, we can see that moving into the latter part of 2025, we're seeing circulation of particularly C 5.6 and C5.7s in multiple regions around u the world. If we move up and we focus in on the CO3s, what we can see here is two things. Firstly, towards the latter part of 2025, we see an increase in C3.1s, particularly in North America, but also in Central America, South America, and other areas. And just above that, we're seeing an increase in CO3s, particularly in Asia, East Asia. What's interesting, I guess, is if we look over at the subclades themselves, the C5 subclades all have a range of different amino acid substitutions, but they feature a D197E. In contrast, a a subgroup of C do3 viruses has recently emerged which has a D197N and through independent sort of evolution, there is also C3.1s that also possess the D197N. So these really highlight these viruses we're looking at that have emerged um in the latter part of 2025. If we look at the distribution of subclades um from the previous reporting period on the left compared to the current reporting period on the right, what you'll see is we see the continued presence of this range of um C5 and C6 subclades, but we can see an increased proportion here of the C3.1 subclades and very low numbers of the C3 subclaid that I was referring to in the previous slide. Here we're looking at clay and subclaid frequencies over time moving from left to right. If we look at the latter part of of the season, we can see that in the pink here, these is highlighting the uh C3.1s and you can see there's quite a large proportion of those as we move towards the end of the 2025 and early into 2026. And just highlight highlighting up in the top here the light pink which is the C do3s um that I was talking about down here we see the remainder of the C5 um subclades that have been circulating in different proportions in different parts of the world. So this map is highlighting the diversity of the B victoria subclades that are circulating in different parts of the world. Um again we have C5s circulating in a number of regions. And if we move up the top to focus on the C3.1s, these have really predominated in the North America season um in recent weeks to months. And if we look at the very light pink, which is the CO3s, these have really been appearing um in in Eastern Asia um in recent times as well. As I said, the C5 various C5 subclades have circulated in various other regions um over the reporting period. So if we look at the um influenza B viruses that have been antigenically characterized, we're looking at the red here, which is the most recent reporting season. Um and this looks at the different collaborating centers and the number of viruses that have been characterized antigenically. You can see some of those numbers are quite low um compared to previous years and some of them a little higher. So here we're focusing in on the antigenic characteristics in HIS assays of the B lineage viruses and we're looking at the results from the different collaborating centers highlighting those that are low reactors with an eight greater an equal to or greater than eightfold reduction in HI. And for example, if you look at the cell grown virus on the left, you can see that different collaborating centers are getting different proportions. Um, CDC and NIID, for example, have higher proportions of low reactors compared to some of the other collaborating centers. This in turn likely reflects the um the subclades of viruses that have been analyzed at these particular centers. But overall for both the cell and the egg the overall proportion of low reactors is relatively low at 10 and 15% for cell and egg grown viruses. So what I want to show you here is a HISA. So this HISA is focusing on anti-era raised against cellgrown viruses. And what we have here is a range of um cellgrown isolates from very distinct geographical regions that cover the CO3s, the C3.31's, C5s, do6s and 5.6.1's and five C5.7s. And we're looking at the cell Austria um anti as well as an anti to a C5.6 six virus, a C5.7 virus and a C3.1 virus. And what you can sort of see here is while the Austria for example does not see the C3.1s or the C3 viruses um this is recovered um in the anti-er from the cell uh Pennsylvania 14 virus and we can see it also retains its ability to recognize other 3A.2 two subclades when we look at the egg grown viruses. So again here we've got a range of cell grown viruses um again covering subclades and virus a diverse subclades and also geographically sort of distinct vir viruses from geographically distinct areas. What we see now is if we're comparing the egg Austria um with the egg in this case it's a B Tokyo BIS-13175 2025 virus. What we can see here is that we do not see the strong reactivity. We see reductions in the reactivity of this egg anti-era against the cellgrown CO3 and C3.1 viruses. it does retain reactivity against the other 3A2 3A.2 subclaid viruses. So if we look at the serum at serum circles the well first if we look at antigenic ctography here we're looking at data from um the seek collaborating center in Tokyo on the left and the collaborating center in Melbourne on the right and we've got the different subclades highlighted in different colors with the C3.1s highlighted in blue um whereas the C56s and the C5.7s uh highlighted in in lighter colors. And what you can see is there is definitely a distinct antigenic group here that's formed of the C3.1 viruses relative to the C5 subclaid and their derivatives. If we look at the serum circles raised on the left to the B Pennsylvania 14 like um serum circle, we can see this serum circle nicely covers both the C5.6s, the C5.7s and the C3.1 viruses. And if we look at the Tokyo um egg grown like serum circle on the right, we can see this again also covers C5.6 six and C5.7 viruses and it just covers the C3.1 viruses that um we've been talking about which are highlighted in blue. So again using the human serum panels that were raised to the B um Austria virus. What we can see here is we've got the panels on the left hand side and across the top we've got C3 C viruses C3 C3.1 C5.1 C5.6 C5.6.1 6.1 and C5.7 um representative viruses. And with the B Austria cell or egg, what you can see is good recognition in general of these C5 C5 viruses and their derivative subclades. But we see very poor recognition of the CO3s and the C3.1 viruses that were tested. So in summary firstly if we consider the phoggenetic characteristics of the B victoria viruses um only B victoria lineage viruses were available for analysis and no Bagata viruses were detected and um have not been confirmed since March 2020. All of the B lineage virus B victoria lineage viruses belonged to cate 3A.2 two and there was further diversification into several subclades C.1 to C do 5 but really it was the C dot it was the C do 3 and the C do five um derivative viruses that um were the majority of vir well all the viruses analyzed during this uh reporting period. So viruses that fall into the C5 C5.1 C5.6 C5.6.1 6.1 and C5.7 all have an HA substitution D197E on top of their own defining substitutions and these circulated at varying proportions in different regions around the world. There are viruses designated as CO3 which have HA substitutions E128K, A154E and S208P. There are from here there are further C3.1 viruses that share additional mutations D197N which adds a glycosilation site along with P208S of the C3 CO3 viruses. There has been a recent sort of subgroup that has emerged with additional changes to add on the same D197 site. So a potential endlink glycosillation site as well as S255P and I267V. These viruses and the C3.1 viruses have been detected in increasing proportions in eastern Asia and in North America in recent weeks to months. So if we consider the antigenic characteristics of the B viruses um post infection ferret anti-era to the B Austria like viruses inhibited recently circulating C5.1's C5.6s C5.6.1's 6.1's and C5.7 viruses. Well, however, CO.3 viruses and C3.1 subclaided viruses with the HA substitution D197MN were poorly recognized by the B Austriaike anti um ferret antisera. However, post infection ferid anti-era raised against cell culture propagated viruses from subclaid 3 c.3.1 eg the pencil b Pennsylvania pennsylvania 14 2025 recognize recent circulating viruses from c3 c3 c3.1 and other 3a.2 two subclades. Well, all available egg isolates for subclades C3.3 and C3.1 viruses um eg the B Tokyo EIS-13 175 2025 virus had acquired egg adaptive mutations that remove the potential N glycosillation site at the HA site 197 to 199 and therefore postinfection antisera raised against egg propagated viruses from subclad C3.3.1 such as the Tokyo virus showed reduced recognition of recently circulating viruses from C3.3 and C3.1. If we look at the human corology um using the uh northern hemisphere 2025 2026 influenza vaccine formulations, we see that recent B victoria viruses with um HA genes we used recent viruses with um HA genes from the CO3s, C3.1's, C5s, C5.6, C5.6.1 and C5.7. And when looking at the egg or cell culture um propagated B Austria like vaccine reference viruses, the postvax vaccination GMTs were significantly reduced for recently circulating viruses from CO3 that should say and C3.1 subclades. Finally, to finish off, when we're considering antiviral susceptibility, of the 349 B lineage viruses collected and examined by genetic or phenotypic analyses, two showed evidence of reduced or highly reduced susceptibility to NIS. And of the 760 B lineage viruses analyses during this period, none showed evidence of reduced susceptibility to blox maroxal. And that is the end of the influenza bees. Thank you. Thank you Patrick. Um, as you know, we also consider animal and chronotic influenza viruses in our consultation and uh this part of the of our consultation will be presented in summary by Richard Webbby from the collaborating center in Memphis. Well, good morning all again and thanks Otmar. As Otmar I think just said the most interesting part as always of a 4-day consultation occurs on day one when we discuss sort of influenza activity at the human animal interfaces. Um this brings information not just from within the gist laboratories but also most notably from our colleagues at offlu and other sort of human veterary and academic labs um around the world. If we look at in the and since we last met what viruses have sort of successfully made that leap from various animal populations into humans and been and have been detected in humans we see many of the sort of typical um characters that we see. So H5N1 um infections, H9N2 coming from viruses that typically spend their life in birds into humans. We also have some viruses from swine population. So the H1N1Vs, the H1N2s and the H3N2s and we're going to briefly touch upon um most of these um in the next few slides. So focusing on on the H5N1 uh again data here provided by our offloop colleagues we can see again pretty robust activity of these viruses um around the globe um in most all parts of the globe except with um except for Oceanania. uh most of that activity is driven by the clay 2344B viruses but with pockets of other viruses particularly in in South Asia and um and Southeast Asia as well. Uh in terms of zunotic detections uh again we've seen spillover of avian influenza viruses the 2321A which uh essentially are are limited to detections in in poultry in Bangladesh and India. uh 2321A. So a single case from Bangladesh follows on from a couple of cases or actually I think three or four cases in the last reporting period. Uh Cambodia again which has a slightly different form of virus um circulating in in bird populations there. The 2321E uh so three cases detected in this period. Uh oh, what I actually forgot to say on that last slide is although we've had the the usual detections um of influenza viruses, zunotic influenza viruses in humans, we have for the first time detected some different subtypes. So the H5 and2 um in Mexico and an H5N5 in in the US. Uh both of both of these being having HAS at least the 23 44Bs for picking up neurominadases from other aven influenza viruses. And of course, as you can see here, um the disease in in these cases ranges from um moderate causing moderate disease through to um unfortunately fatal infections. So just looking at these I guess atypical subtypes that we have detected the the H5N5 again this data from the US CDC some trees um the denoted the ones we're talking about denoted by the little yellow dot here. the H5 and5s uh again very similar to a bunch of viruses that again is typically associated with more of the the gull type birds as opposed to ducks or chickens. Um prevalent across parts of um eastern Canada um northeastern US but also viruses from um northern Europe as well. Um so these viruses do circulate. Um this particular infection was detected in Washington state which is actually in the northwest part of the US. Um little a little unclear exactly how the virus got there from most of its home in in the eastern part of the continent. Uh the H5N2 similarly uh the HA of this particular virus very similar to the D11 versions of the 234B viruses. These are the ones that were have been the big sort of players in wild birds in North America over the past couple of seasons. Um, in terms of the the antigenic characteristics of those viruses, um, similar to at least the HAS were similar to viruses we've seen before and were pretty well covered by antismays to available CVBS. Uh the H92s uh again numerically the most um cases we have detected in the past few months 14 um these were detected by our colleagues and in China. Uh again tends to be a little more mild disease but certainly can cause severe disease as well. Um again exposure mostly to poultry and it tends to be a little more of the younger age group that gets infected with this particular virus. Uh when we look at phoggenetically and antigenically where these viruses sit, I'm going to need my glasses to see what that actually is. Um we can see a few scattering through the the B472 H clay. Um I'll draw your attention to this particular group here. Um which sits a little bit south of at least the Anway Chan um CVV we have. uh and when we look antigenically we can also see so the first three viruses on this H8 um HI table fall within this particular phoggenic cluster and you can see when we look at um ferret antiserum produced against the two sort of most related CVVS we have we see a little bit of um reduced reactivity with this particular fogenic cate oh that's what it says in the title there to fill that gap we're actually sort of proposing to move forward um with the production of a a hunan 2025 like CVV just to cover this group of viruses where we have seen zunotic infections repeatedly over the past couple of years. So to sort of summarize in one slide the the rest of the activity uh again it's with viruses we have seen spill over into humans another couple of cases of the H10 and3 viruses in China. Again a virus that is also detected in poultry populations in that region of the world. um a little less prevalent than some of the H9N2s um and H5s but still spilling over into humans repeatedly. We have some swine influenza again in China um Brazil and the US but um we're information was available from those cases again um at least covered by available reagents. So just want to sort of finish with a a little bit of a reminder. Um you although although it has been a while since we have seen an H79 human infection, you these viruses still do circulate in various parts of the world. And this is um data here from our scenic colleagues just showing that the H79 viruses um are still there but certainly a much lower prevalence than than they were a decade or so ago. So I think Omar that's me done. Thank you Richard. So now we come to the part that everybody's looking forward to. Um when Jing from WHO will present the summary and the recommendation Okay. So bearing into the in-depth analysis in mind, now we are coming to the conclusion. Um the conclusion of course is a recommendation on vaccine composition for the next uh the next season and uh the WHO's recommendation has been based on yearround surveillance conducted by the global influenza surveillance and response system gris currently gris comprises 165 institutions in 138 countries areas and territories since last uh information meeting on vaccine composition for the southern hemisphere 2026. There have been two new who climbing centers focusing on quality and capacity building of giz. one is in past institute sineagal. Um and this uh this laboratory actually has been active in the past dozen years on infens surveillance and active in the western Africa. Um the second WCC is a public health laboratory in Hong Kong and this institution has been in the past almost 20 years running the external quality assessment program of Giz. So I would also of course like to mention and to acknowledge the countries hosting these giz institutions and and many partners and collaborators supporting the system to make the gist a real asset of the world today. So this week from Monday to Thursday, WHO convened a consultation uh in Istanbul here to review and analyze massive volume of the data and make the conclusion I recommendation with regards the volume of data. Last night I was checking how to actually describe the the volume of the data. So in the past few years we've been transitioned to the fully digital format of the meeting folders but the last time we produced a physical meeting folder several years ago it was like this it is about like 10 9 to 10 cm this type of thick meeting folder for the consultation. Um the meeting this week was attend was attended by 41 experts from Giz and its collaborators partner agencies um also from WHO regional offices and uh and HQ. The meeting was chaired by Dr. Dian Wang from the clubing center in Beijing and co-chared by professor Nicola Ruiz from the WHO clubing center in the Francis Creek Institute in London. With regards the data it is not only the volume but also it covers miscellaneous aspects as I uh listed here. These datas are generated by giz as well as different agencies from public from from public but also from research academia from veterary sectors. So these datas are put together as the scientific evidence base to draw the conclusion of the recommendation and this is the advisory committee made the recommendation that is going to be announced today. Um the advisory committee this time comprised the nine experts and they are coming from Australian, China, Japan, Russia, UK and US. So based on the analysis presented by the experts um it is recommended that vaccines for use in the 2026 2027 northern hemisphere influenza season contain the following. For egg based vaccines, it is recommended to contain an A Missouri 11 2025 H1 and1 PDM09 like virus, a Davin 2025 H3 and two like virus and a B Tokyo EIS 13175 a B Victoria lineage like virus for sale culture. re combinant protein or nuclear exate based vaccines. It is recommended to contain a misori 11 2025 H1N1 like virus, a Daring 1415 2025 H3 and2 like virus and a B Pennsylvania 14205 a B Victoria lineage like virus. So as we can see from this recommendation that in comparison with the previous recommendation for the southern hemisphere 2026 season there are two uh updates uh uh for the composition for H3 and two and B component and also as mentioned in the last consultation that uh uh uh there will be no recommendation for the B Yamagada lineage each component in in in vaccines. So the technical report containing the scientific evidence base uh on which this recommendation is made is published on the WHO's website may be live now or maybe a little bit later due to the time difference. um corresponding candidate vaccine viruses to enable the implementation of this recommendation also is published and will be continuously updated on the WHO's website. At the same time, a report to summarize the zonotic influenza virus categorization and the development of new candidate vaccine virus for zonatic influenza for pandemic prepeness. also published on the WHO's website today this morning. an FAQ to address the questions uh that uh uh might be associated with the recommendation is also developed and is published on the website the today um for countries in tropical and sub subtropical regions with regards which formulation to use whether it's to use the northern hemisphere or southern hemisphere recommendations this guidance also has been published by on its website for the countries to refer to. Um, so I'll stop here and uh pass over to the chair. Thank you. Thank you very much, Winging. So after hearing the announcement of the WHO strain recommendation, we need to know what CVVS and reagents are available to produce the next northern hemisphere influenza vaccines. And this will be presented by Pearl Bamford from the TGA in Canbor. Well, thank you very much. Um, I get the pleasure of um, going through the available CVBS and potency reference reagents for the name prototype viruses for the Northern Hemisphere 202627 season. Um, I'll start out with the candidate vaccine viruses that are available and um, this is no surprise to all of you. So this is a continuation of the H1N1 PDM9 virus that was you recommended for the southern hemisphere 2026 season. So all of these CVs that are available for the A Missouri 11 2025 have already been published on the um WHO website and they consist of two wild type viruses and their corresponding high growth reassortance to the A Missouri 11 2025 and the A Switzerland 2025. When we go into the cell culture based uh reference reagent uh CBVS that are available uh we have quite a a long list. I'm not going to go through them. As I said the these viruses um there's nothing new that has been added in during this consultation. So moving on to the um AH32 viruses. um these viruses for the egg derived CBBS to that are antigenically like the A Darwin 1454 2025 strain that is recommended. Here is a list and as you can see we've got three Darwin viruses with their corresponding reference names and there there's two high growth reassortance that have been developed IBR238 to the named prototype virus A Darwin along with the A Darwin 1499 2025 IVR284. So these viruses all the Darwin viruses are available from Vidral Australia. Um and in addition we have the a Michigan 105 2025 wild type virus that is available from the CDC and MH at this point. So moving on to the available CVs for the cell culture AH3N2, we've got the A Darwin 14 uh 1415 2025 CVR 400 and the A Tasmania and both of these are available from Vidril again. So now moving on to the B Victoria lineage like virus for the egg based production systems that are antigenically like the B Tokyo EIS13175205. Uh we've got the wild type virus for the name prototype virus as well as an additional Tokyo virus which with the corresponding number EIS13011 2025. So just before I go on to oh and and we've got the cell culture reference reagents uh CVs here um corresponding to the B Pennsylvania 14 2025. So we have got two um viruses that are available from NAID. The B kanagawa AC 2414 2025 and the B Tokyo EIS-1311 And just before I move on to um the potency testing reagents, I just wanted to highlight that all those viruses that have been named here today have been antigenically passed the two-way testing by the CC's and are available. There are additional viruses that are within the CC's at the moment that are going undergoing the antigenic testings. So they will be um added onto the WHO website once they have been characterized but we haven't named them here. So now moving on to the potency testing reagents. Um again all of these reagents are available now for the H1N1 virus. Um so you've got the choice of the IBR278 antigens that are available for three erls at this point. So both TDA, MH and SBA FDA and they've got paired corresponding sheep ant panty sera that's available from these institutions. Um, and that that's for the egg based uh reference antigens. And we also TGA also has a cell culture reference antigen corresponding to the A Tasmania 318 2025 with the antigen lot number 20256B. So now as we've got two new strains for the both the A um H3N2 and the B Victoria lineage viruses, the real work really kicks off for the ARIRLs um and manufacturers. Um so we currently don't have any reference reagents for these two new strains. Um but as always we'll be in endeavored to uh get them out as soon as possible. Um so just finally um reiterating WQing's point that um all of this information will be publicly available on the WHO website for both the candidate vaccine viruses that have passed antigenically pass the two-way testing um along with the development of potency reference reagents and as always um the ARIRLs and WHO colleagues will um be updating the development of these through the um IFPMA bi-weekly calls. So that is all for me. Thank you. >> Thank you Pearl. So with this we have finished the first part of today's information meeting. Um we will interrupt the meeting for a coffee tea break now and reconvene at 11:00. But this also marks the end of the YouTube live stream of the WO information meeting. So, I'd like like to say goodbye to everybody who's joined online and thank you for your interest in the information meeting.