Welcome sir. there. We got your excellency President Hakende which DMA honorable chair minister Ellia Muima vice chair honorable minister Dr. Luis Poto honorable ministers heads of delegation regional director Dr. Muhammad Yakub Janabi, Africa CDC Regional Director, Jean Casaya. Dear colleagues and friends, good morning. Bonju Bombia, it's an honor to be back in Lusaka. I don't know how many times I have been here, but my first is to Nola in 1995. and still a fresh memory about Indola and I tell my Zambian colleagues I'm from Indola the copper belt because that was the first visit to Zambia and thank you always for the great hospitality. Thank you so much and I thank your excellency, your government and the people of Zambia for your hospitality in hosting this year's regional committee for Africa and I commend you for your continued commitment to promoting, providing and protecting the health of your people. I am especially pleased to note that the maternal mortality ratio in Zambia has declined by 14% since 2020. At a time when maternal mortality remains stubbornly high in many countries. This is an impressive achievement and congratulations your excellency. I'm also pleased to see that Zambia is on track to exceed the Abuja target for health financing as my brothers Jean Casaya and Janabi had already said and has made significant progress in strengthening its health workforce with almost 20,000 health workers recruited in the last three years. you you're also transforming health digitalization under the smart Zambia institute. I also thank you your excellency for your leadership and a commitment your commitment as a collera global as a kolera control global champion. This regional committee is also significant at the first in a new era under the leadership of Professor Janabi. My brother, congratulations once again on your election. You have taken the helm at an unprecedented and extremely timultest time for WHO. We're grateful for your experience and expertise as you have navigated these challenges. Although you have only been in the job for a few weeks, thank you for the commitment, energy you have brought to it and for your first report. As you wrote in your report, despite the turbulence of the past year, WHO has worked tirelessly to meet the challenges you face. The regional office responded to over 160 public health emergencies, rolled out malaria vaccines in 19 countries, and strengthened health financing in 80% of your countries. Five countries were validated for the elimination of at least one neglected tropical disease. Millions of children were protected through immunization and nutrition programs and much more. As you know, our continent faces many challenges. Maternal and child mortality remain high in many countries. Progress against HIV, malaria and TB has stalled in some cases reversed while the burden of non-communicable diseases and mental health conditions only continues to increase. Every year we face health emergencies caused by outbreaks, conflict or climate related weather events. And despite the undeniable progress we have made, health systems in many countries remain inadequate to meet these challenges with uneven service coverage, high out-ofpocket health spending and underpowered health workforce. Even in the face of financial and organizational challenges, the regional office has continued to deliver world worldclass technical support to our member states. Your agenda this week reflects your shared commitment to promoting, providing, and protecting the health of the region's people. The regional framework on oral health will address a long neglected issue in our region. The regional strategy on rehabilitation and the framework on black pro products both set out clear objectives, concrete targets and milestones and priority interventions. The technical papers on malaria and the health of women, children and adolesccents both propose concrete actions for accelerating progress and much more. Of course, implementing all of these strategies, frameworks and actions will require resources which as we all know are even scarcer than usual. Sudden and dramatic cuts to official development assistance are disrupting health systems in many countries. According to WHO's latest analysis, health aid is projected to decline by up to 40% this year compared to just two years ago. This is not a gradual shift. It's a cliff edge. Life-saving medicines are sitting in warehouses. Health workers are losing jobs. Clinics are closing. And millions are missing out on immunization and care. As we navigate this extremely difficult times, it's important also to remember that in this crisis lies an opportunity. It's an opportunity to shake off the yoke of a dependency and embrace a new era of sovereignity, self reliance and solidarity. Many African leaders have told me they are ready to make that transition. Many of you actually in this room and many countries have been taking action. In February this year, His Excellency President Kagame hosted a meeting on the margins of the African Union summit, drawing attention to the need for domestic health financing. And earlier this month, I had the honor of attending the Africa Health Sovereignity Summit in Acra, Ghana, convened by his excellency, President Muhammad. Ghana is one of many countries that's taking concrete steps on the road to sustainable self-reliance. Earlier this year, its parliament lifted the cap limiting the amount of taxes earmarked for national health insurance agency. This translates into a 60% increase in the budget of the national health insurance scheme for 2025. Another powerful tool for generating revenue and improving health is through health taxes on tobacco, alcohol and sugary drinks. In the past decade, Botswana, Cabo Verde, Gabon, Ghana, Kenya, Mauritius, Nigeria and South Africa have all introduced such taxes. Just last month's Uganda increased its excise duties on tobacco. Also last month, WHO launched our three by35 initiative which aims to support countries to increase the real prices of these three unhealthy products tobacco, alcohol and sugary dr drinks by at least 50% by 2035. Of course, health taxes are only one tool. There are many other ways that WHA is supporting member states not only to raise funds but also to improve the way those funds are used. And on this interventions were very much aligned with Africa CDC especially in domestic resource mobilization to address the current crisis and use the crisis as opportunity and many examples we can um put not only the taxes but pull procurement I think John had said it earlier and investment in domestic manufacturing. By integrating donorf funed vertical programs into government systems based on primary health care through public health insurance and through better budget execution using digital public finance financing management schemes. At the same time we must also confront the structural constraints. Debt service burdens are crowding out social spending and donor funding often bypasses national systems, making long-term plan planning almost impossible. And our continent loses more to illicit financial flows and corporate tax exemptions than it gains in aid. Addressing this massive drain of resources requires good governance, strong public accountability and bold leadership. In May, the World Health Assembly adopted a landmark resolution led by Nigeria and co-sponsored by over 25 countries including Ghana, South Africa, Seneagal, and Zambia calling for more domestic investment in health and deeper governance reform. It reflects the Lusaka agenda and the principles of one plan, one budget, one report. WHO is committed to supporting all member states around the world and here in Africa to build strong, resilient, inclusive health systems guided by evidence and grounded in equity. And yet, as you know, who is also facing a very difficult financial situation. This is a crisis that has been long in the making and it's one we saw coming. 2017 2018 when we started our WHO transformation one of the risks we identified was who's heavy reliance on earark funds from a handful of traditional donors. So we set about a range of reforms to broaden who WHO's donor base and make who funding more resilient and sustainable. Most significantly in 2022 member states committed to increasing assess contributions progressively to 50% of our budget. This is very historic by the way. The largest increase in the history of the organization was 3%. The 50% increase was significant. They met the first increase in 2024 at the World Health Assembly this year. They approved the second increase which will happen next year. We cannot overstate the significance of this decision you made. Our member states the funding model was frankly broken and the increase in assess contributions is central to fixing it. It will help to protect the organization from the impact of future shocks and be transformative to its long-term financial stability. Ultimately, it's not about the money. It's about the independence of your WHO. This decision has already made a huge difference. If it had not happened, we would be facing a much worse situation than we are facing now. Nevertheless, we have no choice but to scale back the size of our budget, our for workforce and our work. In May, the health assembly approved the budget of $4.2 2 billion dollars for the 2026 2027 banium a 21% reduction from the original proposed budget of 5.3 billion US since early February we have also implemented a series of cost-saving measures including significant reductions in travel which we project will save up to 190 million dollars this year in par parallel As you know, we also embarked on a prioritization exercise to ensure our focus was aligned with our core mandate and projected financing. This has resulted in difficult but necessary decisions. Some activities are being sunset, others are scaled down while those linked most closely to WHO's core mandate are maintained. We began at the very top of the organization with A-50% reduction in the senior leadership team followed by a significant reduction in the number of departments and directors at headquarters. Directors are now implementing the new structures based on the outcomes of the prioritization exercise and the budgetary envelopes. We have also offered voluntary retirement packages, early early separations and reduced our spending on activities to the most critical needs. At this stage, we anticipate approximately 600 job losses at We look forward to seeing the updates on restructuring from the African region and the other regions soon. Together, these actions, the increase in assess contributions and the cost containment measures are expected to help us avoid about 900 separations globally. That's why I said earlier the increase in assess contributions and the measures we are taking is helping and who will be more focused on its core mandate and more independent. These changes will lead to a leaner who WHO, one that remains fit for purpose. Let me be clear. All of these cuts mean that we will no longer be able to do everything we would like to do at the scale we have done before. We cannot do small things every in in in in everything. We have to focus on the core mandate. That's why I'm saying this is an opportunity for WH. But these challenges present an opportunity to refine and refocus our work. The global health landscape has changed, but the need for a stronger WHO has not. At this World Health Assembly, member states sent a very clear and strong signal that they want a strong, empowered, and sustainable WHO. The approval of the next increase in assess contributions was a strong vote of confidence as was the historic adoption of the pandemic agreement. I thank the many African member states who who engaged actively in the negotiations and thank you for the spirit of collaboration and compromise you showed. You demonstrated that in our divisive world, multilateralism still works. As you know, negotiations are continuing on the PUBS annex and I urge all member states to engage actively in those negotiations. Your Excellency, Mr. President, thank you once again for your hospitality and for your commitment to health here in Zambia and across our continent. Honorable ministers, dear colleagues and friends, I leave you with three requests. First, I urge you to conclude the negotiations on the pub's annex in time for next year's World Health Assembly in May. Second, I urge you to use every tool at your disposal to generate financing for health and to improve efficiency. WH stand is ready to support all member states to do that. And third, I urge you to seize this opportunity to chart a new future for our continent. A healthier, safer, fairer, and more more self-reliant future free from the yoke of a dependency. I do not mean to downplay the challenges we face. They are significant and they are serious. But I prefer to see this crisis as an opportunity both for our continent and for our WHO. There is a famous bea proverb here in Zambia that says immittianga to means today's bush is tomorrow's forest. It means that from little things big things grow. Today we can plant the seeds of self reliance that will grow into the Africa we all want. The Africa we all want. By the way, in 2013 when we finalized the Africa we want 2063 50 years vision, I was foreign minister and I was part of that exercise and I actually had the privilege of chairing the executive council of the foreign ministers. And what exactly we said then was with the right term with the right terms and with the right treatment from the world and especially if we can look inside and improve our weaknesses the Africa we want can be realized. I think this is the time. This is the time and it's possible. What we ask is not aid. What we ask is fair terms. And finally, I look forward to working with Dr. Janabi, my colleagues in the regional office and with all member states as we work together to promote, provide and protect the health of the people of our continent. I thank you very much. Thank your excellency. Another round of applause for Dr. Son, the director of the World Health Organization, positioning his health since the year 2017. And thank you for going in your speech. I'm sure you've been quoted for a long time to come. And speaking of quotes, one of his famous quotes, and that's Dr. Tedas, one of his famous quotes is, "Our vision is not health for some, it's not health for most, it's health for all, rich and poor, able and disabled, old and young, urban and rural, citizen and refugee. everyone everywhere. Let's give Dr. Teddis a big round of applause indeed. And now we are going to have a ceremony within a ceremony. This is a special part of our program today. The president of the Republic of Zambia has the privilege of conferring certain awards on people three times in a year in this republic. And so we are privileged today to be witnesses of one of those three times. And for this I will now ask for the principal private secretary, Mr. Bradley Majela to come and take over and lead us like I said in this ceremony within a ceremony. So I ask that we all pay attention to what is to follow. No. Move it back away. Special investigure ceremony. 25th August 2025, Mulongushi International Conference Center, Lusaka. To the order of the Eagle of Zambia, Third Division to my trusty and wellbeloved Dr. The Tedras Adhan Gibbracius Dr. Jean Casser Greetings. I Hakinda Hitchma, president of the Sovereign Republic of Zambia and Commander and Chief of the Defense Force of the Republic of Zambia. Having regard to your services to humanity, do by this warrant award you officers of the Order of the Eagle of Zambia, Third Division, given under my hand given under my hand at Laka this 25th day of August 2025. Hakkaind Hitchma, President >> Dr. Tedros Adan Gabrias >> whereby you are a historic and compassionate leader who has transformed global health governance and placed equity at the heart of the world's response to health challenges. As the first African to serve as director general of the World Health Organization, WH, you have elevated Africa's voice on the global stage and reaffirmed the principle that health is a fundamental human right for all. Your leadership has been defined by courage, empathy, and conviction, especially during one of the greatest crisises of our time, the coid9 pandemic. Through your steady guidance, you have become a trusted beacon of science, solidarity, and hope for nations across the world, whereby your tireless championing of equity in global health has ensured that vulnerable nations, including those in Africa, are not left behind in the distribution of vaccines, medicines, and lifesaving interventions. You are consistently calling for fairness in access to health services and have challenged the global community to work together to leave no one behind. Under your leadership, you have strengthened global efforts in universal health care, pandemic preparedness, and emergency response. You have advanced initiatives that safeguard communities, build resilient health systems, and ensure that every person, regardless of geography or status, has the right to quality health care. Your leadership, unwavering commitment to equity, and outstanding contribution to humanity's collective health and well-being deserves special recognition. Dr. Jin Casaya, whereby under your stewardship, the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Africa CDC, has been transformed into the continent's recognized public health agency. Through your bold leadership, Africa CDC declared EMPOX a continental emergency, thereby mobilizing collective action to save lives. You have championed local manufacturing of vaccines and medicines, promoted innovative health financing, and coordinated life-saving responses that have protected millions of Africans from emerging health threats. You are currently serving as the director general of Africa CDC, where you provide visionary leadership in strengthening Africa's health security, building resilient health systems, and advancing the continent's preparedness and response to public health emergencies. Your dedication towards saving lives in the face of dangerous pandemics despite risks involved indeed deserves special commendation. Mr. President, honorable ministers, your excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, this marks the end of this investigative ceremony.