Good afternoon to everyone and welcome to WHO press conference uh on global health issues. My name is Tariq and I welcome you and thank you for joining us today. As always, we have a number of WHO experts here with us in the room or online who will be answering your questions. So, I will start by introducing who is here in the room and we'll later also say who is online with us is obviously Dr. Tedras, who director general. Next to him is Dr. Mariamov. She is interim director of WHO's department of epidemic and pandemic management. With us is also Dr. Stuart Keiel who is a technical lead of WHO for eye care. Also we have uh Miss Cigarit Krennaveter who is director of WHO governing bodies. With us uh uh especially today is our representative uh in Sudan uh Dr. Shibil Sahabani and we also have with us uh Mr. Derek Walton uh who legal council in the room and who is not on the podium. Uh we have Teresa Zakaria. She is unit head for risk reduction. We have uh uh Dr. Deos Mubangizi who is director medicines and health products policies and standards department in WHO. And uh we also have uh Dr. Kate Tobran that you know very well our director for immunization vaccines and biologicals. We have number of others online and we will introduce them as need be. With this I will give the floor to Dr. Tedras for his opening remarks. Thank you. Thank you, Tik. Uh, good morning, good afternoon, and good evening. First, one issue that WHO works on that doesn't often make the headlines is eye health. Cataract is the most common cause of blindness globally and the leading cause of vision impairment affecting more than 94 million people. In addition to impaired vision and blindness, cataract can contribute to reduced mobility, unemployment, social isolation, depression and anxiety. Cataract is a major public health problem with a simple cost-effective solution and it can be resolved with a 15inut procedure providing immediate and lasting restoration of sight. Cataract surgery is life transforming giving the gift of sight to people who had lost it and reopening a world that had closed. In 2021, the World Health Assembly adapted a global target to increase access to effective cataract surgery by 30 percentage points by 2030. Many countries have made impressive progress, including Bhutan, and in all regions, women are disproportionately affected. The research estimates that coverage will increase by 8.4 4 percentage points by 2030, less than onethird of the pace needed to reach the 2030 target. WHO urges governments, partners and donors to invest in this cost effective and life-changing intervention to prevent blindness and give people back the gift of sight. The new research published today was led by the International Center for Eye Health at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, which is in the process of becoming a WHO collaborating center. It's an example of the valuable contribution that WHO's network of over 800 collaborating centers can make a can make to research and global health. Now some good news on Kolera. In 2013, WHO and the coalition of partners established a stockpile of Kolera vaccines for two purposes. To conduct reactive vaccination campaigns in response to outbreaks and preventative campaigns in areas at risk of outbreaks to stop them before they happen. Since 2021, the world has experienced a significant increase in kolera outbreaks, cases, and deaths. Last year alone, more than 600,000 cases and 7,600 deaths were reported from 33 countries. This increase put heavy demand on the stockpile which meant that preventive campaigns had to be stopped to ensure enough vaccines were available for reactive campaigns. Following sustained efforts by manufacturers and partners, the annual global supply of oral choleera vaccine has now doubled from 35 million dos in 2022 to nearly 70 million doses in 2025. Thanks to this increase, we have now been able to resume preventative vaccination campaigns against Kolera after more than three years. This is important because it could help us to turn the tide on collera preventing outbreaks instead of only responding when they happen. Last week, Mozambi became the first country to resume preventative preventive vaccination, reaching 1.7 million people at risk of collera, including in remote areas. In parallel, Mozambi is also conducting reactive campaigns to control an outbreak that has been fueled by recent floods. Preventive vaccination campaigns are also due to start in Bangladesh and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. We thank EU Biologics based in the Republic of Korea, which is currently the only manufacturer producing collera vaccines at the scale needed for mass vaccination campaigns. While vaccines are an important tool, the best investment in preventing choleera is in safe water and sanitation. Kolera is one of many examples of diseases that can be easily prevented with vaccines since 2000 and the five mortality has dropped by more than half thanks largely to the power of vaccines. Today, WHO's regional office for Europe published new data with encouraging news. The number of measles cases in the region dropped by 75% last year compared with 2024. This is due to increased vaccine coverage, community outreach, outbreak response, and more. At the same time, five countries in the European region lost their misleation status in 2024. Misunderstanding and confusion about the safety of vaccines are fueling outbreaks and costing lives in many countries. We must listen carefully to people who have real concerns and give them the information they need to make the best decisions. At the same time, we must keep saying it. Vaccines work. Vaccines are safe. Vaccines save lives. One rare but dead deadly disease for which we do not yet have a vaccine is Nepa virus. In the past few weeks, three cases of NEPA, two in India and one in Bangladesh made headlines and caused concern about a wider outbreak. Over 230 contacts have been followed, but no further cases have been identified. The two outbreaks are not related although both occurred along the India Bangladesh border and share some of the same ecological and cultural conditions as well as populations of the species of fruit bat that are known to be the natural reservoir of nepa virus. WHO is working with India and Bangladesh on risk assessment, followup of contacts, risk communication and community engagement. WHO assesses the risk of spread of NEPA virus regionally and globally as low. In Sudan, a situation that's already awful continues to deteriorate. Last week, the international phase classification published a new alert saying that famine indicators are worsening in the most vulnerable areas of Sudan. The latest IPC alert shows that two new areas in North Darur have surpassed thresholds for acute malnutrition, one of three key metrics to confirm famine. Famine conditions were confirmed in two other cities in November last year. And we know that where hunger goes, this is follows. Without sustained humanitarian access, the situation will continue to spiral, threatening the lives of millions. An estimated 4.2 2 million cases of acute malnutrition are expected across Sudan in two in 2026, including more than 800,000 cases of severe acute malnutrition, making a 14% increase from 2025. Meanwhile, just when the population needs health care the most, it continues to come under attack. Since the start of the conflict, who has verified 205 attacks on healthcare, leading to 1,924 deaths and 529 injuries, sorry. Today we're honored to have our country representative with us, Dr. Shibil Sahabani who can say more about the situation on the ground and who's response. Finally, last week who executive board held the first of its own regular meetings for the year. First of its two regular meetings for the year. Among the issues it decided was tasking who with convening discussions about reforming the global health architecture and we're now starting that process. It's vital that all of us in global health work together to leverage our comparative advantage, avoid overlaps and duplication and deliver value and results for the countries and people we serve. The board also considered proposals for reforming the governance of WHO and the notification of withdrawal from WHO of Argentina and the United States of America which the World Health Assembly will consider at its meeting in May. Tariq, back to you. >> Uh thank you very much Dr. Dr. Tedras for these opening remarks. Just to mention that we have also with us in the room Dr. Jeremy Farer, assistant director general, health promotion, disease prevention and control. As I said, we have other colleagues online that will be asked to answer questions if needed. The journalists who are online, please uh uh click raise hand icon if you want to be put in the queue. So with this we will start with questions and first questions goes to Lauran Sierra from the Swiss news agency. Logan please go ahead. Could it be the start of a kind of advisory body for cities to engage more with WH? Because we could see with the forum of mayors that there is an appetite for local authorities to participate more in the in the decision making of international organizations. So I assume WHO will remain a member state organization but could it be the start of something new with the local authorities? Thank you S. Thank you very much. The line was really not good. I understand the first question was about Gorn. Uh I'm not sure that I understood the second question. Uh I hope my colleagues did. uh otherwise we will ask to to to uh to repeat but maybe uh Dr. Vankerov can start on on Gourd. >> Yeah, thank you very much for the question. So Gor is our global outbreak alert and response network. Um it has more than 360 members worldwide and indeed there have been some states in the US, the departments of health and some states uh in the US that have applied to become part of GOR. Uh we welcome this. We welcome anyone who wants to be part of GOR to to see our website and fill in the application. It's an incredible network of national subnational institut institutions, academic organizations that meet regularly, share information. Um they sometimes are deployed to outbreaks around the world and this is a good thing. So this is an asset of WHO. It's an asset to the world. Um and we welcome any applications from any states departments of health from the US and abroad. >> Thank you very much. Uh Lauran, if you're online, if you could just repeat the second question, please. >> Sure. Maybe it was a problem with the the volume of Is it better now? >> It is better now. >> Sorry about that. Now the second question would be um so could it be the start of a new kind of a new advisory body with cities with local authorities because we can see that local authorities have more and more appetite to participate in the decision making within the international organization. So even even if will remain a member state organization, could there be a new framework with uh with cities uh to tackle that small trend where states start to request a goal from the organization? >> Thank you Lauren. I think we understood it's about possibilities of local authorities getting more involved. So maybe our legal council can say a few words. >> Well, thank you. Yes. And uh good good evening good day to everybody. Um WHO is of course a member state organization but many many of our activities involve actors that are not states or elements of states. Um I think the question is about what will happen uh once uh uh you know follow following withdrawal of member states and what would be the consequences of that that would be something that our governing bodies would need to consider and address. The whole question of the notifications of withdrawal of two member states uh uh is before the health assembly who will be considering this at its meeting in May and I think some of the implications of that uh for WH's work will need to be considered as part of that process of considering the implications. So it's an interesting idea. It's something that I think will need to be considered further. >> Yeah. Uh and just to supplement that to say that Goran is a it's a technical network. We have national representatives, we have subnational representatives and they the people who are part of Goran represent institutions that have public health experience, field experience and their sharing of information. Um it's really quite an incredible network that's out there. It's been in operation for more than 20 years. Um so it isn't anything that that's actually new. Um but local participation of this if they're departments of health, ministries of health or actors or groups that are actually participating in outbreak response or preparedness, this is a good thing. And we actually have many members who are at subnational level levels as part of GORN. As I said, there's more than 360 members currently part of the Gore network. >> Thank you, Dr. Wankerov. And thank you, Derek. Um we go to the next question. We have Helen Branswell from Stats. Hi. >> Hi, TK. Thank you for taking my question and thank you for doing this press conference. Um, I wanted to ask if WH has learned anything more about the proposed hepatitis B birth dose that um the Bandam Health project is proposing to conduct in Guinea Basau. Thank you. >> Thank you very much. Uh I will ask Dr. Kate Brian if she could take that. >> Uh thanks so much Helen for the question. Um we are uh of course from a policy perspective very interested in the study and from uh a scientific perspective uh ethics perspective all of the elements of any study that's done on vaccines that involves uh human subjects. Um we uh have been reaching out to the investigators who are uh expecting to conduct this study. So we are in direct communication with them to understand more about uh what they're planning to do um and to uh uh inquire about some of the aspects of the study that uh are particularly troublesome um and particularly of uh concern to uh a large number of people um in the vaccine world. So we don't have any formal updates about any changes to the protocol. Um but we can uh certainly say that we are uh uh involved in uh discussions and uh most importantly is that there's support to the ministry um because it's ultimately up to countries to decide what kind of research happens in the country. Is the research relevant for their policy questions? Um and is the research being conducted um according to the international standards um that need to be met um whenever there are uh uh people involved in in research and that has to be conducted um in in in line with and in accordance with the ethical principles um that have been established for the conduct of of research. Um so I think that's uh These are important questions um and it's certainly an important um uh study uh that requires um uh careful a careful look at what the study is is planning to do um what the purpose of the study is and whether it has been designed in a way that can even answer um questions that uh that may be relevant to to vaccines. So above all is the safety um the ethics of the study um and the uh assurance that any study that is designed is putting the um interests of the participants of the study at the very top of the list of of how a study is designed and whether the question is a relevant policy question. >> Thank you very much Dr. Brian. That's we go to next question. We have Robin Miller from Ajan France press. Robin please and COVID 19. Last year after the Sega report on the origins of COVID was published, the WHO called for countries with intelligence reports on the pandemic's origins to come forward with that information. And with the United States now uh having walked out the exit door, did they actually do that before leaving? Did they come forward and share any intelligence that they might have been holding back on the origins of COVID 19 before leaving? Thank you. >> Thank you, Reuben. Uh Dr. Wankerov. >> Yeah, thanks very much. Um so yeah we have as you mentioned SEO put out its report last year uh on the findings of available evidence related to the origins of CO 19. We continue to follow up with all governments that have said that they have intelligence reports um in the US included um we don't have those reports to date. We do have reports that are online uh but we don't have any of the intelligence reports that have not been uh released publicly. So it is something that we have followed up but we don't have access to those. Yeah. Um as you have rightly said, there's some governments who u um of course through the media said that they have intelligence about the origins and especially to the US. After we heard about it, uh we wrote to senior officials to share any intelligence information that they have. Uh but so far we haven't received this is actually months ago. So we haven't received any information. um and hope um they will share uh because we haven't still concluded the COVID origins um and knowing what happened with the COVID helps because knowing what happened could help us to prevent the next one. So, thank you for asking this question. would like actually to use this opportunity to ask any government who has any intelligence to share with us so we'll be able to conclude the COVID origins. Thank you. >> Thank you. Next question, Gabrielle Emmanuel from NPR. Gabrielle, >> hi. Thank you so much for doing this as always. I had um two really quick questions. One is just to follow up on the um thing that was just said about Gor and some US states joining. Um one crit question that's been raised here in the US has been about whether um Taiwan has sought to be part of Go and I don't see it on the list and the question has been whether there's kind of been pressure from China and uh you know uneven treatment of different member states. Um so I wanted to ask that question since I've heard people mentioning it here in the US. The other question completely unrelated and the primary question is I want to understand a bit more about the um funding cuts that we've seen to gender-based violence um programs uh programs to combat gender- based violence and what that impact's been and whether there's been um kind of any effort to uh prevent those cuts from really hurting those programs. Thanks so much. >> Thank you very much. Uh I'm just uh checking if we have a Dr. uh Abdul Rakad Mahmud online to take this one. Uh Abdi, are you are you with us? So yes, uh we can hear you. Could you please maybe take the the first question regarding Gorn? Yeah, as Maria said, Guan is an informal network based on transparency and collaborations. We have network of from every institutions across the world at national subnational from Hong Kong to Bondong to China CBCs. There's nothing specific or we don't receive any pressure from anybody. It's an open forum. Anyone that has a public health function that can contribute to our life and response network is an open forum. Of course, there's a due process that we do go through uh the nonprofit status, the commitment to public health and ability to respond uh to public health requests. So we issue a request for assistance and then members of Gwan are expected to go to the field and support and USCDC has been one of the leading part of the staring committee. So it's an open forum all people committed solidarity and for global health and collaborations. So there's no restriction on membership or any pressure from any member state. It's not a member state as Derek said the WH former and there are multiple network that we manage. Guan is one of them. There are network for preparedness network for a lot of network being managed by WH and Guan is one of those network but one of the old list we just celebrated last year it is 25th year. Thank you. >> Uh thank you Dr. Mahmood. On the second question that was on a cuts sexual based violence program uh maybe Teresa can speak uh particularly in humanitarian settings as it's uh it's it's her area of work. >> Thank you very much TK. Yes I will also I will provide a partial answer that really looks at uh gender based violence sexual violence in in humanitarian uh settings context. Um so 70% of women in crisis are subjected to gender-based violence. These are the statistics that are available to us and it represents an enormous number of women and children but also more and more boys and men as well being subjected to sexual violence. Now going to the impact of funding cuts. What we have documented so far is that over 60% of organizations who in the past have provided clinical care but also social protection, social assistance to survivors of sexual violence have had to scale back or stop services because of these funding cuts. uh humanitarian aid cuts to the genderbased violence sector amounts to over 110 million US dollars. This was in 2025. What this represents is that 3 million people, women, mostly women and girls, but also boys and men in humanitarian crisis are not deprived of access to services. We are expecting that unfortunately because um no significant improvement in humanitarian financing is foreseen this year that the situation is only going to become much worse. We're also seeing more and more health facilities having to suspend operations because of limited funding. And this affects those who require clinical care, health care in general um for survivors of gender- based violence, sexual violence as well as broader population. Thank you. >> Thank you very much. We will go to next question. Anadulu news agency. We have Muhammad Axlan with us. Muhammad >> Tariq, thank you so much for this briefing. My question will be about the Gaza H. As you know, Rafa crossing reopened almost 10 days ago, 2nd of February. Uh my question is uh how many patients you have uh h evacuated uh through this uh crossing so far and uh could bring any medical aid trucks to Gaza again through this border. Thank you. >> Thank you. I guess uh we will ask again uh um Terza if you can take that one. Thank you. A very important question. I think we very much welcome the opening of the Rafa border crossing which had allowed over 90 patients already being evacuated. This then adds to the some 11,000 uh people who have been evacuated out of Gaza to multiple countries for very urgent and critical medical care. So we welcome this development very much but we also want we are aiming for more daily medical evacuations to take place in the coming days. We do know that there are over 18,000 patients many of them who have died waiting for medical evacuations that are still waiting for these uh desperate um health assistance in order to survive. um the the opening of of the border crossing, we're also hoping that it would allow uh much needed humanitarian assistance to be able to come into Gaza, which at this stage is still very insufficient considering the level of needs and also because of additional um methological weather conditions and um we have all seen as well that the living conditions of people inside Gaza remain extremely dire. higher um health risk remains very very present and abundantly and so what we have at the moment is largely insufficient to meet the needs there are and to really bring back the dignity to the people of Gaza. Thank you. >> Thank you very much Anderson. We also have our colleague Nabil online. Maybe Nabil would like to add something. Of course, the the priority is as well to uh to really allow unhindered um humanitarian aid to really enter Gaza and that would really help in contributing to uh restoring and rehabilitation of the health system and that would also eventually help in reducing reliance on medical evacuations. But we continue also to call for um reopening of the referral pathway to uh to East Jerusalem and and the West Bank as it was the case before uh October 2023. But as uh as for now as for also the Rafa border crossing we haven't uh so this is really partial opening and uh uh we we are not able to uh to get uh humanitarian supplies and health supplies and medicines uh through the RA border crossing. Uh so this is still not uh not possible. Uh thank you. >> Thank you Nabil. That was Nabil Tabal. He is incident manager health emergency program and just to give a title of our colleague uh Dr. Abd Rahman Mahmud who just talked about the corn he is director of health emergency alert and response operations. Next question goes to Lancet and we have Paul Adju Paul. >> Thank you very much. Can you hear me loud and clear? >> Uh yes we can. Yes. So my first question has to do with post uh post emparation responses. So I'd like to know whether there has been any development in terms of support in terms of update and insights regarding emphi. And um the second question as to can you just repeat slowly your first question? We understand it's on Empox but uh we didn't get the detail >> following the end of the global emergency declaration for Emped have reported new cases new countries that are being added to the list especially in Africa. So what has been the post global declaration response uh so far? And the second question is on WH's uh perception of the individual deals that the US government is announcing with respective African countries uh which is different from what used to be the an African approach. How do we see this in integrating everything together to have a coercive response on the African continent in terms of health response? So thank you very much. Thank you very much. We'll start with Dr. Vanerov on on Emp. >> Yeah, thanks very much for the question and thanks for for mentioning EMPOX. So yes, as you know, the director general uh lifted the public health emergency of international concern, but the work still continues um and EMPAC still poses a risk in many countries um across the African continent. WHO is supporting um on a number of different fronts. Um continuing to uh increase surveillance activities so we know where cases are and can provide clinical support for them. Integrating that support through HIV care for example. Um there's a lot of work that's ongoing related to risk communication, community engagement to prevent onward spread between individuals of EMPOX, whether this is between families or whether it's through sexual contact and sexual networks. There's a number of efforts that are underway. related to vaccination. So during the fake um there was an access and allocation mechanism that was established to support um the donations that came in of EMPOX vaccines um to support the countries in need and millions of vaccines uh have been made available on the African continent and we continue to support those countries in using those vaccines in a targeted way focusing on the most at risk people. But I really do appreciate the question because it may not be in the headlines anymore, but the work really continues and there are so many countries that are dealing with EMPOX as part of their their routine work and many of these countries have multiple outbreaks, multiple infectious diseases that they are dealing with. So we will continue to support them. We continue to ask for financing to support that. We work with many partners including Africa CDC, UNICEF and others. I shouldn't start naming some because I will forget but we work with many who always works with many partners on the ground. We continue to ask for research to better understand EMPOX the clinical manifestations the care that is necessary to understand how it transmits um the the reservoir of of this virus. So um a lot that's ongoing um and we will continue to support all countries uh for EMPOX. >> Thank you. Um I understand second question was about United States making deals with with the countries in Africa. I know that Dr. Tedus has previously commented on that issue. I don't know if uh uh if if uh you Dr. Tus would like to uh yeah so so I I think what what Dr. said last time was that well countries are making deals and they are sovereign countries and they can they can do deals in the best interest of of those countries who are doing the deals. Um let's uh move to next question. We have health policy watch and that's Kerry Kalinan. Kerry Kerry. >> Okay. Thanks so much. Um I think the DG mentioned that you have your country representative from Sudan here and I wondered whether they could just give us an indication of what it is like day by day in Sudan. What are the the most pressing issues that they are facing and what are the needs um that particularly um resources that that they are short of in Sudan. Thank you. >> Thank you Dr. Sahabani. Okay, thank you very much uh for the question. Um so it's um very broad question and I think we need hours to discuss about the health situation in Sudan but just very briefly um let me put the context first. the the Sudan went through a war um for almost three years now. Uh during this war, there were attacks on healthcare. Uh so we've recorded uh as Dr. Tedra said 205 attacks on healthcare leading to uh 1,924 deaths among uh patients, their families, health workers and um also the community health workers. Um in addition to this there is limitation of access um of the patients to the services but also access of humanitarians to certain localities to provide services to distribute supplies and and so on and so forth and also to do surveillance of the uh of the outbreaks. In such contexts um there are a lot of um health needs. Let me start first with the uh the outbreaks. uh there are so many outbreaks ongoing at the same time and in most of the states we have more than three conccommittant outbreaks here I'm talking about colera talking about malaria talking deni fever measles and so on and so forth if I give you a few figures kola we've recorded until now more than 124,000 cases leading to more than 3,500 uh deaths with regards to malaria 2.9 million cases uh with regards to deni over 63 uh,000 um cases. Um this is just to say that outbreaks are a big concern for uh for a country which is facing uh a war but also facing a shortage of drinkable water in many places. uh lack of hygiene I mean wash in general water hygiene sanitation and um health conditions are very bad in many many states in addition to the outbreaks of course there is malnutrition and we've talked about the new IPC alert and uh acute malnutrition continues to deteriorate in 2026 unfortunately so with nearly 4.2 2 million estimated cases comparing to 3.7 million in 2025 and of course lack of access to food to livelihoods and so on it will worsen even the situation as I said but of course there are other needs and here I'm talking about non-communicable diseases including diabetes hypertension uh uh renal diasis and so on and so forth and don't forget I think one of our colleagues mentioned the gender based violence if I put it also in the context of sexual reproductive health in general, access to uh safe care for emergency obstetric care, access to clinical management of rape and so on. All those con uh constitute a big big challenge in the context of Sudan. Thank you very much Dr. Sani. Uh I see we have another journalist from NPR. We have Jonathan Lambert. So Jonathan, please go ahead. Thanks so much for taking my question. Um, I have a couple of questions about the influenza vaccine meeting coming up soon later this month. Um, I know that last year there was a reduction in the number of samples sent from national influenza centers to WHO collaborating centers in part because of funding cuts. Are those sample submissions still down and if so by how much? Um and then my second question is whether who knows if the US will be participating in the flu meeting. Thank you. >> Thank you Jonathan. Dr. Wankerov. >> Yeah thanks. Hello Jonathan. I think we were communicating on this a little while ago. So yes there was um as as we had talked about previously there was a slight dip in um the circulation of influenza vaccines around the world because of a challenge with some funding. Uh but we have been able to resume um the shipments around the world. Um as you know the giz, the global influenza surveillance and response network is absolutely critical. It's made up of more than 150 labs in 130 countries that are tracking influenza viruses, seasonal influenza viruses, zooonautic influenza viruses from all over the world. And every six months they come together um to evaluate what is in circulation and they make recommendations um on vaccine composition for the flu influenza vaccine for seasonal. They also identify viruses candidate vaccine viruses that could be used by manufacturers for a potential uh pandemic. This is getting ready uh if there were be were to be a pandemic uh with the zooonautic virus. Um so we have resumed these the circulation of these samples. WHO um has some funding uh mainly to support lowincome middle- inome countries to to ship those viruses around and what normally is happening is that a country will identify or have some samples uh a national influenza center uh will do some analysis and some of those samples are shipped to who collaborating centers. We have seven of those for influenza. Um one of those is in the US but we have them in the UK, we have them in Australia, we have seven around the world. Um and as you said the vaccine composition meeting will be taking place later this month. Um the US will participate in that meeting as far as I understand. Um but it's a really important meeting and it's made up of incredible expertise and scientists from around the world. That's the benefit of Giz. It's not anyone institution. It's not anyone country that's contributing more or less. It's actually the coming together. And this group meets regularly. It's not just every six months. They're meeting regularly to assess what's happening around the world. So yes uh the meeting will take place at the end of this month and yes the US is participating. >> Thank you very much Dr. Wankerov. Uh I understand Helen Brenville has a followup. Helen uh please go ahead >> for coming back to me. TK I wanted to uh swing back to Dr. O'Brien's response to my earlier question. Um she said there is support to the ministry. Does that mean WH has been dealing with the ministry to discuss the study and potential concerns about the study? And and she also said there was some issue about if it has been designed in a way that can even answer questions. I'm I I guess I would like to hear her thoughts about whether the protocol that was released publicly is likely to add anything useful to the body of knowledge about the value of hepatitis B dose. Thank you Dr. Ran. Thanks Helen for the follow-up question. Um so as you know who has country offices in countries around the world and the country office um in Guinea Basau is in regular contact um with uh technical counterparts in the ministry. Um so there is um there is engagement um between WHO um and the the technical uh program on immunization. Um and the what is most important here is that the ministry as as I mentioned before um it's really a country that must decide um what kinds of research uh they want to participate in they want to lead in. Um and so this is really a decision of the country about how they want to go forward um with a study that um uh has been proposed to be conducted uh in their country and to really understand the scale and scope of um what the issues are. There are um technical research issues, there are ethics issues. Um but first and foremost the issue is um is the research that is proposed to be done relevant to the country relevant to the priorities of the country relevant to the policy issues of the country and in particular um relevant to the uh in this case the vaccine um decisions that the country has already made. So uh it's it's uh understood um that the country has has made a decision to go ahead and introduce hepatitis Bdosese vaccine um and is uh uh when exactly that um process of introduction will take place has to be um uh understood fully within the the capacity of the um all of the different things that the the immunization program is aiming to do. um uh in to improve its program. So you asked about the design of the study and um the whether or not this will answer uh important questions. I think you've asked some very technical questions. So I want to say first and foremost hepatitis B dose is a vaccine that has been used for over 40 years. There are dozens and dozens of countries uh around the world. In fact, over 150 countries use hepatitis Bose. We have a very strong experience with hepatitis B. Um, it's a safe and it's an extremely effective vaccine. Whenever we do research, whenever research is proposed, there has to be some foundation for um proposing research, especially when it is um asking a question about an authorized uh vaccine, a vaccine that has um a very longstanding uh safety profile. So there has to be some basis for expecting that there is an issue or a question that needs to be asked. And to our knowledge there is no uh underpinning um uh evidence that would suggest that there is any concern with respect to hepatitis B vaccine. The second thing is that um the questions that are being asked have to be policy relevant. But most importantly, the conduct of research must first and foremost protect the interests of the participants that are um being approached to be involved in in uh what we refer to as human subjects research. And um there are uh there is the declaration of Helsinki um which lays out the agreed upon um standards that uh any human subjects research um needs to uh meet those standards. Um there are some very concerning aspects of the study that have been proposed. Um and these are some of the questions that we uh were asking of the investigators um when we had a a very uh good opportunity to discuss with them. So, it's really up to the ministry to decide whether or not um the the questions that are being asked within this research study are relevant uh to the country, relevant to the um vaccine decisions that the country has has made already to go ahead and actually introduce a vaccine that is a globally recommended um vaccine. It's a it's an authorized uh vaccine and those are important attributes because that means that this vaccine has um had a full and extensive review uh and an ongoing review of its performance um and its safety profile. And I want to remind um us all that the reason for giving hepatitis B vaccine is that hepatitis B transmission from mothers to infants um is an extremely serious um and life-threatening condition for those infants. uh 90% of children who are born to a mother who is surface antigen positive will be infected with hepatitis B and about a quarter or more of those children will go on to have very serious consequences of that infection and it's the leading cause of transmission of hepatitis B. So giving a birth dose um which we do recommend that countries uh um have in their program is extremely important. Um so I hope those that addresses some of the questions that you have um on the issues around the study design um and the likelihood of adding to the body of knowledge. Thanks. >> Thank you very much Dr. Brian. And with this we come to the end of today's uh who press briefing on global health issues. As always we will uh send you uh audio and video file of this briefing uh shortly. And if you have any further questions, don't hesitate to send us a message to mediaw.intt. I give the floor to Dr. Tedus for his closing remarks. Yeah, thank you. Uh maybe earlier um about theou I told that would suffice it but maybe I can add a few points. Um by by the way bilateral agreements between countries is not a new phenomenon. Many countries who have bilateral agreements on on on health. Um it has been there for a long time. So it's not new. Um but some of the concerns that are coming from some quarters is uh that uh this bilateral agreements may replace the um multilateral system. I don't think so because it has been there in the past. It hasn't replaced and I don't see how it can replace it now. So maybe that's the uh question. But any member state can have any MOU with any country it wants and this is between sovereign countries and they know best for their respective countries. Actually they will do it in the best interest of their nations in their best national interest. So we'll leave it at that. Um and um maybe something more specific to that is as you know there is pubs negotiation now happening as part of the pandemic agreement and there are some people who ask questions saying uh will it really undermine that? I don't think so. I don't it doesn't undermine because the same answer bilateral agreements have been there and still with the new agreements that we see uh I don't see there will be any impact on the pubs negotiation that's that's happening uh now so if these are the concerns um we're not really worried about those issues that are raised and there can be bilateral agreements and there can be also multilateral agreement and it's not one or the other both can exist without any uh any problem. Um then on the hepatitis B study as you know Guineisaw has is one of the countries with high prevalence of hepatitis B and withholding a birth dose could actually expose as Kate said expose infants to high chance of infection and that means including a significant proportion of deaths. Um and also you know um this violates by the way the basic protocol while you have an effective medicine denying half of the population of the children access to already uh a vaccine that has been there for for more more than 40 years which is safe and effective. is not ethical. I think it's better to give it its name. The country can decide. Of course, a sovereign country can decide whatever they want. But as far as who position is concerned, it's unethical to proceed with this study. And it's very clear and this will expose these kids half of the 14,000 I think it's 14,000 the size of the sample size and denying half of them to an existing safe and effective vaccine is unethical and from who side we the position is very clear but the country can proceed knowing full well that it's unethical and the scientists can proceed knowing full well that it's unethical. That's what I would like to say. Maybe it's better to to say it bluntly and and and and straight and to that effect we would like to issue a statement on this as as this is very important. It's not about one country and such studies could affect other countries as well. So we're preparing also and to issue a statement uh in the with this with this regard. Thank you. So I think I didn't say the one word. I say always thank you to all members of the press for joining us today and see you next Amen.