I thank the European Union, the Gates Foundation, and Gabby for bringing us together today. Outside WHO's headquarters in Geneva is a bronze statue of a child being vaccinated against small pox. In the 20th century alone, it's estimated that small pox killed more than 500 million people. But since 1977, there has not been a single case of small pox because thanks to vaccines, it has been eradicated. Thanks to vaccines, smallox is no more and polio is on the brink. Thanks to vaccines, once feared and deadly disases like missiles and Ebola are now preventable in and as you know since the advent of the expanded program on immunizations 50 years ago since 50 Vaccines have saved an estimated 154 million lives and since 2000 that's the births of Gabi under five mortality has dropped by more than half thanks largely to the power of vaccines. At the World Health Assembly last month, the nations of the world made history by adopting the WHO pandemic agreement. One of its key elements is equitable access to vaccines. Gave new strategy is its most ambitious yet. It seeks to protect more people against more diseases faster than ever before and will be key to achieving the immunization agenda 2030. As we all know, we face many challenges. Drastic cuts in aid coupled with misinformation about the safety of vaccines threaten to unwind decades of progress. We live in a world in which nations seem more intent on harming than helping each other. I think President Muhammad has already given an example. Our children should not be the ones to pay the price. Vaccines save lives. They allow individuals, families, communities, economies, and nations to flourish. To put it simply, Gabi success is the world's success. And that's why a fully funded Gabby is essential for a healthier, safer, and fairer world. And I would like to thank this opportunity to thank all those who have pledged today. And I hope this will continue and Gabby will be fully funded. Thank you so much. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please join me in welcoming to the stage Miss Katherine Russell, executive director of UNICEF.