The equitable access of all societies to the benefits that can come with more effective and inclusive healthcare, as we advocate here in Brazil, is crucial. The [Music] budget is more or less 2.5 billion, very well, during emergencies it can reach 3.5 billion, there can be an increase in this budget during times of emergency. So this range, let's say 2.5 to 3.5 billion, Your Excellency President Lula da Silva, Minister Mauro, Ambassador Celso, Your Excellencies Ministers, my colleague Minister, and also members of the press, dear colleagues and friends, good afternoon. I thank President Lula for his grace in holding this moment of the WHO 2024 Investment Round during the G20 Summit. Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Investment Round is about mobilizing resources to implement the WHO's Global Strategy to keep the world safe and save 40 million lives over the next 40 years. Today is a natural step in a process that has been ongoing since the COVID-19 pandemic when G20 leaders first met to discuss... How to foster a fairer and safer world? The investment round then provides an essential contribution to this endeavor by providing resources for our global strategy to strengthen health in our 194 member states. I ask each member state and partner to get involved in the investment round to provide flexible, predictable funds so that we can work together for the next 40 years. We are very grateful to have received the support of Brazil during its G20 presidency, as well as colleagues such as France and Mauritania in the African Union, Norway, and South Africa. I would also like to thank the G20 participants Australia, China, Germany, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Norway, Qatar, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Tanzania, Turkey, and the European Union for the new funding they have committed to. Through various regional events and now at the G20 leaders' summit, we have received 70 pledges worth $1.7 billion. Of these pledges, more than half are from first-time contributors to the WHO, as well as 21 middle-income countries worldwide. With this investment round...  Other financing agreements, we can now receive 3.7 billion dollars. That is, the contribution we need to carry out the strategy for 4 years, and this is significant because in recent decades only a small portion of our total budget has been predictable. The financing of this investment round is more work to do, to build a donor base. President, more GR to President P, guarantees that we will have both of you as supporters. President, thank you very much. President Lula, for the start and for the support. Together we can realize our vision, which is everyone for health and health for all. And I return the word to my colleague, the Minister of Health of Brazil [Applause]. I, I, I'm not going to read a speech in front of the Minister of Health, in front of Ciro. Regarding the Health Ministry, I asked Tedros about the health budget for you to make a comparison. While the Ministry of Health receives billion dollars a year to try to help with health problems around the world, we have a budget of 2 trillion and 400 billion dollars just for war. You...  They imagine that to destroy lives, to destroy lives, and to destroy—you know the infrastructure that took years to build by people—rich countries invest much more than to save lives. That's the contradiction of the world we live in today, and that's why we brought up the issue of inequality, the fight against hunger and poverty at the G20, because I've participated in many meetings, many forums, many G7s, many G20s, many other things, and it's very funny because the issue of the most needy people never comes up. It's very difficult to convince people to discuss the issues that address the basic, vital needs of our people. Oh, Tedros, until I was 7 years old I hadn't eaten bread. I only started eating bread when I left Pernambuco and went to São Paulo. I drank water from a ditch where animals relieved themselves, and that was the water we took to drink. We didn't even have the culture of heating that water, boiling it, straining it, putting a cloth over it; we just took the water the way we got it and drank it. I'm from a time when, due to a lack of dentists and a lack of...  Instead of money to go to the dentist, we used to go to folk healers. If you had a toothache, you'd go to a folk healer and he'd help you, you know, pretend the toothache would go away. I'm from a time when we'd put a clove of garlic on a tooth that hurt, put a cloth with seaweed on it. In other words, if people understood that those 733 million people who are starving could be cured if they had adequate food, adequate water, and access to adequate healthcare, we would prevent many of these children from dying before they turn 5 years old. And possibly because those who govern the world have never experienced this, it's not a priority, it's not part of their daily lives, so it's a secondary issue on their table. Nobody sits down to discuss these problems. I know someone I was n't very close to, but who was a Senator for Rio de Janeiro, was Secretary of Finance, and was, you know, Tancredo Neves' nephew. He was elected Senator here at over 70 years old, and one day, talking to me, he said the following: "Luna, was n't he already President? President Lula, you know, I didn't know."  There were so many poor people in Rio, and I've been almost everywhere in this country, but I had no idea about the poverty in the outskirts of Rio de Janeiro. And this happens with many people who hold important political positions, who can make decisions, but they don't have access to these people, often only knowing them through books. So what we decided to do, this debate about health at the G20, is an extremely important step for us to give those responsible for healthcare the assurance that we will be able to invest in what is basic to prevent diseases that shouldn't exist in the country anymore, so we don't see the suffering of people who died from COVID, often due to a lack of a machine to help them breathe, and often due to a lack of vaccines. You see how unfair the world is; you have rich countries that have surplus vaccines because they bought the necessary vaccines preventively, while on the other side, in Africa, people don't even have a vaccine to take. So when we talk about making the world more equitable, more equal, just by guaranteeing opportunities for people, we need to know that we need money to make things happen.  We need to ensure that the WHO can invest in vaccine research so that we don't have to see people die, often prematurely, because they didn't receive adequate treatment. So Tedros, I want you to know that I am a soldier in this fight so that we can raise enough money so that the World Health Organization can fulfill its function. I can tell you one thing: the problem is not a lack of money. Every country, no matter how poor, if it is willing to make a list of the things that are priorities, necessary, and most urgent, everyone will find a little money, and a little from each will make a lot of money, and this lot of money is what the World Health Organization needs to try to help save people in this country. So I want to tell you that this wasn't just a proposal discussed in the G20 finance group, in the G20 health group. I want you to know that, on my part, it's a proposal that I will carry forward. And every time I meet with the president of SER2, I will ask him if he is making money available to the World Health Organization because I know the importance you have in the world, I know the role.  What you all know about the COVID pandemic, I know there are two things that gained a lot of importance during the pandemic: MSG, a lot of importance, and the SUS (Unified Health System). The SUS here in Brazil, during its creation in 1988 until COVID, was a discredited health policy, discredited because the press only spoke badly of the SUS. The SUS saved 1000 people a day, but if one died, that one was the headline, you know, in all the newspapers. When COVID came, the SUS had the right and the opportunity to prove the effectiveness of the most important health plan in a country with more than 100 million inhabitants. So I want you to tell the Ministry of Finance that they will have my solidarity as President of the Republic, as a member of the G20, and this applies before, during, and after my term, even when I no longer hold the office of President of the Republic. I want you to know that you will have, as long as I am alive, a soldier so that we can give the 8 billion inhabitants of the earth the opportunity to be saved by our medicine. Thank you very much, dear, thank you. I promise not to use this until tomorrow.