Good day and welcome to W Joe's virtual global press conference on various topics we have today for you. It is Wednesday um 12th November already and uh we hit WJO headquarters in Geneva. My name is Christian Lintma and I'll walk you through today's briefing. Now we have a couple of guests here with us in the room and let me start with director general Dr. Tedos Adonam Gabrius. Um to his left side is Dr. Jeremy Farah, assistant director general for health promotion and disease prevention and control. Further left Dr. Terresa Sakaria, unit head for humanitarian operations. To her side is Dr. Ben McGrady, unit head for to the WO's tobaccof free initiative. On the other side of the director general we have Dr. Terresa Kazayva director for the department of HIV tuberculosis hepatitis and sexually transmitted infections. Then next to her is Dr. Rudiger. He's acting director for the environment climate change one health and migration department. And last but not least we have Dr. Deuts Ju. She's the medical officer on maternal and perinatal health. Thank you all for being here and we have a couple of uh more people online in case we need to call upon them. Um now with this let me hand over to director general for the opening remarks. Thank you. Thank you Christian. Uh good morning, good afternoon and good evening. One month since the ceasefire in Gaza was announced, who is continuing to support the reconstruction of Gaza cell system and the medical evacuation of patients who need treatment outside Gaza. Over the past two years, WHO has supported the evacuation of almost 8,000 patients, including more than 5,500 children. Since WHO took over, coordinating medical evacuations in May 2024, we have supported 119 Medvak missions, including one today. I'm heartened by the commitment shown by countries to provide urgent care to these patients. However, more than 16,500 people, including almost 4,000 children, are still awaiting evacuation and more than 900 people have died while waiting for evacuation. I thank the 30 countries who have accepted patients for care, but we ask more countries to receive more patients. We also call for the opening of all evacuation routes, particularly the West Bank, including is Jerusalem. Today, WHO is publishing this year's global tuberculosis report which shows a decline in new TB cases and as for the first time since before the coid9 pandemic. Meanwhile, the number of people being tested and treated is increasing and research is advancing. For the first time in over a century, new effective TB vaccines for adolescents and adults are within reach. At least 18 vaccine candidates are currently in clinical development, including six in phase in phase three trials. Last week, WHO launched a new report that sets out urgent actions to ensure equitable and sustainable access to and financing for new TB vaccines when they become available. Despite all this good news, progress is not victory. TB still killed more than 1.2 2 million people in 2024, which for a disease that's preventable and curable is simply unconscionable. In addition, funding cuts to international aid in many low and middle inome countries threaten to reverse the hardworn gains we see in today's report. It's therefore vital that countries step up domestic resource allocation alongside international funding. One of the top five drivers of the TB epidemic is tobacco youth. People who smoke are twice as likely to develop TB diseases. So to fight TB, we must fight tobacco. 20 years ago, the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, the FCTC, entered into force, a powerful international treaty to fight the world's leading cause of preventable death. Since the FCITC took effect, tobacco use has declined by one-third globally despite the efforts of the tobacco industry to undermine it. Next week, the conference of the parties of the FCTC will hold its banial meeting and we're aware of attempts by the tobacco industry to infiltrate and undermine its work. The success of the FCTC has meant tobacco companies have had to develop new products to attract new customers. The youth of nicotine products such as ecigarettes and nicotine pipes has expanded rapidly due to aggressive marketing with bright packaging, sweet flavors, social media influencers, and false claims of harm reduction. Let's be clear. The companies that make these products are not motivated by harm reduction or health. They're motivated by one thing and one thing only, generating profit for their shareholders. Today, WHO is publishing a new position paper on tobacco control and harm reduction. Although ecigarettes are often promoted as safer alternatives to conventional tobacco products, there is no evidence of their net benefit for public health, but mounting evidence of their harm. WHO recommends that all countries regulate nicotine pipes, ecigarettes, heated tobacco products, and smokeless tobacco at least as strongly as they regulate conventional tobacco products. Several countries have prohibited these products. Those that have not should use strict controls on flavors, packaging, marketing, and sales protections against industry interference and enforcement of age restrictions. We also urge governments to expand support for proven cessation methods, including counseling and approved nicotine replacement therapies. Together, we can stop another generation from being trapped in addiction and protect the gains we have made in tobacco control. Over the next few days, WHO will release several new products to support the health of women and newborns. The first is for World Diets Day this Friday, the 14th of November. This year, WHO has chosen the theme of dabbits across life stages, which highlights the fact that dabbits can affect people at every moment of life, including during pregnancy. Diabets during pregnancy or gestational diabets affects about 21 million women, one in six life births every year. It can cause complications including preeacclampsia, still birth and congenital abnormalities. Women with gestational diabetes have a higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes after childirth while their babies are also at increased risk of type 2 diabetes as well as obesity, cardiovascular disease and hypertension. WHO has long had guidance on Davids and guidance on pregnancy. But to mark World David Day, we're launching our first global guidelines for the management of Davids during pregnancy. Second, this Saturday, the 15th of November, marks the first world premature day prematurity day. Each year, an estimated 15 million babies, one in 10, are born too soon. 80% of them in low and middle inome countries. It's vital that preterm babies receive special care and attention from the first moments after birth to preserve their lives to give them better health throughout life. To mark the day, WHO is launching a new global guide on conga cong kangaroo mother care, a method of caring for pre-term babies that involve skin-to-skin contact and breastfeeding. And third, next Monday, the 17th of November, marks the first world cervical cancer elimination day. Since we launched our global call to action on cervical cancer elimination in 2018, many countries have scaled up access to screening, treatment, and vaccines against human papilloma virus or HPV, which causes almost all cases of cervical cancer. Just in the past year, countries including Angola, Cuba, Ghana, Indonesia, Nepal, Nigeria, Pakistan, Rwanda, South Africa, Tajikhstan, and Tunisia have either introduced HPV vaccines into their routine immunization programs or conducted large national campaigns or adapted bold national strategies for cervical cancer elimination. This week, China became the latest country to introduce the HPV vaccine into its national immunization program. Each year, there are an estimated 150,000 new cases of cervical cancer in China, almost one quarter of the global burden. This new policy will not only protect a generation of girls in China, it will have a major impact on the global burden of cervical cancer. Finally, as you know, the United Nations Climate Change Conference COP 30 is being held this week in Bellum, Brazil. Last week, I had the opportunity to be in Bellum for the COP 30 leader summit where I advocated for health to be more prominent in climate change discussions. Health is the most compelling reason for climate action. But for too long, health has been a footnote in climate negotiations. It's much easier to convince people of the urgency of protecting their own health for that of their or that of their children than to protect glaciers or ecosystems. Both are important. One is a lot closer to home. Tomorrow is health day at COP 30 and to mark the day Brazil's Ministry of Health is launching the Bellum Health Action Plan, the first international climate change adaptation plan focused exclusively on health. The action plan sets out concrete actions to help countries prepare their health systems and respond to the health impacts of climate change. I thank President Lula and Brazil for their leadership and partnership in reminding the world that the climate crisis is a health crisis. Christian, back to you. Thank you very much, Dr. Tedros. A real big range of topics. Um, and until then, um, as we're going now to question and answers, please raise your hands with the raise your hand icon. And when I turn to you then please um unmute yourself at the unmute button. Now one important thing we have announced yesterday we had a an embargoed press briefing on the global gains and tupagalosis response uh that endanger future challenges or funding challenges. Um there's an embargoed placed on this and the embargo ends in a few minutes at 3:30 Geneva time. So literally in 8 minutes as it was announced now the story is is open. So thank you very much for opening this Dr. Tedros. Um but I would like to turn to Dr. Teresa Kaza just for a few words on what this report contains. Thank you. >> Thank you very much. Uh Dr. Tedras um presented excellent summary of the main findings of the report but I would like uh to add few more things. So this year report uh is not just a release of the new latest data and overview of the global and country situation on tuberculosis. It's also a highlight who's unwavering commitments to uh continue leading efforts and fight against major epidemics such as TB, HIV, viral hepatitis, malaria and others. And uh here uh you will be able to find also important information and lessons learned from the experience uh in uh many countries uh as well as important information on the funding situation, realtime data based on monthly monitoring of TB notification, how uh funding uh cuts can influence access to essential services uh as well as overview of the latest who guidelines and the pipeline of new diagnostic uh new medicines and even vaccines uh TB response was uh managed uh for many years in the situation of the chronic underfunding and further cuts could be uh really catastrophic for TB response and can lead to the increase in mortality. These gains are really hard one gains as Dr. Tedras highlighted and we should do our best and increase domestic and all uh other types of funding uh to sustain TB response. That's why we are looking very much uh with a hope for the forthcoming uh global fund replenishment and for um international partners and donors are stepping in. uh we have very good uh uh examples in more than 100 countries that managed to uh decrease TB incidence at least by 20% and more than 65 countries decreased TB mortality by 35%. It highlights that progress is possible from the century old disease. It can become successful story and we have a very good opportunities. Please follow who guidelines and latest recommendation and it will make difference for the lives of the millions of people around the world. Thank you. >> Thank you very much Dr. Kaza. Uh with this we now first of all the report and the press release you can find online now on our website and with this we open the round of questions and the first is Gabrielle Emmanuel from NPR. Gabrielle please go ahead and unmute. >> Hi thank you so much for doing this as always. It's really helpful. Um, I wanted to follow up on the mention of tobacco harm reduction and see if you could respond to some of the um, criticism that uh, the WHO has uh, not fully engaged in the scientific debate around harm reduction and the reducing combustible tobacco and some some evidence that does show this reduction can have health benefits. um and can be a way for not for new smokers but for people who are already smoking to get off of combustible cigarettes. Thank you very much. >> Thank you much Gabrielle. And we turn to Dr. Ben McGrady. He's the unit head of the tobacco free initiative here at WHO. >> Thanks very much. And and just to clarify actually uh head of the the public health law work on on tobacco control and and my colleague Vanayak Prasad who heads the tobaccof free initiative can't be here today. Uh thanks very much for the question. I think it's important first of all when we consider tobacco control and this question around combustibles to think about the bigger picture of where we are on tobacco control. Dr. Tedros mentioned that it's 20 years since the framework convention on tobacco control came into force and in that 20 years with strong regulation of tobacco products we've seen enormous public health gains. We've seen a 27% relative reduction in tobacco use globally since 2010. So when we look at tobacco control, we need to look at the big picture and we need to know what's working. And the evidence shows that over a sustained period of time, strong regulations to reduce demand and supply for tobacco products is having a massive impact on public health. And that impact is a huge public health success with respect to so-called non-combustible tobacco products. and we're speaking here about a range of different product categories. Um it's important to recognize that we cannot generalize about the health risks posed by these tobacco products for the world at large. Even within smaller product categories like electronic cigarettes or or heated tobacco products, the risks posed by individual products are not the same. We see huge variation within product categories. We see huge variation in terms of how the products are used, how the products are manipulated before use. And so it's not responsible to simply generalize for the world at large about the health risks associated with different products. What we're stressing in the position that we are releasing today is that governments should regulate all categories of tobacco, nicotine, and related products to a common minimal level. This means implementing proven tobacco control measures like health warnings, like taxation, like prohibiting advertising, promotion, and sponsorship for all categories of products. This is essential to ensure that when we look at the population at large and the health of the population at large, these products do not lead to a new generation of uh addicts, nicotine and tobacco addicts and a new generation and wave of health harms. It's essential that these measures are put in place across all product categories to protect public health. Thank you. >> Thank you very much. Uh Ben, yeah, quick reminder because apparently a couple of journalists have not identified them with their out themselves with their outlet. So please do that your full name and outlet in case you want to uh jump online and ask a question otherwise we cannot take you. Thank you very much. Uh second question goes to AFP Robin Mia. Robin please go ahead. Thank you. On the uh on the tobacco industry and those uh attempts to uh as you put it, infiltrate and undermine the convention's work. Uh could you um say a bit more about what sort of things uh they've been getting up to and uh and also on uh on this uh this use of uh social media to uh to promote products. can you uh give us a few uh insights on uh what's been happening in that field as well? Thank you. >> Thank you. Thank you very much and over to Ben again. >> Thanks Christian. I think this the social media point is a really important one and who has now for a number of years advocated comprehensive bans on tobacco advertising, promotion and sponsorship. That means that all forms of advertising, promotion, and sponsorship should be prohibited. And this should be applied not just to tobacco products, but also to nicotine products such as electronic cigarettes or or nicotine pouches. We've seen over the last 10 years tobacco and other companies um launch new products and new product categories on social media. Social media platforms are spaces in which children and young people shape their identities. And these companies are deliberately using these spaces and promoting products with fruity and sweet flavors with bright colors and with other product characteristics that are particularly attractive to children and young people in order to bring those products into the market in order to sustain their businesses and sustain their profits. So, it's no surprise that we as an organization recommend that governments take a very strong approach to legislating to prohibit this, to monitoring what's online, and also to enforcing those restrictions. Um, this is particularly important. We've seen over the last few years with new product categories like electronic cigarettes that have led to an alarming rise in youth among children. What's the industry doing? It's lobbying like crazy at present around its so-called harm reduction agenda. And the industry is particularly focused on trying to sew division and to sew a narrative that these new categories of products are reduced harm products. But the reality of the situation is that these products are being marketed as consumer products to the world at large. And as I've already said, they have sweet flavors. They have bright colors. They have characteristics that are specifically attractive to children and young people. This is not public health harm reduction. This is uncontrolled. This is not pursuing a public health agenda and this is not monitored with public health goals in mind. Thanks very much. >> Thank you very much, Ben. And a good moment to remind everyone that tomorrow at uh I think at 3:00 the WHO framework convention for Tobacco Control FCTC had a press conference uh where you could also tune in virtually. Thank you. Um next question goes to Geneva Health Files Pretty Patnik. Pretty please go ahead. >> Good afternoon. Uh thanks for taking my question. Um you know we we wanted to know about um uh any pre preliminary assessment that who has done um on the US bilateral contacts uh contracts with uh certain developing countries um on on um accessing biological information in exchange for aid. There is apprehension that uh this could uh directly affect uh the pathogen access benefit sharing negotiations uh at WH and the wider uh PPR agenda. Um if you are able to comment on this that'd be great. Thank you. >> Thank you uh pretty and I think we have uh Steve Solomon as a prince our principal legal officer online. Steve if there please go ahead. >> Yeah thank you Christian and thank you pretty for the question. Um so uh uh this issue of uh the US initiative in this area came up during the uh most recent session of the intergovernmental working group IWIG 3 as we're calling it. I'm I'm sorry I'm out of focus here. Um the uh member states are closely following this issue. uh the uh the organization, the secretariat is working to support member states in that and uh we will continue to uh to follow these uh these developments uh ensuring that the work of uh multilateral fair equitable access and benefit sharing system is advanced in accordance with uh the pandemic agreement and its article 12 which was adopted by the world health assembly is uh uh is critical for the organization and for its member states. The objective is to deliver uh a multilateral pathogen access and benefit sharing system uh to the health assembly in May of next year for its approval so that the pandemic agreement and this system which will ensure better access uh in the face of future p vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics. This is critical uh for the organization and its member states and so we will continue to work in that connection. >> Thank you very >> Thank you very much Steve. Um next question for NBC News and that's Erica Edwards. [snorts] Erica, please go ahead. >> Can you hear me? Okay. >> All good. >> Thank you so much. So my name is Erica Edwards. I'm with NBC News and I'm wondering if someone could please speak about H3N2 which is getting a lot of headlines from the UK and Canada. Um apparently a worrisome strain of the flu circulating early. Um the CDC here in the US isn't releasing any information about the flu because of the shutdown and um so many um layoffs at the organ at the agency. and I'm curious whether who can provide any insights into the spread of this particular flu and what it might mean for uh the US. Thank you. >> Thank you for this Erica. And we have Dr. Wenjing Jang. She's unit head for our global respiratory threats unit and Venjing please go ahead. >> Thank you Chris and thanks very much for the for the question. So now we are in November actually for the northern hemisphere we are about to enter into the winter season and often you know this is a season for seasonal influence epidemics occurring and uh for many country or for almost all countries that the timing of start of the season could be varying but always around this period time. So in the past several weeks there were many countries having been having been reporting that their infla season started. But uh if we look at historical record of the timing of the start of the season actually it is not unusual and your question about the specific H32 strand uh recently reported from UK. So actually H3N2 this is a seasonal strand and this is one of the of the several strands like H1N1 H3N2 and E strand circulating and causing seasonal epidemics that particular strand and it is named cate or subclate K this is a a small group that emerged since June and since it's emerged it's actually it's rapidly spreading and predominating in some countries so far in the northern hemisphere. So it comes again to the vaccine composition that the vaccines are being used in the northern hemisphere. Now this composition was recommended in February this year basically before the emerge of this particular small group of those. Fortunately from the early studies the early estimates uh from UK is the vaccine effectiveness studies actually the VE estimates is is quite normal or satisfactory that in the children it's 60 to 70% and in the in the adult is 40 40 around 40% of those. So although the current vaccine or composition and the emerged uh uh uh uh cate is not optimally cross reactive still the vaccines can provide uh the protection of those your another question is about the vaccination policy in countries in US and it's always national authority is regulatory agencies and authority you know recommend their their vaccination policies in their country. And from who the Sage the Sage group, the scientific advisory group for immunization actually highlight the risk groups recommended for receiving seasonal vaccines and that includes like healthare workers, people with undermining uh uh uh conditions, um pregnant women and uh and the older adults indeed. So this position remain the same and with the winter season upcoming certainly we recommend all those especially those under the risk groups get vaccinated. >> Thank you very much Ben Wjing. Now we come to the next question for Ali Withers from Reuters. Ali please go ahead. >> Hi there. Hi. Thank you for doing this briefing. My question is for Dr. Tedros, please, regarding COP 30. Earlier in this briefing, and there was already a question about it, there um there was the mention of how the tobacco industry is is infiltrating a different multilateral forum. There's a high um there's documentation of a lot of fossil fuel lobbyists being present at the COP. I'm wondering if there's a view on on uh addressing fossil fuels within the work um in health because it's a leading contributor of air pollution, extreme heat deaths and and so on. And if there's work happening at the WHO on this level or a position or a statement, please. >> Yeah, if I may, I I could answer this question. Thank you very much for it. Now of course there is a need to uh step out of fossil fuels and I think that in this COP 30 there will be more efforts to reduce fossil fuels. So as as we said and as Dr. Tetra said the climate crisis is a health crisis and so therefore we need more action and more implementation. we need to go through to renewable energies which are available and effective and efficient and can create a lot of business as well. So while we have seen uh a lot of health negotiation or health discussions at the COP, we have not yet seen a formal uh place for negotiations of health and uh what we see from BM just now um following the discussions there uh it is high time that health becomes a an issue for formal negotiations and we hope to see this already at COP 31. Thank you. >> Thank you very much, Rudiga. Um, next question goes to Christristian Eric from the DPA. Christristian, hello and please unmute. >> Okay, Christian. Um, my question is going back to tobacco. Um, an expert paper that is to be presented at the COP uh has um measures for the future on how to uh effectively fight uh tobacco and it has suggestions that have kicked up some storm at least in the German media about banning filters for cigarettes. Um I already talked to Ben about that but I wonder whether WH has a more of a political answer to this question. are these suggestions are considered as extreme in uh some quarters. Is it maybe not very beneficial to come up with something where a lot of people who are basically agreeing that to more tobacco control is necessary um uh would say well this goes way too far and uh diverts from the actual issue of taxation and so on. I wonder whether Rudika might be able to answer this because I know that he's the tobacco specialist from only a few months ago. Thank you very much. >> Thank you. Thank you very much. And and actually your question uh is related not only to tobacco control but also to uh the plastics treaty. Um and here we have a very strong stand. We do believe that uh um it is high time to ban those plastics because we don't see the health benefits of plastic filters. We see that um uh this is or has been the same tactics of tobacco industry uh to to say well filter cigarettes are less harmful. It goes back to the same uh argument that Dr. McGrady has made just earlier and uh we do not see the health benefits of these filters. So therefore they must be banned because they are the highest pollutants um in in waters in in oceans uh of these uh plastics that are uh contaminated also with toxicants. So therefore yes we do call for banning these filters. Let me see if anybody wants to add anything. Oh yeah, back Dr. McGrady. >> Thanks Christian. [clears throat] Yeah, just to to add to um the the comment from from Rudiger and answer the question about whether countries should be prioritizing the the ban of filters or other measures. First of all, when we think of tobacco control, we think of a comprehensive set of interventions that governments take to reduce demand and supply. So, it's not an eitheror. Governments need to take uh different interventions that complement one another to achieve the goal. I think we are eagerly anticipating a proposal from the European Commission for revision of the EU tobacco products directive and there are a number of different ways in which Germany and countries in Europe can further strengthen their tobacco control laws. One of the issues that we're talking about today are some of the newer generation products, uh, electronic cigarettes, nicotine pouches, heated tobacco products. These were not addressed uh in detail in the 2014 EU tobacco products directive and we would encourage um the European Commission and EU member states to strengthen their regulation of these products and take the opportunity of a revised directive to do so. We think that they can make substantial progress in tobacco control and address what is a serious issue now of use of these products by children. And just to give you one statistic on this, when we talk about ecigarettes, the latest data that we have shows there are 15 million children worldwide using ecigarettes. And in countries that have data, we see use rates among children nine times higher than among adults. It's clear that it's time for Germany, for the EU member states, and for countries at large to take strong action to address these products. Thank you. >> Thank you very much, Ben. [sighs] And this brings us to the end of our briefing. I thank you all very much and I thank the panelists here and those online. Um we will send the postpressor remarks and Dr. Tedra's uh opening remarks very soon after the briefing and with this back to Dr. Tedros for closing. So thank you thank you very much again to the press for joining us today and see you next time.