Good afternoon. The assembly is called to order. Your excellencies, honorable ministers, ambassadors, delegates, director general, I am very pleased to welcome you at our final plenary session. It has been a very busy and productive week and I am very grateful for all your valuable contributions to date. Today's meeting will begin with item 8, reports of the main committees. We'll first turn to committee A regarding each of the reports. Please disregard the word draft as the reports were adopted by the committee without amendments. You will recall that the first report of committee A was considered and approved by the assembly at the third plenary on Tuesday 20 of May. We will now begin with the second report of committee A which is contained in document A78/44. The report contains one resolution and one decision. The resolution is entitled program budget 2026 to 2027. Is the assembly ready to adopt the resolution? I see no objection. The resolution is adopted. The decision is entitled process for handling and investigating potential allegations against WH director's general. Is the assembly ready to adopt this decision? I see no objection. The decision is adopted and the second report of committee A is therefore approved. We now consider the third report of committee A which is contained in document A78/48. The committee contains two resolutions and two decisions. The first resolution is entitled strengthening the evidence base for public health and social measures. Is the assembly ready to adopt this resolution? I see no objection. The resolution is therefore adopted. The first decision is entitled notifying the international health regulations 2005 to Palestine. Is the assembly ready to adopt this decision? I see no objection. The decision is adopted. We will now consider the second decision entitled health emergency in Ukraine and refugee receiving and hosting countries stemming from the Russian Federation's aggression. Is the assembly ready to decision is therefore adopted. The second resolution is entitled health conditions in the occupied Palestinian territory including East Jerusalem. Is the assembly ready to adopt this resolution? I see no objection. The resolution is adopted and the third report of committee A is therefore approved. Let us now consider the fourth report of committee A which is contained in document A78/50. The report contains one decision and five resolutions. The decision is entitled a dedicated report on mental health for WH's governing bodies. Is the assembly ready to adopt this decision is adopted. The first resolution is entitled promoting and prioritizing an integrated lung health approach. Is the assembly ready to adopt this resolution is adopted. The second resolution is entitled reducing the burden of non-communicable diseases through promotion of kidney health and strengthening prevention and control of kidney diseases. Is the assembly ready to adopt this resolution is adopted. The third resolution is entitled primary prevention and integrated care for sensory impairments including vision impairment and hearing loss across the life course. Is the assembly ready to The fourth resolution is entitled World Cervical Cancer Elimination Day. Is the assembly ready to adopt this resolution? I see no objection. The resolution is adopted. The fifth resolution is entitled Fostering Social Connection for Global Health. the essential role of social connection in combating loneliness, social isolation and inequities in health. Is the assembly ready to adopt this resolution is adopted and the fourth report of committee A is therefore approved. Let us now consider the fifth report of committee A which is contained in document A7851. The report contains six resolutions. The first resolution is entitled strengthening national capacities in evidence-based decisionmaking for the uptake and impact of norms and standards. Is the assembly ready to adopt this resolution? I see no objection. The resolution is adopted. The second resolution is entitled rare diseases, a global health priority for equity and inclusion. Is the assembly ready to adopt this resolution is adopted. The third resolution is entitled strengthening health financing globally. Is the assembly ready to adopt this adopted. The fourth resolution is entitled strengthening medical imaging capacity. Is the assembly ready to adopt this resolution? entitled Accelerating the Eradication of Draun Kulasis. Is the assembly ready to adopt The sixth resolution is entitled skin diseases as a global public health priority. Is the resolution is adopted and the fifth Let us now consider the sixth report of A78/53. The report contains three decisions and three resolutions. The first decision is entitled substandard and falsified medical products. Is the assembly ready to adopt this decision? I see no objection. The decision is adopted. The second decision is entitled interim report of the expert advisory group on the WH global code of practice in the on the international recruitment of health personnel. Is the assembly ready to adopt this decision? I see no objection. The decision is adopted. The first resolution is entitled accelerating action in the global health and care workforce by 2030. Is the assembly ready to adopt this resolution? I see no objection. The resolution is adopted. The third entitled WH Traditional Medicine Strategy 2025-2034. Is the assembly ready to decision is adopted. The second resolution is entitled incorporation of World Prematurity Day into the WH calendar to strengthen approaches to prevent pre-term births and treat and care for pre-term infants. Is the assembly ready to adopt this resolution? I see no objections. The The third resolution is entitled regulating the digital marketing of breast milk substitutes. Is the assembly ready to adopt this resolution is adopted and the sixth report of committee A is therefore approved. Let us now consider the seventh report of committee A which is contained in document A78/54. This report contains one decision entitled antimicrobial resistance. Is the assembly ready to resolution is adopted and the seventh approved. Let us now turn to the reports of committee B. With regard to each of the reports, please disregard the word draft as the reports were adopted by the committee without amendments. We will now consider the first report of committee B. which is contained in document A78/45. This report contains one decision. The decision is entitled health conditions in the occupied Palestinian territory including East Jerusalem and in the occupied Syrian Goland. Is the assembly ready to adopt this decision? I see no objection. The decision is adopted and the first report of committee B is therefore approved. Let us now consider the second report of committee B which is contained in document A78/47. The report contains five resolutions and four decision decisions. The first decision is entitled results report 2024 program budget 2024 to 2025 performance assessment and financial report and audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2024. Is the assembly ready to adopt this decision? I see no objection. The decision is adopted. The second is entitled The second decision is entitled partial and temporary suspension of financial regulation Roman numeral 8.2. Is the assembly ready to adopt this decision is adopted. The first resolution is entitled scale of assessments 2026 to 2027. Is the assembly ready to adopt resolution? I see no objection. The resolution is adopted. The second resolution is entitled status of collection of assessed contributions including member states in arars in the payment of their contributions to an extent that would justify invoking article 7 of the constitution. Is the assembly ready to adopt this resolution is adopted. The third resolution is the SPE entitled special arrangements for the settlement of Aras Lebanon. Is the assembly ready to adopt this resolution? I see no objection. The resolution is adopted. The third decision is entitled report of the external auditor. Is the assembly ready to adopt this decision? I see no objection. The decision is adopted. The fourth resolution is entitled salaries of staff in ungraded positions of the director general. Is the assembly ready to adopt this resolution? I see no objection. The resolution is adopted. The fifth resolution is entitled faxed interior. Is the assembly The fourth decision is appointment of representatives to the WH staff pension committee. Is the assembly ready to adopt this decision is adopted and the second report of committee B is therefore approved. Let us now consider the third report of committee B which is contained in document A78/49. The report contains two resolutions and four decisions. The first decision is entitled global strategic directions for nursing and midwifey 2021 to 2025 extension. Is the assembly ready to adopt this adopted. The second decision is entitled global strategy on digital health 2020 to 2025 extension. Is the assembly ready to adopt this decision is adopted. The third decision is entitled global action plan on public health response to dementia 2017 to 2025 extension. Is the assembly ready to The first resolution is entitled comprehensive implementation plan on maternal infant and young child nutrition 2012 to 2025 extension. Is the assembly ready to adopt this The fourth decision is entitled international health regulations 2005 proposed procedure for the correction of errors in the text of the instrument. Is the assembly ready to adopt this decision? I see no objection. The decision is adopted. The second resolution is entitled Reassignment of Indonesia from the Southeast Asia region to the Western Pacific region. Is the assembly ready to resolution? I see no objection. The resolution is adopted and the third report of committee B is therefore approved. Let us now consider the fourth report of committee B which is contained in document A78/52. The report contains three resolutions and two decisions. The first decision is entitled collaboration within the United Nations system and with other intergovernmental organizations. Is the assembly ready to adopt this decision? I see no objection. The decision is adopted. The first resolution is entitled raising flags of non-member observer states at the World Health Organization. Is the assembly ready to resolution? I see no objections. The resolution is adopted. The second decision is entitled updated roadmap for an enhanced global response to the adverse health effects of air pollution. Is the assembly ready to decision is adopted. The second resolution is entitled galvanizing global support for a leadfree future. Is the assembly ready to adopt this resolution is adopted. The third resolution is entitled Effects of Nuclear War on public health. Is the assembly ready to resolution is adopted and the fourth approved. Let us now consider the fifth report of committee B which is contained in document A78/55. The report contains one decision entitled global action plan on climate change and health. Is the assembly ready to adopt this decision? I see no objection. The decision is adopted and the fifth report of committee B is therefore approved. This completes our consideration of item 8 of our agenda, reports of the main committees. We shall now consider the last item of our agenda. Item nine, closure of the assembly. I invite Dr. Espirans Luenda, chair of committee A to come to the rostroom and address the health assembly to give us an overview of the work of committee A. Dr. Luven Luenda, you have the floor. Mr. President, excellencies, distinguished delegates, Dr. Tedros. Ladies and gentlemen, it is with great honor and a deep sense of humility that I present this report on the work of the committee a during the 78 World Health Assembly. We have engaged in profound and often challenging deliberations and this is not only limited to committee a characterized by complexity, compassion and an unwavering commitment to global health. In an era of increasing instability, we have endeavored to chart a course that is defined by cooperation and not division, by solidarity and not silence. as we have proven during the past few days. I take this opportunity to echo one of my favorite quotes and one which I live by and it says life's greatest and most persistent question is what are you doing for others? Martin Luther King Jr. I believe that all we have done during the work of comedy A speaks to that and answers that very question. What are we maybe sometimes in our smallest ways doing for others? Among our most significant milestones was the approval of the World Health Organization a pandemic agreement. This was not an easy road as many of you know and we must acknowledge that for many including my own country this outcome reflects compromise. While it advances global collaboration, equity and access, we recognize that key aspirations remain, particularly on stronger guarantees for local production capacity. We also look ahead to the next phase of negotiation on the pathogen access and benefit sharing system, which will be critical to the success of future preparedness efforts. Nevertheless, the agreement enshrines shared principles such as those of equity, solidarity, and the sovereign right of nations, the right of nations to protect their people's health. It lays a foundation on which future commitments can be built. Its success will depend not only on some but on all of us. The implementation must be bold. We owe our thanks to the entire bureau of the intergovernmental negotiating body, the co-chairs, Miss Precious Matso and Ambassador Anne Claire um Pru and former co-chair Mr. Roland Dre for their stewardship through this unprecedented negotiation. Their leadership has been a compass in turbulent times. Committee A also endorsed the World Health Organization's program budget for 2026 2027 4.2 billion US with a second 20% increase in assessed contributions. This vote of confidence signals our collective commitment to world to a world health organization that mind you is more agile, responsive and one that is more sustainably financed. Let us be clear. The world still needs a strong empowered World Health Organization. Continued investment in the World Health Organization is not optional. It is essential for the safety, for the stability and the well-being of all nations and all of us here today. We considered a wide range of urgent health issues, communicable, non-communicable diseases, mental health was once again brought to the forefront, malnutrition in all its forms, and the ongoing gaps in access to primary health care amongst others. We reaffirmed that health emergencies such as pandemics are not merely biological events but also political, economic and social disruptions within this landscape. The growing challenge of antimicrobial resistance demands sustained global attention. AMR is not limited to hospitals or clinics. It pervades food systems, water sources and international borders. addressing it necessitates a truly one health approach. As we have all emphasized time and time again, grounded in collaboration among human, animal, and environmental sectors, reinforcing food safety systems and preventing food born diseases are crucial components of this response and our deliberations this week have reaffirmed their significance in global health security. Our discussions also reminded us that social connection is not only a public health imperative, but it is also profoundly human. Quality social connections enhance mental and physical health, thereby strengthening societies and economies. In all our decisions, we must remember that systems exist to serve the people and we are here to serve the people with a people first approach and that human connection acts both as a means and an end in public health. We were also candid in recognizing the unfinished work, the inequalities and access to health care, the unmet needs of women, children and adolesccents, and the growing divergence between health promises and outcomes. And we committed to doing more to bring data, funding, and focus where it is needed the most. The numerous resolutions adopted this past week reaffirm progress requires more than just intention. It requires action and it requires us to act on our promises collectively. It requires evidence. It requires investment and most importantly it requires action. Mr. President, dear colleagues, it has been a profound honor to serve as the chair of committee A. I extend my deepest thanks to my vice chairs, honorable Reynold B. Olush of Palao, Dr. Hanan Abdul Gaffur Khalil and Dr. Salil Al Hassawi of Iraq as well as our Miss Butler of the Bahamas. I thank Dr. Claudia Nai and Dr. Carmen Seveli our dedicated co- secretaries and all the staff of committee a secretariat without whom it would not have been possible to carry out our duty so efficiently your quiet work helps run the engine behind engine behind these outcomes and I sincerely thank you from the deepest part of my heart to Mr. Derek Walton and the legal affairs team. Thank you for your wise and steady counsel often times when we had to look to you for guidance and counsel and a way forward. To the director general, Dr. Tedros, I extend my appreciation for your leadership, for your invaluable contributions to our deliberations and wish for many more productive years ahead for the organization to promote, to provide and protect the world's population. To all delegates and the World Health Organization staff, I thank you. Our work here may be concluded, but the next steps must be carried forward with clarity, courage, and with compassion. And I challenge every single one of us to take that with as we go back home. And finally, to the president of the Republic of Namibia, her excellency Dr. Numbbo Nandinto, the first woman president of Namibia with a cabinet of predominantly women. I am grateful for the support, the guidance, the faith in appointing me to lead the Ministry of Health of Namibia. Thank you for believing in young people and once again putting Namibia on the map. The role of healthcare leaders is one of enormous stress, of heavy load, and very few thank yous. Yet, I must emphasize that it is probably one of the most fulfilling assignments of purpose. one of the few where doing good translates to lives saved and tangible impact. I wish you safe health, safe journeys and let us return home not only with documents but with renewed determination with a renewed sense of hope. The world is watching not to see what we promised but what we will act on. I thank you. Thank you. I would like to congratulate you very warmly for your excellent presentation and for the outstanding way in which you have presided over the committee. I now invite Mrs. Kataris Katarzina Drazzek Lasovska chair of committee B to come to the roast room and report on the work of committee B. Mrs. Dreszek Lasovska you have the floor. Mr. President, distinguished delegates, director general, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of our vice chairs, Mr. Narisio Fernandez from Timorstee and Dr. Raina Roa from Panama and our reporter Dr. Abdul Lahman Al- Kashan from Kuwait. I'm pleased to present the report of committee B. I am pleased to report that the committee B has successfully reviewed and approved 12 decisions and 10 resolutions to submit to the plenary. Committee B has fulfilled its primary task of reviewing matters of budget and finance, audit and oversight, staffing and governance under pillar 4, more effective and efficient WHO providing better support to countries. Thanks to the throughout preparatory work of the executive board and the program budget and administration committee, our discussions were constructive and efficient. We have adopted a set of decision that will ensure the smooth operation of the organization including the scale of assessments 2026 2027. We have accepted the WHO results report 2024 program budget 202425 performance assessment and the audited financial statement for the year ended 31st December 2024. Additionally, we have accepted the report of the external auditor and approved the partial and temporary suspension of financial regulation 8.2. Committee B also adopted resolutions and decision on health conditions in the occupied Palestinian territory including East Jerusalem and the occupied Syrian Golan. raising the flags on non-member observers states at WH committee B considered four global strategies and plans for action scheduled expired within the year and recommended the extension extension of the global strategic directions for nursing and midwifery to 2030 extension of the global strategy on digital health 2020 2025 through 2027 and approval for the development of a draft global strategy on digital health for 2033. Extension of the global action plan on the public health response to dementia 2017 2025 to 2031. Extension of the comprehensive implementation plan on maternal, infant and young child nutrition 2012, 20125 to 2030. The committee agreed the reassigned Indonesia from the Southeast Asia region to the Western Pacific region. We also approved the proposed procedure for correcting correcting errors in the text of the international health regulations 2005. We reviewed key technical items transferred from committee A including updates from the executive board and approved the following resolutions and decision under pillar three on galvanizing global support for elite free future. Effects of nuclear war on public health. Health effects of air pollution. Global Action Plan on Climate Change and Health 2028. Our discussions were enhanced by new technologies including realtime speaker request which streamlined our proceedings and electronic voting system which we used maybe too much today. I thank delegates for embossing these innovations and comment to the WH secretariat for their effective implementation. I I acknowledge and deeply appreciate the dedication of member state delegates whose cooperation ensured our progress. I would like to thank my vice chairs as well as the reporter. I would like to thank Miss Miriam Medal Garcia from Mexico for chairing the informal consultation established by the committee. Mr. President, your leadership was instrumental to our success. Director General, your guidance and engagement strengthened our decision making. I also thank the regional directors, WHO senior management and all WHO colleagues for their contribution to the work of the committee. We have witnessed the true essence of multilateralism. diverse voices coming together in a shared commitment to global health. Yet throughout our work, I remained guided by one principle above all, the search for the common ground. Consensus may not always be easy, but it remains our strongest foundation. I have done my utmost to ensure that all voices, no matter how big or small, were heard, respected, and considered with care. Thank you all for your contributions, your patience, and your unwavering commitment to the health and well-being of people. Finally, I extend my sincere gratitude to the committee B secretariat for their professionalism and diligence throughout this session. It has been an honor to serve in this capacity. The work does not end when we leave this assembly hall. It begins. Each delegation returns home with the responsibility to translate this global commitments into national action to mobilize resources and to ensure that no one is left behind in our pursuit of health for all. Thank you. Thank you for your comprehensive report. Your leadership and sterling contribution to the work of the committee are greatly appreciated. Now that the committees have completed their work, including consideration of the executive board's reports, we are we are in a position to formally take note of these reports. I take it the assembly also wishes to commend the board on the work performed and express our appreciation for the dedication with which it has carried out its the tasks entrusted to it. Is the assembly ready to take note of these reports? I see no objection. The reports are noted. I now draw the health assembly's attention to the fact that under the provision of article 14 of the constitution, the health assembly at each annual session shall select the country or region which the next annual session shall be held and the executive board will subsequently fix the date at and place. I take it the assembly decides that the 79th World Health Assembly will be held in Geneva, Switzerland. Does the assembly agree with this decision? I see no in the absence of any objection, it is so decided. The director general would like to say a few words. Dr. Ted Ross, you have the floor. I was thinking honorable secretary of health of the Philippines, Dr. Theodoro Herbosa, President of the Assembly, Excellencies, Ministers, Heads of Delegation, Members of Delegation, Deputy Director General My Cryan, dear colleagues and friends. My deep gratitude to you for your leadership as president of the 78 World Health Assembly, President Theodoro Herbosa. You have presided over an historic assembly and you had the honor of being the president who banged the gavvel on the adoption of the WHO pandemic agreement. It therefore gives me great pleasure to present you with the ceremonial gavl as a token of appreciation. Thank you. Thank you. I think in WHO's history two agreements. The first one is the convention FCTC in 2003 and this is the second treaty in the history of the organization in 78 years. So your name is now in the history books. Congratulations and of course of Philippines. I would also like to offer my sincere thanks to the chairs of committees A and B. First Dr. Respirance Luenda, the honorable minister of health and social services of Namibia for your leadership as chair of committee A. You were in the chair when the pandemic agreement was approved in committee A last Monday night which is 20th May 2025. The moment when we all realized we have done it. You managed a large agenda reflecting the huge range of WHO's work and I invite you to come forward to receive the ceremonial g as a token of our appreciation. Thank you so much. You can do bang bang. Yeah. All the time. Second, this one is a difficult name, but I will try. Second, I thank Miss Katina Drajik Lasco. I hope I'm okay. director of the department of international cooperation of Poland for your leadership as chair of committee B. You also managed a very large and diverse agenda covering a range of important technical, political and untreative issues and today I think you broke a record on the number of votes in committee B. And I invite you to come forward to receive the ceremonial gavl as a token of our appreciation. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You can do gum gum. Oh yeah. Jakuam. Juam. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. Colleagues, please join me once again in thanking the president, the chairs, and all of our vice presidents, vice chairs, and reporters for their leadership and service of this health assembly. And I would also like to use this opportunity to thank the executive board chair Dr. Jerham Walcott and the Peabach chair Miss Katarina Loftess. They have prepared everything for this the success of this assembly and please give them your appreciation. Mr. President, excellencies, dear colleagues and friends, on Friday afternoon, I left the health assembly early to attend my daughter Blen's high school graduation. When we moved to Geneva 8 years ago, she was a child. Now she is a young woman with her future ahead of her. As any parent would be, I'm very proud of her and I'm excited to see where life takes her. But as any parent would be, I also worry for her and about the world she is entering. It's an uncertain world. A world beset by war, poverty, inequality and division. A world threatened by pandemics and epidemics, unhealthy diets, polluted air and water, unsafe roads, and the overshadowing threat of climate change. In the past week, I have met with ministers of health from almost 50 countries, including many facing severe crisis such as Haiti, Lebanon, Palestine, Salion, Sudan, Syria, and Ukraine. I have been reminded of the immense suffering of so many people in our world. But I have also been reminded that although there are many reasons to worry, there are also many reasons to hope. The words historic and landmark are overused, but they are perfectly apt to describe the adaption last Tuesday of the WHO pandemic agreement. Likewise, your your approval of the next increase in assess contributions was a strong vote of conf confidence in your WHO at this critical time. Thank you so much. In addition, you have adapted several important resolutions on many areas of the organization's technical work. You adopted a new target to have the health impacts of air pollution by 2040. You adapted new targets for nutrition in mothers and young children. You agreed to strengthen regulation of digital marketing of formula milk and baby foods. You adopted a new global strategy for traditional medicine. For the first time, you adopted resolutions on lung health and kidney health. You adopted a resolution for a lead-free future. You established World Cervical Cancer Day and World Prematurity Day as official WH health campaigns. And you adopted other resolutions on digital health, guineaorm disease, health financing, the health and care workforce, lung health, kidney health, medical imaging, nursing and midw3, rare disease, sensory impairment, skin diseases, social connection, and more. In all of these resolutions, you express the collective will of the nations of the world, the United Nations, to work together on a shared approach to share problems. Your work this week reflects the vast scope of WHO's mission and mandate. Yes, WHO faces many challenges but you have shown an equivocical support to meet those challenges. Yes, there is conflict in our world but you have shown that there is also cooperation. Yes, there is division but you have shown that there is also unity. Yes, there is inequity but you have shown a commitment to equity. Yes, there is disease, but you have shown the commitment to health and health for all. Thank you all for your work this week, a week in which you, the nations of the world, made history. Thank you for your support for WHO and for your continuing commitment to this organization's founding vision, the highest attainable standard of health. not as a luxury for some but a right for all. Thank you so much. Our deep gratitude from myself and the whole WHO the whole WHO family and I wish you a safe trip home. Thank you so much. Thank you Dr. Tedros, Honorable Excellencies, Director General Tedros, WH regional directors, officials, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. When I was a young doctor, I became the uh medical director of the Olympic Committee of my country. And the last event in the Olympics is the marathon. I just witnessed a marathon in committee B. In many ways, the World Health Assembly is the Olympics of global health. Like athletes preparing for the global stage, each delegation brings its own strengths, insights forged through national experience, wisdom earned through struggle and deep expertise cultivated in the pursuit of a healthier world. And though our perspectives may differ, our purpose does not. We are united by a singular calling to champion the health and well-being of all people everywhere. Within these walls, we are reminded that health diplomacy is not a contest of interest but a convergence of commitments. We are above all a community of nations, diverse in geography, history, and capacity, yet heard and represented equally in this assembly. From small island developing states of the Pacific and the Caribbean to low and middle inome countries, every voice matters and every perspective enriches the whole. We are not steered by the will of a powerful few but guided by the strength of many. It is in this spirit rooted in equity and mutual respect that our greatest strength resides. During the weekend when I visited the Olympic Museum at Lausan, I remembered when I was a humble medical doctor at the Philippine Olympic Committee and it dawned on me that indeed the assembly captures the spirit of global health. situ altuse fortuse community. Faster, higher, stronger together. Faster in our response to save lives. Higher in our collective goal towards universal health coverage and stronger in building resilient, inclusive and equitable health systems for all together. When we entered this this assembly, we were confronted with a myrad of uncertainties. However, the assembly has reaffirmed the central role of the World Health Organization in overseeing global health while highlighting the urgent need to reform, adapt, and finance a more inclusive, equitable, and resilient global health architecture. And today we are ending with profound hope and renewed zeal. Over the past days we have deliberated on critical issues. Our discussions have been shaped by insight, collaboration and a deep sense of shared responsibility. One moment will stand out in history. The adoption of the pandemic agreement. This landmark accord is more than a legal instrument. It is a symbol of collective reckoning born from the lived experience and the painful lessons of the coid9 pandemic. The pandemic agreement lays the foundation for a more resilient, responsive and just global health architecture. It strengthens our commitment to equity and affirms that no nation is safe until all nations are safe. We know our work is far from complete. The intergovernmental negotiating body conceived the intergovernmental working group to complete the negotiations on the annex on the pathogen access and benefit sharing system. the global supply chain and logistics next network, the conference of party and the coordinating financial mechanism among others. This is not a procedural addendum. It is the ethical and operational core of th of this agreement. It represents our shared promise that access to pathogen samples and sequences needed for the development of pandemic counter measures must be matched by the fair, timely and transparent sharing of vaccines, diagnostics and therapeutics. I salute the assembly for the adoption of the proposed program of budget 2026 2027 which reflects the proposed increase in assessed contributions. The investment round represents a vital expression of multilateral solidarity in a world facing interconnected challenges. It offers every member state, regardless of size, a meaningful opportunity to support and shape global public health objectives through increased flexible funding. These actions represent our firm commitment to multilateral goals and bring us closer to our aspiration of securing sustainable funding for vital global public health objectives. We also celebrate the adoption of key resolutions including the acceleration accelerating action on global health and care workforce by 2030 and the WH global code of practice on the international recruitment of health personnel. We call for the safeguarding of migrant health workers rights and strongly urge co-investments and equitable partnerships to ensure that the benefits of health workforce migration are fairly reinvested into national health systems. In the same spirit of vigilance and collaboration, I am pleased to share an important announcement. The eighth global ministerial summit on patient safety will be hosted by the Sultenate of Oman in 2026. The summit will serve as a vital platform to advance the global patient safety agenda, one of the cornerstones of quality health care. For as we strengthen our systems to withstand crisis, we must also ensure that they are safe, trusted, and per person- centered at every level. And as we close, allow me to express my appreciation to each member state and delegate. I offer my heartfelt thanks for giving voice to your people's hopes, for standing firm in your principles, and for the quiet grace with which you shaped our shared purpose. To the member states of the Pac Western Pacific region, I extend our sincere appreciation for your trust and support throughout the presidency. Your solidarity has strengthened the Philippines voice and helped us advance our shared regional priorities with it this assembly. To the vice presidents and committee chairs, I thank you for your swift and efficient handling of the sessions. To our partner non-state actors, thank you for your insights and the rich perspectives you brought to our collective work. You remind us that health is not crafted in isolation but flourishes in the chorus of many voices. To our interpreters and translators, I extend heartfelt thanks. Your linguistic agility and unwavering professionalism have ensured that this assembly remained inclusive, accessible, and truly multilingual. To director general Ted Ross and the secretariat, I truly value your unwavering professionalism, support, and guidance throughout this assembly. Through its many turns, the assembly has benefited from your responsiveness, agility, and innovation. Finally, to my president, Ferdinand R. Marcos Jr., I thank you for championing global health leadership. Excellencies and distinguished delegates, I live this assembly with renewed clarity of purpose and a deeper understanding of the path that lies ahead. In our time together, we have been reminded of a singular and enduring truth. Multilateralism is not merely a mechanism of diplomacy. It is the thread that binds our shared aspirations into collective resolve and the bridge through which we move forward. As we bid each other farewell, may this assembly endure in memory not only what we have resolved but for what we have reaffirmed that the World Health Organization remains the indispensable guardian of global health and that we the member states are the architects of a world in which health is not merely promised in principle but ensured through policies that heal. health systems that protect and actions that uplift and keep alive the enduring promise of peace. And so let us move forward with our spirit that brought us together once again. Citus alus fortuse community faster higher stronger together faster in our regions to save lives. higher in our collective goal towards universal health coverage and stronger in our building resilient, inclusive and equitable health systems for all together. Thank you, Mabuhai. I formally declare the 78th World Health Assembly closed. Congratulations.