Excellencies, ministers, distinguished leaders, traditional healers, dear colleagues and friends, namaste. I extend my deepest appreciation to the government and people of India and in particular to Prime Minister Modi for hosting this summit and for his unwavering and continued leadership and partnership. Your excellency, your vision of one earth, one health encapsulates the principles of traditional medicine. Balance between people and nature, an emphasis on prevention over cure, and health are a shared responsibility. It aligns powerfully with WHO's mission to promote health equity, sustainability and resilience. Under your leadership, India has helped to elevate traditional medicine in the global health agenda and it's now clearly on the global map. From the establishment of a dedicated ministry of Aayush to the creation of the WHO global traditional medicine center in Jamgar, India has shown that tradition and innovation, heritage and science can advance together. Through its centuries old IU systems, India has shown the world that traditional wisdom and modern science are not inconsistent but complimentary. Over the past three days, voices from more than 100 countries have come together. scientists, practitioners, ministers and indigenous leaders, innovators and communities. You have come from different traditions and different systems but with one shared purpose to bridge ancient tradition and modern science. Together you have shown that traditional medicine is not a relic of the past. It's not an alternative at the margins. It's a living science, a shared heritage and an important element of universal health coverage, resilient health systems and sustainable development. Traditional medicine can help to address many of the threats to health of our modern world. The growing burden of non-communicable diseases, inequitable access to health services and climate change. It can help to support care that's person centered, culturally grounded and holistic. Through the Delhi declaration or commitment, countries have agreed not only on why traditional medicine matters, but on how to act. We have agreed to strengthen the evidence base using rigorous, ethical and pluralistic research that respects whole systems and indigenous knowledge. We have agreed to ensure safety, quality and public trust through coherent and riskbased regulation. We have agreed to safeguard biodiversity and traditional knowledge while respecting cultural heritage, intellectual property and equitable benefit sharing. We have agreed to harness digital technologies and innovation responsibly to improve access, research and data generation. And we have agreed to integrate safe and effective traditional medicine into health systems especially primary health care where it delivers clear evidenceinformed value. These priorities are at the heart of the WHO global traditional medicine strategy 2025 to 2034. A strategy grounded in science, guided by ethics, and driven by equity and global solidarity. Today, we also mark a historic step forward with the launch of the WHO global traditional medicine library. This library is far more than a repository of knowledge. It's a platform of trust. It will protect intellectual property and community rights, support equitable access and benefit sharing and enable evidenceinformed policy, education and innovation. globally and across generations. It's a powerful response to the call issued by Prime Minister Modi for global stewardship of traditional knowledge. A call echoed across the G20 bricks and beyond. Excellency, Prime Minister, excellencies, the real success of this summit will be measured not by what we agreed here in New Delhi but by what happens next in countries and communities. That means translating commitments into national policies and regulatory frame frameworks. It means investing in research, education, and workforce development. It means integrating traditional medicine responsibly and safely into health systems. And it means ensuring tangible, equitable benefits for people, especially those most underserved. And I was very encouraged to hear to all the ministers of health who have been sharing your exper who have been sharing their experience during the ministerial round table and of of course the heads of delegation and who stands fully committed to walking this path with you through the global traditional medicine center technical cooperation shared standards and transparent accountability. But your message today was very clear at the ministerial round table. As we conclude this summit, let us live united by a shared conviction that the future of health must be integrative, inclusive and evidence informed. That science and tradition are not opposites but partners. and that by restoring balance between people, communities, and the planet, we can build healthier societies for generations to come. Prime Minister Modi's leadership has helped bring this vision to the world stage. Your Excellency, thank you. Your Excellency, I look forward to your reflections and guidance as we move from commitment to action. Thank you for your leadership. Thank you for your partnership and thank you for shaping this future together. Danyavad. Thank you very much. Thank you. Maybe of my script. He just came from a a successful visit to my country and I'm in his country and I could see his trip was very intense and I'm I'm really surprised that he joined us here and that shows his strong commitment. So thank you so much again and again my bahut bahud dahabad your excellency thank you very much thank you Dr. Dr. Tedus, we now look to leadership that has consistently championed harmony between tradition and modernity, between health and humanity. Ladies and gentlemen, it is my honor now to invite the Honorable Prime Minister of India,