Honorable ministers, friends, colleagues, uh, welcome to the high level pledging event of the WH investment round. For those of you who don't know me, my name is Moza Malik. I am the CEO of Save the Children UK and I'm honored to be invited to moderate this session uh, this evening. I started with Save the Children just four and a half months ago. It's fair to say that it's been a very very eventful 4 and a half months. The world around us is changing rapidly. The underlying trends were there before, but things are accelerating and those changes are disturbing all our organizations. Certainly, Save the Children, I know for WHO, but I know for everybody in this room, we are facing incredible change. And therefore, I am delighted that we're able to come together this evening to talk about how we reinforce multilateralism, how we reinforce global solidarity in the interests of global public health outcomes. My job this evening is to try and keep us to time. So, I have a first panel, a second panel. We will open to the floor and we need to close at 7:45 p.m. to attend the reception that is being hosted by the president of the World Health Assembly just outside. So, let's get started. And first and foremost, I'd like to invite Director General Ted Ross to address the gathering. Dr. Ted Ross. Thank you. Thank you, CEO Malik. Uh, Minister Ha, Mr. Salamary. Honorable ministers, dear colleagues and friends, I'm delighted to welcome you to this investment round pledging event. Today, member states proved that multilateralism is alive and kicking. This morning, they made history by adopting the pandemic agreement, a landmark moment in global health. and this afternoon they approved the program budget including the planned increase in assess contributions. Both decisions are a clear testament of their commitment to multilateralism and a resounding vote of confidence in WHO. Thank you for your commitment, your support and your trust. As I said in my report to member states yesterday, WHO over reliance on earmarked voluntary contributions from a handful of traditional donors has long been one of its biggest vulnerabilities. And as you know, for the past eight years, one of my top priorities has been to address that vulnerability. The commitment by member states in 2022 to increase the assess contributions progressively to 50% of the base budget was a transformative moment. The WHO investment round has been another key initiative to improve the predictability, flexibility, and resilience of our funding by mobilizing the resources we need to implement the 14th general program of work over the next four years. In the first phase of the investment round, we received 70 pledges, more than half of which were from firsttime voluntary contributors to WHO, including 21 from middle inome countries around the world. Already at this assembly, we have heard pledges from several other member states, and we look forward to hearing more tonight. The increase in assess contributions that member states approved today will add 90 million dollars per year in fully flexible, predictable and resilient funding. With that increase and thanks to the funds we have already mobilized through the investment round, we're confident that we have already secured more than $2.6 6 billion US or 60% of the funding for the next bianium. In fact, we are in a better position now than we were at this point for either of the two previous bianium. At this stage, two years ago, we had only secured 50% of funding for 2024 25 and two years before that we had only secured 43% of funding for 2022 2023. The investment round has helped us build a community of support beyond our traditional donor uh beyond our traditional donor base to include lower income countries as well as foundations and corporate philanthropy. I'm grateful to every member state and partner that has pledged towards the investment round so far. I thank you all for your commitment to multilateralism and to WHO. We are stronger together. I'm now glad to pass the floor back to CO Malik of the Save Children who is moderating the session uh this evening. Please. Thank you very much Dr. Tedros. Um I'd like to first of all call on uh Minister Lei Chao from China. uh China has been very prominent and active uh in the World Health Assembly and we welcome to hear your perspective from the Chinese Ministry of Health. Okay. Thank Okay. Thank you honorable DG Dr. Tedos, distinguished moderator and guests, ladies and gentlemen. Good evening. It's my great pleasure to attend this padding event at the sideline of WH 78. First of all, I would like to congratulate on the smooth proceeding of the opening ceremony and the discussion during the past two days and extend my sincere appreciation for the efforts made by Dr. terrorists and the WHO secretary for the arrangements and preparation for this assembly as well as this high level pledging event. China firmly supports WHO's leadership role in the global health governance and believes that to play a steel role who needs to be sufficiently and sustainably financed. In 20 24, China has joined who's investment round and made pledges. This morning, Vice Premier Leong has announced this morning that China will provide additional increase amount of 500 million US dollars in his keynote speech. Those efforts deliver a strong signal of China's support to WHO during this reform process. In the past few decades, China has contributed to the global health governance through both multilateral and bilateral channels and the China Africa and the China Latin America cooperation mechanism. Health cooperation and assistance are always the priority. As China's flagship efforts in the past 62 years, we have sent over 30,000 medical doctors to more than 77 countries in the world and have treated a total number of more than 300 million patients. which I already introduced in my general discussion yesterday afternoon. Under the global development initiative proposed by President he, we have established the global development and the south south cooperation fund which is now managed by China international development and cooperation agency. We welcome all countries and international organizations relevant to apply health program and this fund. Together we believe that we can make a big difference in the global health development by implementing those carefully designed pilot health programs. In addition, encouraged by the Chinese government, funds from the private sectors and different donate foundations are also willing to support global health development cooperation, including those foundations in Hong Kong and the Macau special administrative region. We hope that through our joint efforts, we can deliver more equitable and accessible health services to people around the world and enable WHO to better perform its duty and promote the building of global community of health for all. Thank you. Thank you very much uh Minister Lei. Uh may I turn next to the assistant minister Almari uh from the state of Qatar? Qatar is a core contributor to WHO's program budget. Can you tell us why it's so important for Qatar and other member states to provide flexible funding to WHO? Thank you Mr. Malikamlaykum and good afternoon to all of you. Uh first of all, Qatar's core contribution to WHO reflects our deep commitment to global health security, humanitarian solidarity, and the principles of multilateral cooperation. Flexible funding is not only essential for WHO's operational effectiveness, it is uh strategic involvement in global stability. It empowers who to respond rapidly to crisis, address systematic or systemic inequalities, inequities, and strengthen preparedness in the face of evolving threats. Our support aligns with Qatar with Qatar's national development strategy which prioritizes resilience, inclusive development and in international cooperation. It also reflects our broader approach to humanitarian aid where we aim not only to respond but to help build systems that are suitable, equitable and c centered on human dignity through our strategic dialogue with who and thank you your excellency uh director general. We are proud to support more agile, accountable and impactdriven organization when that safeguards the health of all people especially the most highly risk communities. Qatar has always been a steadfast partner of the World Health Organization. Our recent commitment of 10 million US dollar towards the implementation of GPW4 is more than just a financial contribution. It is a clear reflection of our unwavering belief belief that global health is the cornerstone of global peace and sustainable progress. I thank you. Thank you, Minister Almari. Um, I'd next like to turn to our uh friend, Ambassador Posi from Tanzania, who is representing Minister Mahagama, who's been detained at another event. Uh, Tanzania has been leading by example in its support to WH. You pledged last year in the investment round and you're making an additional pledge. would love to know more about Tanzania's intent. Okay. U your excellencies director general Dr. Tedros ladies and gentlemen of course I make this comment or statement on behalf of my minister. On behalf of the government of the United Republic of Tanzania, I reaffirm our strong support for the World Health Organization and its critical role in global health security. WH has been a trusted partner in strengthening our health systems, achieving maternal and child health and aligning national strategies through our health sector strategic plan number five and health emergency preparedness and response plan. Tanzania believes that sustainable financing for WH is not a cost. It is a global investment in resilience, equity, and preparedness. In recognition of this, Tanzania decided to double its original uh pledge of 500,000 USD and actually have and has actually paid the total amount of I mean the whole amount of u USD 1 million. uh and from a development country's perspective this is is a this is a significant sum and Tanzania and Tanzania is committed to increasing domestic investment in health as we confront global challenges that that is climate change pandemics anti antimicrobial resistance and rising non-communicable diseases. We must equip WH with predictable, flexible, and transparent funding to lead effectively. Together, let us ensure WH can continue to protect live lives, drive innovation, and build a healthier, safer, and safer world for all. Thank you very much. Thank you, Ambassador. We welcome Tanzania's leadership uh on this and uh I note that the contribution that you've shared with us is more than 10 times Tanzania's annual assessed contribution. So this is a significant uh commitment which is hugely welcome. We also need to diversify and broaden uh from the non-traditional donor B uh from the from the traditional donor base to see new countries like Tanzania, Cambodia, others around the uh the tables in this room, but also foundations. And in that regard, I'd like to invite Mr. Sasakawa, the chairman of the Nippon Foundation, who in fact is celebrating the 50th anniversary of the foundation's partnership with WHO. So, a long and committed partner. Please uh Mr. Sasakawa tell us about your perspective on your collaboration with WHO. Thank you. Stone the 50th anniversary of the collaboration between WHO, the Nepon Foundation and the Sasaka Health Foundation in the fight to eliminate global reprocy throughout these years. Guided by my firm conviction that problems and solutions are both found on the ground. I myself have traveled in my capacity as WHO goodwill ambassador for leprosy elimination to 124 countries from jungles and deserts to remote islands aiming to both eliminate the disease and eradicate the harsh discrimination associated with it. With the introduction of multi-drug therapy, MDT by WHO in 1991, leprosy became a curable disease and we have come just a step away to achieving world elimination. However, we must remain aware that leprosy continues to be a current and ongoing disease and that we must not forget that we are in the last mile toward achieving who's goal of zero leprosy. As the saying goes, in a journey of 100 miles, consider 99 miles as only halfway. Completing this last mile will require even greater determination and commitment than ever before. Nevertheless, with our spirit of never give up, we are prepared to provide 23 million US dollars in new support for who leprosy program over the next 10 years, aiming to achieve zero leprosy and eliminate associated discrimination by 2035. I say 10 years because at the age of 86 I am still in the prime of my youth. And since Thank you. Thank you. And since I have not yet received a call from the next world, I intend to continue my youthful journey for another 10 years. I'd like to ask you all to walk this last mile together to achieving zero reprocy and building a future where no one is left behind and let us make the impossible possible. Thank you Mr. Sasagawa. Thank you for inspiring us with your youthfulness. Uh I'd like to turn lastly on this first panel to Professor Conradson who's the senior vice president of Novo Nordisk Foundation, a foundation that has been generous in its support uh to WH. Uh Professor Conradton, can you say a little bit about why and how the partnership with WH adds value to the mission of your foundation? Thank you so much. Oops. Director General, honorable ministers, delegates, esteemed chair, thank you so much for the invitation today. It uh provides us an opportunity as the Novonisk Foundation to express our gratitude for the partnership with WHO. The nolva Notice Foundation is an independent uh philanthropic organization based in Denmark with an aim to improve um people's health and the sustainability of society and the planet. We are dedicated to advancing health research but also other scientific, social and humanitarian causes around the world. In these turbulent times for global health, we find that the Noonisk Foundation strong belief in WHO as an institution and the essential functions WHO upholds in promoting and protecting health across the globe. WHO plays in our mind a unique and irreplaceable role in the global health ecosystem and its mandate is to develop normative guidelines, build country capacity for resilient health systems and support learning and evidence. Few can take on this role but WHO. Novonotics Foundation and WHO share a vision advancing global health and have had a long-standed trusted partnership in responding to health emergencies and also cardabolic diseases in humanitarian crisis. We stand jointly in our priorities in advancing the prevention and control management of cardomabolic diseases. A group of diseases non-communicable that are taking the lives of 20 million people around the world every year. So it's it's a group of diseases that as you know would include cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and many more. These are now um among the fastest growing disease burdens in many low and middle inome countries and we find this deserves an increased focus. Many of these diseases are preventable and treatable if the right measures are taken to ensure that WHO can continue to fulfill its important role in monitoring and advancing global health and to support its work in its prevention and management of cardabolic disease as well as building the future health workforce capacity and addressing the antimicrobial resistance challenge. We have entered into a 4-year framework agreement with WHO. Along with this framework agreement, we as an foundation, the nolva Nordisk Foundation have pledged USD 57 million in support of the work of the WHO. We look forward to working with the WHO and many others, partners in global health for the future to come. Thank you for this opportunity. Thank you very much, Professor Conradson, for your generous support. Um, that concludes the first panel. So, I'm going to invite our panelists to please uh step down from the podium and our panelists second for the second panel to please take their place. Whilst we do the changeover, we will play a short video from CIF uh the children's investment fund from the CEO, Miss Kate Hampton. Director General, esteemed ministers and excellencies. I'm so sorry I'm not able to join you in person today, and I know we're all facing multiple and significant demands on our time due to the profoundly challenging context. Political ambition and public support for international partnership are declining in some quarters. In turn, this is weakening multilateral processes and institutions. The SG financing gap is growing and resources are becoming scarcer. While we must not diminish for a moment the appalling human cost of recent decisions, we must also fight the urge to descend into a zero sum competition for every dollar and recognize instead that we are now at a crucial juncture for reform. If we do not define the future of a reformed global system and a compelling and unified vision for global health within that then others will. No community should exist in a situation in which health outcomes are dependent on a faraway election. Donor countries need to develop fiscally efficient and innovative financing solutions. But most importantly, all of us must work to support local systems and capacity to move beyond aid dependency in line with the Lusaka agenda. We will need to reform all international architecture with absolute clarity at what can be done at global, local, and regional levels, respectively. The Children's Investment Fund Foundation has been a committed partner to the WHO with shared work spanning HIV prevention, sexual and reproductive health and rights, ending violence against children, nutrition, and health equity. Today, I'm pleased to reaffirm our commitment. We will not waver in our support. We have 28 million in active grants across the WHO including on SRHR nutrition and violence against children and we intend to increase. Philanthropy cannot fill the gaps left by the aid cuts because they are indeed far too large. But we will play our part in supporting and defending the WHO to play its essential role as a leader in establishing and defending global norms and standards as an evidence generator, as a convenor and a defender of the most vulnerable. I hope that everyone at the World Health Assembly can similarly recommmit to this work and to the WHO and hopefully do more. Doing so is the only way that we ensure that the future of the global health architecture and of international cooperation more broadly is built by the people who really believe in both. Thank you. Thank you. I know that CIF has been an important partner for the WHO and indeed many others uh around the world committed to the uh challenges of global health. Uh let us turn now to our second panel and I'd like to begin with Professor Koi Vani who is the secretary of state at the Ministry of Health in Cambodia and Cambodia is one of the growing number of member states that have resumed or provided voluntary funding to WHO for the first time. Could I ask why? Why is Cambodia committed to supporting WH? Um thank you um Mr. Chair. Um first of all um you know very well that um here remains a top priority for the Royal Government of Cambodia and we have made um notable progress in expanding access, improving health security and responding to emerging health threat. And um even we recognize that this this progress remain fragile. But um Cambodian is now moving forward um to you know graduation from least developed country status and we are determined to build a resilient inclusive health system that leave no one behind. And um achieving this goal depend on continue global solidarity and stronger partnership at country regional and global levels. And we believe that WH plays a unique and indispensable role in health development. And this is why Cambodia fully support the WH investment round. And to demonstrate our commitments, the Royal Government of Cambodia has pledged even it is a modest contribution 400,000 US dollar our first ever financial contribution to this global effort. It is more than a funding act. It reflects our trust in WH, our commitment to multi multilateralism and our share belief in a fairer healthier world. Predictable flexible funding allow WH to deliver impact align with a great priority, broaden its funding base and reduce reliance on a few large donor. And we encourage all member state to join us in closing these gaps. This is not again merely about funding. It is investment in global stability, equity and well-being. Together let us ensure WHO has the mean to deliver on its vital mandate and create lasting health impact for all. Thank you very much. Thank you, Professor Vani. Next, I'd like to turn to Ambassador Vissell, uh, who is the ambassador for global health from Sweden. Um, Sweden, of course, has been one of the biggest providers of fully flexible voluntary funding to WH. Um, tell us about the impact that you've seen. Dear honorable chair, dear director general, excellencies, I am honored to participate in this important event on sustainable financing of WH for impact in the new global health landscape. It is truly a new global health landscape that WH is navigating. Sweden welcomes WH's efforts to reform under the leadership of Director General Tedros and we recognize the difficulties yet necessary journey ahead. Challenging decisions have been made and implementing them will require a strong and bold leadership and long-term commitment. While recognizing the huge and immediate consequences the drop in global health funding will have for people in need of health interventions, we must also see the current situation as an opportunity for WH to reform and come out stronger and more fit for purpose for the decades to come. And we hope we will have convincing reasons years down the line to say that this opportunity wasn't wasted. Because we need WH. We need a WH that delivers on its normative and convening role. On its role as a brooker of evidence-based knowledge and data. WH is the indispensable cornerstone of the multilateral global health ecosystem. This assembly has shown that member states are ready to take responsibility for a more sustainable funded WH through the decision taken to increase the share of assessed contributions as proposed by the DG. Sweden welcomes this increase. Since all member states need to take their share of the funding of the organization, we also welcome a broadening of the donor base by private companies, philanthropies, etc. In addition, in view of the reforms that the GG has launched, Sweden through the Swedish International Development Corporation Agency, CEDA, has decided to invest€ 12 million euro of fully flexible CVC funding for 2025. fully flexible CBC funding, which we strongly believe is the most efficient funding for the organization and a tradition for Sweden. Looking ahead, we urge the WH to collaborate closely with other relevant global health actors and UN organizations to ensure a coordinated and effective approach in line with the UN Secretary General's reform initiative UN80. Thank you very much. Thank you, Ambassador Visel. Um, we now turn to our colleague from Switzerland from the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation, uh, Ms. Pleella. Uh, can you tell us why WHO matters to Switzerland and your priorities for global health and nutrition? Well, thank you. So, so on behalf of Switzerland, allow me to express our strong attachment to WHO, which we we have the honor to host. Um, who is an essential pillar of a world health order based on science, human rights, and solidarity. And in the face of major pandemic threats, the withdrawal of major partners and widespread financial austerity, it is our collective uh responsibility um to strengthen WHO. So our agency the Swiss agency for development and cooperation places actually W at the center of this health strategy at both the global and the normative levels as well as in low and middle inome countries. So it has many many uh at many levels because we do have uh many instruments. So our voluntary contributions to WHO amount to around 40 millions over four years and I are highly predictable because they are planned over more sometimes more than 10 years up to 12 years and they are directed towards the most transformative yet underfunded areas at WHO which of course are less attractive to traditional donors. I'm talking here about mental health, nutrition, health equity, human resources and of course resilient health systems both in middle- inome and low and middle inome countries. So the these contributions complement the assessed contributions provided by our federal office of public health. So our ministry of health ensuring predictable and flexible funding to WHO's core functions. Together we create positive synergies that strengthen the impact and coherence of Switzerland's engagement particularly in areas of shared interest such as governance, coordination and institutional reform. Let me just give you I had two examples but I was just take the first one. Um the partnership with WHO on the social determinance of health equity. So the global report which was launched this month and is a result of close collaboration between the WHO and Switzerland clearly demonstrates that health issues are not confined to hospitals but also occur in places such as the streets, schools and workplace. So it calls for public policies to be transformed in order to address social inequalities in health and this was chronically underfounded so far at WH. So Switzerland supports WHO goes of course beyond uh financial contributions. So we are the whole state but we also play an active role uh in WHO governance serving at on the executive board and the program budget and administration committee. We advocate who that refocuses on its normative function just as you said and coordination capacity and with differentiated commitment according to context. So in this context uh Switzerland welcomes WH ongoing prioritization efforts. This has also been mentioned. This process is vital for preserving essential capacities essential capacities and for maximizing global impact despite budgetary constraints. We believe in a strong reformed and wellfounded WHO. The contribution announced by Switzerland at the World Health Assembly reflects this commitment and we will continue to play our part responsibly and with solidarity. Thank you. Thank you so much uh Miss Pla. Um we've heard from a number of member states. We're now going to hear from a couple of the foundations and philanthropies that are also important partners to WHO. Um Tom Tom McPartland who's the CEO of Elma Philanthropies who are contributing to WHO for the first time I believe. Can you tell us what your rationale is and why you're coming to the table at this time? Thank you. Time all formalities observed. Thank you for having us. Um to be clear, while it is the first time we've done um a direct grant in this way, um over the last 20 years of Elma's life, we have worked in very close partnership with WHO and have been a significant co-founder with WHO and with other multilateral agencies and bilateral uh partners across a broad um number of thematics in public health. Um why what's different now? Well, um, Dr. Tedros, um, had always, um, aspired to expand private sector engagement with WHO. And in the past, out of respect for WHO's administrative procedures and structures and out of uh respect for our sanity, uh it was often um cumbersome cumbersome for both organizations to go through the contracting process to be able to have the visibility access to the technical teams and to be able to structure a grant investment um in such a way that it would accommodate WHO's protocols and accommodate uh Elma's needs. Um given the time bound nature and sometimes the financial size of those investments. Um with the creation of the WHO Foundation, uh the best of both worlds was made possible to organizations like Elma and I would suggest other private sector participants. One, the WHO foundation is very nimble and structured in such a way that it can contract and engage with uh different types of private donors and address the respective needs that that those donors may have but at the same time it affords us continued access to the technical expertise teams within WHO working on the different areas. So specifically uh today what I'm here to talk about is I think all of us here have known the importance of the uh global um measles and rebella surveillance network the gremlin network um and we're all living in a measles outbreak as we speak. Um however what we've also been talking about today is surveillance is not just a tool to combat um vaccinereventable diseases uh that have outbreak. It is the most important we believe building block uh to ensuring comprehensive campaigns of vaccination coverage globally that in itself is the most important mitigator of outbreaks. And so given the catastrophic changes in world financing for public health um we felt it was essential that Elma who has funded regularly uh measles uh campaigns, cold chain innovation uh zero dose children mitigation uh that it was essential uh that we step up and engage in supporting the the Gremlin network. And what is um most exciting is the WHO Foundation has committed not only to uh help accelerate the process of the Elma Vaccines and Immunization Foundation $2 million grant. They've committed to uh seek matching uh contributions to that which will result in a $4 million um pledge to the Gremlin network. And we are also able to participate in encouraging other private sector donors to come into that matching and we hope that'll be an example of future engagement. Fantastic. Thank you Mr. McPartland for talking about the WHO Foundation and its flexibility. I'd like to turn lastly on this panel and then we'll go to the floor. We have some interventions that have been requested from the floor. But before we do that, I'd like to turn to Mr. Alex Schultz, who's the chief program officer for Botner Foundation, which is focused on young people's health and well-being. Again, can I invite you to tell us a little bit about the added value that you see from your investment and collaboration with WHO for Foundation's objectives? Thank you, Mr. Chair. Um, yes, you've named it. Our focus is young people's health and well-being and that's also the focus of the strategic partnership between WHO and our foundation. So why why young people? I hope we all have an answer. Um it's the large largest youth generation we have to date in this world. Nearly two billion people are actually between 10 and 24 years and young people are our society's future's backbone. So what do we want to do together? Um, we aim to contribute to more enabling conditions and environments for young people across different areas and sectors that are relevant to young people's health and well-being. Now, how do we bring our strengths together? You've asked that question what where we see the added value and on the one side it's very clear to our work as founder that WHO's technical expertise and close collaboration with member states for example through incountry presence are key to turning for example global normative guidance into national action which is important to us now on our side and also what is a bit new to this partnership And I'm I'm really happy about this is also that it basically induced uh collaboration within who across departments and divisions to work towards one strategic objectives around young people's health and well-being. on our side, we would not only provide um financial funds and we will provide 8 million Swiss Franks for the next three years to that matter, but also the network of partners and stakeholders that we as a private sector nonprofit organization can provide especially in the areas of healthy urban environments, mental health promotion like my Swiss colleague mentioned and digital transformation for young people. And we believe we can create synergies between different players, not just our two parts, but the networks we have around and through cross- sectoral collaboration. And at the end, we also need much stronger meaningful youth engagement around this partnership. So we sincerely hope we can inspire some other partners and stakeholders here to join this strategic partnership and engage with and for young people. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Schultz. Um, now we have six or seven minutes left for our session. So, I'm going to call uh for some brief interventions from the floor. I'd encourage you to be brief. Uh, I have speakers from Gabon, Mongolia, and Spain. Uh, Minister of Health Adrienne from Gabon. The floor is yours. Uh, briefly, if you may. Thank you very much chair, director general, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, distinguished delegates, dear partners. Gabbor wishes to thank who for organizing this high level meeting relating to pledges in the investment round. This is being held in the new uh health context marked by a significant drop in financial re resources of the organization which is leading to a drop in staff and also reducing its capacity to respond effectively to member states needs. I wish to congratulate the DG as well as his team for the efforts made to fund this G uh GPW G sir. In the context of the current financial challenges, WH needs predictable and lasting financing. It must also make choices as to what activities to lead and where. My country believes the priority should be given to bolstering health systems for countries in regions that regularly face, epidemic outbreaks, humanitarian crises, and climate change effects. We welcome the focus on promoting equity in health and to build resilience in health systems as under the GPW program of work. Also, we wish to thank the DG for taking into account uh to uh to put countries first starting in 2026. As countries are the countries in Africa are the ones who are most hit. Gabon wishes to show its support to activities of WHO despite our budgetary constraints. We are committed to $150 million US as a pledge. This contribution shows our willingness to actively participate in efforts to effectively implement the GPW 14. We wish to insist that it is urgent for WHO to have a transparent follow-up uh mechanism for um funding for our investment round. And to conclude, Gabong wishes to reiterate its commitment to work closely with WHO and other member states to promote health and the well-being of all. Together we can overcome the health u obstacles and financial obstacles for all. Thank you. Thank you for minister for your support and your commitment. Uh I'd next like to invite uh her excellency ambassador Gurel Mah uh who is the head of delegation for Mongolia. Thank you. Thank you very much for this opportunity. I'll be very brief. Uh the WHO investment round is merely a financial initiative. It's a reaffirmation of our collective commitment to the principle of equity, solidarity and shared responsibility in global health. It underscore our recognition that sustainable and predictable finance is essential for the WH to fulfill its mandate and respond effectively to the health challenge of our time. For Mongolia, health is not only a fundamental human right, it is also a cornerstone of sustainable development. We remain resolutely committed to strengthening national health systems, promoting healthy lifestyle and fostering regional and international cooperation to address shared challenges. In this spirit, the government of Mongolia has made a voluntary contribution of 100 100,000 US dollar in support of the 14 general program of work. This program represent a bold evidence based vision for impact. It's fully funded. It has been potential to save 40 million lives over the next four years. A call to action we cannot afford to ignore. Let us meet this moment with determination and forest a bell resources and sustainability financial wh essential not only to respond to crisis but to prevent them and to uphold the right to health is a universal value. I thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much ambassador. Um, I have two last speakers before I close our session. Um, I'd like to turn next to the to Ambassador Milani from Spain. Uh, but encourage you to be brief if I may. Thank you very much, Mr. chair director general ministers just on behalf of Spain to to express our full engagement in this investment effort the support uh to the central role of WH uh commending uh the intention to transform and in this context to reiterate the pledge made by our the president the far government for 60 million euros for the period 202528 out of which 6.7 7 have been mobilized today as part of the core contribution and specific contributions. Thank you. Thank you very much, Ambassador Milani, and thank you for your brevity. Uh lastly, may I turn to Katherine Loftess, uh who chairs the WHO program, budget, and administration committee and offers a slightly different perspective. Thank you, chair. Thank you, chair. Uh, we have heard loud and welldeserved praises for WH who's work and WH's staff during the last two days. We welcome the bold revised organizational structure and a more realistic program budget and we have praised member states for contributions of sustainable, predictable and flexible financing and the increase of assessed contributions. The Norwegian government has already pledged uh 1 billion Norwegian crowns approximately 94 million US for the period 2025 to 2028 and the amount will be in form of flexible funding and we are proud to be a long-term partner of WHO and I call upon others to join us to fully finance the next fouryear strategic period. This is the only way for a more effective and more democratic WHO. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, uh, Dr. Loftess. Now, just before I, uh, make a couple of closing remarks, may I invite Dr. Tedros, our director general, to convey a word of thanks. Yeah, thank you. Thank you so much indeed. I think it's a very historic day today. Thank you for the pandemic agreement. That's a big win and very historic. and second for the uh approval of the budget of 2627 but not only that the 20% increase in assess contribution that's very significant I don't know Raul can help me in terms of absolute how much is it around 200 million yeah 90 million a year correct so about 200 million Sorry, it's about 200 million which you have decided for 2627 and this is part of the decision made to increase our assets contribution by 50% in 2022. So this is the second installment and in the history of the organization this contribution of 50% increase in is is is big. It's the first time there were two increases 3% each over seven decades. It shows your commitment and your confidence. So, thank you so much uh for the assess contribution increase um earlier today and I was in the room when you approved and I was so so moved because you kept your promise. This was from 2022. This is the second installment and going forward I think that's the kind of funding that will help who to be uh empowered because it's flexible it's predictable it's long-term and it's the contribution of each and every member state all 194 of you and that's what we have been asking for broader base contribution from all member states will make who sustainable in terms of financing but at the same time independent. It's not about the amount of money, it's the quality of the money, especially the flexibility that empowers the organization. So you have really delivered on that and I'm really grateful. So these are the two installments but we expect the assess contribution three installments until 2030 because this is a long-term project and by 2030 I hope we will complete the five installments and put who on a sustainable financing uh footing and then of course the third the investment round. Thank you so much to those who have pledged in the past um previously and thank you so much also to those who have pledged today. We're very very grateful and the investment round has been part of the initiative we start transformation in 2017 18 to broaden the donor base and that's also going very well and we're very grateful that we have several um uh instruments to mobilize resources to realize the uh broadening of the donor base and to realize ize the independence of the organization. So thank you so much. I'm very grateful and we will uh deliver what you're saying by supporting as is who should deliver and uh we will do that and I assure you that we will we will deliver the current crisis. We see it as opportunity and we will be sharper and more focused and more independent and we're we're seeing it as opportunity and I would like to assure you uh we have already taken serious measures and we know what comes next and we will continue to take uh serious measures and reform the organization for the better and With that, thank you chair for leading us on this. I'm very grateful and look forward to continue our partnership also with Save the Children. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much Dr. Director General. Um it falls to me to close our session. Um Save the Children works in 120 countries around the world. Of course, our mission is to provide a better future for children and we work with children directly with their mothers and the vulnerable communities in which they live. And we know from our experience in those 120 countries that children are suffering great inequities and great challenges in realizing a better future. We're living through challenging times in terms of shifting geopolitics, in terms of pressures on budgets and resources. And on behalf of those children, I'd like to convey our thanks to Save the Children for the pledges and commitments made here today. They deserve a better future. They deserve your investment. They deserve public health that can give them a healthy start in life. indeed in the slogan of this session all for health and health for all. So thank you very much to both traditional donors to new donors new partners to philanthropies and foundations. We need to sweat every dollar as hard as we can. We need to come together in a spirit of partnership and collaboration to give those children a better future. So thank you for demonstrating that global health and multilateralism are alive and kicking. And with that, I invite you to join the reception that's being hosted by the president of the World Health Assembly, Minister Heraboso, just outside. Thank you very much indeed, everybody.