Good morning everybody. Please take a seat. We are going to start. Good morning. The high level meeting of the general assembly on the prevention and control of non-communicable diseases and the promotion of mental health and well-being is called to order. Heads of State and Government, Deputy Secretary General of the United Nations, President of the Economic and Social Council, Director General of the World Health Organization, President of the International Olympic Committee, first of her kind, female president, congratulations, excellencies, distinguished delegates, participants. I warmly welcome all of you to this high level meeting convened under the overall theme equity and integration transforming lives and livelihoods through leadership and action on non-communicable diseases and the promotion of mental health and wellbeing. This high level meeting is held in accordance with general assembly resolution 79 stroke 700 uh 273 of March 6, 2025. Allow me to express my sincere appreciation to the co-f facilitators of the negotiation process. Her Excellency Rhonda King, permanent representative of St. Vincent's and the Grenardines to the United Nations, and His Excellency Olivia Mars, permanent representative of Luxembourg to the United Nations for their skillful stewardship and dedicated hard work. I also extend my sincere thanks to member states for their constructive engagement. Allow me now to make a statement as president of the general assembly. For the first time, more children are obese than underweight. More weight loss drugs offered in type 2 diabetes shakeup. New drug could change breast cancer treatment. These are recent media headlines, the kind we see every day. Good news. Why? Because unlike infectious diseases, non-communicable diseases carrier risk fesceros and treatments that in many cases we can control. We as human beings have agency what we eat, how we move, what we breathe, whether we seek care. And each of us has a story. A sibling with asthma, a grandparent with heart disease, a colleague managing diabetes, a friend undergoing chemotherapy. NCDs are woven into our daily lives. But normaly cannot mean complicity. NCDS are the leading cause of and of all nonpandemic related death. That's nearly 20 million people dying of heart disease. 10 million succumbing to cancer. The good news is that by their very nature most NCDs are preventable, treatable or even both. Lifestyle choices particularly around tobacco and alcohol use dial and physical activity all help to prevent NCDs. For those who are ill, proper testing, diagnosis and treatment options exist. The same holds true for mental health where community awareness and anti-stigmatization coupled with psychic therapy and treatment allow people to live full healthy lives. The challenge of course is that in our increasingly unequal world the burden of NCDS is being shouldered by those most vulnerable. Nearly threearters of all NCD death are in low and middle inome countries where prevention and treatment options are hard to come by. In 2021, 41% of lowincome countries reported supply chain issues related to NCD medication compared to just 4% of highincome countries. The same holds true for mental health. While mental health's condition affect nearly 1 billion people worldwide, it remains chronically underfunded. Globally, mental health's expenditure averages two US dollar per year by capita. This falls to less than 25 cents in lowincome countries. Many allocate less than 1% of their health's budgets to mental health. The challenge is thus cyclical. Those first behind are the least likely to benefit health education, prevention or treatment. And countries facing chronically high mortality rates from NCDS suffer from labor shortages and lost economic growth. NCDS can therefore be said to be both cause and consequence of poverty. Let us be candid. Diabetes is manageable with education, medicine and care. Cancer is treatable with early testing. Mental health need to be barrier to a fuel life. If stigma is lifted and services are accessible, the problem is not knowledge or science, we are abandoned in both. It is access. Billions of people remain cut off from the very tools that could save their lives. Excellencies, we need to recommmit to the promise we made in the PE for the future to accelerate the fulfillment of the 2030 agenda. SDG3 aims at ensuring healthy lives and promoting well-being for all at all ages. This requires pursuing whole of society approaches that harness the best resources and extends education to all. It means implementing global health policies that address and reflect social determinance for NCDS from economics to environmental factors to food security. And it means urgently accelerating financing to fill the financing gaps that are leaving millions without sufficient or appropriate prevention and Nobody in this room is immune from non-communibical diseases. Surely there are many in this room living with or even recovering from their own battles with heart disease or cancer or mental health. Surely if not ourselves than our loved ones. It is no surprise that this topic has been embraced by so many who have come together to address these silent killers. Killers which unlike wars could be addressed so easily if we worked together. Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, consider the case of 10year-old Kelly in Zimbabwe. One night she woke up dizzy and thirsty, probably worried that school would be hard the next day. But after late night visit to the emergency room, Kelly knows now that she does not have to suffer, that she can continue to go to school and play with her friends. She was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes and can be treated with medication. medication that she will take for the rest of her life, hopefully long and healthy life, but her life can gone on like a 10-year-old's child's life. But just imagine what it would have cost not only for her personal but also for society if she would not have been diagnosed and treated and had dropped out of school. And there are 800 million Kellies in the world. Half of them do not have treatment like Kelly for a disease that is entirely treatable either because they are undiagnosed, unaware they should be diagnosed or because treatment is unavailable because it's too expensive. That is 400 million people who not only suffer but also cannot participate or contribute to our societies as they wished. So dear colleagues, dear heads of states, ministers, today discussion with leading policy makers, doctors and health care providers, mental health experts, adverts is not only an opportunity to join forces and learn from each other and to show how to support the millions living with non-communicable diseases. It is also an opportunity to address the ballooning societal costs associated with NCDS to understand that if we are working together we do not only make individual lives betters not only regional communities but that this joint efforts is in our own interest the interest of every country especially in every country's economic interest. In the two decades from 2011 to 2030, it is estimated that NCDs will cost global economy a stuttering 30 trillion 30 trillion US. Factoring mental health associated cost and low productivity adds to another 16 trillion US dollars. It's about economics in this situation. So it's in the interest of every especially strong economic powers. Clearly these are challenges that affect all of us and in the end the poorest suffer most. As I said in the opening of the general debate, we tackle such borderless challenges not only out of altruism but for our own mutual benefit and even for our own self-interest. Helping others is what ultimately makes our own countries stronger. We work together or we suffer alone. So let's be better together. I thank you. I now invite his excellency lo Bahadua Tapa, President of the Economic and Social Council to take a statement. Thank you, President of the General Assembly, Madame Deputy Secretary General, Honorable Ministers, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, non-communicable diseases and mental health conditions are not only a health crisis. They are a development crisis. They strike hardest among the poorest and most vulnerable. They widen inequalities. They undermine human capital and they slow economic growth. Every premature death from the NCD is lost potential. Every untreated mental health conditions is a missed opportunity for inclusion and dignity. This is why the economic and social council has placed these issues at the heart of its work. Ekosaka is a responsibility to highlight the social, economic and environmental dimensions of health and to galvanize cross- sectoral solutions. The council also served as a bridge between health commitments and financing partnership and policy coherence needed to achieve them. Excellencies, we are five years from the 2030 deadline at the old is f off track to meet target 3.4 four of the sustainable development goals that is reducing premature mortality from the NCD by one/ird the political declaration before us be offers a clear path forward to deliver we must integrate NCD and mental health services into universal health coverage with primary health care as the backbone confront the underlying determinance of ill health from From unequal access to healthy diets and clean air to the economic and commercial drivers of risky consumption and behavior. And to ensure fewer people use tobacco, hypertension is effectively managed and millions more gain access to mental health services without stigma or barriers. But commitments will only succeed if matched with predictable and sustained financing. Domestic resource mobilizations including health taxes can generate new stream of revenue. Innovative partnership can unlock additional investment and international cooperations including development assistance must give greater priority to NCDS and mental health and well-being. Excellencies, Ecos will continue to provide a platform for accountability and coordination. A platform to connect the dots between health, finance, climate, trade, and social protection. a platform to engage civil society, the private sector and the people with live experience, ensuring solutions are inclusive and grounded in reality. Today is a moment to reaffirm our collective resolve. If we place solidarity, equity, and investment at the core at the core of our response, we can reverse current trends. We can ensure that NCDs and mental health conditions are no longer barriers to sustainable development but drivers of said progress for humanity. I thank you. I thank the president of the economic and social council. I now invite Miss Amina Muhammed, deputy secretary general of the United Nations to make her statement. Thank you. President of the General Assembly, President of Echos, Director General of the World Health Organization, President of the International Olympic Committee, excellencies, friends, I have the honor to deliver these remarks on behalf of the Secretary General, welcome to this fourth high level meeting of the General Assembly on the prevention and control of non-communicable diseases, NCDS, and the promotion of mental health and well-being. Every two seconds, someone under the age of 70 dies from a non-communicable disease. In this past year alone, over 43 million lives of all ages were lost to NCDs, the largest cause of global health deaths. Mental health conditions affect over 1 billion people worldwide and suicide remains amongst the leading causes of death for young people. 2.8 billion people cannot afford a healthy diet. These figures are not only statistics. They res represent lives shortened, livelihoods taken away, and communities that are held back. They remind us that NCDs and mental health conditions are among the greatest public health and development challenges of our time. We see this played out among many groups in many context including the postconit covid surge in youth mental health needs and the growing burden of non-communicable diseases in conflict and crisis settings where health systems are often the least equipped to respond. We've made progress since the first high level meeting in 2011. Tobacco use is declining. More countries have national strategies in place and access to treatment is expanding. Yet my latest report makes clear that progress has slowed. The world is not on track to achieve the sustainable development goal target of 3.4 on of a one-third reduction in premature mortality from NCDS by 2030. The costs are immense in human suffering, life expectancy, but also lost productivity, strained health systems, and deepening inequalities. These conditions are largely preventable. Proven cost-effective actions do exist, but they must actually reach the people. This month, the World Health Organization added GLP1based medicines, widely known as obesity drugs, to its essential medicines list for type 2 diabetes with related conditions alongside other essential medicines for hypertension, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease. Life-saving medicines must be available and affordable, not a privilege of wealth or geography. The economics are on our side. The WHO shows that scaling proven NCD measures returns around $7 for every $1 that is invested. I'd like to acknowledge the contribution this week in the UN of the Welcome Foundation to mental health that will support Chad and Lebanon. Excellencies, the political declaration before you today sets out ambitious but achievable goals by 2030. 150 million fewer people using tobacco, 150 million more with hypertension under control, and 150 more million with access to mental health care. To achieve these targets, we must act together. We must strengthen primary health care as the foundation of universal health coverage. We must work across sectors and partners to address the social, economic, environmental determinants and the market forces that shape how people live, what choices they make and ultimately their health and well-being. We must elevate mental health and psychosocial care in humanitarian settings where the pressures are immense and needs are often overlooked often overlooked and underfunded. We must ensure sustainable financing, including better use of fiscal measures to promote health and smart choices. We must place people living with NCDs and mental health conditions, at the center of these efforts, recognizing their lived experience as a source of knowledge and strength. And we must be accountable for our commitments. With only five years left to 2030, time is short. But if we act with urgency and unity, we can change that trajectory. Let's pledge to commit to prevention, to equity, and accelerated action at scale. Together, we can transform lives, safeguard livelihoods, and deliver on our promise of health and well-being for all. I thank you. I thank the deputy secretary general of the United Nations. I now invite Dr. Tedras Adhan Grius, director general of the World Health Organization to make his statement. Mr. Director general, the floor is yours. Thank you. to thank you your excellency. President of the General Assembly Analina Burbuk, Deputy Secretary General Aminina Muhammad, President of the International Olympic Committee, Christy Coventry, Under Secretary General for General Assembly and Conference Management, Moses Abelian, President of EOS Lo Bahad Tapa, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, dear colleagues and friends, of course you heard the numbers from my sister Amina NCDS kill 43 million people a year. They account for seven of the world's top 10 cause of death. Cancers, heart disease, diabetes, and chronic respiratory diseases. In addition, more than 1 billion people face mental health conditions, and suicide is the third leading cause of death among young people. Every death is a tragedy, no matter the cause. But the younger the person, the more acute the tragedy. Every year, NCD kill 18 million people under the age of 70. People cut down in the prime of life from diseases that could be prevented or treated. Imagine that's the population of Seneagal or the Netherlands or Cambodia or Guatemala or Zimbab Zimbabwe wiped out every single year. And cities and mental health conditions are preventable and treatable. We have the knowledge and we have the tools. What's needed is commitment, speed, and scale. The political declaration before you is the strongest yet with ambitious, measurable and achievable targets. I thank his excellency ambassador Olivia Mice of Luxembourg and her excellency ambassador Ingar Rounda King of St. Vincent and the Grandins for leading the negotiations. My thanks also to the president of the general assembly, Anilina Berbuk, and her predecessor, Filmon Young, for their leadership. And I also recognize the many civil society organizations and people with lived experience who contributed to shaping this declaration. Your voices matter and we hear them. For the first time, mental health is fully integrated into a political declaration or entities. It's about time. In this declaration, you're committing to expanding access to services for mental health care. But brick by brick, we must also tear down the walls of stigma that keep so many people trapped. I urge all of us, especially those of us with the privilege of having a platform and a voice to use those platforms and raise those voices to say that it's okay not to be okay. Mental health conditions are like any other condition, as common as a stomach ache. And that's how we should see it because there is no health without mental health. Excellencies, words on paper must translate into sustained action and measurable impact. Allow me to highlight three asks for the years ahead. Three promises we can make and keep. First, I ask all countries to increase investment in promoting health and preventing disease. We must remember that health does not start in clinics and hospitals. It starts in homes, schools, streets and workplaces. In the food people eat, the products they consume, the water they drink, the air they breathe, and the conditions in which they live and work. So the number one should be addressing the root causes and helping people to lead a healthy life. Second, I ask all countries to integrate services for NCDS and mental health into primary health care at the foundation of universal health coverage. Every community should have trained health workers, affordable diagnostics, quality assured essential medicines and health products and continuity of care across their life course. Third, I ask all countries to deliver equity through access and accountability. That means making essential medicines and technologies available and affordable to all with financing that reduces out of pocket payments or costs. It means tracking the targets transparently through robust surveillance and regular reporting so progress is visible, gaps are identified and leaders are accountable. And it means ensuring these transformations are guided by people with lived experience, civil society and communities. Who stands ready to support all countries to implement the commitments you're making and achieve the targets you're setting. As 2030 approach, the clock is ticking. But our ambition must extend beyond 2030. premature death from NCDS and mental health conditions. We remain defining challenges for health and development throughout this century. Let this meeting be remembered not only for pro promises made but for results delivered. Above all, let's remember the reason we are in this room for the people who are not. The life of the 55year-old who dies today with lung cancer and the costs of treating her could have been saved with tobacco taxes and marketing bans that made smoking less appealing or affordable. The life of the 45year-old who dies today with heart disease could have been saved if this hypertension had been diagnosed and managed with inexpensive medication. The life of the 25 year old who dies of suicide today could have been saved if her depression had been identified and treated. They are what brings us here and they are what drives us forward with urgency, equity and accountability. I thank you and Madame President back to you. I thank the director general of the World Health Organization. I now have the honor to invite Miss Kirsty Coventry, president of the International Olympic Committee and double Olympic champion for swimming swimming to make her statement. >> Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. President of the General Assembly, our general uh secretary secretary general represented by the deputy secretary general, president of the economic and social council, director general of the World Health Organization. Your excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, physical inactivity is a major risk factor for non-communicable diseases. Our bodies and our minds are made to move. But today too many people around the world are not moving enough. The scale of the challenge is alarming. 80% of adolescents and one in three adults are not doing enough physical activity. I would say today in this room thanks to all the security we've probably all walked quite a bit this week. So congratulations. But the challenge is to keep it up. If we continue on this path, we face 500 million new cases of preventable diseases by 2030. This is a crisis and it costs lives, billions of dollars in healthcare. In times of limited resources, we must invest in what works and sport works. At a young age, I was uh diagnosed with asthma and my parents did not want to put me onto the number of drugs that had been recommended and we went to another doctor who suggested swimming and uh it worked. It taught me how to control my breathing. It taught me how to grow my lung capacity and I have never had to go on the level of dosage that had previously been recommended when I was two years old. So sport works. Physical activity is one of the most effective lowcost high impact solutions we have to prevent diseases but also to support mental health. Every step, every game, every movement saves lives and it saves money. Physical inactivity already costs health care systems an estimated 27 billion dollars every year to treat NCDs. Studies show that every dollar invested in sport and physical activity can deliver four four-fold return in health care and economic benefits from lowering health care costs to longer healthier lives. In other words, investing in sport is a long-term investment in a stronger and more resilient community. This multiplier effect is being recognized. For example, development banks worldwide have pledged $10 billion by 2030 for sport and sustainable development projects. Their commitment reflects a growing recognition that investing in sport can generate ripple effects not only for health but also for education, inclusion, youth empowerment and so much more. This is why together with the World Health Organization, the International Olympic Committee launched an annual global campaign called Let's Move. It is simple and it's to bring everyone everywhere to be a little bit more active in their daily lives just as we have done this week and it works. Last year alone more than 500 me million people joined in young old families friends coming together to simply move to play to run to work out and to exercise. Let's move is more than a campaign. It is our call to action. Through our partnerships with national Olympic committees, UN agencies, NOS's, and community organizations, we are bringing sport to where everyone is. The IOC and the sport community are working to bring sport and health closer together by training healthare workers, making sport more accessible for physical and mental well-being, and promoting campaigns that inspire more people to move. To make a real impact, we need to work together. Governments, civil society, and the private sector, guided by the WHO's global action plan on physical activity. This high level meeting is about is about a new commitment for action to NCDS and mental health. We have the chance to make a real difference and I therefore applaud the member states increased recognition of physical activity and sports contribution in the political declaration which will be adopted in a few minutes. It is time to make physical activity and sport a systematic part of health, education, social and urban policies. We need to back this with real funding to turn words into actions against NCDs. Physical activity is lowcost, high impact investment in public health. Let's give people everywhere a chance to move, to play, and to live healthier lifestyles. Our Olympic motto is faster, higher, stronger together. It reminds us that the progress only happens when we move, when we move together. So, let's move for health. Let's move for a better future. Thank you. I thank the president of the international Olympic committee and how great that your motive faster higher stronger together fits perfectly with our motto better together. So in this spirits dear heads of state and government excellencies distinguished delegates distinguished participants we have just heard the last speaker for the opening segment of this high level meeting. I thank our eminent speakers once again for their participation and insightful intervention. As our special guests depart on the podium, kindly rem seated. The plenary segment of the high level meeting will begin in just a second. I thank you. Thank you.