Friends, the theme of the World Health Assembly this year is one word for health. It resonates with India's vision for global health. When I address this gathering in 2023, I had spoken about one earth, one health. The future of a healthy world depends on inclusion, integrated vision and collaboration. Friends, inclusion is at the core of India's health reforms. We run Aishman Bharat, the world's largest health insurance scheme. It covers 580 million people and provides free treatment. This program was recently extended to cover all Indians above the age of 70 years. We have a network of thousands of health and wellness centers. They screen and detect disease such as cancer, diabetes and hypertension. Thousands of public pharmacies provides high quality medicines at far less than the market price. Friends, technology is an important catalyst to improve health outcomes. We have a digital platform to track vaccination of pregnant women and children. Millions of people have a unique digital health identity. It is helping us integrate benefits, insurance, records and information. With tele medicine, nobody's too far from a doctor. Our free tele medicine service has enabled over 340 million consultations. Friends, due to our incentives, there has been a heartening development. The out of pocket expenditure as percentage of total health expenditure has fallen significantly. At the same time, government health expenditure has gone up considerably. Friends, the health of the world depends on how well we care for the most vulnerables. The global south is particularly impacted by health challenges. India's approach offers replicable, scalable and sustainable models. We would be happy to share our learnings and best practices with the world especially the global south. Friends, in June, the 11th International Day of Yoga is coming up. This year, the theme is yoga for one earth, one health. Being from the nation which gave yoga to the world, I invite all countries to participate. Friends, I congratulate the WH and all member states on the successful negotiations of the INB treaty. It is a shared commitment to fight future pandemics with greater cooperation while building a healthy planet. Let us ensure that no one is left behind. Let me close with a timeless prayer from the Vedas. Thousands of years ago, our sages prayed that everyone should be healthy, happy and free from disease. May this vision unite the world. Thank you. Thank Thank you, excellency. I have the honor to invite the prime minister of Norway, his excellency Mr. Jonas Garto for his remarks, ladies and gentlemen and dear friends. In times of political and financial uncertainty, this 78 World Health Assembly is an opportunity to demonstrate the continuing importance of this extraordinary fine organization, the World Health Organization. Norway was a founding member of WH and has been and continues to be a staunch supporter of the organization and its critically important mandate. I have personally a strong commitment to this organization having had the privilege of serving as chief of staff to former DG director general Dr. Grow Holland Bruntland some 25 years ago. And as I see it, it's pretty easy to state the following. WH is more important than ever in our globalized world. WH has repeatedly demonstrated its important as a global convening and coordinating body. It is the leading normative and technical organization on health matters. It stands in the constitution and it has always been demonstrated at the critical junctures of our times. WH plays an important role both in health emergencies and in humanitarian response. This period of uncertainty is pushing us to reconsider the global health architecture. Regardless of how this develops, WHO will have to maintain a central role and all governments should be be held accountable to delivering on that. So from Norway's point of view, it's our ambition that WHO comes out of this crisis stronger and more resilient, sustainably financed and more efficient, transparent and accountable. I know this is complicated with leading nations pulling out but we have to continue our work and I would like to applaud the efforts of the WHO secretariat with a strong leadership of DG Dr. Tedros to deliver a realistic budget and a bold reise structure hasn't been easy but you have been working well on it. We the member states need to do our part. It's our responsibility to assure sustainable financing including by increasing assessed contributions because this is crucial in order to safeguard the core mandate of the organization and to assure a WHO fit for the future. Supporting WHO is a collective responsibility and for the mutual benefit of all his member states. Progress in the negotiations for a pandemic agreement demonstrates that we can work together and make meaningful steps towards better health preparedness for all. Let that be a beacon of light guiding us in the time to come. So to all of you working for world health in small local communities in large hospitals in research and across the whole web of health in the world this year's year's world health assembly is there to thank you to uh underline the importance of the work you are doing and to show politically that we take responsibility for the futures. There are some countries again pulling out, not taking that shared responsibility. That cannot make the rest of us stop and look in another direction. We have to move on and thank you for being committed and thank you for doing that critically important work for humanity. Thank you, excellency. I have the honor to invite the prime minister of Singapore, his excellency, Mr. Wong Lawrence for his remarks. Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. We are meeting at a time of great uncertainty. The international system is under severe strain. The CO 19 pandemic is behind us, but risk to global health persists and the need for coordinated action has never been greater. The World Health Organization or WH has shown us that international cooperation remains possible in these uncertain times. countries successfully concluded negotiations on the pandemic agreement last month. This historic agreement aims to improve how the world prepares for and responds to future pandemics. Despite deep differences, countries managed to reach consensus after three years of tough negotiations through sustained diplomacy. This is an encouraging development both for global health and for multilateralism. It reminds us of what we can achieve as an international community when countries come together to find common ground and forge shared solutions. Singapore is firmly committed to an open, stable, and rules-based multilateral system. We believe that global problems require global solutions. That is why we have been steadfast in supporting the WH and its role in global health governance. Singapore was amongst the first to pledge to the WH investment round last year. This reflects our commitment to global health security. Recently, we hosted the Philanthropy Asia Summit, which provided a platform for philanthropic foundations to support meaningful causes, including more resilient healthcare systems. Singapore will continue to do our part for global health because as the theme of this World Health Assembly reminds us, we all live on one world for health. A disease anywhere can become a threat everywhere. Viruses know no borders. The only way forward is for all of us to tackle global health challenges together. So let us join hands to build a healthier, safer, and more resilient world for all. Thank you, excellency. I have the honor to invite the prime minister of Lao People's Democratic Republic, His Excellency, Mr. Cifadoni for his remarks. Well, a dark time, the CO 19 pandemic. Um, as has often been said, without health, we have nothing. Our country joined the World Health Organization in 1950. WHO became the first United Nations agency to establish an incountry office taking place in 1962. Since then we have worked hand in hand in improving maternal and child health, immunization, communicable disease control, quality of care, capacity building for our health workforce. health promotion and more. With many significant achievements towards health for all, including in the early 1980s, oral polio vaccines were introduced and in 2000, the disease was eliminated. We have eliminated trachoma in 2017 and lymphatic fill filaris in 2023. Similarly, the threat of malaria has almost been eliminated with less than 350 cases in 2024. Between 20 and 2023, the ratio of mothers lost during pregnancy or child birth has fallen by over 80%, one of the fastest declines globally. Throughout these milestones, WHO has been a constant and committed partner. We could not have achieved these results without WH. Lao PDR has a great deal of effort ahead and many more milestones to achieve particularly implementing the health sector development plan to achieve universal health coverage. and support the country's LDC graduation. An appropriately and sustainably resourced WHO is essential to achieve our shared goals. not just for countries like LAPDR but for the world. While tools like the pandemic accord are a demonstration of WHO's unique value to help us get there. Excellencies, LA PDR is a proud member of WHO and on behalf of the government of Lao PDR, health officials, healthcare workers and communities, I thank who and development partners for their immense support in the health sector of Lao PDR. Thank you, excellency. I have the honor to invite the prime minister of Vietnam, His Excellency Pan Minqing for his remarks. At the outset, I would like to thank you for this opportunity to address the 78th World Health Assembly. I would like to share with you my thoughts as follows. First, we have always placed the people at the heart of national construction and development, deeming them as the best resource and driver for growth. Therefore, Vietnam has long given priority to endeavors concerning human development under the principle that the people constitute the most important asset for society and health is the most important asset of the people. Investment in the people and their well-being means investment in development and we spare no effort in making such investment. Striving to the best of our capability and available resources for healthcare and human development. Second, in today's world, issues concerning health care or the people are global, whole of population and comprehensive in nature. Therefore, we need to uphold multilateralism, strengthen international cooperation in unity and offer mutual support to address these challenges. Co 19 was exemplary for this. Other instances include climate change, aging demography and depletion of resources. Such obstacles require the international community to join hands to overcome. This has been very much proven and I'm certain that you're all well aware of this. Third, I believe that wealthy developed countries should assist poorer developing or less developed nations. in terms of science, technology, capital and manufacturing capacity. Most notably, focus should be given to the production of medicines and vaccines to best prevent pandemics and cure diseases, consultation in establishing necessary institutions, and support in human resource development and healthcare capacity building. We hope that such such assistance will continue to be provided in a more robust, altruistic and effective manner going forward. On Vietnam's part, we are committed to implementing the regulations of the World Health Assembly, particularly the decisions made at this 78th assembly. Although Vietnam also faces its share of hardships, we should always be ready to contribute to these common efforts and offer our experience, knowledge, consultation, and achievements to the international community. We will also continue to adhere to the warnings of the WHO and the World Health Assembly. Despite existing hurdles, Vietnam remains determined to invest further in human development and healthcare in tandem with other countries worldwide. Only then can we build a world where in the well-being for all can be guaranteed and foster greater strength in promoting human development and protecting the lawful and legitimate rights and interests of the people to health, life, freedom and happiness. Once again, I would like to extend my heartfelt thanks to the World Health Assembly. May the 78th World Health Assembly be a great success. Thank you, Excellency. I now have the honor to invite Senator the Honorable Penny Wong, Minister for Foreign Affairs on behalf of the Prime Minister of Australia. Excellencies, Director General Dr. Tedros. Distinguished colleagues, I am honored to join you from Australia to celebrate this historic achievement. In 2020, CO 19 caused widespread devastation with loss of lives and livelihoods across the globe. The pandemic reshaped our lives, our countries, our economies, and our world. But while we were all impacted, it was the poorest and most disadvantaged who were hit the hardest and who paid the highest price. CO 19 crystallized in the starkkest of terms what we already know to be true. Global challenges require collective action. That's why the world came together with a shared ambition to act on hard-earned lessons to work work towards an agreement to reduce the risk of future pandemics and make the world safer for everyone no matter who you are or where you live. Because we know these health emergencies don't recognize national borders. But if we work together, we can save lives, preserve livelihoods, and boost resilience. Today, we take a significant step forward in that endeavor. We recognize the importance of collaborating across sectors at national, regional, and international levels, including working in an integrated way to address risks to human health, animal health, and environmental health. and we agree to take concrete action collectively to strengthen pandemic prevention, preparedness and response. Adopting this agreement not only affirms our shared commitment to action guided by principles of equity. It also demonstrates the value of the international community working together to find solutions to shared global challenges. Australia is proud to have served as the vice chair of the intergovernmental negotiating body for the pandemic agreement representing our diverse Western Pacific region and I commend all negotiators for their hard work. I also thank Director General Tedros, World Health Organization staff and UN and civil society colleagues and other stakeholders for your support and contribution to this agreement. Let's continue to move forward together to make our world safer and healthier for all. I now have the pleasure to invite Mr. Oliver Barhill, Commissioner on Health on behalf of the president of the European Commission to give his remarks. More than 5 years ago, in the midst of the coid9 pandemic, a cross- regional group of leaders called on the international community to do something new, to come together to step up our international cooperation and solidarity so that we can all be better prepared for future pandemics. Now, the international community has crafted provisions that promise to change how we prevent, prepare for, and respond to future pandemics for the better. Global cooperation is essential if we want to tackle our shared problems. Pandemics know no borders. Fighting them means working together. Combating serious crossber threats to health is essential both at regional and international level. It protects the lives of our citizens and the prosperity and stability of our societies. The pandemic agreement has a broad scope. It ranges from upstream prevention, surveillance of environmental drivers and animal health all the way to managing the supply chain of pandemic related health products. If we achieve all this and strengthen domestic healthare systems, we will have a more robust international framework for preparedness and response in full respect to the health policy competencies and responsibilities of individual EU member states. I'm sure that the cooperative spirit of the negotiating parties will continue and grow as we negotiate the remaining part of the agreement. The European Union will remain at the forefront of efforts to support international cooperation on global health. Thank you. At this point, I am informed that the director general would like to recognize the contribution of two outstanding individuals for their exceptional endeavor and commitment to advancing global health. Dr. Tedros, you have the floor. I'm honored to present the director general's award for global health to professor Awa Mary Kusk and professor sir Bran Greenwood. Their invaluable contributions have helped to elevate the burden of malaria and other vaccinereventable diseases and to build sustainable health system capacity in Africa. While serving as sagal's minister of health, Professor Awa Mary Kolsek led landmark reforms expanded universal access to care and integrate disease control program. In addition to making significant contributions to scientific literature, Professor Colo, the executive director of the rollback malaria partnership, leading efforts to accelerate malaria interventions in low-income countries. Professor Coloulsece has played numerous other critical roles in the global health architecture including in technical advisory roles with WHO. So, such a great honor to invite Awa, my sister, to the podium to receive the award. Welcome. Sagal. Yeah, Sagal is in the house. Thank you. You know we Thank you, sir. Thank you. Congratulations. Yes, please. One more. Yes. Thank you very much director general for this honor. Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, receiving this honorific prize before this august assembly today is for me a moment of profound emotion and sincere gratitude. I would like to warmly thank the World Health Organization for recognizing me with prize. It doesn't recognize individual success but a collective pathway of all those who I have had the honor to work with in favor of health in Sagal and Africa and throughout the world as a doctor, a researcher and a minister. a Seneagalles person and a citizen of the world that I have dedicated my life to the idea that health is a fundamental right and a fundamental necessity for human dignity. I've had the privilege of contributing to notable progress, but I've also borne witness to ongoing challenges and emerging emergencies, whether they be in terms of climate, demography or technology. This prize is all the more important in that it symbolizes trust in the values that I defend. Solidarity between peoples, science in the service of humanity and the leadership of women in the health system. At the time at which I speak to you, millions of lives are at play with the various cuts underway and to come in health financing. I am calling solemnly for solidarity towards those people who are the most vulnerable and in the most serious situations. Now after so much effort and sacrifice and progress let's not abandon them. I dedicate this prize to African youth to pro health professionals on the front line researchers and decision makers who are committed to a fairer world. I dedicate it to my family, my husband, my children, my grandchildren and my country represented here today by the health minister who represents the parliament as well as our ambassador and I dedicate it to all those who have inspired me, supported me and challenged me. Finally, I would like to say that we need to continue to work together towards a world in which everyone, wherever they may live, has the possibility to enjoy the highest possible level of health. I'd like to thank you for your attention. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. So once once Brian is done, you will come back. You will come back for photo when Brian is done. Yeah. Okay. Now over the last five decades, Professor Sir Greenwood performed pioneering research and made major contributions to infectious disease control. His work on malaria has been instrumental in shaping modern approach to control this devastating disease. His contributions range from the introduction of insecticide treated bed nets to groundbreaking trials for the RTSS malaria vaccine, the first vaccine to be recommended for widespread use. Professor Coloulsek and Professor Greenwood, you have our admiration. And now I invite Professor Gran Greenwood to receive the award. And I would like to also say he is my mentor because you know I'm a malarologist. So I'm recognizing my mentor which is a good opportunity. Thank you. You're also an LSHTM alumnus president, your excellencies, distinguished delegates and of course Tedros. Um it's a big honor to have this award. Um and I really really appreciate it. I I've been fortunate to have had a very interesting career um over it's almost 60 years exactly since I first went to work in as a very young inexperienced doctor in Nigeria and and that's beginning a career that's really linked me to Africa ever since and at that time when I first went there as this young doctor the pediatric wards were full of measles menitis malaria polio there were still even patients with smallpox coming to the hospital and as my first research job I was following up autoimmune diseases to see if they had malaria had had an impact on those infections and that involved going into rural villages going around the back streets of the badon looking to see what had happened to these patients and there was no primary care in those rur rural areas and the under five in it's one person's lifetime the under five child mortality was about 400 per thousand in parts of West Africa So how that's changed in one person's life lifetime. Many of those diseases are not gone but are much reduced and there has been a dramatic improvement in under five child mortality. Um in the Gambia where I also work that's now 40 a t-fold drop in that thing. and WHO has played a really important part in bringing about those changes through setting up EPI, primary health care and so on. So as a as a young researcher working out in in in Africa, it was quite difficult to keep up with what was going on in the real world of global health. There's no no internet. The mail took about six weeks and so on. And in 1975 I was asked to a meeting in WHO up the up the hill there and that was a a translational event for me and I always had then had the chance to meet people um particular directors of of TDR uh Dr. Ad Lucas and Dr. Tori God and I learned a lot for them and it was great to have that that opportunity. More recently, I've had the chance to be a member of various WHO committees and task force and so on. And that's given me really the chance to see from an outsider, not an employee, what an excellent job W has done has done in global health. And as we've heard earlier today, it's really important that despite the problems that that is sustained for another person's uh lifetime. So finally I'd like to thank the many colleagues I've had especially those in Africa that I have been able to work with through my career and also my family my wife and my two daughters Emma and Rachel and one of who has sitting there who who have been a great support without their support I would not have been able to be standing here today. So, thank you Ted Ros. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We will have the three of us together. Yes. Yes. So, we have the three of us first and then we will Okay. And congratulations to our two worthy recipients, Professor Greenwood and Professor Koulsek. I now invite Mr. Robert Kennedy Jr. To my colleagues in public health, I'm Robert F. Kennedy Jr., the US Health and Human Services Secretary. As you know, President Trump has made the decision to withdraw the United States from the World Health Organization. I'd like to take this opportunity to offer some background to that decision and more importantly to chart a future path toward global cooperation on health and health security. Like many legacy institutions, the WHO has become mired in bureaucratic bloat, entrenched paradigms, conflicts of interest, and international power politics. While the United States has provided the lion share of the organization's funding historically, other countries such as China have exerted undue influence over its operations in ways that serve their own interests and not particularly the interests of the global public. This all became obvious during the COVID pandemic when the WHO under pressure from China suppressed reports at critical junctures of human to human transmission and then worked with China to promote the fiction that CO originated from bats or penglins rather than from a Chinese government sponsored research at a bolab in Wuhan. Not only has the WHO capitulated to political pressure from China, it's also failed to maintain an organization characterized by transparency and fair governance by and for its member states. The WHO often acts like it has forgotten that its members must remain accountable to their own citizens and not to transnational or corporate interests. Now, I believe that for the most part, the staff of the WHO are conscientious people who sincerely believe in what they're doing. And indeed, the WHO has since its inception accomplished important work, including the eradication of smallox. Too often though, WH's priorities have increasingly reflected the biases and interests of corporate medicine. Too often it has allowed political agendas like pushing harmful gender ideology to hijack its core mission. And too often it has become the tool of politics and turned its back on promoting health and health security. Global cooperation on health is still critically important to President Trump and myself, but it isn't working very well under the WH as the failures of the CO era demonstrate. The WHO has not even come to terms with its failures during COVID, let alone made significant reforms. Instead, it has doubled down with the pandemic agreement, which will lock in all of the dysfunctions of the WHO pandemic response. Well, we're not going to participate in that. We need to reboot the whole system as we are doing in the United States. Here in the United States, we're going to continue to focus on infectious disease and pandemic preparedness, but we're also fundamentally shifting the priorities of our health agencies to focus on chronic diseases, which are prevalent in the United States. It's the chronic disease epidemic that is sickening our people and bankrupting our health care system. We're now pivoting to make our health care system more responsive to this reality. We're going to make healthcare in the United States serve the needs of the public instead of industry profit taking. We're removing food dyes and other harmful additives from our food supply. We're investigating the causes of autism and other chronic diseases. We're seeking to reduce consumption of ultrarocessed foods. And we're going to support lifestyle changes that will bolster the immune systems and transform the health of our people. Few of these efforts lend themselves easily to profits or serve established special interests. These changes can only occur through the kind of systemic overhaul that President Trump has brought to our country. We'd like to see a similar reordering of priorities on the global stage, especially considering the fact that through the leadership of the United States and funding from our country over the past 25 years, millions of global citizens have seen a reduction in premature death due to HIV, TB, and malaria. Let's return to the core focus of global health and global health security. back to reducing infectious disease burden and the spread of diseases of pandemic potential. I urge the world's health ministers and the WHO to take our withdrawal from the organization as a wake-up call. It isn't that President Trump and I have lost interest in international cooperation. Not at all. We just want it to happen in a way that's fair and efficient and transparent for all the member states. We've already been in contact with like-minded countries and we encourage others to consider joining us. We want to free international health cooperation from the straight jacket of political interference by corrupting influences of the pharmaceutical companies of adversarial nations and their NGO proxies. I would like to take this opportunity to invite my fellow health ministers around the world into a new era of cooperation. We don't have to suffer the limits of a more abundant WHO. Let's create new institutions or revisit existing institutions that are lean, efficient, transparent, and accountable. Whether it's an emergency outbreak of an infectious disease or the pervasive rot of chronic conditions that have been overtaking not just America, but the whole world, we're ready to work with you. Thank you and may God bless you and let's all pray for the health of our children and our grandchildren. Produced by the US Department of Health and Human Services. Okay, I see the the flag of China. Uh, China is recognized. You have the floor. Apply. There are points of order now. Uh, I will speak in uh, Chinese. Mr. President, China would like to raise a point of order. The statement of the United States is grossly inconsistent with the fact that infringes on China's sovereignty and interest against which China expresses solemn protest and resolute opposition. China believes that CO 19 prevention and control is a scientific issue that should be guided by science and evidence with judgments made by scientists. The United States should stop politicizing and instrumentalizing the pandemic. See smearing and shifting blame onto other countries and should promptly respond to the legitimate concerns of the international community. It should proactively share data on its early suspected cases with the World Health Organization and provide a responsible explanation to the people of the world. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This concludes the morning session and the plenary will resume at 2:30. Uh, committee A will also meet at 2:30 at room 20 and the committee on credentials will meet at room 22 at 200 p.m. Thank you. Have a good afternoon.