America has had diabetes since she was one year and seven months old. She was diagnosed with a blood sugar level of 598 in a rapid glucose test because we went to a private doctor for an emergency. From there, she was transferred by ambulance to a tertiary care hospital. I don't have a memory of a life without diabetes. When I was two years and three months old, on March 14, 2003, I started with the flu, and from there I got really sick. Alex wasn't eating, and his blood sugar was already over 600. They did n't admit him as an emergency patient. When I went back to the doctor, she told us that yes, the diagnosis was diabetes, and that she gave us 72 hours. If the child responded to a 1, I thought he was going to be fine. The only thing I knew about diabetes was that it was an adult disease, so it was very difficult for me to accept that my daughter, at one year and seven months old, had it. Type 1 diabetes is an autoimmune disease that mainly occurs in children or young adults. That doesn't mean it can't occur in adulthood, and unfortunately, there is no cure. In Mexico, people living with diabetes face great challenges.  It's a lifelong struggle to buy your insulin, your syringes, two test strips, consult the Global Philanthropy Foundation, because Flórez León Health is working in partnership with international organizations, and your lifestyle and the work over Purito Andrés in Guadalajara, partnered with the Mexican Davis Association. Fortunately, we have the Aid for Aids program that supports these low-income families with strips to measure their glucose levels with meters, with Taiwanese mushrooms, dividing and waiting, difficulty, I don't know, experts, and then at Lincoln, so sad, that's why it works green, it didn't communicate visits. In type 1 diabetes, it's necessary to administer insulin and check your glucose levels several times a day, in total it would be approximately 5 injections a day depending on how my sugar is. These are things I have to live with daily, and if there's acceptance of what you have to do to be well with yourself, then I feel like you don't see it in a bad way. All my toys have diabetes. It's my favorite stuffed animal in the world because it has the places where you have to inject. I play at not injecting myself. Having diabetes isn't anyone's fault.  But people think that we are, I think, the main cause of our daughter's diabetes. What did you do to her? Did you drink a lot of coke? Did you give her a lot of sweets? There's a lot of ignorance. The conversation around, known as "camine como 16 sales la révolté round preventing 16 están abajo change your hearts williford el 2016 light taiwán del snow white to prevent and the impact that diabetes has had on my family, I feel it has been unique. My brother asks me all the time how I am, if I feel okay. My sister studies nutrition and then does her diploma in diabetes education. And my parents are my heroes, without them I don't know if I would still be alive. Today I am no longer afraid because my son has learned to take care of himself, he runs, jumps high, plays soccer. I am happy because it costs me to go out. My daughter gives me hope, seeing her smile, she is happy, she believes that all the beautiful things that happen to her in her life are due to diabetes. The only limits you will have in your life are the ones you create for yourself.