I have a degree originally in nutrition and dietetics, but I also have a degree in psychology. And my passion is actually in mental health. And I also have a master's in public health. I work on programming related to noncommunicable diseases, which is something like, for example diabetes, hypertension and mental health. We do a lot of field visits. I work closely with Ministry of Public Health staff. We work on awareness raising campaigns. We work on technical documents. We work on capacity building for staff, for hospitals, for primary health care centers. And so through my work, I try to in the way I do the programs and the way I do the implementation, the conceptualization, I try to really address the injustice that's happening in the world, especially from the health perspective. So, really making sure that people — who actually need to receive the health care services they need — are actually receiving. By working together, this is where we actually can do something. And we can have an impact. And this is something I learned. When you hear sounds, it's now... it's different than when you used to hear sounds before. Because now when you hear a sound, it's like something is happening. It's a bomb. You are directly tuned to checking on your family, checking on your friends, really worrying a lot. All the time you worry. And this insecurity, this anxiety has its toll on us. And it's also very sad to see the destruction that's happening in the health care facilities. For example, you have more than eight hospitals that had to close and not receiving patients anymore. But also you have two psychiatric institutions that closed their premises because they are in the South and have evacuated people, they evacuated the residents to Beirut and other areas. Because of the current situation and the current displacement, the insecurity WHO programs also are changing in their technical aspect and their operational aspect, so now the needs are rising and the needs in terms of access and direct access to services to essential services such as mental health services, medications for people who have chronic conditions. So all of these are changing also the way we do programs, and the way we deliver these programs. It's not an easy decision to stay. But I love my country. I love my job. And I feel that now I can actually do something to help. I feel like it's a duty to stay, but it's also something that I aspire. I want to improve the country. And this is, I think, a time where all of us need to be here to support and to help really rise again in this country. My name is Edwina Zoghbi and I'm the national officer for noncommunicable diseases and mental health at WHO Lebanon.