Hello to everyone from Geneva from WHO headquarters. It's 18th September 2025. My name is DK and I'm welcoming you to this uh press conference on global health issues. As you have seen in our media advisory, today we are focusing on non-communicable diseases. Uh next week the UN secretary uh the UN General Assembly is entering its high level week and the main health event will be a fourth UN General Assembly high level meeting on the prevention and control on non-communicable diseases and the promotion of mental health and well-being. Uh leading up to this event uh today uh who is uh launching and publishing its updated investment case uh saving lives spending less. Many of you have requested uh this uh investment case document uh and accompanying press release in advance. Hope you have read it and you are ready to ask questions on it. for those who have not read it, it will be published uh uh in uh very very shortly. So I will now just introduce our panelists here in the room. We have others online that I will mention a little bit later. But uh to to start with as always we have our director general Dr. Tedra Atanum Gabrius. With us is also Dr. Chiku Eekquazu, executive director of health emergencies program. Dr. Dr. Jeremy Farrar is WHO assistant director general for health promotion, disease prevention and care to speak specifically about NCDS and investment case that we are launching and uh what is going to happen uh in uh at the UN General Assembly next week on non-communicable diseases. Uh we have Dr. Devora Castell. She's a director at interim of the department for non-communicable diseases and mental health. We have Dr. Etien Krug, director of the department of health determinance promotion and prevention. We also have Dr. uh Guy Phones who is a crosscutting lead department of non-communicable diseases and mental health. Uh with us in the room is also Mr. Steve Solomon, principal legal adviser of WH and we also have Roberto Andreeti, technical officer uh working uh also on the international health regulations. Uh with this I'll give the floor to Dr. Tedras for his opening remarks. >> Thank you. Thank you Tik. Uh good morning uh good afternoon and good evening. and thank you for joining our presser. First, yesterday was World Patient Safety Day. Around one in 10 patients globally are harmed in healthcare and more than 3 million people die every year due to unsafe care. This year, our focus is on patient safety for children. Children are not small adults and should not be treated as such. They need medical care that's tailored to their age, size, development, and life circumstances. The most common causes of harm in child patients are medication and diagnostic errors, infections contracted during care, surgical errors, and miswarning signs when a child's condition gets worse. We can address these problems through safer systems, supported health workers, and engaged children and families because nobody should be harmed when seeking care. Next week I will join world leaders in New York for the United Nations General Assembly. The highlight of the week for WHO will be the high level meeting on non-communicable diseases and mental health to be held next Thursday the 25th of September. Non-communicable diseases or NCDS include seven of the world's top 10 cause of death, including cancers, heart disease, diabetes, and chronic respiratory disease. NCDs are the world's leading cause of premature death, killing 18 million people every year before the age of 70. In addition, more than 1 billion people face mental health conditions and suicide is the third leading cause of death among young people. Apart from cutting lives short and robbing families of their loved ones, these deaths also incur huge costs for health systems and economies. In the sustainable development goals, countries set themselves a target to reduce premature mortality from NCDS by one-third globally by 2030. There has been some progress. The new Lancet NCD countdown supported by WH shows that in nearly 80% of countries from NCDS decline between 2010 and 2019. However, progress is nowhere near enough uh to meet the SDG target. In 60% of countries, progress has slowed compared to the decade before and in some places deaths from NCDS are rising again. The main outcome of next week's high level meeting will be a political declaration which countries have been negotiating for the past year. The draft declaration includes concrete and ambitious targets. To see 150 million fewer tobacco users by 2030. To see 150 million more people with access to mental health care. and to see 150 million more people with hypertension control. Next week, WHO will publish a report with new estimates on the number of people living with hypertension. Hypertension can be controlled with medicines to lower blood pressure, but in most lowincome countries, people do not have access to those medicines. Hypertension control is one of a range of evidence-based cost effective tools countries can use to meet the targets in the declaration. We call them the best buys. These include raising taxes on tobacco and alcohol, protecting children from the marketing of unhealthy food, promoting physical activity, improving diets and screening for cancer. They are all proven, practical, and ready to use. Today, we're launching a new investment case for NCDS, which shows that implementing this best buys would cost countries about $3 US per person per year. We estimate that for every dollar countries invest in the best buys, they can expect up to uh $7 return in social and economic benefits by 2030. Fully implementing this best buys could save 12 million lives, prevent up to 28 million heart attacks and strokes, and generate over1 trillion dollars in economic benefits. This is not theoretical. Countries are doing it. Brazil has cut smoking rates in half by steadily increasing tobacco taxes. Mexico's tax on sugary drinks reduced consumption while raising significant government revenue. Thailand channels tobacco and alcohol taxes into its National Health Promotion Foundation. There are many more examples which show that with the right policies, change is not only possible, it is transformative. Investing in NCD prevention is not a cost. It's one of the smartest economic decisions any government can make. But often governments face fierce opposition from industries that profit from unhealthy products. The message is clear. Countries that act decisively will save millions of lives, protect families, cut health costs, and unlock economic growth. Those that delay will pay the price in lost lives, rising health care costs, and weaker economies. We look forward to countries adapting the political declaration next week and more importantly to implementing it. Now to the Democratic Republic of the Congo, DRC. It has been two weeks since the government of the DRC declared an Ebola outbreak was declared near the central town of Bulap. So far, 48 confirmed and probable cases have been reported and 31 people have died. I congratulate the government, the Ministry of Health and DRC's institutions for their leadership in this response. Years of investment and experience are paying off. WHO and our partners are supporting the government. So far, we have delivered more than 14 tons of essential medical equipment and supplies and deployed 48 experts. More than 900 contacts have been listed and are being followed up. Vaccination of contacts, potential contacts, and frontline workers is underway. We have also helped to set up an Ebola treatment center with 48 beds with 16 patients currently being treated. Courses of the monoconal antibbody therapy MAB 114 have also been sent to treatment centers in Bulap and so far 14 patients have been received have received the drug and on Tuesday this week the first two patients to recover were discharged. This week, WHO launched an appeal for 21 million dollars to support the RC to scale up its response. We ask donors to support this response and your investment now will help to save lives and stop this outbreak at the source. The outbreak is another example of the need to build strong emergency response capacities nationally, regionally and globally. At the World Health Assembly last year, WHO member states adopted a set of amendments to international health regulations. Tomorrow, those amendments enter into force. The key changes include the addition of a new level of global alarm, a pandemic emergency, which is higher than a public health emergency of international concern that we call FIK. The amendments also include the creation of national IHR authorities to coordinate the implementation of the regulations in countries and they include provisions to strengthen access to medical products and financing based on equity and solidarity. As you know at this year's World Health Assembly, member states also adapted the WHO pandemic agreement and this week they're negotiating an annex to the agreement, the pathogen access and benefit sharing system which aims to ensure faster sharing of pathogens with pandemic potential and equitable access to the medical products needed to respond to them. We expect the outcome of these discussions to be adapted at the World Health Assembly next May following which countries can sign and ratify the pandemic agreement. Finally, to Gaza. Israel's military incursion and evacuation orders in northern Gaza are driving new waves of displacement, forcing traumatized families into an evershrinking area as famine persists. Gaza health system continues to be overwhelmed by the influx of m mass casualties, limited medical stocks and supplies and the shortage of medical equipment and blood units. Yesterday, the Al Rantisi hospital was attacked while 80 patients were inside. The only specialized pediatric hospital left in the Gaza Strip. Escalating violence blocks access and prevents WH from delivering life-saving supplies. We continue to call for an immediate end to these inhumane conditions. We continue to call for the hostages to be released and we continue to call for a ceasefire. This Sunday is the International Day of Peace. If there is one thing our world needs desperately right now in Gaza, Ukraine, Sudan, and elsewhere, it is peace. not just one day but every day. Tariq, back to you. >> Thank you very much. Uh Dr. Tetris. Um coming back to uh uh UN General Assembly yesterday we have sent to you a detailed media advisory on activities health related activities. So you can get all the information there. Also on Monday uh we will share uh with our global media list uh document that's a toolkit for reporters on how to report on non-communicable diseases. This has been done in cooperation with reporters. So it's something that we hope will be useful for all of you. Before we start with the questions, let me just tell you who is on the line from WHO uh and uh who could be asked to answer your questions. We have Dr. Rick Peeper, WH representative for the occupied Palestinian territory. Dr. Abdi Rahman Mouhammood, director for health emergency alert and response operation. We also have Dr. Wernner Aubameaya who is director of WHO office at the United Nations in New York. And we have Dr. Nedret Emiru, head of the secretariat for the intergovernmental working group on WH uh agreement. And let me not forget Dr. Yahim Hakah who is executive secretary for who strategic advisory group of experts on immunization or sage with this we will start with questions and first we will go to health policy watch and krie kalinan krie can you please unmute and and go ahead thank you tar the zero draft of the UN high level meeting declaration recommended taxes on tobacco alcohol and sugary drinks but the final draft simply asks countries to consider higher taxes on tobacco and alcohol and drops any reference to taxing sugary drinks. Please can you comment on the weaker language on the on health taxes in the declaration and also on the failure of your own best buys to recommend taxing sugary drinks despite ample evidence of their impact including in Mexico. Thank you. >> Thank you very much Kerry. Well, should we maybe start with Dr. Oraya who is hopefully online from uh from New York. >> Yes, good morning. I think if one looks at the text of the final uh political declaration which was just circulated by the president of the general assembly uh day or two ago. There is very strong language in the text on taxation for uh alcohol and tobacco marketing restrictions and also in terms of regulation of food products. So one should look at it holistically. Uh it is of course one of the tools that the general assembly has adopted. There are many others. The financing for development conference outcome and the world health assembly uh outcomes and resolutions and decisions of course also come into play. So holistically speaking it is a very strong outcome document if implemented will save many hundreds of millions of lives and encourage governments to take the necessary fiscal and regulatory steps. Thank you very much. Uh Dr. Oberer, Dr. K, would you like to add something? >> Yeah, just to complement Dr. Obermy's comments and uh respond also to the question regarding the best buys. Uh taxing sugary drinks has full support from WHO. We believe strongly in this as a very cost-effective intervention. It did not meet the strict criteria of best buys uh which were met by tobacco taxation for example or alcohol taxation but still it has full support from who as an effective measure. >> Thank you very much uh Dr. Krug and Dr. Aubber Meyer. Let's uh go to next question. Uh we have Carlos Monteo from Triffin News. I understand Carlos has several questions on NCDS, but maybe we will go for one or two. Carlos, please go ahead. >> Thank you very much. So, WH data often shows big gaps between highincome and lowincome countries in terms of NCD prevention and treatment. How are you ensuring equity in access to care beyond recommendations? Thank you. >> Thank you very much. Maybe Dr. Castell can start. >> Yes, thank you Tariq and and thank you for the question and and thank you for the start because the answers are are are complex. So we may need to complement but I think that what what it is to highlight in the in the draft political declaration is the uh measures to to proposed to achieve uh those uh targets with numbers that are there. the the 150 million of these different uh areas that have been um included in the political declaration. Some targets that are related to processes and and how many countries um how what is the percentage of countries that need to achieve some of those processes in terms of policies in terms of legislation in terms of of different areas that have been financing. And so through those mechanisms is that we can aim at some equity and some movement across the the the the the many the countries whether they are low, middle or high income countries. So I think I will emphasize those aspects to make sure that can be used with different mechanisms that will have to be developed to h go beyond the the the the split between low middle or high income countries. Uh yes, Mr. Dr. FS, would you like to add something? I >> I would because I think um the the response from Dr. Castell was excellent and I'd just like to add that and linking to the response from Dr. over uh we believe again that the political declaration is as we see it now the draft is the strongest we've had and it is because it has delivered on it call for equity and integration which is actually the title of the high level meeting and it has identified and we we appreciate the extreme leadership the amazing leadership from the co- facilitators and the president of the general assembly but also the the the member states themselves who had who really walked through a very complex path to arrive at the final draft and that final draft does point to key areas that will address equity gaps and will uh respond to to to to the in incredible needs of people living with NCDS in vulnerable situations in on pockets of underserved populations, marginalized communities, etc. I think it's extremely powerful declaration that will point to exactly that. Thank you. >> Thank you very much. Uh so let's go to next question. We have Carmen Pound from Politico. Carmen, >> hi. Thank you so much, Tikk. Um, I have two quick question if I may. Um, just the the first one on NCDS. Um, there's obviously a big debate here in the United States about um, you know, non-communicable diseases and making this country healthier again. But what you would often hear the health secretary here say is that despite spending so much on health in the United States, um the country has really a lot worse outcomes um than comparable countries. So I was wondering if there's um sort of like any view from the WH on the agenda here on NCDS. And the the second one, a quick one on the IHRs. Um can you say how many countries um opted out and who those are? Thank you so much. Okay. So we may start with uh with the first question on NCDS and then we will come back to to IHR. I'm just looking to my colleagues. Uh Dr. Krug, would you like to to start or Dr. FS? Whatever. >> I I can certainly provide part of an answer. I think when we talk about NCDS, it's very important to recognize that we're going against very strong financial interests. There are a whole series of unhealthy products on the market right now ranging from tobacco, unhealthy foods, uh alcohol, etc. And uh acting against uh the interests of some of these very powerful companies is not always easy and not always done with the same energy by different governments. But unless we do take action to promote healthy products and limit the sale of unhealthy products, we will not make enough pro uh progress on tackling NCDs and not fast enough. >> Yes, thanks. Um I think this is um interesting because it links very much to the to the conclusions of the NCD uh countdown uh report from the Lancet very much supported with who and co-authored by who it really points to the fact that we can learn from some of these cases as mentioned in in in the question where the history has been that the the cost effective best buys and other cost-effective interventions do work and they have worked for decades in countries uh and as we move forward into additional areas of equity gaps, underserved populations again and and uh changing epidemology and and demographics in countries. We need to sort of understand the context in countries so we can reach that last mile and how can we scale sustain some of those best cost effective best buys and and adapt them to the context changing context in these countries. So one one one element is cost-ffective adventures do work and they have worked for decades. How can we then going moving forward and understand those equity gaps underserved populations where we need to contextualize these best buys even more. >> Thanks. >> Thank you Dr. Ferrer. >> Yeah, thanks uh common for the question. Um relating to the the United States, I mean we we would very warmly welcome all countries addressing the issue of non-communicable diseases and mental health. There there is no country on earth that isn't in now and in the coming years going to be challenged with the issues of non-commun diseases and and and mental health. Uh demographic shifts, multimorbidity where people have more than one condition uh is going to be an issue for health systems all around the world including in the richest countries of the world. and actually bringing the countries together um working together to learn what works in one country and what works or does not work in other countries would be a huge step forward and that's ultimately the heart of the political declaration that will be signed uh uh next week. Um the truth is that that unless we can promote more health through promotion and we can prevent illness uh and then for those that do suffer from illness we can care for their individuals and their families in every country. Uh we won't proceed we won't succeed in the addressing the issues of non-communical disease and mental health. So we would very warmly welcome the uh initiative coming from the United States on non-communal disease and mental health. >> Thank you Dr. Farrar. Um maybe let's go to this. >> H sorry did you would you like to add something? >> Okay I think uh Jeremy and uh colleagues have already addressed but just wanted to um add just a couple of lines uh on the secretary of health's position on non-communicable dises. It's one thing that actually as who we really support what he says um because the US is one of the countries that's most affected by non-communicable diseases. If you take one measure for instance obesity um the US is in the top 20 countries in the world. Um and he's right when he says um you know non-communicable diseases are top uh health problems but not only that you know the solutions he proposed in health promotion is what we are advocating for for many years now. um physical activity, um no alcohol, quitting cigarettes, smoking um and nutrition all this addressing the root cause of u um non-communicable diseases is important and we quite agree and what he said also what he says normally about the big investment in the US in the health sector but that the US is not getting the right return is also True and the reason for this is the focus in the US is not on health promotion and disease prevention but it's on treatment and of course uh treatment means treating cardiovascular diseases treating cancer treating other non-communicable diseases um is very expensive um would be more effective if the country can invest in addressing the root cause and uh quite agree that the investment or the expenditure in health is disproportionately high in the US because of what what he says and what I said and that who has has been advocating for for for many years and as um has been said by Jeremy would be happy to work with the US um um to give this actually a priority and we expect the US uh uh to lead on is on the IHR I think I don't know if anyone is take you want okay so first maybe I would uh prefer if Steve can say and then I will take if there is anything remaining okay >> thank you very much uh for the question thank you very much DG I'll just very quickly go over uh the facts that I think the questioner wanted to know about um states which rejected the IHR amendments let me just frame this by saying that uh the IHR 2005 uh were drafted over 20 years ago. So the amendments that were adopted in 2024 were quite significant and significantly strengthened uh the IHR and it is those amendments which strengthen the IHR which will uh come into full force in effect tomorrow. The exact names and numbers of those handful of states that rejected the amendments will be published tomorrow on our website when uh when the complete amended text is published. Uh but what I can say is that among the states that uh rejected this handful of states um the US was one that published that publicized their rejection. um they remain a party to the IHR. This is this is important because it's notable that um the 2024 amendments which took lessons from the COVID pandemic were led by the United States. The US proposed the negotiations and was one of the countries which helped lead them. They played a big part in this successful effort. uh we hope that they and all the other countries, this small handful that rejected will keep an open mind about withdrawing uh their rejection because the IHR continues to be uh the only global nearly universal legally binding instrument that has countries working together, cooperating to face the threat of the international spread of disease. and these 2024 amendments are a significant strengthening of those important regulations. >> Yeah, thank you. Thank you, Steve. Maybe I would like to add to IHR. Um the US actually was the first country that proposed the amendment of IHR and not only was one of the few countries and actually the first to recommend but led it to the successful conclusion of the IHR and as far as as as I know um and I hope um US will reconsider and join the new amendment. ment because um the contribution from the US has been very very significant until the conclusion of uh the agreement and the agreement has really improved a lot and and significantly uh as I said in my uh statement and addresses many of the weaknesses that we have identified during the covid response these are covid lessons and I don't think this there should be there should there should be a difference with the US. Actually, one thing that surprised me because um this is u an you know an update and even you know an improvement to the previous an upgrading of the previous IHR which lacks some elements and that has um been improved now or upgraded because of the COVID lessons. So we have differences with the US on that but as you know on vaccines as well the positions of who and the US are not compatible. Uh also as I said earlier on NZDS on non-communicable diseases and on focusing on health promotion and disease prevention as the state secretary RFK Junior says uh we we have we agree on that. So we will continue to engage the US to work together on issues we agree and continue the dialogue on on the issues we we we disagree. Thank you and tar back to you. >> Thank you very much to all of you uh Mr. Solomon and everyone else who answered the first question on NCDS. I understand Dr. Rick Paperorn our representative in occupied Palestinian territory has to leave and I assume there would be question on Gaza. So why don't we just go quickly to uh Dr. Peopleorn for a quick update on the situation there. Uh and and then then we can let him go. Dr. Peeperorn, >> thank you very much. Um maybe let me just focus on an update of the hospitals and maybe add a little bit what DG has alluded to. So currently we only talking about 17 of the 36 hospitals which are partly to minimum functional and 68 of the 180 primary healthcare which are partly functional at 10 field hospitals. What we currently see is directly a critical shortage in the blood units component blood bags transfusion sets etc. Services could sh could shut down within days without urgent replenishment. The hospitals require at least 350 units of blood daily due to the ongoing violence especially related to the ongoing bombardments in the specifically in the north but also accessing food distribution site and convoys the hospitals in Gaza city they have become healthcapes they're overwhelmed they're low on supplies patients on the floor patients actually everywhere and just want to remind when almost half of all functional hospitals are in the city. So if these hospitals are put out of services, it means that 36% of all hospital beds, but over 50% of the ICU beds in the Gaza Strip will be lost. And we know that if even if hospitals are not asked to evacuate, the lack access violence in their vicinity will make them very quickly minimum functional and nonfunctional. So again the hospitals and healthcare in Gaza must be protected never attacked nor militarized also in the south hospitals in south overwhelmed and can't absorb more the quality of care just to mention two areas heodialist diialysis units in the south currently very much compromised increased workload shorter fewer sessions etc everyone switched to two sessions instead of three or four sessions a week there's a units in Alza. The case load increased with 53 patients to 95 with only 23 machines and and an unit in NASA complex 233 patients. Now we see uh 15 to 20 new patients from the north only 33 um machines. When we talk about the humanitarian zone, we often hear about the the incursion ongoing in the in the north and all people being forcedly or being forced to evacuate to the south. We call about the unitarian zone. The whole of Gaza stripped 365 kilometers. The unitarian zone, the so-called unitarian zone is only 43 square kilometers is 12% less than 12% of the Gaza strip and that's 12% only includes 77 of the 229 functional health service points only three of the 17 hospitals five of the 10 field hospitals 20 of the 68 primary healthcare units and only 42 of the 112 medical points and of the 22 ambulance centers. So in short, you know, this should definitely stop as as the DG also raised. We absolutely need a ceasefire. The last point is the impact on women. We see catastrophic catastrophic consequences on the Gaza city offensive on on sexual reproductive health services for women and girls. The access to care is increasingly constrained as families must travel long distances on damaged roads, limited supplies, etc. In Gaza, women always used to deliver at health facilities. And in the first 7 months of 2025, we almost see 500 deliveries which took place outside hospitals. We see way too many pre-term babies, too small. Uh incredibly worrisome. The health attacks we mentioned is not just all around TC in the north. Also the St. John's high eye high eye hospital is out of services and a number of primary healthcare centers. I want to leave it there. Thank you. Over to you. >> Thank you very much uh Dr. Pipper for this update. Uh uh we have an ado news agency uh Basa Domez. Basa please go ahead. >> Uh thank you Tori. Uh I want to ask about uh yesterday's uh Gaza Health Ministry's remarks. Uh in their remarks they accused Israel of deliberately obstructing the WHO's effort to deliver fuel to hospitals in Gaza City. Uh can WH confirm this and what is the current situation on the ground? Thank you. >> Uh let me see if Dr. Peeper is still in front of his screen and you can answer that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. >> Talked about Ron TC hospital. Am I correct? No. >> Uh question was on uh uh possibility of bringing fuel and uh and to to hospitals and what has been said by the Ministry of Health of Gaza regarding uh uh obstructions of bringing fuel. >> Yes. Yes. Okay. Yes, I get you. So yeah, WHO um uh and actually through the one US UN system um we are also indeed distributing and assisting the health hospitals, health facilities which you sites, medical supplies, essential medicines, we also do the assessment of the needs etc. and and on 15th September I mean like the the UN we tried to attempt to bring up fuel uh to the north from the south to the north to Alifa hospital for example and what we saw again we see of course a massive displacement going on along the coastal roads and desperate people but also in needs there's a huge need of of fuel I mean that many people can also not leave the north because it's incredibly expensive to actually travel with all their their belongings. So that fuel transport partly looted the crafts and compromised the safety of the mission. So the mission had to be cancelled and and I think it just reflects how incredibly desperate the situation is like for the people in Gaza but also I think for the for the humanitarians trying to assist. How about you? >> Thank you. Thank you very much Dr. Piper for uh for this uh uh update. Um I think we have a time for one question and if I'm not wrong, we have uh Katherine from Vital Signs News. Uh Katherine, could you please uh try? We have a question in writing, but maybe you can try to come in uh and ask yourself. >> Hello. Can you hear me? >> Yes. >> Terrific. Okay. Um the the press release refers to progress on NCD slowing since 2019 and a resurgence of NCDs in some places or in some instances. What would you attribute this to? Can it be solely linked to the the pandemic? Um and is that because of would that be because of health services and lack of access or because of the disease itself or or is there another reason? Thank you. >> Thank you very much Katherine for this question. Uh Dr. FS >> thank you for the question. Yeah. Um the the the the fast answer is that the the the decline in progress, we see exciting progress across still across many countries, but the decline the global decline in the and the and the in the speed of that progress is really slowing in commitment, scalability and sustainability of these cost-effective, highly impactful and proven interventions. So that's that's that's the short answer. The long the longer answer is that um we need to understand how some of these interventions are being implemented in in in different contexts. Now um there was a rapid acceleration of progress in redu reduction of premature mortality and overall mortality due to the excitement of implementing some of these best buys a decade ago. Now the the stagnation or the the plateauing of the of of what we see in the numbers is relevant to first as you mentioned the the impact that the co the pandemic had on health systems and in particular on on the on the attention addressing the needs of people living within cities of mental health condition during that pandemic. We've reversed some of the the gains before the pandemic. That's one very important element. But also we have to understand now that the the best buys have lost the commitment in some in some countries the scal the the scalability of them and obviously sustaining these interventions in the long run um in different context and the lessons learned that uh our ADG was mentioning lessons learned in some of the successes of high income countries or or good achievers in in in in in implementing and those um that have uh more more constraints and more complex cities. Thank you very much, Dr. Phones. And uh this will conclude today's press briefing. Uh during the press conference, you have received the press release uh and the investment case. Uh and as always, we will be sending uh Dr. Ted's opening remarks and video and audio recording of this briefing in coming hours. With this, I'll give the floor to Dr. Tedus for his closing remarks. >> Thank you. So, thank you to all members of the press for joining us today and next see you next time.