Hello and welcome to WHO and today's virtual press conference on global health issues. It's Friday, 5 September and we are here at WHO HQ in Geneva. My name is Christian Lintma and I'll take you through today's press briefing. Now let me introduce the participants. First and foremost in the middle we have Dr. Tedros Adam Gabrius. To his left side, no sorry to your left side. So to his right side we have Dr. Chiku Guazu. He's executive director health and emergencies program. Then we have Dr. Ko Bryan, director for immunization vaccines and biologicals. Then we have Deos Muban Gizy. He's director of policy and standards for medicines and health products. Next to him is Lorenzo Moa, a scientist here at the secretary of the expert committee on selection and use of essential medicines. Then to the left of Dr. Tedras, we have Dr. Maria Vancov, interim director of WHO's department of epidemic and pandemic management. Next to her is Dr. Abd Rahman Muhammad, director of health emergency alert and response operations. Then we have Nabil Tabal. He's our Middle East uh IMST incident manager. And last but not least, Dr. Jennet Diaz, unit head for safe and scalable care. Welcome all of you. Uh we have also Dr. Rick Papercorn online for the questions. our representative for the occupied Palestine uh territory. Um he's available only in the first half hour. So we'll get to that. But if we have questions in the beginning would be good to take those first. Otherwise um we'll have other colleagues for that here in the room as well. Um we'll have a special guest as well as we had the EMOX emergency committee uh yesterday and but I'll leave that to Dr. Terras to introduce. Over to you, Dr. Tedus. Thank you. Thank you, Christian. Good morning, good afternoon, and good evening. More than a year ago, I declared a public health emergency of international concern over the spread of EMPO in Africa on the advice of an emergency committee convened under the international health regulations. Since then, the emergency committee has met every three months to evaluate the outbreak. Yesterday they met again and advised me that in its view the situation no longer represents an international health emergency. I have accepted that advice. This decision is based on sustained declines in cases and deaths in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in other affected countries including Burundi, Salion and Uganda. We also have a better understanding of the drivers of transmission, the risk factors for severity and the most affected countries have developed a sustained response capacity. Of course, lifting the emergency declaration does not mean the threat is over nor that our response will stop. And we note the Africa citiz citiz decision yesterday that EMPOX remains a continental emergency. The possibility of continued flare ups and new outbreaks remains requiring adequate surveillance and response capacity. Ongoing efforts are needed to protect the most vulnerable groups, particularly young children and people living with HIV. WHO, Africa CDC and other partners have maintained a coordinated emergency response supporting countries to reduce transmission, address stigma and expand access to testing, care and vaccination. Nearly 6 million vaccines have been pledged. More than 3 million doses have been delivered to 12 countries and just under 1 million doses have been administered. So we have made much progress but we still face significant challenges. Empox clades continue to circulate. Surveillance and access to diagnostics remains patchy. Response capacities are under strain from limited funding and community engagement requires sustained investment and local partner coordination. WHO and our partners are working to mitigate this risks and sustained support to countries. However, financial resources are still very much needed to support this work. Standing recommendations for EMPOX have been extended for another year until August 2026 to support member states worldwide. I have also extended emergency use listing for EMPOX vaccines and diagnostics. To say more, I'm honored to welcome the chair of the emergency committee, Professor Dimi Agoa from the Niger Delta University in Nigeria. Professor Auina, you have the floor. Can you please uh unmute your audio? We can't hear you. >> Okay. Can you hear me now? >> Yes. Thank you. >> Okay. Thank you very much uh the DG and the other members of the W Secretariat partners, the media and other guests. Uh good day to everybody. Uh I think it's appropriate uh to first appreciate the DG and the WHO for the leadership and commitment to addressing global health challenges including the MOX um outbreak uh which was declared a public health emergency of international concern in August 2024. Um the on behalf of the committee I think it's also important to appreciate the DG and the WHO for the opportunity given to all of us to contribute to addressing the problem of MBOX. The emergency committee had its fifth meeting yesterday, Thursday the 4th of September, 2025. 11 of 16 members and two advisors were in attendance. Uh members listened to presentation from the who secretariat from most affected state parties and other um countries outside Africa. uh they presented to give an outline on the trajectory of the EMPOX outbreak over time from the August 2024 to date and the trends in cases in mortality and the response capacity. The key findings uh from that presentation include uh some positive trends which have been echoed by the DG. There has been a sustained and decline in the number of cases of empan continent overall and also in the most affected um countries of um um Uganda, DRC, Sri Lon and Burundi. Uh there's also been um a remarkable decline in the case fatality rate has been observed in the DRC in endemic regions from 3.6% 6% to about 1% over the period of one year. We have also noticed some remarkable increase in the testing capacity especially in the overall it has increased from about 30 30% to over 60%. uh in the DRC is still uh 54% which is of course we know is very very sub optimal in many of the countries have imp proved their ability to uh to diagnose and case finding search for EMPO and also um there has been local investment from um the ministries and government in the EMPOS response. However, there are some concerns that were observed from the presentation and members. The first was related to the high case of fatality amongst people living with HIV AIDS especially in Uganda and serum. Also observed was the tendency towards higher mobility and mortality amongst infants and young children in um parts of the DRC especially in endemic regions in the DRC. Uh, of course it's encouraging that cla 1B uh that was thought to be a challenge has been exported to many countries but has not resulted to sustained community transmission and also not resulted to significant case fatality with the case fatality less than 1%. Of concern to the members of the committee is the need to sustain the benefits and the gains of the declaration of the public health emergency which has resulted to increase the political commitment increased mobilization of resources and also increase in response strategy to the emp outbreak. Having looked at the presentation from the WHO secretarial, the presentation from the state parties and the data available and the criteria used for determining the public health emergency of international concern, the committee resolved to advise the DG of the WHO to terminate the public health emergency of international concern and to transit to a more coordinated proactive short and long-term strategy to address the challenge of EMPOX. globally and in Africa. The committee observed that EMPOX remains a public health concern globally and especially in Africa and there's need for us not to be complacent about the response strategy and not throw away what we have gained uh from the declaration of the public health emergency. The committee recommended the termination of public health emergency because it no longer fulfilled the criteria uh for declaration of public health emergency as indicated in international health regulations in 2005. But EMPOX remains a public health concern especially in Africa and there is need for a proactive urgent support for the African continent. There is need for solidarity and partnership to ensure we address the gray areas. We improve response, improve diagnosis, surveillance, availability of vaccines because currently vaccines being a available to the African continent is still limited and deployment of vaccines is hindered by logistic and financial challenges. The committee ultimately resolved that there's need for global solidarity to in the response to EMPOX and there's need for continued investment and also to improve on the successes that have been achieved from the declaration of the public health emergency and the committee also noted that failure of the globe and stakeholders to continue to invest in the EMPO response will put the world at the risk of a resurgence of an EMPOX outbreak and there's need for v vigilance and continuous support. Thank you very much. >> Thank you. Thank you so much, Professor Agoa, for your leadership of the emergency committee over the past year and for your ongoing commitment to the fight against EMPOX in Africa. Thank you so much. Of course, EMPOX is only one of many health threats in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Yesterday, the government of the DRC declared an outbreak of Ebola virus disease in the central province of Casai. So far, 28 suspected cases and 16 deaths have been reported, including four health workers. WH already has staff on the ground in Casai with more on the way. We're joining rapid response teams to trace contacts and find cases. We're collecting and testing samples and we're providing technical expertise in surveillance, infection prevention and control, treatment, risk communication, and more. WHO has also delivered personal protective equipment, laboratory equipment, medical supplies, and a mobile lab. We had previously prepositioned 2,000 doses of Ebola vaccine in Kinshasa, which we're releasing to vaccinate contacts and This is the 16th outbreak of Ebola in the DRC and the government has rich experience from those previous outbreaks. I thank the government for its leadership in responding to this outbreak and for its transparency in rapidly declaring the outbreak and sharing the viral sequence. To fund the response, who has released $500,000 US from our contingency fund for emergencies, and we appeal to donors to support the response. Now to Gaza. Over the past week, parts of Gaza have come under heavy bombardment as part of Israel's military incursion. If this continues, it could lead to an even worse humanitarian disaster. endangering water and sanitation facilities for nearly 1 million people, many of whom are are already facing extreme food deprivation. As you know, famine was declared in parts of Gaza two weeks ago. Since the conflict began in October 2023, at least 370 people have died from malnutrition in Gaza, including more than 300 just in the past two months. And where hunger goes, this is follows. Lack of food and clean water and cramped living conditions are leaving people with weakened immune systems exposed to more disease. In the past months, more than 100 cases of gulamare syndrome have been reported with 11 days, a syndrome that can occur after other infection and lead to paralysis. WHO is doing the best we can to elevate suffering and evacuate those who need urgent medical care outside Gaza. Since October 2023, WHO has supported the evacuation of over 7,640 patients, including 5,300 children and 2,660 companions. But there are still more than 15,000 patients in Gaza who need urgent specialized care, including 3,800 children. More than 700 people have died while waiting for medical evacuation, including almost 140 children. However, the urgent problem we face is that too few countries are willing to receive them. We call for countries to open their arms to these critically ill patients. And we call on Israel to allow people to be treated in the West Bank and East Jerusalem, where hospitals closer to home can take many patients. Above all, we call on the government of Israel to end this inhumane war. If it will not, I call on its allies to use their influence to stop it. The most intolerable part of this man-made disaster is that it could be stopped right now. People are starving to death while the food that could save them sits on tracks a short distance away. And for what? The starvation of the people of Gaza will not make Israel safer, nor will it facilitate the release of the hostages. This is a catastrophe that Israel could have prevented and could stop at any time. Starvation of civilians as a method of war is a war crime that can never be tolerated. Doing so in one conflict risks legitimizing its use in future conflicts. While the wars in Gaza and Ukraine continue to make headlines, the war in Sudan continues to be the war the world forgot. Like Gaza, Sudan is also facing a hunger crisis with famine conditions confirmed in parts of the country. This year alone, over 770,000 children are expected to suffer from severe acute malnutrition. WHO supporting 142 centers that have treated more than 20,000 severely malnourished children so far this year. At the same time, the country is facing a severe kolera outbreak which has spread to all 18 states with more than 105,000 cases and 2,600 deaths. In August, WHO supported vaccination campaigns that reached 3.5 million people and we will soon launch another campaign targeting almost 2 million people in Darur. Since November 2023, over 17 million people have been reached with oral cholera vaccines. The situation is especially severe in the region of North Dur where the city of Elasir has been under siege for more than 500 days. More than 260,000 people need urgent health assistance. 35 health facilities have been destroyed. There are 5,000 suspected kolera cases and 98 deaths. 130,000 children are suffering from malnutrition. And survivors of sexual and gender based violence need urgent care, including mental health support. UN humanitarian aid, including who supplies, hasn't reached the city in over a year. We call for the immediate opening of safe unimpeded humanitarian access to Alasir to meet the mounting health needs and save lives. We call on the RSF to lift the siege and we call on all parties to the conflict to end the war. Finally, today WHO is releasing the latest editions of the WHO model lists of essential medicines and essential medicines for children. These lists are among WHO's most important products used in over 150 countries to shape public public sector procurement, the supply of medicines, health insurance and reimbursement schemes. The updated lists include new treatments for various types of cancer and for diabetes with associated conditions such as obesity. Medicines for cystic fibrosis, sorasis, hemop hemophilia and blood related disorders are among the other conditions. And finally, today is the last press conference for WHO's director of communications, our friend and colleague Gabrielle Stern, who is retiring after more than six years at WHO. Gabby has led who communications through an incredible period in the organization's history, including the coid9 pandemic. She has done so with incredible dedication, energy, insight, empathy, and experience. Gabby, thank you so much for everything you have done and for who you are. Thank you for your outstanding commitment and contribution to WHO and more importantly to the people we serve. We will miss you and we wish you every success for the next chapter of your life and career. Christian, back to you. >> Well, thank you very much, Dr. Tedros. Thank you, Professor Aguina. And uh thank you, Gabby. Yeah, with this we open the floor for questions. Um, please again raise your hand with the raise your hand icon and unmute yourself when it's your time to speak. I'll try to see if we can get one question through to Rick Pippercorn. I was told you might have to leave, but let me see if he's still online. So, we have one question uh from the colleagues of BBC. Um, doctors in Gaza are talking about the spread of an undiagnosed virus. What do we know about it? What are the symptoms? How dangerous is it? Over you. Over to you, Rick. >> Yeah, thank you very much, Christian. Yeah, just coming back in um uh from Gaza last Monday. So again for more than uh two weeks uh there's definitely an increase in acute respiratory infections but we I think are constantly uh reporting uh on on on the various diseases we've seen currently an and slight decrease for example in in in dial diseases and and inj this has not been linked there was a lot of discussions um about COVID um there was a lot of other discussions etc that has not been uh confirmed at all. I just want to make that very much as the first point. What we of course see um in the currently in Gaza in this environment and it was described also by the DG in an environment of malnutrition and in some places even worse that uh with horrific conditions when you talk about water and sanitation and shelter constantly see this uh waves people are much more uh prone True. Uh definitely uh the all the waterbornne diseases but also respiratory infections also people are incredibly crowded. You look at Gaza now more than 86% is incredible. The small Gaza more than 86% is now what we call a militarized zone. So, so these 2 point me uh one people they are actually clustered in this in Gaza city in the north and then mainly in the center and the the west part because as we heard also DG the military incursion is already hitting very hard on the east side of Gaza city and uh then the central area Dabbala and Masi. So um currently nothing confirmed covid definitely uh definitely not confirmed we defin also struggle and that's including in in what was mentioned as guil by syndrome we struggle and the health service struggle with a lack of proper laboratories especially lab supplies and everything related to that. So if we get more details we will um we will inform you on uh on this over to you. >> Thank you so much Rick. Um next question goes to Nina Larson from AFP. Nina please go ahead and unmute. >> Uh thank you very much for taking my question. Um I wanted to ask about the situation in the US and um how concerned you guys are about the situation at the CDC. Um they there have been uh there was a letter from all of the CDC directors going back to the Carter administration warning about the health risks that the current uh secretary of health is is putting Americans at. Um especially when it comes to vaccine access. Uh there is also the Florida decision to remove the vaccine mandate there. So I was just hoping that you could say a little bit about what you what you think about what's been happening at the CDC. Thank you very much. >> Thank you Nina. We'll go to Dr. Ko Bryan, director immunization vaccines and biologicals. >> Thanks so much uh for the question. I think the the most important thing that um we should make sure that we're focusing on is um first of all the CDC uh in the US um is an incredibly strong institution with um many many uh excellent outstanding world-class scientists and um who has had a long-standing collaboration and the world has benefited um from the expertise that sits within the CDC. Um and I'm sure that that expertise will will continue. Um the uh I I think where we um also want to address your question is on uh the question of vaccine mandates and this is um a topic that comes up not infrequently. Um I think it's important to remember that um there are many um aspects of our uh public health life um where governments and institutions do have um policies that um help the public stay self safe uh seat belts um uh using corrective lenses um for those who are driving vehicles and um and the issue of assuring that vaccines are provided to all people who need vaccines is an important one and there are many different policies that are used to enable and and assure that vaccines are accessible. Um what is most important is that vaccines start and stop with trust. Um and without trust there really isn't a vaccine program. And the second most important thing is the strong evidence base on which decisions about vaccines and the safety of vaccines and their impact are made. And the third is that vaccines are fully and um in an unfettered way available and accessible to all people who need them. And so many countries have used policies um that are called vaccine mandates um that sometimes are misinterpreted um as being sort of compulsory vaccines and very few uh such uh uh countries have something called a compulsory vaccine. But vaccine mandates are very common. Um in our in the data that uh is shared with WHO on an annual basis in this past year about 104 countries do say that they do have policies or laws um that relate to um requiring encouraging um children to attend school um or child care. So this is something that's very common um and we we do recommend a context uh specific approach to mandates. It's not the preferred way um to assure vaccination uh because of course individual choice um is the most uh fundamental part about what people are doing. But we have to be sure that um the uh the programs of immunization are providing a way for vaccines to be easily and readily accessible. And as I mentioned before um the public having accurate information evidence on which they are um uh confident that the that the um that the programs are wellcraftrafted and bounded on safety and impact is the absolute most fundamental part. Many of the diseases we have to remember are deadly diseases. That's why we vaccinate. And so particularly for schools which are environments where um transmission the the mixing of children um and kids are aggra you know are are um in classrooms and on playgrounds um it's really important that those kids are safe from what are deadly diseases. Um and that's the reason the whole underpinning of why vaccines are so important. So although there are many different ways that vaccine programs can be encouraged and parents have access to vaccines that is not constrained by time, place, insurance status um very common for there to be um policies that are around uh vaccine mandates and the evidence does show that um these can be effective. they can um be the the means by which children who aren't vaccinated are identified when they're registering for school and as long as vaccines are then made available to them um this can increase coverage as well in other settings um they're not very helpful um and so I really just want to come back to the the context of the of the trust issue and the community issue so it's it's very very context specific thank Thank you. >> Thank you very much, Dr. O'Brien. Dr. Monkov, you want to add? >> Yeah, thanks. I just wanted to comment on the first part of that question because I think it's such a critical one. Uh, and the importance of um, US CDC uh, as a technical agency um, the importance of national centers for disease controls or public health agencies are really critical in every single country. But the world needs a strong US CDC. We have continued to work with CDC throughout from a technical partnership sharing information um about what is happening working with many of their experts across many disease specific areas that technical exchange um continues but it is really important that national uh governments uh all national governments have strong evidence-based institutions and I won't go into what Kate talked about with the vaccines but of course wholeheartedly agree but it covers the entire spectrum of prevention ion control readiness and response. So I think you know we just want to make sure u we continue to support all scientists public health professionals around the world to ensure that they have the best evidence to make the best decisions. That's what we do here but also to call on that expertise. We're very grateful for our colleagues at USCDC and the hard work that they do as with other national institutes and public health agencies around the world. >> Thank you uh both. Next question goes to Elaine Fletcher from Health Policy Watch. Elaine, please go ahead and unmute. >> Hi, thank you for taking my question. This is about the uh new EML. Um I have two questions actually. One is about the insulin. You mentioned insulin analog as being something new in the table of medications. However, there were insulin analoges also approved as I recall in 2021 and 2023. So, I just wondered if you could uh be a little more clear about if there's a new type of insulin analog that's been approved this time and if so, what? And then in terms of also cancer drugs, I noticed that you have some new drugs for um colurectal um cervical and um lung cancer, but I don't see any new breast cancer drugs there. And I in the list and I know that's been an issue in the past as well, sometimes because of the costs associated with those drugs. So just if somebody if you could comment on those two aspects of the listing. Thank you. >> Thank you very much Elaine between Dios and Lorenzo who wants to start. Okay, I will start. Uh thank you very much for the question. In terms of uh insulin indeed you're right. Uh we have had various types of insulin on the essential medicines list. We have had long acting uh insulins and also uh mediumacting insulins both human and recently uh analoges. What has been added to that to complete the whole range of treatment is the short acting insulins. And this uh this is uh also to make sure that all the ranges of conditions and that we have the treatment package to cover all the conditions that uh uh that that we need and often these are complimentary and there those where would conditions it's appropriate to use long acting instruments but also we we need to also have conditions where we short acting. So what has been added is the short acting in addition to what has been in place uh as long acting and intermediate acting. um on the issue of uh uh cancer drugs specifically and I'll after that I'll ask Lorenzo to specifically talk about breast cancer but also let me say that the current addition of uh of the EML has added a number of new drugs including cancer drugs and we know the incident especially of noncommunicable diseases is increasing but uh the the throughout the world not only in the high inome countries but also in low and medium income countries. We also are lucky that recently highly active uh cancer medicines have become available. What is true that some of these uh new cancer medicines are costly and expensive and the essential medicines tool essential medicine list is one tool that is used by who and member states to uh to caterize or enable other interventions that will stimulate access things like pulled procurement reimburse ments generic uh or by similar manufacturing and the you know technology transfer this is a prioritization tool. So it is a tool who that is putting there first of all to to ensure access but also to bridge that gap between the the the high inome countries where because these expensive new medicines have been expensive but we would like to have universal access and we use the essential medicines list to enable these tools of access so that they can become affordable. and accessible to all members. I pass over to Lorenzo to tackle the breast cancer specific question. Thank you. >> Thanks. Thanks. So this year like a DML the expert committee did evaluate 25 cancers right across seven different applications and clearly also breast cancer was was was involved but the expert committee had like a clear logic supporting the choice first was starting with like a measuring the efficacy of the monomodulators in each of the cancer right then looking to the affordability and price and then also like seeing what were like strategies to increase the affordability and among these 25 cancers that lung cancer, cervical cancer and colorectile cancer were like prioritized as in these patients we had the larger effect. The WHO adopts now like a threshold in recognizing then the cancer medicines that have merit to be listed. That is to prolong a list survival by four to six months. That is to filtering down the number of medicine that arrive on the market. And this threshold has been applied and to all. In some cases the trials like the trials in breast cancer women are like still maturing. So like is the followup of these patients is not yet consolidated and that also like in this case the expert committee had a preference for those results in which we have long-term follow-up data and we are sure about the effect on overall survival and quality of life. Thanks. Over to you Christian. Thank you very much both. Um and we'll move on to the next question and it's Priti Patnik from Geneva Health Files. Pretty go ahead. >> Hi, good afternoon. Thank you for taking my question. Um you know I wanted to understand uh today's decision on uh the EMPOX. um how will you ensure that uh the attention continues to remain on um preparedness and also uh response for basically potential future outbreaks. Um does this mean that you know the attention will go away and how would you basically ensure that um uh necessary um research and development and sharing of um technologies for example um will continue despite um sort of today's uh today's outcome outcome of today's meeting. Thank you. >> We'll start with >> chair chair. >> Okay. Oh yeah of course professor going now. >> Okay. Thank you very thank you very much uh for that question. I think that uh observation came up during our discussion at the emergency committee and one thing we need to recognize is that the evidence before us uh shows that uh emp is still a public health concern especially for a number of African countries. What we observed was some level of stability and downward trend in the most affected countries. There are few countries that are uh witnessing like a form of resurgence of number of cases. Of course, there has been improve capacity to respond, improving testing capacity and uh improving surveillance and community engagement. But there's still a lot to be done and it was our view that uh what needs to be done can be done outside the emergency phase. So what is important is that while we are removing the emergency, we need to keep the urgency because EMPO remains a public health concern and there's need to continue and sustain the investment and even increase the investment in in the EMPO restaurant. So we all collectively agree that there's need for more advocacy, awareness, creation and emphasis that EMPO remains a public health concern. This not a time for us to uh reduce the investments in terms of financial investment, partnership, solidarity especially for most affected countries in the African continent. And so that responsibility is a collective responsibility of uh various stakeholders, the affected countries but especially resource um um rich countries and uh other stakeholders that have the resources to support response. One critical point that was raised in our meeting is to say that although we have noticed some improvement in the response to EMPOX if we lose our guards if we do not sustain the investment and the successes there's likely to be a resurgence. So that's the key message we must sustain what we are doing and contain I mean continue the benefits of the declaration of a public health emergency of international concern. Thank you. >> Thank you very much professor and uh Dr. Chu. >> Yeah, thank you very much Prity for the for the question. Like uh um Professor Gyne who just spoke and really thanks to Professor Gyne and the emergency committee for the excellent advice they continue to give us and the world on the response. Um you know we learn every day from the emergence of this virus when it reemerged on the African continent on in 2017. Very little was known about it. We had to learn very quickly. That knowledge has since expanded. This is the second um fake that is being deescalated. It doesn't mean that the virus has disappeared and it doesn't mean that we will relax our efforts at all. In fact, we will intensify our efforts because the work is now defined for us in the long term uh to continue learning about this virus, continue improving the tools we have around surveillance, diagnostics, uh treatment options and really if there's one bright spot out of all this is is the capacity that have increased across many countries on the African continent as they have responded to this and if you look at the trajectory of the outbreak in the last country where we had a fairly big outbreak in Sierra Leone, you would see that uh the containment of cases after it escalated initially uh around 3 months ago was really remarkable. And so I think despite the situation at the moment, we have a sustained increase in capacity to detect and respond across the continent. And we're fairly confident in working with our our national public health agencies, ministries of health, research institutes, uh working with global partners that have supported access to vaccines, equitable distribution of access according to need across the continent that we will continue to drive forward the challenges and opportunity that we've had to improve the response. So uh this is actually not an indication to deescalate but actually an indication to sustain our efforts and and make sure we continue to contain this uh new disease that reemerged on our continent a few years ago. Maria I don't know if you want to add to that in terms of uh what we're doing moving forward. >> Thanks very much Chu and thanks very much for the for the question. No to re really reemphasize what's been stated by the chair and by Chuay here. Um, this isn't about saying this that EMPOX isn't a problem. It isn't saying that EMPOX has gone away. We expect continued circulation. We expect there to be flare-ups in other countries. But as the chair has pointed out, as DG has pointed out, as Chuway has pointed out, capacities continue to increase. and the ability of our national counterparts, our local partners across diagnostics, across community engagement, clinical care, safe and scalable clinical care around infection prevention and control um has increased. Of course, there's a lot more work that needs to be done. There's more work that needs to be done for early diagnosis, early clinical care, ensuring that vaccines are used appropriately to protect uh populations who are most vulnerable, those who have im immunocmpromised HIV populations, the youngest of children. Um so for us, this is a really important message that lifting of the public health emergency of international concern doesn't mean that the problem has gone away. Um there isn't a lot of investment that is necessary including not only the technical capacities but financial investment as well. We haven't raised funding for EMPOX with the last SP and of course this message might sound like um you know the problem has gone away but as DG has pointed out it has not. Um and countries are working very hard and you you've heard about concurrent outbreaks now Ebola. Um so there's a lot of challenges that these countries are facing. So we need our partners. We need funders. We need governments to continue the solid investments in EMPOX and in fact to increase those because what we do for one infectious disease is also helpful for others. So it's adding on those and continuing to build those capacities. >> Thank you all very much for this. And we have one more from Amy Maxman from Nature. Amy, please go ahead and unmute. >> Hi, thank you so much for this uh conference. I was just wondering um the response to outbreaks, specifically Ebola outbreaks, is super expensive. Um and I'm just wondering what is the impact of the withdrawal of the US from the WHO? Have have um the membership fees already I assume the US isn't contributing anymore. How are you financially? >> Thank you very much, Amy. We'll go to Dr. Chuazu, the head of the emergency program. >> Hi, Amy. Thanks for that and great to hear your voice again. I I think if we reflect on the uh Ebola outbreak going on at the moment, I think the the most important thing I think that we can all be uh a little bit uh happy with uh globally is really the response of the colleagues locally. uh the speed of their action, the ability to connect the dots and once they had a fairly um small cluster of cases and the number of deaths, how quickly they alerted their own national public health agency, how quickly that agency put the resources together, alerted WHO, the time it took us to get to the field, get the samples to the lab, get it tested, have a sequence out and published today. I mean the the yes a lot of resources are required but the experience in DRC really shows that investment in local capacity, investment in building institutions and country capacity around the world will ultimately actually reduce the need um for resources globally from one single donor for a couple of uh big sources to continue to support the work that we do. Having said all of that, there's no doubt that we will continue to need the resources to respond and you know the only way we can do this sustainably into the future is through sustainable financing of WHO. So um yes uh the financial situation we are in challenges all of us but our work goes on our primary response has been as good as it can be and the challenge on all of us now is to sustain the response over the next few weeks. and then make sure that we are uh as quick as possible to define the extent of the outbreak which is really the primary uh objectives over the next few days and then sustain the outbreak to make sure that we don't end up in an unfortunate situation. But I'm I'm fairly confident that with all the efforts happening already uh that we'll get ahead of this. Um Abdi, maybe you can say a few words on just uh the intensity of the response over the last few few days and the work we've been doing with the colleagues uh locally. >> Thanks Chuku. I think you have covered most of it in terms of the our work in WH and the leadership of the government. We have been supporting them in deploying a multi-response team to all of team. The logistic challenge the team left on Wednesday and they just reached today morning. just how difficult it is but despite that challenge in having the result there within and then publish is incredible and remarkable and as you rightly said the investment that have gone to the country that's the only way sustainable but we really require the health system as Dr. Tedros talked about EMPOX and all is the vulnerable that investment going to Gabi to PEFA is the health system required while DRC has a lot of experience be it in Tanzania in Rwanda the withdrawal of that has affected the whole health system sampling transport was a major challenge so the investment done by the countries I think they will but the sudden withdrawal has created the shock not the country will not be able to allocate resources. We have seen every other country come in but the sudden withdrawal without notice has impacted and by the end of the day is the global community that's going to lose. So from WHO side and we are very confident that with under the leadership of the government that this outbreak will be able to control. We request more. We have the contingency fund as DG said have a million and Amy you're right Ebola response in a very difficult logistic can expand millions of dollars from 300 million to 800 million we don't believe we may need that because of the rapid response from the government and the leadership but the location it is in the southwest and neighboring province and neighboring country can also turn up to a large outbreak we don't anticipate that because of the timely interventions but I want to agree with you this is an investment it may look more but is an investment in the global security that requires every country where the US UK neighboring country in Africa to come together in solidarity to support DRC because what they have did is incredible that transparency I don't think we have ever seen and I want to give credit again to that team collect that sample and publish immediately and declare the outbreak without fear because they are confident what they were able to achieve. >> Thanks so much Paul for these clarifications. We came to the end of the questions but we have Dr. Rick Pippercorn from the uh oh pardon did I lose somebody? >> Oh sorry Dr. as of course on the Ebola question. I also just want to I mean I'm not going to repeat what my colleagues have said but also give a big congratulations to the INRB for and the Ministry of Health for their rapid action and of course the interventions that are ongoing now at the at the at the field level the importance of the of the local teams and establishing their treatment center making isolation centers um making um taking care of those patients setting up a referral systems all of these things doing the basics well which had a start and now with the surge teams that are going in And it's not just dependency on on one group. It's a collective action with partners. And I also wanted to acknowledge all the partners that are contributing to this and everyone together with their resources with their um uh assets uh coming together to deliver on what the ministry of health is trying to accomplish. So I think this is where we are in the phase right now is really getting the partners together working under the leadership of the ministry to establish safe care to establish the get ensure that the vaccine delivery gets done in a timely way and then to advance and hopefully stop this outbreak as soon as we can. >> Thank you so much Jenn for that important addition. Now we come to Dr. Dr. Rick Papercon, our uh representative in the occupied Palestinian territory to add on the respiratory disease which we are targeting before. >> Yes, thank you. Christian just three points. One, it is specific to reported a acute respiratory infections cases they increased with morbidity rising from 58 to 62% among reportable diseases. So it's increased but as not as much as people say no COVID cases were confirmed and meanwhile I think the acute watery diarrhea declined from 42 to 35%. We also of course uh check them out. I think one new AFP case uh was reported and in total 25 that was already 49 cases. A total of 1,00 75 suspect menagitis cases were reported between May and August. 73% were classified in viral menitis and 237% as bacterial menitis. And since June uh 2025, a total of 103 suspected GMA syndrome cases were reported with 11 show associated death serum samples. 20 of that has been dispatched. There's an absolute lack that were already raised on on lab um lab supplies related to that. I want to get back to other one other point which um I think the DG uh pointed out about this um plans or an ongoing military incursion against the city and of course rightly was said it would be another unitarian disaster on the on the existing disaster. Just to point out what it would mean for health system for the struggling health system. Currently 11 out of the 18 what we call partially to minimum functional hospitals are located within Gaza city. They account for 35% of total impatient bed capacity in the Gaza Strip and 48% of all intensive care beds in the Gaza Strip. So if that goes away, I mean if that falls away with can you imagine even the impact on the health system and the and the health sector. Last point on medevac was DG stress this so much and rightly so just to look at the figures that close to 7,700 patients have been metac massive achievement but more than 15,000 patients are in need. People ask me often, yeah, is the system working. Currently, there's a priority list of over 8,000 patients ready. So, more than 8,000 patients are waiting to be metavac and the key asks are again and again we need many more countries to receive uh Gazen priority uh patients. We need to to have the traditional referral pathway to the Eio hospital in Westbank restored and those hospitals also supported and we need to support also the WHO and the WHO team here. We are ready to expand the medevac and also our OSL operations but of course we need flexible support for that. Over to you thank you very much. >> Thank you very much Rick and let me ask Dr. Kirkov to add on the situation of the respiratory diseases in the region maybe. >> Yeah, thanks Christian. And so zooming out a little bit um just to add a little bit more context um and and to say you know we're we're supporting to get u more laboratory diagnostics in to support um the country as well. But of course these viruses are circulating. Respiratory viruses are circulating. CO is not gone. It's not in the news anymore. Um but it is circulating. We are seeing increasing trends around the world for COVID circulation but very few countries are actually reporting now um flu is circulating as well and if you have conditions where people are living in these horrible conditions you have underlying conditions you have malnutrition you have starvation um outcomes are going to be worse Rick outlined all of the the diseases that are circulating there that are that are killing people that are harming people and of course respiratory pathogens are there as well so we will work and continue to support and Nibil is sitting over here as well to make sure that we provide additional diagnostic resources there. Um, but of course there are many many immediate needs of of the people of Gaza. Um, but just wanted to contextualize this to state that there are u there these viruses are are circulating around. Um, and it's it's likely to be something that is common, but of course we will continue to work with the country to make sure that we identify. Thank you. >> Thank you very much Wolf and thank you very much all. We've come to the end of our press briefing and I thank you for your participation, especially also Professor Aguina, the chair of the EMPOX emergency committee. We'll be sending the audio files and Dr. Tedra's remarks soon after this briefing. Um, and then for any follow-up questions, please come to us at media inquiries um at wh.int. Now, um, let me see, let me give to Dr. or professor Aguina if he wants to add a few closing remarks from his side. >> Yeah. Yeah. Thank you very much. I think just to say I appreciate once again the WDG and his team uh for the work that's been done. Um as everybody has emphasized uh we have competing health challenges across the globe being one of them and it's very important that we work collaboratively and uh collectively uh to ensure we address our public health challenges and including the challenge of empath for the opportunity. >> Thank you very much professor and before we give now to Dr. Tedros for the closing remarks. Let me ask our director of communications, Gabby Stern. Um to share a bit a summary of her last years with us. >> Thank you very much. >> Thank you, Christian. Um thank you Dr. Tedras. Thanks to everyone for um what you said about me today. And it really it really should be said about um the communications staff at WHO um in countries, regions here at headquarters, but also our brilliant technical colleagues who um have done massive communications um over the years, including during um the COVID pandemic um which um obviously was um a uh historic and also terribly difficult period for the world. Um I just wanted to say thanks to reporters um online. Um I was one of you for many decades. Um in many ways I'm still one of you. I I think once you're a journalist, you're always a journalist. And I thank you for your coverage of all the health issues of WHO. Um, and I encourage you to continue being fierce um and and telling the truth. Uh, we need you uh more than ever. Uh, so thank you and um back to you Christian. >> Thank you very much, Gabby. Now over to Dr. Tedros. >> Thank you. Thank you Gabby again. All all the very best. You're an amazing human being and we will miss you. Uh but once who always WH that you should know. Uh then to the members of uh press thank you for joining us today and see you next time.