recording in progress. Hello to everyone. It's July 23rd. Uh and uh I welcome you to the WHO press briefing on global health issues. My name is Tik and as always uh we will start by introducing our speakers here in the room. We have a number of who experts who will answer your questions. We also have a couple of uh our colleagues online that I will introduce a little bit later. So with us as always we have our director general Dr. Tedras. Also with us is Dr. Chiku Equazu who is executive director of health emergencies program. Dr. Jeremy Farrar is also with us. He's assistant director general for health promotion and disease prevention and control. Uh next to me is uh Mr. Rahul Thomas. is our assistant director general for business operations and compliance. Dr. Abd Rakman Mahabmud is director for health emergency alert and response operation. He's also here in the room is also Dr. Nedrat Emiroglu, head of the secretariat for the intergovernmental working group on the WHO pandemic agreement and we have Dr. Maria Wankerov, director at interim for epidemic and pandemic uh management. Also with us is uh Mr. Steven Solomon, principal legal officer and uh Mr. Namil Tabal who is incident manager uh with the uh health emergency program. So uh with this I'll give the floor to Dr. Tus for his opening remarks. Thank you. Thank you Tariq. Good morning, good afternoon, and good evening. The 2.1 million people trapped in the war zone, that is Gaza, are facing yet another killer on top of bombs and bullets, starvation. We're now witnessing a deadly surge in malnutrition related deaths. Since July 17th, severe acute malnutrition centers are full without sufficient supplies for emergency feeding. In 2025, WHO has documented 21 deaths related to malnutrition of children under five years old. Rates of global acute malnutrition exceed 10% and over 20% of pregnant and breastfeeding women that have been screened are malnourished often severely. The hunger crisis is being accelerated by the collapse of aid pipelines and resolutions on access restrictions on access. 95% of households in Gaza face severe water shortages with daily access far below the minimum needed for drinking, cooking, and hygiene. The UN and humanitarian partners were unable to deliver any food to the Gaza Strip for nearly 80 consecutive days from early March to midmay 2025 due to a complete blockade and humanitarian and commercial access. Since then, food deliveries have resumed intermittently but remain far below what's needed for the survival of the population. Parents tell us their children cry themselves to sleep from hunger. Food distribution sites have become places of violence. From the 27th May to the 21st of July, health authorities report 1,026 people have been killed in Gaza while trying to get food from these sites. Nearly 90% of the land in Gaza is now under evacuation orders of within Israeli military militarized zones. Hospitals which are supposed to be safe heavens have regularly been attacked and many are no longer functioning. Even those that are functioning are only operating at minimal capacity due to repeated attacks, shortages of fuel and medical supplies and constrained access. On Monday, WHO personnel came under fire in the city of Dear Albalah. The WHO staff residents was attacked, endangering personnel and their families, including children. Israeli military entered the premises, forcing women and children to evacuate on foot amid active conflict. Male personnel and family members were handcuffed, stripped, and interrogated. One colleague remains in detention. We call for his immediate release. 32 people, including women and children, were evacuated to a WH office bordering the conflict zone. Our main warehouse containing vital medicines and supplies was also severely damaged. At the UN's lead health agency, WHO's operational presence in Gaza is further compromised, crippling efforts to sustain a collapsing health system and pushing survival further out of reach for more than 2 million people. Despite this, WHO and other UN agencies are staying in Gaza and our commitment is firm. UN agencies must be protected while operating in conflict zones. WHO calls for the active protection of UN personnel and facilities, civilians and health care for the unimpeded flow of aid. Once again, we call for unconditional release of the hostages. The situation in Syria is also extremely troubling. Access to Asua remains severely constrained, further hampering the delivery of life-saving assistance. The main hospital is overwhelmed, facing critical shortages of staff, electricity, and supplies. We're following events closely and are working to verify reports of attacks on health care, including attacks on health workers, patients, ambulances, and health facilities. Health care must never be a target. health should always be protected and safe sustained humanitarian access in Gaza, Syria and all humanitarian situations is critical. Now I want to say a few words about the recent claims that have been made regarding who the amendments to the international health regulations and the pandemic agreement. Let me be crystal clear. First, the IHR, its amendments and the pandemic agreement, all of them were proposed, negotiated and adapted by our member states. That's how WHO works. It belongs to the countries to all 194 member states. Second, WHO has no authority to tell countries what to do. We cannot impose travel bans, lockdowns, vaccine mandates, or any other type of measure. Nor do we seek to clearly laid out in our founding document, the WHO constitution. Our job is to provide evidence-based recommendations and guidelines and to support countries to protect and improve the health of their populations. But how or whether countries implement that advice has always been and always will be up to them based on their national guidelines and rules. That's true for everything we do. Whether it's guidelines for stopping smoking, better nutrition, or preventing and addressing dises, everything we do, this principle applies equally to international health regulations and in fact the new pandemic agreement even at a specific has a specific section clearly spelling that out. Article 22. And third, we have a very clear comprehensive framework in place to guard against undue influence of pharmaceutical manufacturers and other private sector entities. Of course, we work with them as we should, but we have very clear safeguards in place that were developed with our member states. And now a quick update on the pandemic agreement and specifically the intergovernmental working group. This working group made up of our member states was established by the world health assembly and tasked with negotiating the annex for pathogen access and benefits sharing among other things to help the world respond more effectively to future health threats. The working group will meet throughout the year with the aim of bringing the completed annex to the next world delta assembly in May 2026. The pandemic agreement negotiated over three years by our member states builds on the lessons of COVID 19 to improve cooperation and coordination for a safer world for all. Now moving from future threats to current ones. WH and UNICEF's recent annual report on estimates of national immunization coverage around the world show both progress and pressing challenges. While there has been modest growth in vaccine coverage globally, an estimated 14.3 million children never received a single dose of any vaccine and millions more received only partial coverage. Not surprisingly, children living in one of the in one of the more than two dozen countries affected by conflict or humanitarian emergencies are at particularly high risk of missing out on life-saving immunizations for measles, one of the world's most infectious pathogens. While global coverage is up slightly from last year, nonetheless, more than 30 million children did not receive the full course of vaccines they needed. In 2024, 60 countries experienced significant measles outbreaks, nearly double the number in 2022. While lack of access is one major problem for vaccines, vaccine hesitancy is also a widespread concern for some. WHO and other public health organizations have detailed information available on our website to help families understand vaccines which have saved millions of lives since the development of the smallox vaccine over 200 years ago. On that note, I'm happy to share some news about another revolutionary innovation. Last week, WHO launched a new guideline on the use of Len Lena Capavir, a breakthrough prevention medicine that can help turn the tide on HIV. HIV protection from injectable Lenapavir lasts for 6 months and prevents more than 96% of new infections. WHO and partners are working with nine early adapter countries so that up to two million people will be able to access Lakapavir at an at a negotiated lower price. Six generic manufacturers are in the process of developing Lakapavir and by 2027 generic versions will become more widely available. WHO is working with the early adopter countries and global partners to make the youth of Lakapavir a reality including through guidelines and the prequalification process and some more good news on global efforts at disease elimination. WHO is proud to have certified Surinam as malaria free. That makes 47 countries and territories to have received certification with more on the way. We have also recently validated the elimination of traoma as a public health problem in both Burundi and Seneagal bringing the total number of countries that have eliminated at least one neglected tropical disease to 57. Tiki, back to you. >> Thank you very much, uh, Dr. Tedrris. And before we open the floor for questions, I'll introduce, uh, uh, some other WHO colleagues who online who will be ready to take those questions. We have with us Dr. Rick Papercorn, who representative for the occupied Palestinian territory. Dr. Mac Dy, who is a director of science for health. We have also Dr. Caillus Ekajzia who is technical lead for kolera Dr. Benjing Jang head of WHO global influenza program is al also with us and also we have Dr. Na Benzv, unit head for immunization analysis and insights. With this uh I will start with the first question and those who want to ask question please uh click on raise hand icon and please introduce yourself. Uh I we will start with Jen Riby from Reuters. Jen, >> hello. Thank you for taking the question. I wanted to ask about malnutrition in Gaza. Um the DG mentioned that there aren't sufficient supplies. I wondered if you could give us more details about what level uh supplies are at in terms of emergency feeding for children and adults uh in Gaza and any more on uh the situation in terms of how many acute um malnutrition treatment centers are still functioning or open would be helpful too. Thank you. >> Thank you very much Jen. Maybe we can start with Dr. Rick Paperorn who is online. Thank you. Um, can you hear me? >> Uh, yes, we can hear you. >> Okay. First, I want to say something about the the massive amount of and I think the DG set is very clear how critical starvation and and and malnutrition have become and and our figures. I just want to stress that it's under reported. So when we see you look at for example the number of under fives the number of under fives with malnutrition since October 23 we we count over 70,000 but when you look at the number of under five actually in 2025 is close to 30,000 number of children who reportedly died linked to malnutrition in in 2025 only is 17. Now this is under reported a tip of the iceberg and and just when I was in Gaza myself uh two and a half three weeks ago and before that I come there every other month we we went to uh we and in in a former visit we went to the the so-called malnutrition treatment centers in the north of Gaza that one was in Kamal one kamal one is nonfunctional anymore Morris Hospital. It was a support center supported by WHO and UNICEF. Even then I'm talking about that's all that visit was actually so the former former two months ago uh more than two months ago uh we had a lack of nutrition supplements of of and and UNICEF had a lack of of their supplies as well both for the outpatients department and as well for the inpatients already. There we reported about specific cases and and and even as a medical doctor myself you could see in a girl which you thought she was two or something like that on the acute mur on the acute uh severely malers she was actually 2 years old now I mean we raised alarm then about not getting the right supplies in and it was in the time that no supplies came in at all. I just also want to uh warn everyone we went through the cycle before in January and February 20 25. We had the same the the entry of eight was severely squeezed and limited and we very quickly saw that the there was no there was no food diversity at the market as as well and quickly malnutrition picked up among children before this crisis or this crisis exploded in October 2023 there was no malnutrition in Gaza you talked about 6% among under the fives. There was no malnutrition about pregnant and lactating women. A huge problem. Now what we get now from the from the hospitals they don't only see malnutrition in under fives and children etc but also elderly for example. The combination is described by the DG by deplorable water and sanitary conditions and less than 5 to 10% access to clean water, a lot of diarrheal diseases, respiratory infections etc. It's all uh it's it's it's it's all of course a combination that's leading even increasing this disaster. Now the last point is as well we have seen the IPC reports and we reported on that we knew this was happening. The world knows that this is happening and is going on. The DG also referred to the enormous amount of of death, more than close to 800 death and many hundreds of injured people we see around the so-called safe non food distribution sites, but including to the very limited UN trucks, these mass casualty incidents. When I was there two and a half weeks ago, I saw the both the Shifa Hospital and Nasha Medical Complex. Just the same as in this first six months of this crisis, this horrific crisis, these hospitals were turned into one massive trauma ward. Besides that, they only had to focus on trauma patients, mainly young boys. and young boys and and men shot in the head, the neck, the abdomen, the chest, the the the knees, etc. Horrific uh horrific uh scenes. There's a way to stop this. The markets need to be flooded by food. You will stop the mesh casualty incident. The prices will go down and people will have access to food. There should be diverse foods. At the moment both WHO as UNICEF we struggling with the right supplies to assist those few nutrition rehabilitation centers which are still there. There's only two in the south in in in Naser and and and in Alexa and I think one in the north in patient friendly and Shifa they try to do this as well. So flooding the markets with food is the only way forward. over to you. >> Thank you very much Dr. Paperorn uh for providing this information. We will go to next question. It's Yuri Alev from Ria Nasty. Yuri, please go ahead. >> Yes, thank you Tariq and thank you for the briefing. My question is about Syria. We saw on Friday especially a lot of videos uh that seems have been filmed in hospital in Soueda where we see a lot of people who died. Obviously they were filmed by combatant people with weapons that were screaming in the hospital and were laughing at the bodies. So I just wanted to know if you saw this kind of videos and if you are trying to analyze it, if you know if their authenticity is real and if you have an idea of the number of people who died there because the difference between the official figures that are published by the government and the figures that are published by the opposition even if it is not in the country are totally different. So just to know if you have an idea on that. Thanks. >> Thank you very much Yuri. Maybe I will ask Dr. Aquazu to to start and maybe other colleagues can compliment. >> Yeah, thank you very much. The reports coming out of Syria are very disturbing. Uh we've heard them as well and seen those images. Uh our colleagues are in the process at the moment of verifying these reports and getting the details. As you know, we have a very robust uh process to confirm attacks on healthcare and that process is ongoing. So we should have details over the next few days. But it gives me an opportunity again to reiterate how what we say all the time. You know, we have to protect healthare all the time. It's not just saying that healthcare is not a target, but we have to actually protect healthcare even in conflict areas. And that's really the priority should be the priority. We've seen several healthcare facilities in Syria attacked. we already are struggling uh to keep up with providing care to citizens across um Alua. So the the key thing now is to verify these ones and to emphasize the messages that we've been given over the past few years in wherever there's a con conflict especially in Syria at the moment to prioritize the protection of healthcare in Syria and in other conflicts around the world. >> Thank you very much Dr. We will uh turn to our next question and we have Nina Larson from uh AFP. Nina, >> yes, thank you for taking question. Um I wanted to uh go back to um the hunger crisis in in Gaza. Um there were more than 100 organizations today who put out a a statement warning of mass starvation um in in Gaza. Would you agree with that assessment that there's mass starvation? And uh also when it comes to I mean I know there hasn't been an official famine declaration and that's per perhaps because of lacking access um to the necessary data to declare that but do you think that it would be appropriate to declare a famine uh soon? And finally, I just wanted to clarify uh on the number of children who have died um you mentioned uh the number since the start of the year at um from malnutrition at 21. But we have a doctor or had the director of Shea Hospital talking about 21 there in just 72 hours. So it would seem that that would be um quite uh underestimate of that number. So if you could sort of explain how you're looking at that and also the malnutrition percentage. Thank you. >> Um thank you. So maybe we can start with Dr. Peepercorn and then maybe uh Mr. Nabil can uh Tabal compliment from here. Dr. Peepercorn. >> Yes. Thank you very much. So first of all about uh you know chemicals etc. I think we have to be careful when we use that kind of terminology. I don't want to use it. What I uh what I can say and even coming there every other month and being there a couple of weeks ago and what I hear now as well from my constantly in contact with my team and and the staff uh that also among the general population there is an absolute liturgy. People cannot do their whatever they do their work. I mean I we've seen the reports from journalists that they cannot do their work anymore the the small amount of schooling what's going on health workers etc. So everyone everyone is looking for food and for for some diverse food and specifically then of course for the children and and and and the other ones. So this is uh I think it's a completely um it's an it's a completely I think it's all over Gaza and and and you even see that with our own staff. So we we kind of minimize you know what you can say is the UN better prepared for our own staff. We minimize we struggle we had struggled with an access to water. We had struggled with the access to to to food etc. when it and also I want to stress I didn't mention this when you ask about medication so our warehouse main warehouse was attacks and it is actually destroyed we we see it as and and I think we have reported about it and this was actually the really we fortunately we have three warehouses but this was by far the largest warehouse with substantial amount medical supplies in all areas in trauma in in antibiotics in anes an anesthesia um well you name it etc and we were very careful to distribute it as prioritize and constantly rep prioritize that as well because too little comes in so it's a major blow to the to the already struggling health sector on his knees but also for WH but as Dr. potato rightly said, "We are here to stay in the liver. We actually have plans to expand. We're looking at other warehouses, etc. We will make sure that happens." Going back to um malnutrition. So in July alone, you talked about more than 5,000 children, 5,100 children being admitted in this so-called malnutrition programs, the CHM programs, including 800 880 children with severe acute malnutrition. and and I already said that the number of children with acute malnutrition um under five in 2025 is close to 30,000. Those figures I mean they speak for themselves. We have reported that 21 children under five have died. The 21 uh children died in 2025. Now I just want to stress these numbers are most likely we talk about an under reporting with difficulties of course getting all this data etc. So we have to go in our destroyed warehouse there were also some food supplies I mean and and and focusing a few supplies left for those so-called malnutrition warts etc. So we will try to get them in um and other supplies as quickly as possible. But for the real the real thing of course it's insane that we are in the same cycle again and again that constantly there's a squeeze there's a little release there's a squeeze again on whatever form of aid and specifically on food. So not not just for food the markets need to be flooded. also want to speak up for wash and water of course medical supplies who has to be able to bring in a regular uh supply of medical supplies and essential medicines and underpinning this all we cannot raise this enough is fuel there's a lack of fuel without fuel everything stops hospital operations stopped health facility operations stop ICU ICU stop etc etc and and the same for wash. So I want to make a plea and the last plea even if we are still in a war and active hostilities as we are now with even the WHO guest house under attack. Humanitarians need to be able to operate. There needs to be a creation of humanitarian corridors. We need to be able to move around Gaza wherever there's a need. That's currently not happening. Last but not least, but that's almost like an broken record. Of course, a ceasefire is is is long overdue. Over to you. >> Thank you, Dr. Pepperorn. Uh Mr. Tabal, I'd like to add something. >> Yeah, thank you. Uh thank you for the question and just to also reiterate what Dr. Peppercorn said. So also regarding famine and declaration of famine. So there is uh as you know the IPC process and uh the F FRC the family review committee is usually triggered to look into uh into that. There are three criteria around food insecurity, around malnutrition and excess mortality. And those are areas where uh of course as you know we have been faced with challenges regarding uh data regarding access to uh to to information u and really um base uh this on um on u on robust uh data. But this is also a work in progress. uh but we've been looking at trends in terms of uh in terms of global acute malnutrition uh also in uh supporting um in terms of uh uh recording uh mortality indirect mortality for example and um and uh so this this has been an ongoing u an ongoing process um however we have been uh witnessing of course as Dr. Pepperon uh uh mentioned uh challenges with uh with supplies. Uh now we have uh uh we have we are faced with u for example uh um we we are also faced to stop blanket supplementary feeding program. Uh and this is due to lack of supplies as as mentioned. Um in the la latest IPC report and the one before last year they have been u uh really um warning about risk of uh risk of famine. However, the ceasefire has really helped in reversing a lot of the um a lot of the challenges that uh and the conditions that were uh conducive to uh to to famine. But now we're uh we're really uh faced with uh um I think uh the most this is the most challenging situation that we've been uh uh put into uh especially that uh the humanitarian space has been we have been operating in a constraint humanitarian space but now we've been really our ability to operate has been completely compromised and we have been uh uh supporting the health system and really preventing it from collapsing but now our ability to to continue support that is also being put at risk. Uh over. >> Thank you Saval. We will go to next question. We have Carrie Kalinan from Health Policy Watch. Carrie, >> thank you. Tariq, I wondered whether you could give more information about the WHO staff member who's been detained because the inference has been that the WHO is somehow being working with Hummer. So maybe if not his name, his position, whether you know where he's being held and whether you've had any direct contact with the Israeli authorities to secure his release. Thank you. >> Thank you. Not let Dr. Peppercorn, do you think we can we can share any details? >> No, I think I also don't the question very well, but let me u let me try to answer the question. So first of all talking about a national staff and caretaker from our office. So the question is of course we cannot speak on on behalf of IDF. What we do know that the staff is detained that the staff is a part of the WHO workforce and part of the UN and must be urgently released. We are extremely concerned for his well-being. over to you. >> Yeah, please. >> Yeah, thank you. So, we uh through our office um local office, we have asked for the um release of our uh colleague. Um and um I will also write to the foreign minister and escalate it to ask for the immediate release of our our our colleague. But we have already asked at the local through our local office. If there is no progress then my uh plan is to uh ask at the highest level uh possible. Um then on the details of the person of course initially four people were detained and three were released and uh one is still in in in detention. So I just would like to clarify but we prefer not to go into details about our uh colleague who is in uh detention. Uh then the other is on um mass starvation. Um and the statement I think today from some organizations as you know mass starvation means starvation of a large proportion of a population and a large proportion of a population of Gaza is starving. I don't know what you would call it other than m starvation and it's man-made and that's very clear and this is because of blockade and I have said it in my statement more than 80 days of blockade straight and then of course there is opening now but it's not enough it's just a trickle and people are starving imagine 126 people have died while trying to feed themselves if they're not starving Im imagining risking their lives. I don't know why we're even splitting hairs here. And not only 1,026 were killed while trying to feed themselves or find food for their family, thousands were also wounded. So if you put that, there is mass starvation. large proportion of the Gazan people are starving and we demand that there is full access and we demand that there is a ceasefire. We demand that there is a political solution uh to this uh problem, a lasting and we also demand the release of the hostage. As we have always said, peace is the best medicine. Thank you. >> Thank you, Dr. Tio. Senator Paper, I think we have a time for one last question. We have Carmen Bound from Politico. Carmen, >> thank you so much, T. Um, I just wanted to go back on the IHR um regulations um that Dr. Tedra spoke at the top about and um I was wondering if there's been any more outreach or communication with the US administration about that particular issue besides them saying um they're not going to adopt the changes to the regulation and the cooperation with the WHO in general at the higher level not the technical level. Thank you. >> Thank you Carmen. Maybe um Mrs. Steve Solomon can take this one. Thank you for the question. Um maybe I can provide some context um to help with answering that question. So in May 2024, the World Health Assembly uh the WHA adopted amendments to the International Health Regulations, the IHRs. These amendments will strengthen cooperation among countries when global health emergencies arise. That adoption by the World Health Assembly opened the door for a period of consideration by each country domestically. It's a step-by-step process. Countries consider it together at the World Health Assembly and then individually as a national matter and this ensures fidelity to the principle of national sovereignty. uh the deadline for countries rejecting these amendments which were adopted at the health assembly last year. The deadline was July 19th. That's last Saturday. That deadline has now passed and it's now clear that the 2024 IHR amendments will apply to the overwhelming majority of the 196 countries that are party to the IHRs. uh all the specifics will be released soon but at this time we can say uh that in addition to the US and this is the question you raised in addition to the US which made public its rejection of the IHR amendments less than a handful of others have substantively rejected them. So again, the 2024 amendments will apply to the overwhelming majority of all countries in the world. In some the status of the IHRS as a nearly universal instrument to help countries prevent the international spread of disease remains strong. Thank you. >> Thank you very much uh Mr. Solomon. This will bring us to the end of this press briefing. Journalists will get as always opening remarks that were made by Dr. Tedras as well as the audio and video file of the briefing. With this I give the floor to Dr. Terus for his closing remarks. >> Thank you. Thank you Tariq. Uh finally this Friday the 25th of July is World Drowning Prevention Day and every year hundreds of thousands of lives are lost to drowning. Most of these are preventable deaths often of children and young people in low and middle inome countries. WHO is working around the world to support countries, communities, and parents to take lowcost evidence-based measures to save lives and protect future generations. And finally, thank you to members of the press for joining us today and see you next time. Thank you.