Hi, we are here at the Warhole assembly. Come with me and find out what the communication team does at the assembly. Let's go. So, a video producer is basically making sure that we capture all the most important moments and highlights and share them with the world. So, we receive long clips of interventions from member states, from leadership, from participants at WHA and then we clip them into, you know, small bits, one minute that people may watch. Hi, my name is Na and I work with a small team and together we listen on all the topics that are related to emergencies. So, outbreaks, disasters, wars. We listen and we summarize it and we feed that into the press releases that go out every day so that you have a better understanding of what happened. Well, my role is uh to follow Dr. our director general's activities around the world health assembly that are many uh giving speeches meeting health ministers and other delegating officials and actually capturing this these moments in real time for our digital followers and audiences so that those who can't be with us can have information and updates on what's happening what's being decided. All right. So um we coordinate the plans, work with all the teams and make sure that information and communication goes out in a timely fashion. We're focusing very much on budget and funding this year. Well, he's coming in every day to make sure that the discussions at the World Health Assembly receive the visibility that they need on social media and that means covering the discussions that are in a plenary, making sure the press releases are going out on time. uh we're doing lives, we're doing vox pops and we're making sure that there's a maximum of visibility for who our role as a internal communications team is obviously to make sure that our staff are priority during this uh assembly and can follow everything that's happening all the highlights the cool accomplishments the difficult moments and through regular updates uh but most importantly to make sure that the staff behind the scenes are made visible and that we can appreciate the many different humans that are involved in making the assembly a success. What does a press officer do? Absolutely everything. Try to understand what's going on. Try to bring it into some sort of message that's going to work very much with the media. Understand sometimes that some of the things we put out are more for the record, more for history, more for remembering, and other things are really, really hot news.