Hello and welcome to Transforming WH, a series of videos where I talk to colleagues about the work we do in the World Health Organization and how we transform WH. And today I'm joined here in the studio by my very good colleague Amelia Latu Afuango Tu Lu who is the chief nursing officer of WH and welcome Amelia in the studio and thanks for joining. Thank you. First a little bit about yourself Amelia. Uh you grew up in Nualofa the uh capital of the kingdom of Tonga. Then you went to Australia to study nursing, returning back to the capital of of Tongka to work in Viola Hospital, which I understand is the main hospital, the tertiary hospital in the fairly small island nation of Tonga. You very quickly rose to leadership roles in Biola Hospital, managing the surgical ward, the psychiatric ward, etc. and then uh back to Australia and you did a PhD actually the first nurse in Tonka to do a PhD and then again returning to Tonka assuming even bigger leadership roles. You eventually became the chief nursing officer of your country and then a minister of health and you served as minister of health from 2019 onwards uh including uh leading the response to the coid9 pandemic in Tonga and then joining WHO first you served on the executive board and then assuming your current role as uh the second chief nursing off officer of the WHO. Is that a fair description of your very long and distinguished career, Amelia? Absolutely. Thank you very much. It's such an honor to be here with you. Thank you. Uh we have a couple of pictures. Uh I think we'll bring up the first picture of a young Amelia in high school. Um there we are. Uh and and I think this is sort of in high school. Then you graduated and went to to nursing school in Australia. The next picture was with your family here in Geneva. Um, your husband and your son uh in front of one of the beautiful old steamboats down here at Lake Geneva. You all dressed up as team Tonka, huh? I don't know what is the big sport in Tonka. I think rugby is big, isn't it? So that's Absolutely. And your husband and your sons, they play your daughter play rugby as well. Absolutely. Yes, they do. yourself also. Have you played rugby in in your younger days? No, not you. Not you. You you were busy nursing and and then be eventually becoming a leader. So, at a fairly young age, you became a leader in your country. What what what inspired you to go into leadership, Amelia? Wow. Um I think with nursing uh the chief nursing officer and the matron of the time um asked me to become the ward manager uh of the surgical ward at 21 years old. Um well I think I was inspired to help patients, families um to you know recover faster and uh have better health outcomes. Yeah. So I think I was inspired at a younger age uh to actually help um population and you grew up very close to Viola Hospital where you eventually ended up becoming a leader. I mean what inspired you to go into nursing? Wow. Um I used to visit the hospital. I see uh nurses there uh taking care of u vulnerable uh people and babies and children and uh my friends and I we were so impressed. We wanted to be like them, you know, taking care of these babies and and uh people in suffering. And then when you came back after graduating nursing school and to your country, I mean somebody must have seen the leadership potential in you. the matron, the chief nursing officer of the hospital and and then led you onto that leadership career. Yeah, I'm so thankful for nursing leaders um at the time for you know putting me at the deep end of the of the sea to um actually navigate uh you know leadership at 21 years old. And I remember, you know, I was significantly challenged when they told me because there are senior uh nurses there who graduate also from overseas uh much older than myself. And here I am going to lead uh expert nurses uh at the ward level but I I have been so happy with um the opportunity they gave me. Did that make the make you nervous at the very young age that you had to lead uh colleagues who are more senior than you? Actually no. I wasn't uh nervous at at all. I was very happy and feel very honored to be given the responsibility and I did ask them if they would be there to support me because uh I was very young and they said yes and they did. And you went very far. I mean you went far in your own country as not only chief nursing officer but also the first minister of health, a female minister of health in your country and then leading the response to COVID 19 in Tonka and you did very well in Tonka. Congratulations. I looked at the numbers of the vaccination rates in Tonka and they are even higher than in my own country. I was I also led the COVID 19 response. I was proud of our vaccination rates but you were even higher. Congratulations on that. And now you are basically the the head nurse of the world, Amelia. Does that make you nervous? Wow. Um I think partly uh it makes me nervous, but I think um I I was so honored. I wanted to see what ways I can uh help the profession uh to help the people of the world around the globe. Um so yeah I have to um uh learn a lot uh to better understand uh different countries uh different populations and their values. Uh yeah but uh yeah very honored. Mhm. And around the the world and I would say in most countries nurses actually occupy a lot of leadership roles in healthcare. I've seen it in my own countries. Um yet they are not always recognized as such. I mean sometimes the focus is on the medical doctors. They tend to steal the limelight. Um why is that? Wow. I come from a country where um there is focus on nursing and uh we have easy access to health ministers and health leaders and politicians. Um but of course throughout my career I would be uh the only female and younger at the policy table uh and majority are male and medical profession but that is changing that is certainly what I have seen in my own country and in many countries that balance is changing so there's a stronger empowerment of of nurses in also in leadership roles would you not agree Absolutely. Uh, of course, there is a need for more engagement and inclusion of nurses at uh, leadership level, at executive leadership level um, and also at management and most importantly at the frontline uh, point of care. that is uh very important to lead uh effectively for safe and quality care for the population. But no doubt uh it's very important to uh engage more nurses at the executive policy um table uh so that uh they can bring in their expertise. Bring in the realities of the impact of care on vulnerable communities, women, girls and uh uh disabilities. they can bring in that wealth of experience to the policy table so we can make uh decisions that are fair and at the best interest of the population because I believe the decisions must be based on the population must be centered on the population and what is good for them for the long term. Sure. and and as you say I mean often the nurses are actually the health care professionals who are closest to the population closest to the communities closest to the patients and the families so uh you have that um engagement and I would imagine also in especially like in your own country with many islands and remote areas where they don't see a medical doctor and you can't provide for a medical doctor but there are there's a nurse as the health care professional. So one of the things you have focused on in in both your leadership roles also in your current role but also in your political role as a minister is to improve on the professional standards of nurses. Um basically creating stronger frameworks for nurses to pursue academic careers um for post-graduate uh studies assuming uh also academic positions uh and and also assuming uh for instance nurse practitioner roles etc. and and I think you even as your time as minister in Tonka signed and introduced and signed the first act on professional standards for nurses and midwives. So congratulations on that. But why is that important? Why professional standards? Professional standards are very important because they are to protect the public. Um my PhD was on professional standards and that is a a primary responsibility of a profession to be accountable uh to the um to the public to the population. So professional standards um uh will ensure safe and quality care is consistently delivered to the population. And of course we have the education standards uh of all levels of education for nurses including advanced practice nurse and nurse practitioner. They are so important to ensure uh we build uh best and fit for purpose um nurses as some of these of these nurses deliver care at subnational rural and remote context on their own and they make big decisions sometimes uh lifesaving decisions. um on the spot where they work because they work in isolations. So uh professional stances are very important uh for the profession and it build um trust um of the population in the profession uh because it uh uh enhances safety, quality and better health outcomes for the population and uh it also uh enhances uh trust in the health system. You know, here are the nurses 24/7 uh uh every day uh you know, taking care of populations around the world and there are about 29 million nurses around the globe. Uh population rely on them uh for safe and quality care. And when this is consistently delivered to the population, it will enhance their trust in the local health systems. And then we are all connected local, regional and global organizations. So advancing professional standards I mean increasing the number of well-trained um nurses and advanced nurse practitioners who can undertake a larger um amount of clinical roles is basically a way of improving access to health uh around the world. That is basically what is what is in it for the country. So for instance, a nurse in a remote area with no easy access to medical doctors or hospitals, but the nurse practitioner can can even I mean diagnose and treat, prescribe medicines, even maybe do small surgical things and and then with the backup of of a health care system lo using e- health or tailor medicine perform and make accessible more health care uh for more people. That's basically the proposition, right? Absolutely. We have seen the clear gaps in small islands, developing states uh at subnational and rural contexts whereby uh we have to build capabilities to be able to deliver basic and essential care at remote contexts and nurse practitioners are best fit for those roles and they stay at the community. they understand the the values uh the uh culture the social uh and economic status of the population and they can better serve uh the population. One of the the things you have done in your current role as the chief nursing officer of of WHO is to launch the so-called 25 by 25 campaign which was basically uh working in 25 countries by the end of 2025 uh to increase uh training in basic emergency care. Um can you explain that campaign and why that was important? very important because evidence shows that in low and middle inome countries more than 50% of deaths uh can be taken care of uh with basic emergency care can be better managed with uh basic emergency care. So uh things are moving uh on a very uh good pace uh with the uh global partnership uh together with uh more than 20 countries uh with acute care action network. uh we also have a a very generous donor who is supporting us with uh training kids uh that we have tested in some of the African countries. So there is a building of momentum and very recently uh in the Pacific uh there is BEC roll out in Papua New Guinea and a training of the trainers uh to be held in uh June this year with engagement of eight countries adding to the 20 countries that uh our emergency care team here in HQ who is leading the work on BEC uh around the world and uh we also partner with the academy WH Academy uh who offers an a hybrid course. So instead of uh clinicians um taking 5 days out from clinical practice to undertake the course now they can do three days online with the academy and two days handson with the training kids. So it's amazing work building um uh emergency uh care within the health system, building resilient health system um and universal health coverage to basic uh emergency care uh from 2025 up to 2030 and hopefully towards the future that this work will continue. Yeah. So it sounds like that campaign has certainly been successful. Uh so there's a shortage of health care personnel around the world and and also especially a shortage of nurses. Um if we look a little bit at the map, can we have the next photo please? uh we have actually here on the map mapped the uh uh proportion of nurses per per population around the world and and as you can see from that map I mean excluding North America, Western Europe and Australia, New Zealand, there's a shortage of nurses and especially I mean the more yellow and green it is, the bigger the shortage or the lower the number of nurses per per population. uh this is very much in in subsaharan Africa and many parts of Asia and also central America. Uh this is even I mean the shortage of healthcare personnel and the shortage for nurses have been described as a public health crisis also because we have an aging population with more disease. So there's a stronger demand for health care professionals but a shortage of of nurses. And one of the things that is exceedingly highlighted is the fact that nurses from many countries in the global south are recruited all almost from the day they graduate from nursing schools. they are recruited for positions in North America, Western Europe, Australia, some of the other countries of the Gulf uh who have a shortage and then they basically leave their countries which is sort of increasing the inequality of health because then they they are missing in their countries of origin. So can you recognize that as a public health crisis? Absolutely. Um global inequity should concern all of us um both destination and source countries. Uh so this is a a matter that uh we must uh seriously come together uh especially the source country where there is impact on right to health uh from the population and in particular the vulnerable population. Uh we need to come together to clearly see the impact on population. uh because we need to build the trust of those population in us um and health organizations um and uh also to see ways uh long-term strategies of supporting um education uh and supporting uh strengthening of health systems uh at the source country where the impact is uh is very real uh at the population level uh in the wards uh at subnational and rural context. When this occurred, I was reflecting on the um adequate uh health workforce for for the subnational and the rural and remote islands. It has been long-term uh challenges and with this um international recruitment that is not uh delivered according to ethical principles and principles of fairness and transparency and the people who are affected at the heart of the decision making and recruiters uh international recruiters who may not be taking on these princip principles. It's very challenging. It's very challenging and it's sort of reinforcing many of the inequalities that is already there. So there's a a shift from of for instance skilled nurses from rural areas. They go to the capitals of the countries in the low and middle inome countries and then the best skilled nurses are then recruited even off uh the capitals and the big hospitals in the low and middle inome countries they're recruited to work in the high inome countries. So, so what we just talked about previously about increasing the professional skills and the professional standards of the nursing profession, then maybe the country who's doing that is actually not benefiting because the most skilled nurses are attracted to high-income countries. So that that sounds very um uh very bad actually in the current context. But what can we do about it? You mentioned the professional standards. WHO has professional standards. How can we reinforce them? Mhm. A as I said uh destination and source countries must come together to have an equal uh dialogue um on on the subject matter on the issues and the source countries and particularly low and middle inome countries and small islands developing states uh would you would need to explain very clearly the impact on right to health at the population and communities level but also equally important uh that uh there should also be local leadership. Uh there should be uh fair uh working conditions and fair salary um at the local context uh to retain nurses uh for the long term uh to work uh at at country level and of course all countries of the world um highincome countries and all the 194 member states uh should be able to plan uh for their own health workforce uh to be able to uh train adequate uh nurses uh to deliver care for their own population. So basically uh nurses and other health care professionals, midwives, doctors etc. uh should serve the communities where they came from. That is basically the proposition. Just like you did yourself. I mean even though you had to go to a different country to train, you came back to your community and and served it. But but what you're saying Amelia is basically that then we need to strengthen also the working conditions uh educational possibilities, career opportunities for nurses in their countries. Absolutely. Absolutely. So important. Uh uh for me uh I must work first. I must give back first to my community uh before uh seeking um other opportunities outside of Tonga. So that's my primary responsibility and accountability for the population of Tonga uh before uh moving out. But of course there are multiple uh factors that needs uh to be looked at uh uh in the country to in order to uh retain uh these expert nurses uh whom who are moving out of the countries where Tonga and countries of the world have invested for many years. uh you're looking at uh more than 10 years um of expertise uh that cannot be built you know quickly. Yeah. Exactly. So it will take time to build uh uh such expertise uh and competencies to care for the population. So that is why we must all come together as global health um uh organizations uh and look uh at the situation with absolute clarity and equity is um non-negotiable. I agree. Yeah. So there's currently a crisis of global health uh crisis of of withdrawal uh of funding and also support for WH and many other global health entities from the United States and others and and this is a very big has been a very big uh donor and and this is affecting not only WHO but many other multilateral organization but also very very many health programs in the countries. Do you see this affecting nursing and what we've just discussed as well? Wow. Despite the current situation, I am very hopeful because in 2021, the member states uh the 194 member states um endorse uh a resolution to strengthen nursing and midway free uh which means investments in jobs. um service delivery, education and leadership. So I am hopeful that the member states will continue to invest in WH um and also with uh investment in nursing. So there's still a a very big role for WHO and multilateralism in the current crisis. Absolutely. uh very very important uh that WH continue uh global advocacy uh for nursing and midwifrey because uh they are a big part for advancing universal health coverage advancing equity and gender equality for everyone around the world and especially the vulnerable population. Thank you very much Amelia and thank you very much for for joining me here in the studio and thank you very much colleagues for watching uh this edition of uh transforming wh and do stay tuned on this channel for upcoming episodes.