One in three women experiences violence from her husband or partner. This represents more than 800 million women worldwide. These women can feel trapped and frightened; their lives are often restricted. Those who consider leaving fear being left without resources or losing their child. Over time, their confidence and the idea of ​​a life without violence become a distant memory. Abuse can lead to physical injuries as well as serious physical and mental health problems, and in some cases, even death. Many women contract sexually transmitted infections or have unwanted pregnancies. While pregnant, they are at greater risk of miscarriage, giving birth to a premature or low-birth-weight baby, and may suffer from depression, anxiety, other mental health problems, or develop alcohol and drug addiction. It can be difficult to know who to trust and who to turn to, but there is a place they can go. A visit to a local clinic is often one of the few opportunities they have to go out on their own, and it is important for doctors and nurses to ensure that this is not a missed opportunity. When doctors, nurses, and midwives listen with compassion, survivors are more willing to share their stories. When they ask the right questions, they can uncover what is really happening and challenge cultural attitudes such as the idea that it is acceptable for a husband to beat his wife. They can reassure women that it is not their fault and work with them to help keep them safe and, where appropriate, connect them with other services that can provide shelter, psychological support, legal services, and financial assistance. More women can move towards a life free from violence when changes are implemented across the healthcare system and other systems. Changes such as private consultation rooms, training to enable doctors and nurses to better meet women's needs, and raising awareness about the harmful consequences of violence on women and children and how to prevent it, make these changes. Implementing these changes fosters a culture where violence is unacceptable and where women have the courage to speak out. Imagine if this could happen to each of her 800 million fans.