Excellent, chiseled, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, to you, the act, or to say what goes to know, it is for me. I would like to say that it is a great honor for me to be here before your august assembly to present my candidacy for the position of Director-General of the World Health Organization. My professional life has quickly focused on two main areas: medicine and politics. A medical field. In the medical field, my passion is public health. From the beginning, I am an epidemiologist, so I work on cardiovascular risk factors, particularly cholesterol levels. This has allowed me to become a professor of public health at the University of Paris, as well as a visiting professor at the Harvard School of Public Health in Boston. You have a knack for politics. I have evolved at the political level, irresponsibly, and I have held numerous positions and have many responsibilities, such as first at the local level, at the municipal level, the local life hub, which I really like, the local level because it allows us to work concretely on the ground.  I was mayor of Lourdes and then mayor of Toulouse, one of the largest cities in France. I was in charge of ten thousand civil servants and managed an annual budget of one billion dollars at the national level. I was Minister of Health twice, but the last time in 2004, although it had taken shape, I carried out a crucial reform: the reform of the French health insurance system. I ensured savings representing more than seven billion euros per year. I implemented ten reforms without causing any strikes, which, as you know, is quite difficult in my country. Internationally, I was Minister of Foreign Affairs between 2005 and 2007. During this period, I created two things: firstly, the Diplomacy and Health group to emphasize the importance of health in global politics; secondly, I created United Humanity.  This is an international organization that operates under the auspices of the WHO. It is the first independent innovative financing laboratory for ideas, said the date and period. The innovative idea at that time was to add a dollar or a euro and deduct a euro per plane ticket. It's painless. It was about making travelers pay an extra dollar. With this money, I managed to convince a dozen countries around the world to participate. We raised over $2.5 billion thanks to this measure, and we thus reduced the price of drug treatments and HIV testing: for antiretrovirals by 80%, for children by 60%, for antimalarial treatments and tuberculosis testing. The beginning of your presentation on because and girls of goals, I'm talking about these at the beginning of my presentation because I believe that the EU budget needs predictable and additional sources of funding. Innovative hunting, innovative financing allows it to tilt at the international level.  Eyeworks, the host, Wild and Unitaid, at the international level, I have always worked extensively with the United Nations. I was appointed Under-Secretary-General in 2008 and I am a Special Adviser to the Secretary-General on Innovative Financing for Development. Excellent, ladies and gentlemen, this is my first speech to you, Excellencies. Ladies and gentlemen, this is my first speech before you, and I would like to thank you for allowing me to present my vision to you, both of you, WHO, in particular my strategy to renew the leadership that the MS can demonstrate in matters of public health. Every guy, ten vigilantes, reality, yes, for this vision to materialize, we need to strengthen the MS internally but also externally at a time when crisis, health crises, a new health crisis threatens the world, the international community more than ever. Our summers are absolutely critical. Winnie must act collectively and effectively with authority, and we need the enlightened leadership of the WHO. It is more than ever at the world level, on my phone, at the global level, double after me, this double, the WHO is united, must to be the body that defines health as a political priority, not only as a priority with Nicole Priori, but also as a political priority because it is of course a human right, but also because it is perhaps the best possible investment in the economic development of all ten possible countries. It is a matter of making this a reality, and to do so, we must place absolute trust in EMS, and we know member states, that is to say, you, ladies and gentlemen, life dance, we have to. And to improve this trust, we must implement the 3Rs: reaction, reform, and results. The first priority will be responsiveness. It will concern the reaction. It was you who adopted Emergency Power, the health emergency management program, at the last World Health Assembly. We must implement it now, and quickly. To do this, three actions are necessary: ​​secure, secure, secure, secure, long-term and reliable funding. 193 countries have adopted this program.  They have to contribute; these countries must contribute to the program according to their capacities, otherwise the WHO will have to work not only with member states but also with major donors like the World Bank, with the IMF, with other relevant partners, to arrive at harmonized coordinates for this program and financing, but also to avoid the proliferation of funding. This is important. The second action that will have to be undertaken is to double the watch on leadership. It is about providing the WHO with the means to be reactive, and to achieve this, we must combine the two functions of the WHO: the function that concerns preparedness and the function that concerns response to emergencies. We must combine these two functions. So we have to set up an independent advisory committee, and it is this committee that will have to examine the entire decision-making process within the WHO and all the responses that are made in the event of disease outbreaks. Finally, it is important if we want to have informed leadership of the...  The WHO's role in responding to emergencies requires the involvement of other partners. First, as soon as UN agencies, particularly OCHA, are involved, we need to ask OCHA to implement a strong partnership within which information-sharing mechanisms are established. We also need to establish partnerships with NGOs. During the last Ebola crisis, we saw the importance of NGOs, especially Doctors Without Borders. When an outbreak occurs, the WHO's power to federate must play a crucial role. The WHO must be able to bring together governments, industry, donors, and researchers so that they all contribute to accelerating the development of urgently needed drugs. The last action to be taken to improve the WHO's response capacity is to improve its responsiveness.  My priority is supporting the country on the ground. Lucho must have strong frontline capacity. The MS is very capable of acting on the ground at the national and regional levels. The center said this will include decentralizing the staff budget to the regions and countries that are most vulnerable. But what I propose to improve responsiveness is that the MS, secondly, wants to double or be hot. Secondly, the MS, you must demonstrate clear responsibility and a very clear hierarchical path between them: the country offices, the Director-General, and the Directors-General. We also need to focus on the global policy agenda, the GP GW, in depth. Yano, if we want to build accountability and credibility, first of all, the MS, if we want to strengthen the credibility and accountability of the WHO, well, we will have to establish just an effective, modern human resources system. They must include staff members from the waters, particularly internationally recognized experts who are capable of being mobilized and deployed to countries that need this expertise. Secondly, we have to set up the second thing.  We need to establish a significant audit function within the WHO. As such, we are aware of the recommendations that have been made regarding the auditing of financial statements. These must be implemented quickly and effectively. Thirdly, it resonates with Nick, the most important third. Yesterday, the results, but I believe that what was most important to do, but also most difficult, is to always demonstrate the effectiveness that the WHO can demonstrate. It is gentle, and you, then, certainly the MS cannot do everything, it must establish priorities. So we have to make the watch your choice. It must therefore make a choice, a choice that will be informed by the member states. We need to establish priorities because, for example, it costs to speak, but it is an important comparative advantage in one activity rather than another. Priority must be given. We must prioritize or remove priorities more actively and explain why because we want to have better results, and we need to move from a budgetary approach to an accountability approach. Twenty-eight and twenty were strong in the 2018-2019 budget, I believe.  that we will need to be more transparent and little by little we should be able to establish a link between funding and results, a clear link. We cannot speak about the efficiency of the WHO if we do n't talk about partnerships with different actors. The WHO, others, Gavi for example, have the same objective: to improve public health outcomes. But the Global Fund and Gavi have demonstrated a great deal of efficiency in modernizing their human resources; they have modernized their organizations and they have a lot of funding. One of them has to forget to show that there is no need to find out in our WHO. The deceased asset must define new partnerships with all these different actors. For me, this is essential. Know if you accept, I'm going to switch. So, if you accept, I would now like to switch to French because I believe that the WHO must also defend linguistic diversity. I will therefore now talk about some priorities that are very important to me: strengthening health systems, non-communicable diseases, and universal access.  Regarding medications and antimicrobial resistance, all that in 15 minutes I think, but first, strengthening health systems is the most important thing for the WHO. That is to say, we must remember the commitments made at Alma-Ata forty years ago: health for all. Therefore, we must strengthen primary and community health systems to implement universal health coverage. There are tens of millions of poor people who do not have access to midwives, doctors, nurses, or qualified healthcare professionals. Therefore, to reduce infant and maternal mortality, to allow the most vulnerable populations to receive care—women, children, people living with HIV/AIDS, people with mental illnesses, people awaiting palliative care—this is the only solution. Secondly, the WHO must be the organization that demands the integration—and I mean the integration—of public health into health systems. For me, public health is the queen of medical specialties, and therefore we must revalue public health workers in terms of salaries and training. Thirdly, the key element is that if we want to strengthen health systems, you know, I've made almost 95 visits to countries, I've met with many health ministers, and I know that we need to help them increase their budgets because we can't strengthen health systems without increased budgets. We also need to help them with innovative financing. In fact, I will create a task force within the department on innovative financing within the organization to help countries and also to help the WHO budget. Finally, fourthly, I can't finish on strengthening health systems without saying that we need a global effort to improve the health of migrants and refugees. We can't leave countries receiving tens of thousands of refugees alone without global aid. We need to prevent epidemics, provide vaccinations, treat malignant diseases in conflict zones, and target certain areas. Finally, one of the major public health problems will be violence against women and children. They will recognize that this is a major public health issue, and for that, we also need to put healthcare workers in place.  A specialized public body is needed to prevent and respond to violations of human rights. Finally, we must encourage countries to implement information systems because data collection is so fundamental to epidemiology. Without data collection, there can be no epidemics. Now we move on to non-communicable diseases. Ouch, a paradox: on the one hand, these are the diseases that kill the most people, particularly 14 million people under 70 each year. On the other hand, there is no political will. There is a glimmer of political will, but not really any political will. So first, the WHO must reiterate the commitments already made. I'm thinking of the Global Plan Actions that you already put in place for Lehman Brothers. I'm also thinking of the UN inter-agency task force on non-communicable diseases. Secondly, and this is where it seems to me that the Ministry of Health has played a political role, we must understand that health...  It's not just the ministries of health; health is much broader. The health agenda is enormous, so we need to be able to talk to the government, we need to be able to talk to industry, we need to be able to talk to patient associations, we need to talk to NGOs, and let me tell you that when we talk about industry, industry has a major influence on non-communicable diseases. I'll talk about that again later. So we need to establish standards. The only standards held by this organization are legitimate because it's the normative body. Well, for salt, for sugar, for grain, for fats, there are no identical standards in all countries of the world. Tokaï has a political role to play, in fact, on communicable diseases. We also need to talk about public health, prevention, and health education. Health promotion leads to screening, screening leads to early diagnosis of 9-10% of cases. Early diagnosis leads to early detection, and therefore prevention is crucial. Risk factors, tobacco, are required in all countries of the world. Finally,  This convention, which dates back more than ten years, but also the agreement signed by the WHO, is on tobacco trafficking. Then we must fight, perhaps also, against the agri-food industry regarding sugar and salt. Not a single person in this house should have a conflict of interest with industry, not one. We must also, if we want to fight hypertension, if we want to fight childhood obesity, if we want to fight diabetes, high blood pressure, cardiovascular diseases, and cancer, have this preventative work here. I conclude with universal access to medicines. Universal access to medicines: I spent fifteen years of my life on this. I lowered the price of medicines—I wanted to reduce it by 10%—only by playing on what we call market dynamics. So, firstly, if you want to make all the newest medicines affordable, you have to play on the markets, on Secondly, you have to ask pharmaceutical companies to keep the old medicines effective because sometimes they work. They may have been bought, sometimes in rich countries, but they work very well, so we must continue to produce and distribute them. And finally  In the third round, when medications aren't profitable, well, then we need to find a system to still be able to treat tropical diseases, forget about orphan diseases, rare diseases, and well, the WHO must have a platform here in this house in Geneva to encourage pharmaceutical companies to develop medications that aren't profitable. Ahmed is guaranteed to buy, find solutions. Last point, the fight against a small microbiological resistance. The O'Neal Order has done a magnificent report, but it will be very, very difficult to implement. It's a major issue; there's too much demand and not enough supply, too much demand for prescriptions, bad prescriptions. There are many countries where you can buy antibiotics without a prescription, so the only solution I see is a large global campaign. It's not a sure thing, but Zoé, why not in this house? Because once again, health goes beyond disease problems, so we need a global campaign that involves human medicine, veterinary medicine, livestock, agriculture, commerce, finance, consumers, and  The environment is the only solution if we want to fight against constraints and micro-dose deficiency. Every time we eat meat or fish, we ingest antibiotics. Secondly, regarding supply, for 20 years the pharmaceutical industry hasn't been making antibiotics. Why? Because they don't make money. So, I'm returning to the earlier problems with essential medicines. In this house, a platform is necessary. We obviously need to establish this global innovation fund, and the WHO is to play a major role in innovation. We have done this with innovative financing called the Medicines Patent Pool, the patent community. We must invent, with the pharmaceutical industry, with researchers, with governments, with public research, all these new medicines that we lack today. We must do this with people who know. The World Bank has already worked on this. We have, we must work with United.  Medicine spending with Find, with no, these are people who know this inside and out, and I would like to congratulate the director and the teams working on a half-turn bus resistance project because it's truly an example of remarkable work being done by this organization. It's not like I have two minutes left, Jean, I have two minutes left, so I have... I would just like to finish by telling you that for me, this is an extremely important step because I think the WHO is what legitimacy is, which has a universal character in the field of health. The WHO is sometimes attacked, so we have to be very careful because if we don't make the reforms I talked about at the beginning, and you've already started a lot because the ELF and Mayor of Annecy, this program is already a small revolution with lines of authority and different accounting responsibilities, so you've started, but it's important to go further. Probably, I believe, that's the job of the future Director General: perhaps to do fewer flashy things but to really be in the thick of it, as they say, to regain this major credibility because otherwise, I will...  I'll tell you what's going to happen, and I've spoken with some member states, including the biggest donors. They're going to reduce their contributions until a critical point. Everyone criticizes it, and there's a major credibility problem there. I love the World Health Organization so much, just like you, otherwise you wouldn't be here. I think we need to take steps, and there's going to be increasing fragmentation. The Global Fund is an example, Gavi is an example, StopTibi is an example, Roll Back Malaria is an example, Unis-Tête is an example of that. So we have to fight to make this organization the central place where we talk about health in the broadest sense. We can't end a presentation on the World Health Organization without thinking about the billions of people who don't have the same access to healthcare as the wealthiest. That's the topic we're facing. We were talking about cancer earlier. Yesterday, I gave a presentation at the World Cancer Congress. There were many minutes dedicated to health. How  Tomorrow we will be able to pay for chemotherapy and individualized treatments in the poorest countries. This is a major issue, which is why we must implement this innovation, whether in terms of funding or standards. We must therefore invent innovative financing methods that allow us to have more money, and we must also perhaps make better use of this money. Of course, every dollar and every euro in this house is perfectly spent, and sometimes when we see that we can, for example, through licensing while retaining intellectual property rights with pharmaceutical companies, as we can do with generic manufacturers, we can make a lot of money simply by reducing the price of medications for the poorest countries. So I think of these people; it has been my life. I have dedicated the last 15 years of my life to the country and its poorest populations. Thank you.