Every year, the World Health Organization chooses a health theme to highlight in its World Health Day celebrations. This year, we have chosen food safety as the theme, adopting the slogan " From farm to fork: Keep food safe." Food safety is a fundamental pillar of each of our individual health and the cornerstone of sustainable life. Thanks to it, we all enjoy good health. Unsafe food leads to a large number of diseases and hinders economic and social development. It strains healthcare systems and damages the tourism and trade sectors. It is known that unsafe food is linked to more than 200 different diseases, ranging from communicable diseases such as cholera and other diarrheal diseases to a range of non-communicable diseases, including various types of cancer. It is estimated that foodborne and waterborne diseases claim the lives of two million people annually, a large number of whom are children. For these reasons  The World Health Organization dedicated World Health Day 2015 to highlighting food safety. Public health organizations can contribute to improving and promoting food safety, and addressing food safety is not limited to the health sector alone. Public health measures must be a focus for governments in member states of the region and involve joint actions among various stakeholders in civil society and the business community. Farmers, food manufacturers, food retailers, and consumers should work together with the health sector and governments to understand the importance of their different roles, which requires strong coordination among them. Everyone wants safe food, yet one study indicates that only 28% of individuals in one part of this region wash their hands with soap and water after using the toilet. Furthermore, many people do not consult a doctor when they suffer from diarrhea, and conversely, doctors often do not recommend them for treatment. Laboratory tests to identify the pathogen, and even when laboratory analysis is conducted and the pathogen is identified, it is possible that this result will not be reported to the national surveillance system. We must all acknowledge that personal hygiene in all situations, including food consumption and preparation, is an issue that must be given the utmost attention, whether at home, at school, at work, or anywhere else. We want safe food. Governments have agreed, under the International Health Regulations, to establish the necessary national core capacities to deal with events of international importance related to food safety. In other words, governments have committed themselves to establishing, operating, and maintaining well-functioning food safety systems. These systems must encompass the responsibilities of all relevant ministries and sectors within the food chain, from farm to fork. However, we see fragmentation, underfunding, and a lack of human resources plaguing food safety systems in other countries, including the 22 member countries of the region. Only five countries have reported fully meeting the basic capacity requirements of the International Health Regulations regarding food safety. I am absolutely certain that reforming food safety systems and revising and updating food regulations should be at the top of the public health agenda in all Member States. Therefore, I call upon the Ministers of Health, Ministers of Agriculture, and their colleagues in other relevant ministries to meet to discuss the state of food safety in their countries and to take action where necessary. I recognize that this is not an easy task, and some even see food safety as a test of governments' credibility in their ability to foster intersectoral dialogue and inter- ministerial coordination, particularly between the health, agriculture, and trade sectors. However, I emphasize here that the health sector alone is capable of taking the lead in this particular endeavor. Therefore, we at the World Health Organization hope that Member States will fully meet the basic requirements regarding food safety, which are the requirements that  International health regulations mandate these measures, and countries then proceed with their efforts to protect the health of their populations. The World Health Organization is always ready to work with member states that may need support to participate in these initiatives. In the Eastern Mediterranean Region, we have countries that rely almost entirely on imported food to meet the needs of their populations, and there are other countries whose economies depend heavily on their ability to meet international standards and thus access foreign markets to export their food products. In both cases, food safety can only be guaranteed through cooperation between countries of origin and countries where the food is consumed. Consumers expect their food to be safe regardless of its origin, and we all need safe food to maintain our health. In conclusion, let us raise the slogan of this World Health Day: From farm to fork, keep food safe. Thank you.