Foodborne illnesses are on the rise worldwide. 200,000 people die each year from diarrhea caused by consuming contaminated water or food. Among them, more than four out of five are children. Food preparation is too often ignored. Food can be contaminated at any time during production, processing, transport, storage, and preparation. Education on the basic principles of safe food handling is therefore essential to preventing foodborne illnesses. WHO [ Music] The World Health Organization has developed a global message: the C keys to safer food: make clean habits; separate raw and cooked foods; cook food thoroughly; keep food at the right temperature; use safe water and products. The WHO has recently developed C new keys to growing safer fruits and vegetables: practice good personal hygiene; protect fields from animal excrement; use treated waste; assess and manage the risks associated with irrigation water; keep Clean and dry storage tools and locations, and the adoption of these simple rules will significantly improve general hygiene behaviors. The WHO is actively working to promote its message, for example in Senegal, with the support of Professor Colseek, Minister of Health in Senegal. In 2012, WHO representatives organized a first training workshop to launch a national awareness plan. The five keys to safer food served as an introduction to this training workshop, which brought together 40 women community leaders. These five keys can be used not only in peacetime, in normal times, to protect populations, but also in times of disaster or even epidemic. These five keys can be used to prevent the spread of such diseases. The training included practical exercises, such as a visit to the vegetable garden of the Fan Hospital, created to provide nutrient-rich food for AIDS patients. Aware of the efforts needed to diversify diets and consume more fruits and vegetables, the women received, through this training, all the tools to encourage safe fruit and vegetable cultivation. The Ministry  We warmly welcomed this training; these women are already the target of this ministry. First, we reiterate that women play a vital role. We must also promote handwashing. The discussions were productive; they created a national alliance to promote food safety and began developing a national action plan. Food contamination doesn't depend solely on preparation; it's a chain we must follow from planting to serving. The training also allowed us to become aware of certain common practices in our communities and practices that were... The training included teaching communication techniques to optimize the dissemination of messages in all communities of Senegal. Our prospects are enormous; our prospects are limitless because we have just grasped the key concepts. The first thing we will do is reach out to these people. We are very happy to support this program. Food safety is an important issue in the United States, as in Senegal and around the world. In every country, women play a vital role in improving the health of communities and passing on safe behaviors to future generations to avoid getting sick.  Regarding food, the WHO therefore encourages countries to train women to empower them to contribute more actively to sustainable development