On May 11, 2017, the Democratic Republic of Congo announced that it was facing an Ebola outbreak in the far north of the country, in the Baélé province. The epicenter of the outbreak was in the heart of the equatorial forest, more than 1,400 km from the capital, Kinshasa. Enormous challenges had to be overcome in just a few weeks, yet the last case had been identified, and on July 2, at the end of the mandatory monitoring period, the Congolese authorities declared the end of the epidemic. The Democratic Republic of Congo has a long history with the Ebola virus; it was first detected in 1976. This latest epidemic was the eighth that the Ministry of Health had to confront. Many people lost their lives, and many others became ill but survived. Thanks to the expertise and training acquired during previous epidemics, the country was able to end this threat in record time with the support of the WHO and other partners. Courses on Ebola management are being offered.  In other countries, we really need to demonstrate our expertise and effectiveness. As soon as the alert was raised in early May, when people were dying from an unknown illness with symptoms resembling Ebola, Congolese health authorities organized the transport of blood samples to Kinshasa, the capital. Rapid tests to detect the virus were carried out in laboratories well-equipped to detect hemorrhagic fevers, including Ebola. As soon as the virus was detected, the government immediately declared an epidemic. National emergency response mechanisms were activated, and response teams arrived on the ground shortly thereafter. Despite the lack of infrastructure in the affected area— roads, electricity, and telecommunications—an emergency response center was quickly established on the site of a former convent. The response team met twice a day to plan their work. Coordination was led by the Ministry of Health with the support of partners both on the ground and in the air to send teams and supplies, including generators, medicines, and equipment.  Personal protective equipment and fuel had to be airlifted to more effectively combat this deadly virus. Suspected cases of Ebola were scattered across areas of equatorial forest inaccessible to vehicles. Health teams had to travel by motorcycle on narrow roads, crossing improbable bridges over rivers to monitor and treat the sick in collaboration with village chiefs. The WHO coordinated teams of local volunteers to rebuild more than 50 km of road and bridges to reach Ambois, one of the villages most affected by the epidemic. Even with a small number of confirmed or suspected Ebola cases, it is necessary to identify and monitor hundreds of people who have had contact with these patients. This allows verification that the transmission of the virus has been interrupted. Following up on these contacts requires managing a vast amount of information; for example, the results of blood tests carried out on suspected cases were recorded on tracking lists at the emergency response center. Experts worked tirelessly to capture information as quickly as possible, analyze it, and use it to adapt their response.  The response: one of the first flights to the affected communities brought mobile laboratories so that blood samples from suspected cases could be tested within hours. When samples are shipped long distances for diagnosis, it can delay treatment for patients by several days or even weeks due to the lack of hospitals and clinics. Ebola treatment centers were quickly established by partners such as Doctors Without Borders; however, some patients living in forest villages had to be treated within their communities. This Congolese team came to visit patients who could not be transported to an Ebola treatment center because the roads were simply impassable. Raising awareness about Ebola prevention is an important part of the fight against the epidemic. Trained health workers and volunteers go door-to-door, visit markets and other public places to inform people on how to protect themselves from the virus and prevent its spread within the community. Infection prevention and control are also essential; health workers must follow protocols.  Strict adherence to proper procedures when putting on and taking off personal protective equipment, regular handwashing, and the use of chlorinated water have become the daily routine for communities affected by Ebola. Although the end of this epidemic has been declared, the country remains on alert to identify any new cases. The Democratic Republic of Congo is strengthening its health services and continuing to educate communities on how to better contain future epidemics.