I am a public health researcher, and influenza is my specialty. We don't often perceive the flu as a deadly disease, but it can be catastrophic. In 1918, at the end of the First World War, a deadly flea claimed between 40 and 50 million lives. This pandemic was called the Spanish flu because it was thought at the time that it had started in Spain before spreading to the entire world. Highly contagious, the flu spreads rapidly from person to person. When someone has infected others or sneezes, the virus settles on surfaces and can then infect others. From 1918 to 1920, the world had to confront this pandemic with limited public health resources. There have been other flu pandemics in the 20th and early 21st centuries. It remains a serious threat today. In April 2009, a new flu virus appeared in Mexico, while experts had predicted that the next pandemic would come from Asia, even though  Science today has a better understanding of influenza viruses. They are constantly evolving and mutating, and we still don't know where or when the next pandemic will appear, nor which virus will be responsible. The virus that appeared in Mexico was an influenza A strain, subtype H1N1, the same subtype as the Spanish flu 90 years earlier. It likely passed from the port to humans before spreading globally through human-to-human transmission. A year and a half later, the World Health Organization declared the end of this H1N1 virus pandemic, but this event showed that an influenza pandemic can start at any time, anywhere in the world. This H1N1 virus killed approximately 200,000 people, often young people or individuals not previously considered at risk. Influenza is a major public health problem that affects millions of people each year and results in a high burden of illness, hospitalizations, and deaths. In addition to the risk of a pandemic, seasonal influenza epidemics represent a threat throughout the year, particularly during the colder seasons in the hemispheres.  North and South, and in all seasons in tropical zones, it causes 3 to 5 million cases of serious illness and between 250,000 and 500,000 deaths each year. So, during peak epidemics, it's true that there are days when we really see a frequent request for flu at the counter. It can happen, yes, sometimes a patient at the clinic presents with flu-like symptoms. It can happen very early in the season, in November or December. Then sometimes there's no flu at all during the season, and it arrives in February or March. It really takes years to prevent the virus from spreading. Everyone must cover their mouth or nose when they cough or sneeze and wash their hands properly. The flu is indeed transmitted mainly through the air, which is the fastest mode of transmission. Every time an infected person coughs or sneezes, thousands of droplets are released into the environment. Even the smallest of these droplets can contain viruses. These droplets can penetrate... The body of healthy individuals enters the body through the mouth and nose by coming into contact with the respiratory mucous membranes. A protein on the surface of the virus can bind to a receptor molecule on the surface of a healthy cell. Once the virus is attached to the cell, it enters it within seconds and takes control, repeating thousands of times. The attacked cell weakens and then dies. New viruses are then released, infecting neighboring cells or returning to the airways. The destruction of cells causes inflammation and weakening of the mucous membranes. Other pathogens can then more easily enter the body, causing potentially fatal infections such as pneumonia. Tissue inflammation leads to coughing or sneezing. Considerable quantities of viruses are thus released into the environment with a risk of infection, which contributes to the spread. The flu is characterized by a high fever, cough, headaches, muscle and joint pain, a severe feeling of malaise, sore throat, and runny nose. For healthy people, these symptoms disappear.  Generally, in one to two weeks without medical treatment, science has not been able to determine why the disease is mild in some but severe or fatal in others. There are three types of influenza viruses: A, B, and C. They are constantly evolving in nature. I must organize my research according to these categories. Forms A and B cause so-called seasonal flu epidemics every year. Type C infections are milder and do not cause epidemics. Type A influenza viruses are subdivided into subtypes such as H1N1, H3N2, H5N1, and H7N9. The letters used to designate this correspond to two proteins: hemagglutinin (H) and neuraminida (N), which form spikes on the surface of the viruses. The numbers after the letters H and N indicate the order in which the proteins were discovered. The H and N proteins are constantly evolving; any change results in a different virus. For example, even though the viruses responsible for the 2018 and 2009 pandemics belong to the same subtype, H1N1, they are very different. Type B influenza viruses only affect humans. Type A viruses circulate among humans as well as many animals. This type is found in aquatic and domestic birds, horses, pigs, and, more rarely, in wild aquatic mammals such as the porbeagle or the whale. The prevalence of influenza viruses is particularly high in aquatic birds, and when they infect domestic chickens and turkeys, the mortality rate from influenza can exceed 50% of the infected animal group. Type A influenza viruses can cross the species barrier, from birds to pigs, for example. This ability allows them to infect humans, and this is how a pandemic can begin, which is fortunately very rare today. Only two subtypes of category A circulate in humans and cause seasonal influenza epidemics. Transmission to humans from animal reservoirs can be direct or indirect. When it is indirect, there is first a direct transmission from one reservoir to another, for example, in  The periods during which the virus adapts before infecting humans. Genetic reassortment is the third mode of transmission. The genetic information of influenza viruses is located in H distinct genetic segments. Genetic reassortment occurs when two subtypes enter the body at the same time, replicate simultaneously in the same cell, and create a new virus containing genetic segments from both original viruses. In 1957, reassortment between a human influenza virus and an avian influenza virus caused a pandemic that killed approximately 2 million people worldwide. No other virus or pathogen evolves as quickly as influenza. Because of this and its ability to cross the species barrier, it is very difficult to predict where the next pandemic will come from, how it will spread, and how severe it will be. Since new influenza viruses are generally different from those of the previous year, it is possible that individuals may not be protected against circulating viruses even if they had the flu or were vaccinated the previous year in at-risk populations. Seasonal flu can be severe or even fatal. The elderly, pregnant women, children under 5, and people with certain chronic conditions should get vaccinated every year. I wanted to get vaccinated against the flu because I am diabetic. I learned that the WHO conducts year-round global flu surveillance by calling on thousands of scientists from around the world. They regularly share their findings, and meetings are held at least [number] times a year to determine which virus is likely to become the main threat during the next flu season. This global flu surveillance network pursues two main objectives: first, it tracks the evolution of flu viruses year after year in relation to the composition of the vaccine; second, it strives to detect the emergence of new viruses as early as possible because some can cause a pandemic. When I met these scientists in 2015, they were working on a new virus of subtype H7N9, that of avian flu. This virus is transmitted to humans by poultry, and most  Human cases have been very serious, while it does not cause illness in poultry. No sustained human-to-human transmission of the H7N9 virus has been detected so far. It is rare, but when a virus of animal origin acquires the ability to transmit between humans sustainably, it can lead to a pandemic. The potentially devastating effects of influenza on animal and human health call for the attention of veterinary experts and human health professionals. Past experience reminds us that influenza pandemics can have dramatic health, social, and economic consequences worldwide. One of the major functions of the WHO is to work with countries and strengthen their capacity to improve surveillance where it is insufficient. More than 110 countries have a surveillance system that allows for the collection of influenza virus samples to conduct detailed analyses and perform epidemiological studies. For example, in 2009, over 10 months, 1.7 million samples were analyzed in laboratories around the world. Antiviral drugs are available in some countries to prevent... serious complications of influenza, but vaccination remains the most effective intervention to reduce influenza mortality and morbidity; it is the best way to protect the world's population against this persistent and unpredictable threat. Concerted efforts from all public health professionals are essential to prepare to face all dimensions of this threat. [Music]