There are many ways to hurt oneself. Did she do it for you? Was it more like self-harm? Was there something else? It was like me, it was more self-harm and just that. Yes, what did hurting oneself mean at that time to you? It was basically when I wasn't feeling well at night, when I was alone in my bed, when I thought about everything. I needed to let it all out, so I did it. It was the only way to forget everything, to say it and release some of the pressure. Obviously, what was the most helpful thing for you, the most effective way to feel better? It was talking about it, talking to someone, because I needed to tell someone everything because I couldn't explain everything to you. I was unhappy and I really didn't feel well, and I also had all the anger inside me, and when I did it, it was my anger that came out, my sadness, but I was always unfortunately doing it. Maybe your mother  She had seen scars, that kind of thing. My best friend had seen a scar because I always wore long-sleeved t-shirts, but one day I had to roll up the sleeves because I was a visual learner. She saw a small one, and then we both had the same thing happen. But what was harder in the end during that time? I think it was being all alone and not being able to talk to my father about it. Because I could have, or wanted to, talk to my father because I needed him. Actually, I'm glad because he helped me a lot when I was a child. But as soon as they divorced, they weren't there anymore, and I would have loved for it to be like before. And my mother, I was afraid of hurting her, so that's why I prefer to talk about it. Admit it, find a place for yourself, a space for yourself, a little more neutral than the family, of course. Are there other adults who were resources for you, people you trusted, with whom you could talk a little about all those things you were going through that were difficult? Yes, and my counselor  The social worker at my school, whom I visited regularly, about every week, checked on me to see how I was doing. One day, he came to get me from class and asked me to show him my arms and legs; they were all infected. So he took me to the infirmary, disinfected me, put bandages on me, and saw that I was unhappy. At one point, he decided to call my mother because the programs left it like that, and you could call her. That's how it is, though. A bit slow. Later, I made an appointment with my pediatrician, and he told me about your center and suggested making an appointment with you. So I came. How old were you at that time? I was 12. And how do you cope with your emotions now? Because you 're a teenager, and it's a new phase, I mean, regardless of hurting yourself, it's a period of life full of upheaval and change. It's not necessarily all calm every day. How do you cope now with your emotions? Well, I've learned to channel my energy because I get angry very easily, but I've learned to work on myself. As soon as I feel sad, flushed, and angry, I immediately call my best friend or one of my friends, and they help me right away, and then I feel better. Or I go out for a little while to get some fresh air. And after the follow-up at the 6th grade prevention center, did you continue seeing a therapist outside of school? I stopped seeing someone to see if I could recover on my own, if I could move forward on my own. Well, in the end, I succeeded, and today I'm doing well. And how old are you? I'm 15 now. Jeanne, I'll be 15 in February, and I found an apprenticeship. I'm going to start in September. So, things are going pretty well. It's going well today.