The Ebola virus is a merciless disease. This man is one of the many people affected by the outbreak in Guinea, but teams from around the world are mobilized to combat this epidemic surge. The disease is complicated to treat because it is rare, contagious, and deadly. This is the first time the virus has been identified in Guinea. Another difficulty is that it is raging not only in several isolated regions of the country but also in the capital, Conakry, where numerous cases and deaths have been recorded. The World Health Organization has been fighting Ebola outbreaks since the early 1970s. As soon as the disease is reported, global action is initiated. The International Health Regulations provide a global framework for these collective efforts. Communication intensifies between WHO headquarters, the WHO Regional Office for Africa, and the country office in Conakry. The Global Outbreak Alert and Response Network (GORN) and other partners have been alerted. Some contribute financially, others provide supplies, and still others send logisticians, doctors, epidemiologists, or trainers.  Their support allows the WHO to constantly improve intervention strategies. Teams meet daily to plan and coordinate field activities and identify problems to be addressed. Some work in hospitals, others monitor the spread, and still others work with communities and families. They also have to deal with very bad news: the disease has crossed Guinea's borders, reached Liberia, and could spread even further throughout the country. Supplies and equipment are being delivered; experts are being mobilized to trace contacts of patients; intensive care units are being created; and local staff are being trained in the use of personal protective equipment. Alongside all these activities, the WHO maintains constant contact with the Ministry of Health and numerous international organizations to ensure the intervention is effective and runs smoothly. A special communications team composed of members from key national and international organizations is responsible for informing the public about the intervention. A public service announcement explaining how to protect oneself is currently being broadcast in French and six local languages. Video footage of the control activities has been posted online and has been  Used by television networks worldwide, this vast intervention has the sole aim of saving lives. Its effects will be felt at the individual, national, and even national levels, extending beyond Guinea's borders. We cannot accomplish this task alone; we need the support of other actors at every level of the intervention. Let us act together to ensure that the Ebola outbreak in West Africa becomes a thing of the past.