On August 24, 2014, the World Health Organization received an alert of a new Ebola virus outbreak detected in Équateur Province in the Democratic Republic of Congo. This is the 7th outbreak the country has faced. In 1976, the Ebola virus was discovered in a region bordering a river from which it now takes its name. The epicenter of this outbreak is located in the Buende Department, about 1200 km east of the capital, Kinshasa. To best support the teams of the Congolese Ministry of Health, the WHO immediately activated its network of experts. A complete medical team arrived with all the necessary equipment to set up an analysis laboratory and a treatment center. Uh, how much is it? 17? Yes, the bag is for the lab; it contains the laboratory equipment. I came here as part of the fight against the Ebola epidemic. In addition, we have deployed a mobile laboratory, so what is found in...  Boxes and bags contain laboratory materials that we will work with on- site here in the epicenter of the epidemic. The convoy immediately leaves the airport tarmac to go to the heart of the outbreak. The Congolese government has quarantined the entire region. The Tapa River serves as the border with the rest of the province. We are here at the barriers placed by the Minister of Health to block the road so that those coming from Diéra cannot enter Buende and those from Buende cannot go to Diéra, where the bolus epidemic is. We have been given a laser thermometer here to test all the humanitarian workers, caregivers, doctors, and medical professionals who are supposed to be doing good deeds. The equatorial forest is very dense in this region; it rains very regularly, and the mud complicates the convoy's progress. One of the major challenges in containing the epidemic is also logistical in nature. In such a difficult- to-access region, it took no less than 5 hours to travel the  The last 40 kilometers, but from early morning, the WHO teams and their partners are on the ground, working tirelessly to set up a medical camp in the middle of this dense vegetation. A treatment center capable of handling all cases of B must be built. Doctors Without Borders will manage the treatment center, which will treat all patients infected with the virus. A mobile laboratory has been installed, and Jimmy is now able to store all his equipment. This laboratory will play a key role in controlling the epidemic because it is equipped to treat most of the world's most dangerous pathogens, including the B virus. It is in this small, transparent plastic tent, which specialists call the "glove box," that the virus will be handled. As soon as his laboratory is operational, Jimmy welcomes the Doctors Without Borders teams who bring him the first samples to test. The Congolese authorities have deployed their experts from the national public health service. The WHO teams and their partners are providing them with all the necessary technical support. This province is immense; 50,000 inhabitants live in about twenty villages. The total commitment of the Congolese authorities...  One of the main strengths of this operation is that Dr. Benoît Kebella Lunga, head of the camp, remains in constant contact with the health authorities in Kinshasa. Every morning after the meeting, I have to communicate with the association about the field and, above all, the major challenges we face. It must be said that we do this because we have a listening ear at the highest levels of government, through the ministers. When we communicate with the ministers, we are available every morning and even in the evenings, and then the solutions are... Hello, can you hear me clearly now? Oh dear! It must be said that the key to success—we have the experience of successfully managing an Ebola epidemic— is coordination. When you have strong coordination from the top down to the village level, you overcome the difficulty of access. This remains one of the biggest challenges that the community mobilization teams must overcome. Only a motorcycle allows us to reach most of the villages in the department. In these rural areas, fear and anxiety are etched on every face. These teams are there to transmit simple, understandable messages.  by everyone on how to protect themselves and manage cases of Ebola. Olivier, his colleague, and his clinical psychologist come on- site to convince people to go to the treatment center if they are sick. However, the task is more difficult than it seems. A sick person's fear of death is too high. The fear of death is too high for the sick person because ultimately everyone gets sick, but people don't like to die. Everyone wants to live, but everything that brings death is frightening. But Ebola, which is unforgiving, is not short-lived. Even isolated patients need psychological support. We see that some die simply from emotion, from fear. Fear hastens death, and you know, during Ebola, there are several conceptions of the disease. Each culture has its own conception of the disease, and Ebola also has several conceptions depending on the culture. There are those who don't see Ebola as an organic disease, who think it's witchcraft. There are those who go very far, who think that  It's a disease caused by foreigners, by white people, by the government, and so on. All these ideas are at the root of the resistance. Every house in the village is visited, and every suspected case will be tested. So here we are with a family that initially resisted. The child in blue you see there is sick; she had fevers. This is also a family where people have died from this disease. Since they died there, the family didn't want to send their children back to the treatment center. To make things easier, we persuaded the family to agree to have the child tested. Upon hearing the results, we 'll announce it today. If it's positive, we'll continue working to get the family to agree to the child's transfer. We'll bring the child to the treatment center. At nightfall, Jimmy meets with Olivier and Ola, the two psychologists, to announce the results of the first tests performed on the little girl. How is your daughter positive? Is the girl positive? Or what is the strategy?  It's that we are not only bearers of bad news, we have... no, no, I don't refuse the news, we bring it, whatever the news, bad or good. But during an epidemic, there is no bad news. The bad news is if someone dies if they are positive. You reassure them that if they are taken to the treatment center, it's for... The bad news, I see that it's death. Yes, the work has just begun; it will continue for several weeks. The Congolese medical teams have the necessary experience to put an end to this epidemic. They know that the key to success is to treat all the sick. They will also have to find all the people who have come into contact with a sick person and monitor them for 21 days. They hope once again to succeed in breaking the chain of transmission as they have done the previous times.