The first symptoms of fever, often accompanied by headaches and chills, appear one to four weeks after being bitten by an infected mosquito. Without prompt treatment, the mosquito-transmitted parasites can lead to a severe, often fatal, form of malaria. The parasites of the genus Plasmodium, which cause malaria, are transmitted through the bites of infected Anopheles mosquitoes. They bite mainly at night in hot, humid areas where they breed easily. In many countries, malaria transmission occurs mainly during or just after the rainy season. More than three billion people, or half the world's population, are at risk of malaria. Most cases and deaths occur in sub-Saharan Africa, especially among children, who are weaker and more vulnerable than adults. Asia, the Middle East, Latin America, and to a lesser extent, parts of Europe are affected. Early diagnosis and prompt treatment limit mortality and reduce malaria transmission. Before treatment, parasitological confirmation is recommended for all suspected cases, either by microscopic examination or with...  A rapid diagnostic test is available. The best available treatment is an artemisinin-based combination therapy known as ACT. Unlike artemisinin used alone, ACT helps prevent parasite resistance thanks to some of its components. You can help stop the spread of malaria for yourself, your family, and your community. The WHO (World Health Organization) recommends several effective measures: insecticide-treated bed nets should be used in at- risk areas; window screens also reduce the risk of being bitten; it is truly crucial to protect children under 5 and pregnant women; spraying insecticides in homes also helps reduce malaria transmission. This action is effective for 3 to 6 months depending on the insecticide used and the type of surface treated; antimalarial drugs are also a means of prevention and are recommended for travelers going to at- risk areas; pregnant women living in high-transmission areas should take sulfadoxine-pymeamine at each of their prenatal visits. The WHO also recommends preventive therapies for  Newborns and children under 5 years old are at risk. Research is underway to anticipate the resistance that parasites develop to medications and that mosquitoes develop to insecticides. Researchers are also working on a malaria vaccine and on genetically modified mosquitoes that would not transmit the parasite. Malaria is a potentially fatal disease, but it can be prevented and cured; no one should die from malaria.