Pandemic viruses know no borders. A single virus can be the beginning of the next global flu or influenza pandemic. We all have a role to play in preparing for the next pandemic so that all countries can protect their populations. To this end, the EMU coordinates a network of specialized public health laboratories that work together to study influenza viruses, assess their threat level, and develop key materials and information. Industry uses these materials and information to create life-saving vaccines, antivirals, and other products needed during a pandemic. Within the WHO's Pandemic Influenza Preparedness Framework, known as the PEEP Framework, manufacturers who receive these materials must share some of the products they manufacture with the WHO so that when a new pandemic arises, the WHO can offer them to countries that would otherwise be unable to obtain them. The Model Material Transfer Agreement 2 (MTA 2) is a contract that the EMU signs with each manufacturer, acknowledging their commitments and ensuring that the EMU has available and predictable access to specific, vital products. When a future pandemic arises, the WHO works closely with manufacturers to reach a fair and reasonable agreement, whether by donating a percentage of vaccines, reserving antivirals and diagnostic equipment at affordable prices, or authorizing the use of the technology for those who need it through negotiations. The EMU works with each manufacturer to ensure a full understanding of what is expected of them, including regulatory criteria, prequalification, and labeling and packaging. This way, when a future pandemic arises, the EMU can quickly contact its manufacturing partners who will know exactly what the EMU expects of them. The result is faster global response times, equal access to life-saving vaccines, and, even more importantly, greater solidarity among nations. After all, a public health emergency like a flu or influenza pandemic concerns us all. For more information, visit