When someone dies from the Ebola virus, the handling of the body and its burial must follow a strict protocol to prevent infection of the relatives caring for it. José Rovira is a logistics expert working for the World Health Organization. He came to Kum, Sierra Leone, to train local health personnel, Red Cross volunteers, and Ministry of Health employees so that this protocol would be followed during funerals. The WHO collaborated with health personnel to ensure that the relatives of the deceased would not be infected by this deadly virus. A cemetery was specially prepared so that Ebola victims could be buried safely. This epidemic is the largest in the history of this virus, both in its geographical scope and in the number of cases and deaths. It's the first time I've dealt with an outbreak of this size. We have hundreds of deaths, and we have cases that are escaping. We can't control the epidemic; it's spreading in all directions. We have few resources, you see, and these guys are going to leave now.  Two hours' drive from here, searching for more bodies. Barely 12 days, more than 50 bodies have been buried in makeshift cemeteries next to this treatment center. The WHO team takes a moment for prayer and reflection for the deceased. Time is running out; they must return to search for more bodies. Community participation is vital to quickly find infected individuals. The WHO has trained 300 community volunteers and equipped them with mobile phones so they can notify the Ministry of Health as soon as they discover a case or a suspected death from infection in Pbou, a village two hours from Koun. José's team prepares to safely enter the home of a woman who may have contracted the virus. This woman has been ill for two days when the team enters her home to take a sample for laboratory analysis. People who have been in close contact with this woman are being tested to see if they have been infected. Each bolus patient is contagious for 21 days. Contact tracing is crucial to breaking the chain of transmission and stopping this epidemic at Kenema District Hospital. The Ebola virus has severely affected medical staff; nurses have been infected, further weakening an already under-resourced team. The hospital has very limited resources, and its staff is not well- prepared. The WHO has provided equipment and a team of specialists, but much more is needed. Children are particularly vulnerable. This boy lost both his parents to Ebola, and his case is being closely monitored because he could also be reinfected. This is an emergency, and we are already in trouble. We are already fighting a very large crisis; it is far too large if we do not have more resources. So, we will dwindle more and more people at Kenema Hospital. Families are in despair, waiting for news of their loved ones. Others come to offer condolences and support the families.