In 2014, Mauritania, Togo, and Côte d'Ivoire each conducted immunization campaigns against mingitis using the CTC approach with the MenAfriVac vaccine in selected districts where access difficulties and cold chain restrictions were particularly pronounced. In total, more than 1.5 million people aged 1 to 29 years were immunized using the CTC approach throughout these campaigns. The temperature-controlled chain approach is an innovative approach that can improve vaccination services in Côte d'Ivoire. This approach will essentially resolve the difficulties caused by cold chain breaks, but above all, it will allow our health workers, once well-trained, to master their vaccination practices. The workers will tire less and also be able to vaccinate more people because Mr. Ngessan Conan Bertin, a registered nurse who lives in the village of Soba Banangé in the Segela district of Côte d'Ivoire, works on vaccination campaigns and on the Routine vaccination since 2008. This morning, Mr. Bertin arrived at 6:00 AM at the Segellaa district dispensary to collect the vaccines he will transport to three health posts over the next three days. With the CTC (Cold Chain Vaccination), there are more accumulators in the vaccine packs; everything is fine. There's more humidity, and they're lighter, allowing for a larger quantity of vaccines, which wasn't the case with the traditional cold chain. Mr. Bertin follows a carefully prepared Microplan developed by his district health officer, which defines which population to vaccinate and where our roads are impassable. Despite the motorcycles we have, it's difficult. With the CTC, I can now travel for three or four days in the countryside, vaccinating without any problems. With the traditional cold chain, we were forced to return to base each time. In terms of fuel, we save money, and economically, we save on fatigue. Even as human beings, we have to go, we have to make the trips back and forth. We don't...  We are no longer confronted with this problem of vaccine safety during campaigns using the CTC and ensured by the principles dictated by the manufacturer itself. As you know, the Men Afrivivac vaccine was manufactured with the approval for use of this CTC. A specific system was put in place with a coordination and supervision unit for this strategy. It mainly consisted of training health workers and supervisors to ensure that the entire chain is respected: the vaccine is properly stored, used at the sites, reports are completed correctly, and all health workers are fully involved in this strategy. The quality and efficacy of the vaccine are ensured by close supervision using a tracking sheet, the vaccine control sticker indicating that the vaccine can still be used, and the temperature threshold indicator which shows if the vaccines have been exposed to temperatures above 40°C. Together, the two temperature monitors provide vaccinators with the assurance that the vaccines stored in this trial are still effective and capable of delivering a  Full protection for the immunized population. Simple but effective vial control measures have also proven successful. Any unused vial stored in the CTC for one day was marked with a single line. These vials were then used first the following day. If they were not used again, they were marked with a second line until the end of each day. This helped to count the 4 days allowed for the CTC, as indicated for the menac, so that vaccinators knew that the used vaccines were still good and posed no risk to the population. The CTC approach for France cannot cause confusion. Therefore, we would have liked several vaccines to enter the CTC system. By working with the CTC, we save time, energy, and increase the number of children vaccinated. Thanks to the CTC, we can concentrate our time and energy on vaccination. [Music]