My daughter is the season last summer she made a Christ in the world on the plane between deplored she was in total distress at first she didn't want to but read what happened then at his place a little bit forced the quote and Alma lives a moment at her that I don't want to live leaving how how did you manage this situation you made worries I remember a message five years ago it's true that my daughter and the hermetic a little bit hermetic but sometimes they passed quite a few tones in her room but we said it's okay the teenagers around her everything was fine a man with his friends the school works Nantes always very good Nantes I was but what's going on then you were going to have a problem it's just a problem with your friends with a boyfriend ok what's going on no it's not that I'm scared and I find that my life is vivid at home without a huge book by Eva - and when boarding I'm going to read it always happens to me I'm leaving Vayssade, they didn't know exactly what happened, except that they had decided black and some we know they needed glasses, that's going well because sometimes I know it's very difficult to convince a teenager to seek help, so right away of course we had some very nice people, it was very close to Shelly, okay, so right away I find students, I search at Bel Air on disorders and I remembered, I don't know how, the worst of illnesses and cowardly, called right away, I was answered, recognized right away too, I explained my daughter had decided suicidal because that's what it is and didn't act on it but she thought about it and we called for the next day, the science department, for therapy, it's more to discuss what's happening and after making a diagnosis, and at the same time my husband and I are also looking for another psychologist and it made me know where a lot, a lot, to accompany her to know  What's happening to reassure us too, because it was a total disaster at our house, how is my daughter doing? She's doing well and continuing therapy, but things didn't go well. And when you do that, it's this one, she's there with me, always, and she's starting to feel that we have confidence in ourselves, and it's still a long road, it's not a done deal. I was passing by, they are fragile, and we are very attentive to what happened around her. If I stop, you'll find parents in the same situation who... I'll tell you right away to call to look for students to have someone who guides you because it's up to you, and on this situation, don't let them pass. We unfortunately decided... but it's the teenager, it will pass... uh, no, for us, she was really my daughter, she was suffering, so we must immediately stop her lynching, the suffering of this teenager. If at home, voices on Harleys are in the same situation as my daughter, I would tell her to trust the person who is closest, a friend, a teacher, anyone can... sometimes with parents, things don't go very well, it was Not the case with my daughter, but sometimes it's like that, so in parks, they express themselves, they're scared, they're delirious, what's going on here, their teeth