Oh, I'm a public health researcher specializing in influenza. Influenza isn't normally considered a fatal disease, but it can be catastrophic. In 1918, at the end of World War I, a deadly scourge claimed between 40 and 50 million lives. The pandemic was dubbed the Spanish flu because it was believed to have originated in Spain before spreading worldwide. Influenza is highly contagious and spreads rapidly from person to person. When an infected person coughs or sneezes, the virus is deposited on surfaces and can then infect others. From 1918 to 1920, the world had to face this pandemic with limited public health resources. There have been other influenza pandemics throughout the 20th and early 21st centuries. Even today, it remains a serious threat. In April 2009, a new influenza virus emerged in Mexico. Experts had predicted that if there were another pandemic, it would come from Asia. Although science now has a better understanding of influenza viruses, they evolve and mutate constantly. It's still unknown where or when they will emerge.  It is unknown when the next pandemic will occur or what virus will cause it. The virus that emerged in Mexico was a type A influenza strain of the H1N1 subtype, the same one that caused the Spanish flu 90 years earlier. It probably passed first from pigs to humans and then spread worldwide through human-to-human transmission. A year and a half later, the World Health Organization declared the end of this H1N1 virus pandemic, but this event demonstrated that an influenza pandemic can be triggered at any time and anywhere in the world. The H1N1 virus claimed some 200,000 lives, in many cases young people or individuals not previously considered at risk. In general, influenza is a major public health problem that affects millions of people every year and carries a high burden of disease, hospitalization, and cell death, without even considering the risk of a pandemic. Seasonal influenza epidemics pose a threat throughout the year, especially during the cold seasons in the Northern and Southern Hemispheres, and in all seasons in tropical areas. It is estimated that they cause 3 to 5 million cases of severe illness each year.  Between 250,000 and 500,000 deaths at the height of an epidemic. There are days when one in three patients asks us about flu symptoms. Depending on the year, the questions are more frequent at the beginning of the season in November or December, or sometimes in February or March. To prevent the virus from spreading, it is advisable to cover your mouth or nose when coughing or sneezing and wash your hands properly. The flu is mainly transmitted through the air, which is the fastest mode of transmission. Every time an infected person coughs or sneezes, thousands of droplets are dispersed into the environment. Even the tiniest of them can contain hundreds of viruses. These droplets can penetrate another person's body through the mouth or nose and come into contact with the respiratory mucous membranes. A protein on the surface of the virus can attach to a receptor molecule on the surface of a healthy cell. Once attached to the cell, the virus penetrates it in a few seconds and then takes control of the cells.  Replicating thousands of times, the attacked cell weakens and dies. Subsequently, new viruses are released that infect neighboring cells or return to the respiratory tract. The destruction of cells causes inflammation and weakening of the mucous membranes, allowing other pathogens to enter the body and cause potentially fatal infections such as pneumonia. Tissue inflammation causes coughing or sneezing, thus dispersing enormous quantities of viruses into the environment with the consequent risk of infection, which contributes to the spread. The flu is characterized by high fever, cough, headache, muscle and joint pain, a state of severe malaise, sore throat, and nasal discharge. If the person is otherwise healthy, the symptoms generally disappear in one or two weeks without medical treatment. Science has not been able to determine why the disease is benign in some people and severe or even fatal in others. There are three types of influenza viruses: A, B, and C, which are constantly evolving in nature. My research is organized according to these categories. Types A and B cause seasonal flu epidemics every year. Type 6 infections are more benign and do not Influenza A viruses, which trigger epidemics, are subdivided into subtypes such as H1N1, H3N2, H5N1, H7N9. The letters used to designate the subtypes correspond to two proteins, hemagglutinin and neuraminidase, which form spikes on the surface of the viruses. The numbers following the letters H and N indicate the order in which the proteins were discovered. The H and N proteins are constantly evolving; any change results in a different virus. For example, although the viruses that caused the 1918 and 2009 pandemics belong to the same H1N1 subtype, they are very different. While influenza B viruses only affect humans, type A viruses also circulate among humans and numerous animals. Type A viruses are found in waterfowl and domestic birds, horses, pigs, and even occasionally in wild aquatic mammals such as seals and whales. The prevalence of influenza viruses is especially high in waterfowl, and when they infect birds and turkeys, the mortality rate is high. Influenza can infect up to 50 percent of the infected animal group. Influenza viruses can cross the species barrier from birds to pigs, for example. This ability allows them to infect humans, and this is how a pandemic can begin, which fortunately is not frequent today. Only two subtypes of the category circulate among people and cause seasonal flu epidemics. Transmission to humans from animal reservoirs can be direct or indirect. When it is indirect, there is first a direct transmission from one reservoir to another, for example, among pigs, during which the virus adapts before infecting humans. Gene reassortment is the third mode of transition. The genetic information of influenza viruses is found in eight distinct genetic segments. Gene reassortment occurs when two subtypes enter the organism at the same time, replicate simultaneously in the same cell, and create a new type that contains the genetic segments of the two parent viruses. In 1957, reassortment occurred between a human influenza virus and an influenza virus.  Avian influenza led to a pandemic that caused the death of approximately two million people worldwide. No other virus or pathogen evolves as rapidly as influenza. Because of this, and its ability to cross the species barrier, it is very difficult to predict where the next pandemic will originate, how it will spread, and its severity. Since new influenza viruses are generally different from those of the previous year, it is possible that people who contracted the disease or were vaccinated a year ago may not be protected. Among at-risk populations, seasonal influenza can be severe or even fatal. The elderly, pregnant women, children under 5, and people with certain chronic conditions should be vaccinated every year. The flu vaccine is important to me because I am diabetic, and that is why I have agreed to be vaccinated. The World Health Organization conducts year-round global influenza surveillance, for which it convenes thousands of scientists from around the world. Discoveries are regularly exchanged, and meetings are held at least twice a year to determine which viruses could pose the main threat in the next flu season. This global network... Influenza surveillance has two main objectives: firstly, to monitor the evolution of influenza viruses year after year in relation to the composition of the TRUS vaccine; secondly, to try to detect the emergence of new viruses as early as possible, since some of them can trigger a pandemic. When I met with these scientists in 2015, they were working on a new virus of the H7 subtype, the avian influenza virus. This virus is transmitted to humans through poultry, and most human cases have been very serious. Although the virus does not cause any disease in birds, no sustained human-to-human transmission of the H7 subtype has been detected so far. It is rare, but when a virus of animal origin acquires a sustained human-to-human transmission capacity, the result can be a pandemic. The potentially devastating effects of influenza on animal and human health demand the attention of expert veterinarians and human health professionals, and past experience reminds us that influenza pandemics can have serious health, social, and economic consequences worldwide. One of the main functions of the National Directorate of Health Surveillance ( DNS) is to work with  Countries should strengthen their capacities to improve surveillance where it is insufficient. More than 110 countries have a surveillance system that allows them to collect influenza virus samples for detailed analysis and gather technological information. For example, in 2009, 17 million samples were analyzed in laboratories around the world over 10 months. Antiviral drugs are available to prevent serious complications of influenza in certain countries, but vaccination remains the most effective intervention to reduce influenza mortality and morbidity. It is the best way to protect the world's population against this persistent and unpredictable threat. Concentrated efforts by all public health professionals are essential to prepare to face this threat in all its dimensions.