I think I was talking about it with my mother, but I didn't want to worry her. I didn't want to tell her, " Well, you know, suicide, I think about it," or "G20, it scares me. I'm afraid I'll hear it coming." I remember seeing the long knives in the kitchen; it scared me. I thought, "We're only here for a second, it can all happen." It's like an illusion, someone shouldn't be against me. And I was afraid of losing control. At least that's what I thought. I was 14, I think. I was a little lost because I think I know. It was around that time that I had to make the first decisions for the future. Everything seemed sadder, or maybe I still had that heavy weight in my stomach, really stuck, and I could n't forget that it was always there. And I even wondered, "Could I have been born depressed like that?" And yet, I've always been a cheerful and easygoing person. It was all just... Unanswered questions, but I had to get it out, I had to talk to someone. It's in itself, but sometimes you just can't throw it away. A few tears and I cried, it was too much. So she asked me what was going on, I explained, and then I really saw that she was shocked by what I said. So then she talked to my mom about it, and you're interfering. I thought, well, actually, you can explain it clearly. And I didn't go with her. And regarding school, was there any concern? I don't know, did your teachers or social workers see that you might be having a harder time there? No, because I didn't want it to leave the house. So I really put up a shell a bit, and I didn't feel like talking to my friends about it. So I did talk to a few of them, but without going into details. It's a courageous step.  It's not easy to talk about something as intimate as suffering and suicidal thoughts. How did you experience this encounter with me, specifically my hunger, with a psychologist to talk about these complicated things? I had a good feeling about you by chance, but since I 'm someone who talks quite easily by nature, having just someone who could listen to me, even if sometimes I didn't particularly want to talk or just wanted to cry, actually, it made me feel better quite quickly. The first time was hard, and then, the word " realize" that even if I didn't particularly want to go, in the end, I knew it was good for me. And today, if you have any advice or a message to give to young people who are going through similar things, what would it be? Remember that you shouldn't stay alone. In any case, I advise those who feel the way I did at that time to never stop talking about it and to tell themselves that it's not necessarily permanent. I thought I was going to stay like this my whole life, that I was going to be miserable my whole life. And when you realize it's kind of a vicious cycle, and you can't get out of these questions, that you have a knot in your stomach, and that you're different from other people, that you don't feel like laughing anymore, well, I think that's when you have to tell yourself, "Actually, this is n't normal." Because you can have a bad day, but when it becomes too hard for months on end, I think you shouldn't hesitate too much before talking about it.