We need to search for the bodies, we need to search for people still under the rubble; that's very important. The second thing to put in place is the systems through which we can treat injured people, so that they are treated properly and infections are prevented. These are somewhat specialized techniques. The third thing that needs to be done very quickly is to make a list of all possible infections and epidemics that could appear. Cholera could return, malaria could be present, and then there are also all the patients who theoretically need treatment, otherwise they risk becoming even sicker or dying. I'm talking about diabetics, I'm talking about people with hypertension, I'm talking about people living with AIDS who need treatment that is n't interrupted. So all of this needs to be put in place because what's happening is that the systems are completely dysfunctional, and we absolutely must manage to create, even if the structures like hospitals—there are about eight hospitals destroyed in Port-au-Prince—we have to ensure that everything  This works, and it works not only because we have structures in place, but also because we have staff, because we have medicines, and because the equipment isn't buried under the rubble, etc. The WHO's responsibility is coordination. Beyond that, the first thing to do is ensure that we know what's happening. It's extremely difficult to know what's happening. We've sent a team that isn't just composed of WHO representatives, but includes various stakeholders, to assess the needs. Because in the first few days, we're going to have a huge influx of supplies, equipment, aid, etc., but this aid must meet specific needs. We need to know where those needs are and what their nature is so that the aid can be better adapted to those needs. First, the second thing is to review all the systems. We need to re-establish a system. The government must be in charge of coordination. We're going to assist the government and the Ministry of Health. There's going to be a huge influx of GPs and bilateral aid that will need to be coordinated. We'll need to put in place a small [unclear - possibly "system" or "system"].  There's little emphasis on order, we're not doing it, it's going to be a case where, well, here are the general directions we're taking