Pandemic viruses know no borders. A single case could mark the beginning of the next global flu pandemic. We all have a role to play in preparing for the next pandemic and ensuring that all countries are able to protect their populations. With this in mind, the WHO provides a network of specialized laboratories that work together to study influenza viruses, assess their risk level, and develop essential materials and analyses from these viruses. Industry uses this information to develop life-saving vaccines, antivirals, and other products needed during a pandemic. According to the WHO Pandemic Influenza Preparedness Framework (PIF), pharmaceutical manufacturers receiving these materials must commit to sharing a portion of their products with the WHO so that the organization can distribute them to countries that would not have access to them in the event of a pandemic flu. The Standard Material Transfer Agreement ( SMT) is a contract that the WHO concludes with all these manufacturers to formalize their commitments.  To ensure rapid and continuous access to these essential products from the first signs of a pandemic, the WHO works closely with each manufacturer to agree on a fair and reasonable arrangement, whether it involves donating a percentage of vaccines, offering antiviral treatments and diagnostics at affordable prices, or granting technology licenses to those who need them. Through negotiations, the WHO works with manufacturers to ensure they understand everything required of them, including those related to marketing authorizations, prequalification, labeling, and packaging. This way, when the next epidemic hits, the WHO can quickly contact its manufacturing partners, who will already be exactly what the organization expects of them. The result: a faster global response, more equitable access to pandemic vaccines (the most important), and greater solidarity between nations. After all, in a health emergency such as a flu pandemic, we will all be affected. For more information, visit wrc.com.