One in three women suffers from intimate partner violence. This represents more than 800 million women worldwide. These women can feel trapped and often afraid. These women have restricted lives. Those who think about leaving home fear ending up penniless or losing their children. Over time, their self-confidence diminishes so much that a life without violence becomes a distant memory. Abuse can cause injuries and serious physical and mental health problems, and in some cases, even death. Many women contract sexually transmitted infections or have unwanted pregnancies. When pregnant, they have a higher risk of miscarriage or having a premature or low birth weight baby. They may suffer from depression, anxiety, develop other mental health problems, or fall into drug and alcohol addiction. It can be difficult for them to know who to trust or where to turn. But there is a place they can go: a medical consultation. It is one of the few opportunities these women have to go out alone. It is important that healthcare professionals take advantage of this valuable opportunity. When healthcare professionals listen with compassion, women are more likely to share their story. When they ask the right questions, they can discover what  that actually happens to them and oppose the cultural beliefs that say it's okay for a man to hit his wife can assure women that it's not their fault and look for ways with them to make them less dangerous and when necessary connect them with other services such as shelter, psychological support, legal services and financial opportunities. More women can find the path to a life without violence when changes are made in the health system and other systems—changes such as clinics that ensure privacy, training for health professionals to better respond to women's needs and draw attention to the harmful effects of violence on women and children and how to prevent it. These changes help promote a culture where violence is unacceptable and where women don't have to stay silent. Imagine if we make this possible for each and every one of these 800 million women. k i