Good morning everyone and welcome again this year to this special World Hand Hygiene Day on May 5th. Thank you for your energy and commitment to ensuring improved hand hygiene and infection prevention in healthcare. Every May 5th, the WHO calls for a renewed focus on improving hand hygiene and the sustainability of this intervention and promotional campaign. Healthcare facilities worldwide are invited, firstly, to register with the WHO Save Lives Clean Your Hands campaign if they haven't already done so ( the address is displayed on the screen), and secondly, to respond to this year's call to action. In 2017, the WHO urges you to focus on combating antibiotic resistance by improving hand hygiene and infection prevention and control practices. Hand hygiene is central to infection prevention and control; it is effective in combating antibiotic resistance, particularly as the most effective measure to prevent the spread of resistant germs.  The campaign conducted every year on May 5th makes a significant contribution to improving behaviors and practices. The WHO recently published evidence-based recommendations on the essential components that enable infection prevention and control programs to prevent harm. Hand hygiene is key to these recommendations. This year, the calls to action are: We want the head of infection prevention and control programs, including Didier, as well as all of you, to champion hand hygiene campaigns while implementing the WHO's essential components for infection prevention and control in all healthcare facilities. Therefore, to support your hand hygiene promotion activities and the WHO's core components for infection prevention and control, we have developed a wide range of technical tools and advocacy materials that you can find on the website dedicated to May 5th, 2017. I believe everyone can play their part in combating antibiotic resistance. Healthcare workers, practice hand hygiene at the appropriate time and stop the spread of antibiotic resistance. Director Hospital administrators and managers, implement an infection prevention and control program and support it throughout the year to protect your patients from antibiotic-resistant infections. Policymakers, control the spread of antibiotic resistance by making infection prevention and hand hygiene a national priority. Leaders in infection prevention and control, implement the WHO's core components for infection prevention, including hand hygiene, to combat antibiotic resistance. Therefore, the WHO encourages all healthcare professionals, infection prevention and control program leaders, senior managers, and policymakers to commit to fighting antibiotic resistance together. It's in your hands! Grab a board and a pencil, write your name, and ask your colleagues to do the same. Take a selfie or photo of yourself and everyone else committed to fighting antibiotic resistance. Send your photos and selfies to www.cleanhandsavelifes.org and see how many of your friends and colleagues around the world are committed to achieving better results.  Let's fight antibiotic resistance again, let's do it together, it's in our hands. Thank you for your attention, we wish you an excellent May 5, 2017.