Faced with growing concerns caused by the Ebola epidemic, the WHO opened a coordination center in Conakry, Guinea. This center coordinates the work carried out by the government, the WHO, and partner agencies in the affected countries, including Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone. Cross-border cooperation is crucial to tackling the epidemic. Kessen, Guinea, is on the banks of the river that marks the border with Liberia. Residents cross this river daily for their activities. Guiminet, a logistics officer at the WHO, receives blood samples collected in Liberia from people suspected of Ebola infection. "We come to collect samples from Liberia. We try to meet, we signal to each other, and as soon as we see each other, they put the samples in the dugout canoe that crosses the river to come here. We send them back empty samples because in Liberia they don't have a laboratory, so we analyze everything in Kessen. The number of Ebola cases is increasing every day."  In Liberia, the situation is very worrying. Samples from suspected cases must be sent 10 km away for analysis by the WHO laboratory in Gekedou, Guinea. This mobile laboratory was set up with the support of European technicians. The scale of this epidemic is unprecedented and requires a global effort mobilizing all available resources and expertise. Given that this is an Ebola epidemic, we are here to determine if the samples are positive or negative. So, if they are potentially positive, these samples may be extremely infectious, and to avoid the risk of contamination, they must be processed in these confined spaces to prevent the spread of a potentially Ebola- positive sample. European experts are training local staff to carry out this work. The test results on these samples will be available in less than 3 hours. Once the testing is complete, we come here to review the results. When we have a flat curve like this, it means the result is negative, and here we have a curve that appears  And this is an chon that is positive. As soon as we have the positive and negative results, we contact the doctors who sent us the samples. So these are samples from Liberia, to tell them which samples are positive and which are negative. Raising awareness in the communities is another fundamental element in the fight against the Ebola virus. The WHO is working with the Red Cross, UNICEF, and other partners to better inform them. Due to beliefs and a lack of information, local populations are often reluctant to report the presence of a sick person in their village because the disease isn't limited to this one village; it can be in another village. And since people move around, the disease can spread from one village to another. So what we expect from you is that we understand the request, and I think the Red Cross has heard very well that people will continue to come to raise awareness and help. But we are also counting on you to come to the surrounding villages so that we can continue to provide support. Because to avoid these distances or any problems here in this area, the reluctance of the villages is linked to the fact that people were surprised.  by the disease and are very afraid, very afraid of Ebola. This disease called Ebola is very frightening in these villages. Another reason why people are also afraid is because some of their relatives went to the treatment centers and never returned. These are also frightening factors that cause great concern around Ebola, leading to reluctance in these villages. The task is not easy for humanitarian agencies. We went to Crchendo recently where there has been violence. We tagged the vehicles of humanitarian workers, we broke windows, and one humanitarian worker was killed. So when we go to the treatment centers as soon as possible, once contact is established with the villagers, the humanitarian workers continue to explain the disease to them until they understand how to protect themselves. Someone died. You mustn't touch the