Welcome to the first episode of the Frontline Shift, a podcast that takes you inside the heart of one of the most challenging health responses in the world. I'm your host, Dr. Agma Devers, health emergency team lead for WHO in the occupied Palestinian territory. >> And I'm Dr. Luca Pigotsi, acting in charge for the WHO office in Gaza. In this series, we're stepping into Gaza to revisit some key moments of the emergency response in this 2-year conflict. We'll discuss lessons learned and hear firsthand from emergency medical teams who delivered care in impossible circumstances. >> WHO has been coordinating the emergency medical teams in Gaza since December 2023. Since then, we have identified critical gaps in care and coordinated the entry and deployments of EMTs inside Gaza. The aim is simple but urgent. To provide surge capacity to health systems struggling to keep services running amid violence, staff shortage, and severe supply constraints. >> The journey has been challenging. Surgeons have operated through power cuts. Doctors and nurses have cared for patients with little medical supplies. Medical teams have moved patients to safety through battlefields. Two years on, EMTs have stood shoulderto-shoulder with Gaza health workers and the ceasefire holds. They are now an integral part of rehabilitation and reconstruction efforts. >> This is a story of resilience, of medicine under fire, of what it takes to keep a health system standing when everything around it is falling apart. This is the frontline shift. With us today are colleagues from Kadus, an emergency medical team which has been working together with WHO in Gaza since February 2024. Speaking from Gaza, we have Avery Cox, head of mission for Kadus, Amar Mardini, medical lead, and Matthew Whiting, critical care paramedic. >> Welcome colleagues. Before working in Gaza, Kadus had many experiences in working in conflict zones such Ukraine and Sudan. Evie, what has the experience been like working in Gaza? >> I would say especially having come directly from working on medevac in Ukraine with Katis, um it's just a it's a much more restrictive environment. So, it's restrictive on when it comes to movements. Um and especially resources. So, getting medical supplies for our team and restocking medical supplies. um when it comes to having a fleet of ambulances, maintaining them, getting spare parts or even getting new ambulances has been extremely difficult. Um and it's, you know, we've been running two ambulances and we're down to one at the moment just because it's so hard to get the spare parts and to get additional ambulances in at any given time. >> In Gaza, Kadus has been one of the most critical EMTs in the response. Uh they have supported prehosp care and trauma stabilization points as well as supporting medical transfers and patient evacuations since February 2024. >> Medical transfer and medical evacuation are critical functions of EMTs in a conflict like Gaza. Since the start of the war, there have been over 20,000 internal transfers, meaning transfers within Gaza from hospitals that are unsafe into relative safety. A medical evacuation of over 10,000 patients from Gaza to other countries. Kados has supported a lot of this. >> Every in the time you have spent in Gaza, what has been uh the one pivotal or defining moment of your service? >> There there there have been a lot of pivotal moments, I'd say, but the siege of Kamalidwan is what immediately comes to mind for me. Um we went there several times, especially early on. A lot of these missions were denied. Um even even when we did get access after a number of attempts, evacuations from Kamala 1 were never straightforward. They were always difficult. The first time that we went and were successful um at evacuating a patient, it was a ventilated child. While we were waiting for clearance to continue to alif we actually had to bring the patient back up to the ICU because we were running out of oxygen in the ambulance. When clearance finally came, we then got stuck at the first holding point for several hours, which meant that we then were becoming critically low on oxygen once again. It's missions like this. Every mission in and out of Kamalad one was extremely challenging medically, operationally, and especially emotionally for the team. Nothing about it was predictable. This has really been an unusual crisis where medics have dealt with situations that aren't typical even in crisis situations. We've seen health care coming under attack and had to move patients uh from health facilities under siege. >> Yeah. In 2025, three key hospitals in Noraza allowed the Indonesian and the Kamaladwan Hospital as every was mentioning before were besieged and necessitating transfers of patients. WHO together with Kadus conducted several missions to support these hospitals and keep them as much as functioning as possible. Amar, take us back to one of these missions you have been part of and walk us through some of the external challenges you face. >> Yeah, I guess the mission to do the hospital and Indonesia hospital I will always keep in mind when I get home. Um, it was incredibly difficult to reach the hospitals. It took us several hours just to get there. The roads were blocked by debris and we had sometimes to clear the way with our hands and a shovel. And even if we did that, we got stuck with our ambulance. We had to be towed by one of another car of another car. And when you finally reach the hospital, it was chaos sometimes. It was, you know, we engineers since dismantling the equipment in the hospital. We tried to treat some of the staff members which were from the hospital which were stuck there for days and needed some treatment. The patients we it was we once had a patient which has a severe brain injury and I was thinking about how should I get this patient back to the next hospital on this roads without causing him more injuries. And even if we manage to load the patients to the ambulance, I remember one time at Alawa for example, we just got the p patients into the ambulance. I mean we're talking about two three patient the same time with some relatives in the ambulance and then suddenly military activities started just in front of us. So we had to be wait for until it could until we could go back and uh it went on for hours. And I I remember back then I was thinking did we do something wrong because well it's probably it was probably safer for the patients in the hospital. Um and uh we were stuck there. You could see the the patients in the ambulance. They got nervous. They were anxious. And we tried to emphasize that we are here in a corridor. This is a this is an authorized mission. And on the way back it was the same thing. We had to cross the same roads. Sometimes we had to change the route because it was just not feasible to get uh to the other point and one mission we had to be toned to the the full length to the hospital with our ambulance all while we had a patient who was not stable. We had situations where we run out of our equipment in the ambulance. We were talking about oxygen you know a way which usually would have probably taken 20 30 minutes took us hours. I mean, we tried to have as much oxygen in the ambulance as we could, but at one point we just ran out of oxygen and it was difficult to handle those situations. Also while we had uh we while we were at Indonesia I remember there's one situation when we were we we just went to Alawa and went back then we headed to Indonesia and there was a patient on the way um when we had to rescue him from I mean honestly it looked like a desert of concrete. It was just insane to even reach it. We had to you know shout for him and then finally we found him. It was a patient in a wheelchair and there was no way we could transport him to the ambulance. So, we had to carry him on the back to our ambulance. >> Those are really some gripping stories. Uh, Amar, um, even now with the ceasefire, the medical needs in Gaza far outweigh the available services. Uh, as we've said, there's been over 10,000 people who have already evacuated to countries like Egypt, Jordan, Qatar, uh, but also some to Europe. There's still around 18,000 priority patients awaiting medical evacuation um for care elsewhere. In the past, before the war, patients would be able to receive care outside of Gaza in the West Bank and East Jerusalem, but that route is currently closed. The Rafa border with Egypt is closed right now as well. Right now, medical evacuations to other countries are the only option for care that's not available in Gaza. Kadus continues to support who with those uh evacuations. tell us uh a bit about that work. What moments really stick in your mind? >> Yeah, maybe I start with comparing it to the last seesaw. I remember the last during the last sea we did six times a week evacuations to the Rafa border and those those evacuations were always stressful. It was we faced you know quick handovers at the of the patients at the hospitals. Usually we had to deal with alternative medications because of the scarcity of the first line medications and as Avery said before the toll on our ambulance back then was heavy. Uh the maintenance and maintenance was a big problem but most importantly again it was the roads for example. I mean it was very difficult even uh to to not severe injured to do the transport severe injured to the border. I mean sometimes I felt like the helm I was wearing during this missions was not to protect me from bullets or something like that but because it my head kept bumping in the ambulance against all the stuff we have over there. And if we look at the moment for example we are still not back to the previous ceasefire conditions. We are do around one medivvac per week at the moment. We gather the patients the night before at a field hospital around 20 to 40 patients and with their companions which is in total around 120 to 180 people. We take care of the medical needs over the night and sometimes we have nights where we work until the early morning because we have to do wound dressings analesia and sometimes we face patients with no nepalia which haven't taken their medications for a couple of days. So we have to figure out how to get this medications before the transport and this is all because there's still this shortage on medications around and uh recently we see a lot of PTSD cases. I mean last time on the last med I saw a 5-year-old boy uh injur was suffering from a blast injur from some several blast injuries. He lost a hand and uh had a wound on his left uh limp and the the wound dressing wasn't done for two weeks. So we had to change it and just to be able to touch the boy we had to give him some sedation because otherwise it wouldn't be able we wouldn't be able to to to do that wound dressing and uh this just showed me how much you know more than just the medical side also. Now we have you know we treated the medical parts but we also are kind of still see the we only see the beginning of the me mental issues over here. And um early in the morning we usually then load the patients into the ambulances and the buses. And I remember for example one time where a mother tried to hide one of their children under the bus seat because she was only allowed to take three companions with her and she had to choose between her mother and one of the kids and she you know it took a lot of talk with from the side of the WHO with her and in the end she decided to stay. I mean, uh, I'm sometimes I'm glad that I'm not native Arabic speaking because it's hard. It's really hard for the people to could understand this conversation because I I I don't know what I would do. And then again, the missions at the moment are difficult because we face still a lot of delays. We have to stop at checkpoints. We have to wait for hours. There was one medical occasion where we were stuck at the border crossing for 10 hours, almost 10 hours with nine ambulances of the Palestinian red cross crescend I remember back at that time the whole fleet was not more than 15 to 18 ambulances of the of PRCS. So half of the fleet were stuck for 10 hours at the crossing which meant the first responders had just half the capacity at that moment. And uh this is all the things we have to we have to think about when when when we do these missions in this kind of uh uh conflict at the moment. >> You mentioned a shortage of medicines and supplies. Could you tell us uh about a time when you've had to improvise uh when you didn't have uh the supplies available? >> I I remember when we had uh evacuations where we knew we would not meet the needs we will face at that time. So we had to ask several partners in the field if they could supply us or help us with the supplies at that time just to be prepared in case they we need it and also do when we reach the hospitals many many times we saw patients which were from the ICU which were already taking medications which is not first line. So we had to change the medication just and it was all in a in a very shortly manner. We had to do that just before we had to leave. So it was it was difficult. It was very difficult. >> Another major challenge of the conflict in 2025 uh was represented by the severe blockade of humanitarian aid including and particularly food. And this led to violence, looting and mass casualties with the support of the chokadus prepositioned its ambulance near the convoy entry points specifically at Mirage corridor. between Rafa and Canunis to provide immediate rescue to the casualties. Matthew, could you give us some examples of uh some of the casualties you came across? >> Yeah, absolutely. The Mirage corridor was very difficult. Um large numbers of children and adults um seem to be just swarming the aid trucks trying to secure food for their families. Uh on one occasion we were there for maybe two two and a half hours. In that time we had 37 patients including fatalities. Um many patients had multiple traumatic injuries. Um sadly this was prolonged and delayed transport due to the uh arranging for external ambulances from our partners to come and collect them and take them to hospitals. Um during the time on the Morag um we became very quickly overwhelmed with patients and were forced to take patients outside and obviously outside at that time it was 30 35° with no shade for them and provide improled sort of field care for these patients and a lot of them eventually managed to get onto the hospitals. They went via ambulances from the PRCS. We had some taken away on on donkey carts. We had some go in taxes. Um it was just very lucky that there was a lot of supporting people around who would happily evacuate our patients. But as I said this, you can see why they were trying to get the aid because these people, the children, the adults have had nothing for months and were just desperate to feed their families. Um Matthew, as uh as Kadus, you all have a wealth of experience from the past two years for uh new EMT colleagues coming in. what what advice would you have? I think the main thing for new staff coming into Gaza, they have to come with an open mind. Um, they have to come prepared to see sites that you're not going to see anywhere else in the world. Um, see desperation that I've not seen in other conflict zones around the world. Um, I think you need to have a good support mechanism back home. Um, so that on your wobbly days, you can phone someone. Catis, we're very lucky. We've got a well-being team. Um, and we're a close-knit team, so we all rely on each other for sort of psychological, emotional support. But I think the main thing in Gaza, you need to be flexible and um, open to change. No two days are ever the same in Gaza. Since the beginning of the conflict, the emergency medical teams assisted more than 3.5 millions of patients across the entire Gaza Strip, uh, surging and supporting the health system in Gaza at all the levels of care. In future, the emergency medical teams will continue to be critical and support local healthcare workers in uh further developing their skills and contribute significantly to the early recovery efforts in Gaza. >> Thanks uh thanks so much to uh to all of you for taking some time in between your your shifts here in Gaza to uh share your experiences for the great work that you're doing. Um this has been really insightful and inspiring. Hopefully the ceasefire will last. If so, we will move to a new phase here in this uh emergency where we will focus more on rebuilding the health system. Uh we'll come back to that in the coming episodes. We'll be back soon to discuss that and other aspects of this emergency response. This has been the frontline shift. These are your hosts Eggman and Luca signing off.