When I went in for labor, everything was fine. Even when I went in, but after she was out, problem came out out of nowhere and I didn't know what to do. I was like, I'm going home to God now. I think what makes it difficult to treat is sometimes it can be unpredictable. Sometimes you only have minutes to act and this requires a whole teamwork of your doctors, nurses and midwives working together in order to save this woman's life and prevent further hemorrhage and deterioration of her condition. So in the past we had fewer options available to us and we relied heavily on interventions such as manual techniques, fluids, blood transfusions and surgical techniques in order to manage a postpartum hemorrhage. Now with the advance in medicines as well as better protocols and rapid response, we have been able to act quickly or be more prepared for the situation before it occurs as well as managing it quickly by having those protocols in place. The first response bundle is the series of events if I can put it that way whereby you you must identify the PPH. You assess the tone of the uterus is it contracted not contracted because we want to see how can you help. So if you identify the cause then you are able to help better and then you start the IV fluids. I was nervous because I'm seeing they scratching and scratching inside me. They lifting me, they injecting me, all that. And I don't know what's going on. I still told my son on the phone, I don't think I'm going to make it because of the bleeding. So, you must just look after them cuz I didn't know what's going to happen to them if I go. So, in Zetun's case, immediately after delivery, she started to bleed more than expected. She then went on to have a postpartum hemorrhage. The team of the doctors and midwives were able to detect this early and put in our preventative measures in order to prevent it from becoming worse. She didn't need a blood transfusion like her previous delivery where she did need a blood transfusion. So all of our new methods helped to prevent this and she was able to recover well and safely go home with her baby. The point where I realized where I'm going to be okay was when my husband came in there and he said I shouldn't worry and he was like talking praying all that around me asking doctor this asking doctor that and then the doctor told him I will be fine the calibrated drape is very effective in helping us identify PPH as early as possible so that we can quickly respond and treat the patients as early as possible. people. It really saves lives. When we give health care, we we want people to go back to their normal lives to carry on with their lives, not the families, didn't lose a wife, the mother. So, it feels really good to be able to save a woman. If it wasn't for them, I wouldn't not be here. I appreciate what they did and went through for me and the delivery. I'm Satan Dman. I'm 35 years old. I am now sitting with four babies, big babies. Like being a mother is that the the the love you get from them. I just I love them. It's my kids. I must do what I have to do. I fight I must do everything. I'll make a way for anything to happen that I concern. I'll fight for them. My hope and dream for my baby Naika Rakman is to grow up a nice and matured pretty little girl and to always be there for me, to appreciate me and be grateful for everything I do for her. And yes, she must make me proud one day.