Good day and racing World Health Organization following this is it on Federal Minister Dr. Gerd Müller Minister Dr. Müller, Germany as a whole, thanks WHU and its Director General for the important work in recent months to combat the COVID-19 pandemic worldwide. This is a global pandemic and requires global solidarity and a response. We will only defeat this virus worldwide, or not at all. Thus, a political [action] is also needed. I say this quite deliberately as German Development Minister. This is a health crisis with three million deaths in the [country], but also a dramatic economic and financial crisis that has exacerbated and triggered hunger and poverty in many developing countries. We expect or will suffer two million additional deaths this year on the African continent alone, not from the virus, but from the lockdown, from disrupted supply chains of medicines, from missed vaccinations against tuberculosis, AIDS, and malaria. International solidarity and aid are necessary here, and we must not just retreat into ourselves in Europe, in the rich countries of the [ country].  The federal government's statement is appalling when the Director General says today that 70 percent of the current vaccine doses are located in ten of the world's richest countries. This is not the solidarity that will stop this virus. Not only African countries are particularly hard hit, but also Latin America, the Caribbean, the Pacific, small islands, Mexico, Peru – to name just a few. The economic impact is dramatic; in Africa alone, 300 million jobs would be lost, leading to a financial crisis and a stability crisis. Therefore, I say again: the virus can only be defeated globally, or not. A multilateral strategy and international solidarity are necessary. Thank you again, Gabi, with Kovacs and the Axxelerate, a structure is in place. This is great work that has been done. The structure is there, even in the poorest countries of the world, to implement vaccination campaigns worldwide. The goal is that we support Germany and the European Union in becoming even more involved than before. 25 percent of the people in developing countries, also in  Vaccinating this year is possible; the necessary doses are currently lacking, but this can be achieved by increasing production. However, 25 billion euros are still needed to finance this global vaccination campaign, which also includes testing, treatment, and diagnostics. Germany recently increased its contribution by 1.5 billion euros through the Chancellor. I urge the international community, including the European Union, to close this billion euro gap as quickly as possible. When we consider the national aid and recovery programs we are implementing in the European Union, for example— an economic cabaret program with a volume of 1 trillion euros— then the European Union's solidarity contribution of one billion euros is insufficient. The international community also depends on the Arab countries, China, Russia, and America, which has rejoined the EU. They must now act decisively, unlike in the 1990s with HIV, when the poor were left behind. That wasn't just...  profoundly inhumane, but this also backfires on us. I'll say it again: we will only fight and win if we colonize the pandemic worldwide, and this includes what the council keeps saying directly: fair access to vaccines for all, and the financing and global cooperation. Many thanks for the cooperation, Christian Willen. Thank you very much. The stock of global leadership politics grows, grows, grows, grows, grows. Greatness is most of them of cost-income countries, continent, growing in equity is self-fitting variant of control program interface. Thank you very much. Christiane Fließ on YouTube. Now he has here. Is this Ulrich? German Press Agency. Edwards had just mentioned again that the most urgent problem in the next two weeks is not the money, but the large one. He appealed to all countries to donate vaccine doses in the next two weeks. Could they give him a commitment that Germany or the EU will have vaccine doses available for the poorer countries in the next two weeks? I believe the decisive statement from Petrus Warm, 70  Percent for ten countries, and there are countries in the world that have secured twice the number of vaccine doses per capita. Solidarity is needed here. Secondly, I will also be meeting with the head of the WTO afterwards. We have spoken out against export restrictions; no export restrictions, but rather open access. And thirdly, it's about not only assessing but also increasing production capacities in the countries. Whether that's India, but on the African continent, for example, there is the possibility of expanding existing production potential in South Africa and Senegal. Because we don't just have to think about today, but also about tomorrow, the coming months and the coming years. And that's why these are the three crucial points of global cooperation. Worldwide, WHU must and is a pandemic center and must already be building the structures for prevention in the future. This is not the first virus and the first pandemic, nor will it be the last. And that's why WHU is so centrally important for the future: to bundle and support all these issues globally, as well as the research sector.  To bundle research, exchange from Buchmann from South Africa to Berlin, we need to know precisely and promptly about the infection process, the structure of the events, in order to find fast, direct global answers. And I would like to reiterate the message that not everyone in the world has understood: we must not only focus on the event in a country on our continent, because we can only defeat the virus globally. The pandemic is not over if a single country or continent, Europe or America, reports that we have defeated the virus; it will come back with the next plane or the next container pallet. Thank you very much. The Federal Minister wants the job to cost countries initially, as well as Christoph Fuchs, France Press, Christoph at the Republic, the aggressive origins of publishing, public website expected to discuss the justice system. They stood by each other, and Heiko said it is to be welcomed that China has undertaken cooperation in this investigation report. We need openness, transparency, and cooperation worldwide in this global pandemic, and we also need structures and responses that show the global community has understood a  A pandemic that reached 190 countries worldwide within six weeks and led to one of the greatest health, economic, and financial crises requires global responses. One such response must be the global disclosure of research findings, the centralization of research collaboration at WHU, and the acceleration of vaccine and prevention strategies. This was not the first pandemic. Thirty years ago, I contracted AIDS, a zoonotic disease, Merz sassium, and Ebola, and we are threatened by further pandemics. Researchers worldwide tell us that 30 to 40 viruses of this destructive nature have been identified, and the consequences are manifold. Global health is essential, as is holistic thinking within new structures of globalization, new approaches to coexistence between humans and animals, including agriculture and global supply chains. All these responses, while not immediate, are on the agenda for the coming months so that we can proactively prepare for future pandemics and their prevention. To further strengthen the structures that exist at WHU, it is very welcome that the USA is once again contributing to this solidarity, but all states of the world are called upon, all states of the world are called upon, not just the ten or fifteen main funders of WHU, I say it again, right now, to finance this 25 billion funding gap in order to also give 25 people in the poorest countries access to vaccines. Next question: it's expanded with humor from Monte, francs flow, YouTube growth is a solidarity of the people with sharing, let's say two Tuesdays from their growing up, behind for my relatives, watched the adults. In Germany, the discussion about the distribution of vaccine doses is ongoing. Germany has contributed to European solidarity on the question of the distribution of doses, and currently eight percent of Germans are vaccinated. So we are not at the top, but in the European middle field or at the bottom. What is necessary is to decisively expand global capacities now, increase production, and we are pleased. That we in Germany, in Marburg, can put another plant, a production plant, into operation these days, the company Biotec, with the support of the federal government, and also in other countries around the world, continuously in the coming months, so the prospect is that vaccine production will be significantly increased, and the very positive news from Petros today was that in 2021 it will be possible to provide 25 percent of the people in developing and emerging countries with access to vaccine doses, provided the projections of the previous commitments of production capacities are met. Minister Müller expects more things to be very, very important. Did the ministers of the meetings, Minister Müller, make any final comments? Then the construction will go to the experts, but also to the friends at Kovacs, at Axxelerate, at UNICEF, and many who today form an organizational structure through the UN that enables us access to all these countries, and I am pleased and will now implement this visit afterwards that the WTO is now led by an African woman and thus Africa  and also comes much more into focus and then meet with you and I with Hangkante and I would also like to send this as a signal: let's not forget the people in the review camps around the world, the millions of refugees in the camps in Cuba, where I was in February last year, where the virus broke out just like a battery. These people also need our solidarity and support. Thank you very much, goodbye missing particles.