Suicide prevention is a top priority for the World Health Organization. This year, World Health Day on October 10th will focus on suicide prevention, and we welcome the opportunity to raise awareness of this very serious and often overlooked global problem. Every 40 seconds, someone dies by suicide. This means that 800,000 lives are lost each year to this cause, and each loss is an indescribable tragedy, both for the person who dies and for the friends, family, colleagues, and communities who are grieving or left behind and who often do not receive the support they need. Young people represent the future, and yet suicide is the second leading cause of death among people aged 15 to 29. Efforts must be intensified to ensure that young people have the necessary coping mechanisms to face the challenges they encounter, whether at school, university, or in the workplace. We must also ensure that they have access to the support they need when they need it. Suicide can affect anyone, anywhere. Contrary to popular belief, suicide is not  Suicide is not just a problem of high-income countries; in fact, almost 80% of suicides occur in low- and middle-income countries where resources to detect and support people in need are scarce. It is therefore imperative to strengthen mental health and care systems. For every suicide, there are 20 failed attempts. People who survive a first attempt are at greater risk of trying again, so it is important to provide them with the constant support they need. Fortunately, suicides can be prevented. We know which strategies work and which don't. Raising awareness, on occasions like World Mental Health Day, offers us the opportunity to end the stigma so that more people feel able to ask for help. The four essential interventions to help prevent suicide are: restricting access to media coverage of suicide; entering the media to present hopeful stories; no longer using sensationalist language when reporting on suicide; promoting programs aimed at helping young people in schools acquire life skills; and finally, identifying suicide risk as early as possible to offer timely support. At the World Health Organization, we support governments in using their unique position to implement a national suicide prevention response. However, we all have a role to play. On World Mental Health Day, I invite each and every one of you—friends, partners, family members, colleagues, teachers, journalists, those who work in health services or not, those who provide first aid or not—to learn about suicide prevention and reach out to those who need help. Together, we can save lives.