Hello and welcome to another edition of Transforming WH, a series of video interviews where I talk to colleagues inside WHO and outside about the work we do in the World Health Organization, about how we reform and transform also in challenging times. And today here in the studio I'm visited by my very good colleague Deborah Castell who's the director here at WHO headquarters for mental health, brain health and substance use. So welcome to you Devra. Thank you. So first a little bit about yourself. You are from Argentina originally a psychologist by training but already uh back in the '9s you moved to Europe. You worked for many years in the north of Italy in the field with public mental health program so to say around the turn of the century you came to work for WHO the first time working in Albania and Kosovo with mental health on the ground again this was after the civil war of ex Yugoslavia so I guess a lot of mental health challenges but you worked on our programs eventually also became head of our country office in Albania so you have extensive experience across all the three levels of of WHO. You moved back to the Americas working in the Caribbean, Latin American, again, country work and then for a number of years um in uh our regional office in Washington DC, Paho Amro, our regional organization for for the Americas and then in 2019 you came here to headquarters in your current position. Is is that a precise pre precise description of Yes. Yes. Correct. So even though in your department it's substance use, we'll focus on mental health today. That seems to be your whole professional career. Yes. So we're going to start way back in history. Deborah when was founded after the second world war our constitution of who has a very very strong preamble on health as a basic human right health as more than absence of disease health as physical mental and social well-being. So already then there was a strong focus on mental health and on the right to mental health. But since then it seems to have been overshadowed by many focus on many other disease areas. So mental health hasn't always had the priority in our work as it maybe should have. Why is that? That's a very good question. I have to say also that I have always been very proud of uh that definition that so early in time included mental health. But let me take you a bit back in the history even even further back. Huh? Further back when we started to hear about how this the the world was dealing with people with mental health conditions and how they were secluded in institutions far away from the society basically because the health sector the medical community didn't know what to do with people suffering from mental health conditions. So they were isolated and today also we have huge uh psychiatric institutions that in a way is a modern uh facility following that old uh old structure and the reason why I'm saying all this is because then all that uh contributed to um okay we don't know what's happening to these people let's put them aside and so the entire area although it made it to the definition of of health in who constitution it has been seen as this is a difficult one. We don't know what to do. We don't know how to deal with the problem. H it is complex. We are talking about mental health but actually we are talking about a huge number of diseases, disorders, conditions, right? We are talking about the most common ones like depression and anxiety. But we are also talking about more serious ones or or serious at all but uh more difficult to do to manage ones such as uh schizophrenia or other psychosis or or or or bipolar conditions etc. So it's a broad range of conditions broad spectrum of disease. Yes. And then we try to solve them with one simple strategy. It doesn't work. So that makes it always like lagging behind because and another issue if you allow me to expand a bit is that you know uh although people with severe mental health conditions die between 10 and 10 20 years before those without the conditions there is not an immediate risk except with very severe situations that may lead to suicide but otherwise it's not the urgent need of some infectious diseases that we need to solve now. sufference is invisible many times and the stigma surround it all this is so big that people don't even talk about that we don't have the only now in recent decades you have the movements that for example brought the HIV up to the attention of policy makers right because community affected where so the reason is harder the the reason for underprioritization of mental health is basically lack of knowledge lack of awareness lack of visibility, lack of the one the strong stigma that surrounds mental health and maybe also I mean as opposed to many other disease areas lack of strong advocacy groups because you add strong advocate groups for many of the communicable diseases etc. and and people with mental health conditions, family members in many countries still uh struggle to admit or also we talked recently a lot these days in the workplace you don't come easily saying oh I have a mental health condition right because your job is at risk and actually it does affect a lot of people like one in eight people I mean most of these of course as you mentioned anxiety depression is what all of us can experience with ourselves or in our families and then you have the more rare diseases like schizophrenia, psychosis, bipolar disease, but they are very very severe long-term chronic diseases. Frequent very yeah so roughly 25 years ago I think there seems to be a movement of stronger focus into mental health. I think the first uh world health report from the WHO dedicated to mental health is in 2001. uh 10 years later we have the first global health strategy uh for mental health which is basically also taking forward the millennium development goals. Uh then we had a global strategy that was then a couple of years ago extended until 2030. So it seems like in the last couple of decades stronger focus on mental health. So why is that? Is that because of the development in science is political or why would you say? I think as as before uh there is not just one answer and or one reason right there are a number of of uh reasons for this visibility increased visibility that's uh people were talking more about that there was then perhaps more and more experiences uh at country level in different realities being developed that were showing that it was possible to to deal with those challenges. So with the optimism coming from that that say okay let's see how we do it and then h knowing from one country to the other that there are some uh possibilities the community of people with mental health conditions uh people with live experience definitely h became louder and the movement of human rights and and uh the complaints about the human rights violations mostly in the institutions I mentioned before but not only also people not getting access to care uh has their rights violated, right? But also then we get in this historic uh process we get to cover where uh a a a visibility that was growing and increasing with covid became way more uh visible certainly right certainly escalating after co but I guess in the last couple of decades also in evolution in the professional field it's always been maybe dominated by a medical perspective from psychiatry but increasingly also like your own profession of psychology and behavioral science be this field of mental health has became much broader would you say and and perhaps if um just less medicalized less institutionalized and more broader community based yes and it's interesting because the psychotropic medications were in the discovered let's say in the 50s and since then very little advance has been in that uh medical strictly speaking medical area while other areas became a bit more um known or with better results, right? Like cognitive behavioral therapy which is now very very evidence-based reflected in WHO guidelines. Of course, as you say, not many breakthroughs unfortunately in in in in uh in medicine though some better anti-depressants etc. But but not the great breakthroughs unfortunately. Um but still there's room for improvement. I mean we'll just look at a couple of slides. I've got here the first uh slide which is basically showing the burden of disease. It's very technical and complicated. Basically we look at various disease groups to see what is the burden of disease. What is basically the loss of good life years good years of life years without disability. And interesting here is that the mental health uh conditions anxiety, depression etc. rate very highly though it's not reflected in the resource allocation. If we look at the next graph uh which is from your um world mental health report that you issued last year one in eight affected it's very widespread. We discussed about it 71% is undertreated. I guess a lot of anxiety and depression out there literally and untreated and then as we see only 2% of health budgets across all our member states are allocated to mental health it probably should be more around 20% than 2% if it reflects sort of the best burden of disease so still we need progress we do why is that well I I think that the issue of the budget that you showed is is quite evident we We're talking about uh less than 1% in low-inccome countries, between 1 and 2% in in upper low income or middle inome countries and just a few income country high income countries that have a higher percentage. So uh the I think that uh on one hand is shifting priorities. You need to take care of some more emerging issues and then look into these. H but now the the time has come to for member states, for countries uh ministries of health mostly but not only to understand that there are a lot of actions that they could undertake to do a better with the money they already have and B look at options to allocate more because those are the numbers that we are having right those are the conditions people are suffering from. Yeah. uh not the ones that were 50 years ago but those ones that are now and so so is that resonating is that resonating with governments and it is yeah it is and and and you know we know here in this uh building how every year over the last two three years more and more governments can come to our governing bodies meetings and say who help us to do better we need to prioritize mental health we need to get more support for for mental health we need to uh get uh do better. Basically the the point is that they also need to see how they uh revert and reh the set of priorities and in your experience I mean how to get governments to prioritize mental health and get an action plan and fund it. What are the arguments that work? We have been trying to get more and more case studies show get the small experiences from all over the world because there are good experiences all over the world from low-inccome countries from middle- inome countries and high- income countries showing what can be done how to do it. So basically the evidence this is what works this is the kind but it's not just the scientific evidence and the guidelines and the norms that they should follow. Yes, also that we do that but also practical because there are I'm I'm firmly convinced that they everybody can do better and so uh let's show the way and let's see how we can support that process and then slowly increasing the number of people that have access to care. So that 71 should be smaller and smaller and smaller and and and better better quality. But it still takes time. I mean I also looked at the numbers if you look at the number of mental health professionals I mean like psychiatrist or psychologist in many low and lower middle inome countries I mean it's maybe only a handful per million inhabitants who actually can provide that specialized service so that takes years I mean to to educate a psychiatrist takes definitely 10 years maybe right but we need we have developed also tools and there are good experiences of training um increase the some capacities, community based health, community based workers, primary care settings, how others can do some part of but this is basically what we do for other areas of disease for for maternal child health for communicable diseases in a way I think that the the health sector has kind of fragmented what is related to mental health goes apart and somebody else will take care of but again breaking breaking the stigma I mean depression is a good example because I mean that's a terrible disease. It's very widespread. It's all over. But we have actually evidence-based way of diagnosing and treating with and without drugs, right? That can be made accessible. It doesn't need a highly specialized psychiatrist, right? So these are some and then let's save the one psychiatrist for whatever number professionals to deal with. So basically that that thing about depression is not different from what we do with hypertension. Exactly. which is also undertreated by the way. Yeah. Okay. Very good. Uh and we already touched upon it Dra, but it seems like especially during and after COVID there's a much stronger focus. It's like many many countries across the world, all regions realized during COVID 19 how important mental health is. They saw it in their young generation, in adults. So, how do you see that influencing the agenda? Well, it's definitely influencing the the the COVID itself and the the impacting people plus the measures taken to prevent uh uh uh people getting infected from COVID. So, the isolation mostly increased uh the possibilities of developing mental health conditions. We did some assessments a year after and it was an increased of around 25% of people with anxiety and with depression and young people were among the most affected women as well but let's focus on young people young people who communicate more than anybody else using social media but maybe also because the stigma was broken we basically suddenly we saw it and we talked more about our mental health but I think that we own that also to young people they're talking more openly and using other means to communicate that will spread faster and broader than the traditional way of talking about your own issues. So then the problem have increased and that call for attention has reached out to governments from many many many countries and that's why there is again I'm very optimistic. So I see a a a a change happening and and and hopefully that will end up in more a more and proper attention to those who need that. So we have a who has a strategy we have STGS also dedicated to mental health and and one of the SG indicators we'll just bring up uh the next graph is on suicide. Uh so this is basically a graph showing how the suicide death rate across the various uh regions uh is actually going down in Europe and Asia overall globally it's actually stable which is not what it's supposed to be if we are to be on track for the SGS. We also see uh for Africa it's it's not going down and actually for Americas maybe especially North America it's going a little bit up. So we are not on track for this key STG indicator of bringing down a suicide rate. We are not on track to the 2030. So why is that? Well, the lack of investment is a main reason. We uh uh it's very hard to get uh support to work on suicide prevention and I could say that it's also related to stigma on one hand. On the other hand, there is not one again not one single intervention that will solve but looking many countries many countries in Europe and Asia are bringing it down. So we know what works I mean dedicated programs making suicide instruments less available etc. So there are ways of doing this, right? But it's a a a set of interventions that need to take place, some of them outside of the health sector because control of the means to abuse to suicide or education. So So it takes an all of government approach. Exactly. teaching young people how to uh deal with their emotions for example or the challenges they have or or or it is also uh introducing this in the health professionals so that they understand how to detect uh signs and intervene early or follow up after but also the media how the media report all those four areas are the priorities that we know there is scientific evidence showing that if you put all that together you can actually know how this could be brought down. So we are currently in a crisis of global health. I mean that's maybe even an understatement. It's a great crisis. Uh withdrawal of of the United States from WHO and many other global health entities. Uh withdrawal also funding very seriously not only for WHO but from any other multilaterals and for programs on the ground. Is this also affecting the mental health field? Do you see that affecting programs? It is affecting because we are in the middle of all those areas affected. But I have to say from a self selfish perspective that we were at a time when the funding for mental health was growing including for example from US funding in different ways or other other partners and then at this time is when we see a stall or maybe a decrease. However, again, uh optimism is that um there are new partners coming on board for for mental health and there are a foundations and uh nonforprofit uh private sector that is saying uh well if I can help in some way I want to do it and so I still see some uh possibilities ground for some optimism but maybe also ground for some concern because it's also a turbulent world with insecurities and wars and conflicts which in itself is fueling absolutely mental health. Oh, so the needs unfortunately increase. Yeah. Because of all the the the world we are living in right now. But and then some are sensitive to that and hopefully we'll respond with uh making resources available. But on the other hand again um with the many challenges still there is room for improvement and using the resources that each country has in a better way. Joe will keep on prioritizing this. Yeah, I hope so. Of course. But we are and and uh and uh and we are playing a unique role in this global uh health scene when we talk about mental health because there are many new partners. Once upon a time when I joined in your summary, we were almost the only one that will play that global role. Now there are other actors but no one that has this a special role of doctorative work and support countries for implementation with guidance that helps them the knowhow uh that makes but in the current crisis I mean many are also saying that it's not only funding etc it's also multilateralism that is being challenged um do you see a future for multilateralism absolutely I think more than ever Because if it is not uh us then who will do that? We are the ones that are in the better position to convene actors to talk to those on the ground and to talk to those uh doing the science and to connect the dots and to make sure that we know each other what's going on and to make sure that the resources available are useful for those who don't have them. So I think that's that's the our role is more needed than ever when when there are challenges with with resources. So thank you very much Deborra for talking to me here in the studio and thank you very much colleagues for uh watching another edition of transforming WH. Do stay tuned on this channel for upcoming episodes. Yeah.