In the last weeks, WHO is scaling up the delivery of supplies. We are delivering critical supplies at a health facility level, through different types of convoys. We have a UN convoys, interagency. We go also directly. And this is based of course on analysis of evidenced based data, The biggest challenge is access. It's very difficult to get to these areas where there is high risk, where there is conflict, areas that are close to the contact line. We are talking about WHO Interagency Emergency Kits, which could be composed by medicines and renewables, infusions and so forth. We are talking about TESK kit, which is trauma, and so it's supporting from surgery to trauma response, even burns if you want to go more particular. We're talking about noncommunicable disease kits that help us to respond to most chronic situation that at the moment cannot be responded normally due to the situation. In wartime, trauma is not the only component. Actually with the damage to health facilities and with damage to health systems, sometimes we need to consider that the most common noncommunicable and chronic diseases they become a real need and they might hamper the life and the quality of life of people. We deliver the supplies to health facilities mostly, of different level hospitals or primary health care centers. And we do that through triangulation data that comes from our tool HERAMS as well as our connections, mostly that's really through the support and the collaboration with Ministry of Health, Department of Health, and through sometimes the health facilities directly. One IEHK kit, for instance interagency, is supporting about 10,000 people when it's complete kit, so it's quite the big result. These are the community, but of course, even the health workers, they benefit from that because we are helping them work better, which is the reason why they are there. The reason why they stayed to deliver. So in a way, we have a double support to patients, beneficiaries, as well as health workers, which are really the real heroes of this emergency, honestly. Therefore, for today, this is a very big help that we received today, and it will practically immediately go in order to be used for patients in the treatment process. And this is just the gold reserve that we need.