At the World Health Organization ( WHO), we attach great importance to suicide prevention. That is why this year, October 10th, World Mental Health Day will be dedicated to this theme. We will take this opportunity to raise global awareness of these very serious and, unfortunately, often neglected problems. Every 40 seconds, someone takes their own life. This means that nearly 800,000 lives are lost each year, and each loss is an indescribable tragedy for the person who has died, as well as for those left behind: friends, family, colleagues, and community members who too often do not receive the support they need. Young people are vulnerable to the challenges of the future. Yet suicide is the second leading cause of death among 15- to 29-year-olds. We must redouble our efforts to equip them with the coping mechanisms they need to meet the challenges they encounter at school, university, or at work. We must also ensure that they have access to the necessary support when needed. Suicide can  Suicide can affect anyone, anywhere, and contrary to popular belief, these problems don't only affect high-income countries. In fact, nearly 40 per person of these acts occur in low- or middle-income countries. The Netherlands lacks the resources to initiate and support those who need it. It has become imperative to strengthen mental health and care systems in all settings. For every suicide, there are twenty attempts. People who survive a first attempt are at risk of trying again, so they need constant support. Fortunately, suicides are preventable; we know that it can help them. World Mental Health Day is an opportunity for all of us to fight stigma so that more people feel able to ask for help. Four key interventions contribute to preventing suicides: reducing access to the means of suicide; getting the media to also talk about reasons for hope and avoids these nationalists in treatment; helping young people acquire the necessary skills at school to cope with life's difficulties; and recognizing the risks of suicide as early as possible in order to provide support as soon as possible.  It is possible at the WHO, and we help governments use their unique position to initiate national prevention action, but we all have a role to play on this World Mental Health Day. I encourage each of you—friends, partners, family, colleagues, teachers, healthcare professionals, first responders, and journalists—to learn about suicide prevention strategies and reach out to those in difficulty. It seems we can save lives.