Everyone should have access to healthcare, but just because a patient has been treated does n't mean their health will improve. In fact, when healthcare is of insufficient quality, treatments may not work or may even be harmful. Worldwide, the number of deaths due to poor quality healthcare is higher than the number of deaths due to lack of access to healthcare services. Fifteen percent of deaths in low- and middle-income countries are due to poor quality care. In high-income countries, one in ten patients is injured while receiving hospital care. The need to act is clear to ensure that healthcare services provide quality care that improves people's health. The care provided must be effective so that you are accurately diagnosed and receive effective treatment; safe so that the healthcare you receive does not cause you harm; person-centered so that decisions made about your care are tailored to your needs and you are treated with compassion; and timely so that you receive care at the times you need it. They must also be equitable so that everyone receives the healthcare they need, integrated so that different staff in healthcare facilities work together to care for you, and efficient so that available resources are used more effectively to improve your health and avoid waste. The WHO calls on countries to take action on the quality of healthcare and collaborates with them to develop policies and plans so that all patients are treated in environments with adequate infrastructure and that healthcare workers are well-trained and given the time, resources, and support necessary to provide quality healthcare. We encourage governments and health organizations to work closely with the people and communities they serve to find new ways of building relationships and working together and to learn from both failures and successes. The WHO also helps countries take rapid action in critical areas such as maternal and child health, patient safety, infection prevention and control, and water, sanitation, and hygiene. If action is needed in  In support of quality healthcare worldwide, we also focus on fragile and conflict-affected environments where there is an urgent need to improve healthcare. We work with partners to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals, which emphasize that quality healthcare is a key element of universal health coverage. To quote the WHO Director-General, quality is not something that can be taken for granted; it requires vision, investment planning, compassion, meticulous execution, and rigorous monitoring from the national level down to the smallest, most remote clinic.