Dear friends, we are living in difficult times as we face the new threat of the COVID-19 pandemic, and yet the old threats have not disappeared. For many years, non- communicable diseases (NCDs) have been the leading cause of death worldwide, and many of these deaths occur in people under 70 years of age. Most occur in low- and middle-income countries. The presence of COVID- 19 makes the prevention and management of NCDs particularly important. People living with NCDs such as diabetes, heart disease, stroke, and cancer are especially vulnerable and at risk of becoming seriously ill due to the virus. More than two-thirds of the 60 million deaths worldwide each year are due to NCDs, and almost half of these NCD deaths are caused by cardiovascular diseases. This is an unnecessary tragedy. NCDs can be prevented by adopting a healthy diet, being physically active, and eliminating smoking and excessive alcohol consumption. Trans fats produce Industrially produced trans fats cause heart disease and death, yet they are still widely used in many countries in fried and baked foods, as well as in spreads. These trans fats can be replaced with healthier fats and oils without changing the taste or cost of food. Eliminating industrially produced trans fats is a priority for the WHO, for three reasons: first, because it will save lives; second, because it is feasible— certainly some industries will have to adapt, but others will find a new market, and it represents virtually no cost to governments or consumers, but in fact, it presents a huge advantage in that it greatly reduces healthcare costs; third, it will reduce the burden on healthcare facilities, which are currently under considerable strain due to COVID- 19. In 2018, the Replay Action Framework was launched, and this action plan was followed the next year by detailed operational guidelines and the first status report, intended to inspire and assist. Governments are being urged to eliminate trans fats from their diets, just as the World Food Programme (WFP) spearheaded the eradication of smallpox and polio globally. It is leading a global movement to rid the world of trans fats by 2023. Good practices are already being implemented for nearly 600 million people worldwide. Today, we will not only launch the second progress report but also announce that the WHO intends to certify and recognize countries that have eliminated industrially produced trans fats from their diets for their preeminent role. I will now give the floor to Dr. Tom Frieden, President and Director of the association, which is committed to saving lives and saving all. This initiative falls within the framework of the Vital strategies, and this association is our partner in this global effort. Thank you. I want to say first that artificial trans fats are a toxic ingredient that kills thousands, hundreds of thousands of people every year, and This should not be the case. Two years ago, the World Health Organization called for the very first time for the complete elimination of a risk factor for non- communicable diseases by demanding the removal of artificial trans fats from the global food chain. We have made good progress over the past two years, but too many lives are still being lost due to trans fats. We must act, otherwise we will not be able to achieve our goals. Eliminating artificial trans fats from the food chain is feasible from an economic, political, and technical standpoint, and it will save lives at no cost to either the government or consumers. According to MSF, the Ripley package of measures provides the country with a clear and effective voice to eliminate this toxin from food products through good practices. In just two years since the launch of the Rice Place initiative globally, we have seen encouraging progress. The number of people protected by regulations concerning trans fats has increased from 2.3 billion in 2018 to more than 3.1 billion by the end of [year missing].  2021 represents a momentum that we can largely attribute to effective regional initiatives. Last year, the European Union adopted regulations concerning good practices, and all countries in the Americas region unanimously adopted an action plan to eliminate Taken together, these two regional initiatives have the potential to protect an additional billion people in more than 50 countries not yet protected from trans fats. These regional initiatives serve as models and are also inspired by the models established by the Eurasian Economic Union and the Gulf Cooperation Council, which were the first international regional institutions to adopt limits on trans fats. Achieving the goal of global elimination by 2023 is necessary, and for this, action at the regional level is essential. We must say that we have made progress so far, and this is what the report we are launching today shows. The report highlights the progress, case studies, and effective strategies to accelerate progress.  The action at the national, regional, and legal levels has decided to publish a report each year to help countries implement best practices and ensure accountability. We urge countries to strengthen their efforts and champion this cause at home and in neighboring countries. By next year's report, more than half the time until 2023 will have passed, and we are not yet halfway to eliminating trans fats. Every country must do more. Some may think we need to slow down our action because of the terrible COVID-19 pandemic. In truth, prevention is more important than ever. Eliminating artificial trans fats is a way to save lives and prevent heart attacks while freeing up space in the healthcare system. Our association, committed to saving lives, is a partner of the WHO in this effort and will support the Ministry of Health and the country in implementing proven strategies. I am also very pleased that the Director-General has announced this certification process. This will demonstrate that countries  Countries that have eliminated trans fats will be able to be certified. This isn't the first time the WHO has launched an eradication program; it has already done so, for example, for smallpox. But what's important is to certify the countries that have eliminated trans fats so that it is recognized as such. Together, we can achieve a world free of trans fats by 2023. And now I'm going to give the floor to Dr. Chizuru Nishida, who will present an overview of the report as well as the highlights. We now give the floor to Dr. Cheese Euros Nishida, who will present the main results of this report. We have already received a number of comments as well as questions. There is a questions and answers section. Some questions have been asked, for example, whether the WHO will issue guidelines for trans fats, which are naturally occurring and found in dairy or meat products. There is another question concerning strategies regarding Political leaders, in order to advocate for regulations aimed at eliminating trans fatty acids, not just those of industrial origin, it is clear that the industry has committed to developing regulations on the issue. We will now hear the presentation from Dr. Nishida. Another question: poor and developing countries will have the most difficulty; how will the WHO help these countries to solve this problem? There is also a question concerning guidelines on trans fatty acids, particularly for products that are free of them. All of this, of course, relates to the Ricqlès Action Framework. I think Dr. Nishida can now present his report. Dr. Nishida, you have the floor. Thank you, Francesco Mercier. We are waiting for my presentation to be projected on the screen, but I will begin. The Director-General and Dr. Nishida emphasized that trans fatty acids in industrially produced products have no nutritional value, and the WHO has therefore called for industrially produced trans fatty acids to be eliminated by 2023.  And we have closely monitored the progress made by countries since that date. To this end, and to closely monitor this policy, the various policies implemented in countries, we have developed country assessment sheets. These assessment sheets are well described in the report, and I think you should have access to this report on the WHO website in order to closely monitor the good practices being applied and to encourage countries to achieve this 2023 target. We ask countries to develop and implement policies based on the good practices recommended by the WHO. There are actually two options: the first option is to eliminate trans fatty acids and has set a limit of 2 grams per 100 grams of food products; the second option is to ban partially hydrogenated oils. With the country assessment sheets, we have developed maps that cover the whole world, and you will soon be able to see these maps on the screen. The maps are also included in the report; you will also find them on the WHO website.  The WHO, in a database called GINA, recorded significant progress last year, particularly in two countries: Brazil and Turkey, which will be speaking here. These two countries adopted policies based on good practices during the past year. These policies are now being implemented. Furthermore, I also presented a table, which is also included in the report, showing the upward trend in countries adopting good practice policies. Good practices regarding trans fats are now applied in about forty countries, meaning that 815 million people are affected. While approximately 600 million people are currently covered by these policies, by 2022 we hope to have a larger number of countries, and consequently, 8,115 million people will be covered by these good practice policies. There have been several trends that we can identify. First, we realize  Given that more and more regions have developed action at the regional or sub-regional level, this is one of the first trends we have observed. The second trend is linked to more countries moving from less strict limits previously applied to a policy based on good practices. To cite a few examples, we can see that the problems that arise concerning the application of good practices exist particularly in low- and middle-income countries. Consequently, we strongly encourage countries to work towards developing such policies based on good practices as quickly as possible. We would also like to present the first annex that we have added to the document. This data is based on an analysis made possible by the generous contribution—or rather, the generous provision—of unpublished data by the team led by Dr. Ashkan. So, here you have a list of countries that have taken a number of measures. In the first column, we have the proportion of deaths due to coronary heart disease resulting from trans fat intake. There are fifteen countries, representing approximately two-thirds of...  The burden and mobility of these 15 countries is significant, and only four have implemented a policy based on good practices; eleven have not yet done so. Therefore, we strongly recommend that countries develop and implement a policy based on good practices and strengthen regulatory capacities at the national level to closely monitor progress and the trans fatty acid content in food products. To this end, they must strengthen laboratory capacities. Regional or sub-regional regulations should also be advocated to the greatest extent possible to support these efforts. Louhannaise will continue to provide technical support to strengthen regulatory and laboratory capacities. The WHO will also recognize the results achieved by the countries and disseminate the experiences and good practices of the countries, which is precisely what we are doing with this annual report. It will continue its advocacy at the global level. We also expect the industry, particularly the food and beverage industry, to live up to the commitments made in May 2019, a commitment that aims to eliminate trans fatty acids. industrially produced from their products worldwide by 2023, we also expect the main suppliers of fats and oils to take the necessary steps to phase out partially hydrogenated oils sold to food manufacturers worldwide. I will conclude my presentation by thanking a number of people; this would not have been possible without the contribution of Member States and National Focal Points, data collection teams in WHO country offices, as well as our colleagues in regional offices and colleagues at WHO headquarters. I would also like to mention that several colleagues made it possible for us to organize this event around the launch of the report, and we must also thank the Resolve association, all committed to saving lives. We also want to thank our colleagues at the Institute for Health Evaluation and Metrics, chaired by Dr. H. Canal China. That being said, I would also like to emphasize that two colleagues in particular from WHO played a prominent role. Dr. Yamamoto, who is here, is also the INSEE style doctor. His two colleagues really played a tremendous role in ensuring this year's report was published. Thank you so much, Dr. Nishida. It is indeed a successful endeavor. We see that there are many comments and many questions from the participants who are connected today. We are here, of course, to celebrate successes, but we are also here to answer your questions. But if we truly want to celebrate a success, I believe we must first acknowledge the two countries that have made very significant progress in this area. And to begin, let's give the floor to one of them: Turkey, which will be represented by Dr. Crutches. He is a specialist in family health and the Deputy Director of the Directorate General of Public Health at the Ministry of Health. He also deals with primary healthcare at the Ministry of Health in Turkey. I repeat, he is currently the Deputy Director General of the Directorate General of Public Health. I think Dr. Clear, what is an elite, is now online, and I hope  that he can explain to us what his experience is on the hot match thank you Mr. President I hope you hear my voice indeed I had some difficulty sending my video we hear you well so I'm sending you my photo anyway I actually look better in the photo than in real life I'll try to be brief without a doubt the mts are the main problem of our time even if the pandemic has changed the population's perception in my country two out of three people have weight problems and one out of three is overweight and one out of three is obese Turkey is no exception we are suffering the impact of diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, cancers and respiratory diseases which is very worrying and together these four health problems represent the majority of the mortality rate these diseases are responsible for 89% of all deaths in my country of which 36.6 for sow are attributed to cardiovascular diseases premature death loans, that is to say before the age of 70 are due to a person who does not insure 16% of the  Population spending on trans fats is just the tip of the iceberg; productivity costs are generally higher than health costs. The overall economic costs of health in Turkey for 2016 were estimated at 70 billion Turkish lira, or 3.6 percent of GDP. Products containing trans fats are found everywhere, especially fried foods, and all of this is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. The industrial production of trans fats is therefore considered a threat to public health. Eliminating trans fats has been a priority for us since 2014; it was declared a priority in our national program. The process has been far from easy; we often had to establish contacts with partners on various platforms, visit laboratories, and collaborate with the Ministry of Health. Thanks to the WHO's assistance, we received very valuable insights into eliminating trans fats. Ultimately, we succeeded in convincing all parties. In May, specifically on May 14th, we announced regulations that go beyond the existing limit, reducing the amount of trans fats present in processed foods. The plan is to limit trans fats to no more than two grams per 100 grams of food products. This is an important measure.  To eliminate trans fats from food, which will save thousands of lives each year, we implemented this policy in Turkey in collaboration with our partners in the European Union and elsewhere to encourage them to take action to eliminate trans fats. We are, in fact, the first, and we hope to be the first WHO region, to become a model for reducing trans fats. I thank the WHO for taking these initiatives to save lives, as well as the United Nations Working Group for their technical support in developing this regulation. We worked closely with the WHO Regional Office for Europe and the WHO Country Office to adopt best practices for implementing this policy in Turkey. In addition to the replay package, we also implemented this recommendation, which will come into force in 2021. We hope to prevent premature deaths. We hope that all countries will demonstrate the same commitment as Turkey, which has reduced exposure to trans fats and implemented Providing more healthy alternatives to reduce the number of deaths from cardiovascular diseases, I thank Dr. Tadros and Dr. Frieden for their commitment to NCD prevention, and we would like to congratulate all our WHO colleagues on the launch of the WHO report on the elimination of trans fatty acids. Thank you for the match, kind of crutches. Thank you very much, Dr. Bekir, and thank you for sharing your success with us, that is to say, a plea to explain why the elimination of trans fatty acids will reduce deaths and costs for health services. You spoke about the discussion with stakeholders based on the guidance provided by the WHO and working on clear and strong regulations to ensure that the European region is the first region to be free of trans fatty acids with a view to their complete elimination. I would now like to invite our next speaker, Dr. Edward Downes, from Brazil, who is a biologist and expert in the evaluation and development of policies in Regarding food, he is currently the vice coordinator of the food division at the Brazilian Ministry of Health. Eduardo, you have the floor. Thank you, Mr. President, and good morning to all our friends and colleagues. First of all, I would like to congratulate the WHO and the regional office for publishing this report. Thank you also for all the support provided to the country, particularly in the Americas. I am not sure if my presentation will appear on the screen. In the meantime, I can tell you that reducing trans fats has been a priority in Brazil for over a decade. Here is the number of deaths attributable to NCDs in Brazil. Who intends to reduce the impact of this type of death? In the meantime, we have gradually and successfully been able to reduce the number of deaths attributable to trans fats. Just like Turkey, we have a very heavy burden of NCDs, which represent 70% of deaths in Brazil. Most of these deaths, 20%, are attributable to cardiovascular diseases. It is therefore important that we can act on the sodium, sugar, and trans fats, and their reduction, and then we must improve the consumption of fiber from fruits and vegetables. If we look at the role of trans fats in our diet, we have developed a classification table. It is very important for us to be able to tackle the root causes of the problem. In Brazil, the traditional diet has been replaced by processed foods. It is therefore difficult to promote a healthy diet and reduce the burden due to this processed food. We first took into account the World Water Strategy, particularly the Rio de Janeiro Declaration for a trans-fat-free America, especially in the form of oil and other types of foods containing trans fats. We mandated the labeling of this type of food, and like others, we indicated that it was important to replace trans fats with polyunsaturated fats. We also implemented the Wii Play strategy, which allows us to put in place this system, which has proven very useful for many countries regarding the points  Salient at the national level, well, it's more or less in line with what has been done internationally. First, a mandatory declaration—as mentioned earlier on the previous slide— the mandatory declaration of the presence of trans fats in food. This applies to all of South America. This was done in 2003. The Trans Fat- Free Americas initiative was launched in 2008. In 2012, regulations were introduced for health claims on food. Then, in 2014, came the dietary guidelines for the population of Brazil, which have been useful in terms of healthy eating policy. We observed an increase in demand between 2016 and 2018 for the elimination of trans fats in processed foods, and in 2019 for the elimination of trans fats and partially hydrogenated oils from processed foods. We implemented the Trans Fat- Free Americas initiative, and most of those who signed up have committed to it, which has...  This allowed us to consider other problems for the future: sugar, Greece, sodium, Naucelle. For two years, we decided to set a limit of 25% for oils and 1% for trans fats and other types of food. In 2010, we conducted a review which allowed us to decipher that we had had a significant impact at the national level with a reduction of 230 tons of trans fats per year, and we observed substantial changes in most food categories, even if some continue to pose a problem. Another survey we conducted to measure the impact, health claims, shows that most age groups have achieved a high percentage of trans fat-free products, which stimulates the industry and encourages it to label. Indeed, several organizations have helped us spread the message concerning the dangers of the presence of trans fats in food. This therefore encourages the industry to label more to guide the choice of  Consumers, our food guidelines, as I mentioned, convey an important message: that the least processed foods possible should form the basis of our diet. It's true that industrial food has replaced traditional products. We know that most countries have a very healthy basic diet, so we are trying to promote education to raise public awareness of this. In 2015, another milestone was reached: we were able to gather international evidence indicating that trans fats offer no benefits. The F10 in the United States recognized trans fats as not generally recommended and as being free of problems. We therefore observed an increase in trans fat-free products. Our regulatory agency, in short, I will conclude by mentioning point 6: we began one-on-one technical meetings between stakeholders. We organized technical meetings with food industry experts to replace trans fats while collecting international evidence. Finally, we measured the impact of these measures with three regulatory proposals: first, to set limits of 2% for trans fats.  trans fats, but stricter measures are also planned, including a ban on partially hydrogenated oils and a 2% limit on trans fatty acids in all foods. Health, economic, and regulatory aspects must be considered to ensure that all stakeholders support these measures. We discussed this within the food industry and with the government, indicating the importance of organizing public consultations to approve the resolution on the total elimination of trans fatty acids. In conclusion, we decided to implement two strategies that can impact most of the strategies in the country that have seen the elimination of trans fatty acids. First, a 2% limit on trans fatty acids in processed foods was set, with an 18-month deadline for the food industry to achieve this. The second phase would involve banning partially hydrogenated oils in the food chain, particularly in bakeries, etc., so that we can have a real impact. The deadline is also 2020, the same three deadlines as in the previous phase.  at the international level, and it is important that we continue to fight not only in Brazil but also elsewhere to prevent preventable illnesses or deaths. It is also important to eliminate the risk factor, namely trans fats, and to implement and promote healthy foods and physical activity, which is very important so that we can achieve the goals we have set for ourselves at the international level. Thank you very much, Eduardo, and congratulations. You have put in place a roadmap with a progressive reduction of volunteers for the elimination of these products in accordance with good practices. Four speakers asked us to speak. First, Dr. Fayçal, to whom I will now give the floor, but while Dr. Bissonnet prepares, I will perhaps begin to answer some questions that have come up in the discussion thread. First, industrial trans fats versus natural trans fats: can we distinguish between them? Well, it's not easy to distinguish between them. Our policies target industrial trans fats since these are the majority of trans fats consumed.  It is possible to consider alternative products in countries, and well, it is a difficulty, it's true. We don't want to increase the consumption of hydrogenated fatty acids by replacing trans fatty acids. However, there are a number of measures that are possible, for example, with liquid or semi-solid oils. Is Dr. Faisal, the Zionist director of the Department of Healthy Eating at the Ministry of Health of Saudi Arabia, aware of this? Thank you. Good morning, good afternoon, good evening. Thank you for welcoming us, WHO, for the presentation of this second report on trans fatty acids. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has taken numerous measures aimed at eliminating trans fatty acids in processed foods. We embarked on this journey in 2015 by imposing labeling regarding trans fatty acids. We set upper limits for the presence of trans fatty acids. We implemented best practices. We have seen the complete elimination of trans fatty acids and the elimination of partially hydrogenated oils, which will come into effect in 2020. I am pleased to inform you that we have undertaken an evaluation here.  In Saudi Arabia, we were able to conclude that almost 80% of food products in Saudi Arabia are free of partially hydrogenated oils, and we thank all those who contributed to this success. The remaining 20% ​​do not meet the labeling criteria, and the elimination of partially hydrogenated oils will require continued monitoring and evaluation to achieve complete elimination. So, thank you again for hosting us, and I sincerely thank the WHO office here in the region, Mr. Rose's office. Thank you very much, and congratulations to Saudi Arabia for this very important development. Several questions were asked in the discussion thread about how countries managed to progress in this way and what role civil society played. Perhaps one of the people who asked a question can help us answer these questions. Dr. Rosenkranz from Advocacy New Beaters, who also participated in all their... Dr. Rosenkranz, you have the floor. Hello, I work for the initiative that supports civil society organizations worldwide, and which...  advocates for the elimination of trans fats to save lives. We have many years of experience, including in several areas related to public health. I would like to thank Dr. Pedro, Dr. Frieden, for your leadership and commitment to the elimination of trans fats. Yesterday, I also thanked the rest of the WHO team, as well as all those around the world who have played an important role at the national level in advancing changes to eliminate trans fats from the diet. Civil society can and must participate in shaping nutrition policies. We propose three contributions from civil society: first, raising awareness of the negative effects of consuming and being exposed to trans fats; civil society can then declare this a public health priority and garner support for policies aimed at eliminating trans fats; second, civil society can help reach a consensus based on evidence-based solutions; and combat opposition and drive change when necessary.  There is insufficient evidence. Civil society can contribute to research, and thirdly, in many countries, civil society has the opportunity to assist the government through procedures, particularly by overseeing the implementation of government measures. Within the incubator, we support policies that are evidence-based, respect human rights, and leverage stakeholders best positioned to meet society's needs. We look forward to continuing this work in collaboration with the WHO to save lives, as the initiative aims to do. Thank you, Doctor, for the hopes we have shared. We have heard about your experience. I would now like to give the floor to another important player: the food industry. Some participants indicated that the food industry has not been able to implement legislation in their countries, but we have... By Milou Julien Lafleur, presenter of the International Food and Beverage Alliance, who can tell us about the role of the food industry? Julian, you have the floor. Thank you, Francesco. Congratulations to the WHO. Is it for its initiative and for launching this initiative?  Let 's thank Dr. Tedros for his leadership. The entire MS team thanks you for the excellent collaboration that the food industry has benefited from. I would like to reiterate our support for the WHO's Rice Place initiative. Our companies are implementing the commitments they made last year across their entire product range, and by 2023 we should be able to achieve this goal. We look forward to sharing this success with you as part of our commitments. I would like to tell you that we are developing a list of SMEs that have stopped producing trans fats. We continue to support the WHO in achieving this 2023 target. Thank you. I hope this also means more support for the implementation of regulations in different countries, given that everyone agrees this is a useful way to proceed. I can answer that, Francesco, if you wish. In fact, we should achieve the target in most of our...  Legislation, therefore, not only at the market level but also from a legislative point of view, is also important. We support legislative efforts that will allow us, overall, to achieve our public health goals and so that the entire food industry can do the same. Thank you very much for your efforts. We now have Mrs. Mary Grace Rosales, Project Manager, who works with the WHO Country Office in the Philippines. So, hello everyone. You know the word, Mrs. Adam Rosales in the Philippines. We thank the WHO and share your joy regarding the implementation of the Place Rice Initiative. We are creating real momentum for the elimination of trans fats in the Philippines thanks to the Philippine Department of Health, the work of our legislators, and the technical support of the WHO and the WHO Country Office in the Philippines. We are proposing legislation to eliminate trans fats, which is currently being reviewed by the Health Committee and should be the subject of a national policy. For the food industry, we believe that it  This is just the beginning. We know that with the support of the World Health Organization through its regional and country offices, we will succeed in implementing measures in the Philippines that are an example of trans fats. Thank you. We have a question about 3-in-1 powder and its use in coffee and tea in the Philippines. Thank you for this question. It's true that 3-in-1 coffee in the Philippines contains cream of hydration, which is a common source of trans fats. It's a food that is very frequently consumed here in the Philippines. It should be noted that Filipinos consume a lot of tea and coffee. We hope that thanks to this policy, the legislation being considered in Congress, and the national policy being implemented by the Philippine Department of Health, we will be able to reduce the consumption of trans fats and eliminate the source from food products, either by outright banning partially hydrogenated oils or by limiting the amount of trans fats in food. In the Philippines, we receive many  Messages are coming from low- and middle-income countries, and they are saying, "But we also want to receive support from the WHO." We have received messages from Nigeria and Morocco requesting more assistance based on existing experience. This is exactly what the WHO will do. Before giving the floor to our final speaker, who will share the conclusions, our Deputy Director-General, please know that the WHO is currently working on its existing accreditation programs, for example, for polio exemption and tuberculosis exemption. We want to use the same criteria so that expert groups can allow us to certify  Designating certain countries as trans-fat free, we believe this could be a good incentive, and we think support for low- and middle- income countries could be provided through regional organizations. You've heard about the experiences of the Americas and Europe; it's important to know that the African continent is also very interested. Now, allow me to introduce Dr. Ya Maman, Deputy Director-General of the Population Division. This is the WHO. Thank you very much. Our opening session is coming to a close, but I would like to especially thank the Director-General, Dr. Tadros, as well as Dr. Tom Frieden, the representatives of the governments of Turkey and Brazil, and my colleagues from the Department of Nutrition and Food Safety. I also thank all the colleagues who have spoken. As has been emphasized by many speakers, the WHO is committed to eliminating industrially produced trans fatty acids from the global food chain by 2023. This is a priority target of the WHO's 13th General Programme of Work.  Do they guide the WHO's action? However, for the period 2010-2023, good progress has already been made, but there are still significant disparities, particularly with regard to regions and countries based on their income level. As we heard in the overview, most of the policy actions taken so far in high- income countries, particularly in the WHO's European and American regions, regarding policies based on good practices concerning trans fatty acids, have been adopted so far by seven upper-middle-income countries and 33 high- income countries. No low- income or lower-middle-income country has yet adopted a policy based on good practices concerning trans fatty acids. They don't care. Therefore, all low- and middle-income countries, including countries in Africa, Asia, and the Middle East, must be supported in implementing such a policy. The WHO  She decided to provide technical support to countries, share success stories and best practices, and recognize achievements. As has been highlighted, eliminating trans fats from processed foods is feasible, cost-effective, and will save lives. So I invite you to join us in this countdown to 2023. This could limit trans fats. I must say that this progress so far is very encouraging, and we must continue this effort together. Thank you for participating in this meeting. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you all for participating in this event. We will work together for the future, and now the meeting is over. Thank you.