Don Oscar, Don Oscar, yes, and we've come to visit you. Okay, we're here. That's good, Don Oscar, nice to meet you. We've come to visit you. Don Oscar, that's fine. Help me, sir, to cross this footbridge. When I open my eyes and see a new dawn, it'S4 in the morning. We have to get up, we have to get up, to get ready, we have to get up, have our coffee, prepare breakfast, something to eat to go to work with energy and strength, with optimism. Then I say goodbye to my mom, who I live with, right? I say goodbye to her, she gives me her blessing. The care I have with her also motivates me to care for the community, and we go to work peacefully, positive, with optimism that it will be a blessed day. From the moment I leave in the morning, I arrive at the home, the people are waiting for me, the people welcome me because in that home there are children, there are pregnant women, there are elderly people, there are people who are waiting for me because they expect the promoter to bring a message of health, a message of prevention, but also a message of joy for this family, that their health will be good. I give them the pneumococcal vaccine.  23 Valente Valente I give you the vaccine n mococo 13 Valente 13 Valente And I give you this vaccine exav Valente Thank you very much [Music] That's all, it's over, it's over. At this moment we have given Jefferson his single vaccine against the human papillomavirus. It is important to protect the health of children. Jefferson, when he was less than 5 years old, received all his vaccines and that is very important. With this vaccine today we are preventing the human papillomavirus. These are diseases that are present in our youth, that is why the protection of vaccines is important. Right, the mission as a health promoter is to bring prevention to homes. We go over hills, we go over rivers, the paths because the population is waiting for us to help them, to guide them and also to be able to give them a solution so that they take their medications. Maternal and child care is like the fundamental pillar of the promoter. Not neglecting that pregnant woman. The pregnant woman should not have a fever or chills because it is a sign of danger. Discharge of blood or fluid from the vagina. A pregnant woman should not see discharge of that blood in these days.  Or today, what did you see? It's blurry. No, everything is fine with your vision. Yes, everything is fine. You should n't have a severe headache. What would happen if during this time I were to get abdominal pain and immediately seek a consultation at the nearest health unit? [Music] What do you feed Dariel? What food are you giving him? Soups, vegetables, breast milk, and a bottle. It's important to see how much weight he's gaining month by month, right? In the end, he'll be 6 months old, right? We always maintain breastfeeding, plus pureed foods. Right now, we're going to start introducing soft foods: mashed potatoes, mashed carrots, and bananas. The program... Well, we received these tablets to benefit the health promoters, since we were carrying more than 20 forms in paper documents, and now they're all here. We just open them, and the tools are more accessible to be able to enter all the data, both of the patients, the children, the pregnant women, and everything else. So, this tool has made things easier for us. Good afternoon, sir.  Good afternoon. How are you? Look, everything is excellent. How are you all today? Very well, thank God. Wonderful. We managed to find the people we were going to visit, and most importantly, we are achieving our objective. That's true. Look, let's review how we have the forms for the pregnant women. There you see the pregnant woman's name, her age, the findings, the action taken with her—it's all neatly organized. Highlighting the preparation and updating of the training topics that PAHO has been supporting in El Salvador. They updated them on all health topics, which is a benefit, and today we are putting it into practice with the population. Today, Dariel already has a normal weight, right? That's good. It's a reason for joy because today he is already at a normal weight, and that's good, thank God. With the support of PAHO and the Ministry of Health, the current promoter is trained. Health, besides being a right that all citizens have, is also important to focus on for our people, who are blessed by God to enjoy good health, to wake up healthy in the morning, to go out every day to work and to fight. But  A healthy person cannot be sick. The current promoter is trained and can provide better quality visits, better quality care to the population. Therefore, this training impacts the quality of care we provide at home. The promoter comes to visit them and is always working here. We thank them very much because our children are also healthy. We thank them for all the attention they give to a pregnant woman hoping that the baby will be born healthy and safe. Everyone has worked excellently, it is a great honor for me because I am here because of them. Today I am very happy because the child reached his ideal weight and I thank the promoters because they have been attentive to him, because they have always been there supporting us. When the day ends and we return home tired, but we come with joy in our hearts that we reached many families in the community and that we left a message of health.