Sahan Noura Nouri, what's up? Honestly, when they announced the ceasefire, my inner feeling was that I couldn't believe it, I was sad, and at the same time, I was happy. I was standing there, wondering if my house was still there. I was longing for my loved one, someone very dear to me. That's how I longed for my home. When the war started, I was in China. I had a reservation until the 9th, so I went on the 9th. When I reached the crossing, it was closed. When the first ceasefire began, I was one of the first people to return to Gaza, specifically to Nablus. Nablus is 15. Okay, I'll be home in half an hour, God willing. I was working at Al-Shifa Hospital before the war, and then I started working at the European Hospital, along with the International Medical Corps hospital. Things started to improve in Rafah, and it began to show signs that Rafah would be entered. My reaction was to send my family to Egypt. All the shops selling fruits and vegetables were gone. What I saw was no longer focused on the matter. Everyone was just walking by, not paying attention either. But I consider this a sign of shock. I mean, I'm in shock. I can only describe it as if this country was struck by an earthquake that left nothing [music] standing. We want to go back to our work, which is as a doctor, to go back to work at Al- Shifa Hospital, to go back as a doctor. But I don't know the situation now, what the situation is like at the hospital, because I haven't seen it since before the war, before October 7th. Of course, the Gaza sea was famous for having many restaurants, and the evenings there were wonderful. Every day, or every other day, my wife and I used to come here, sit by the sea, drink our coffee, have dinner with her. On Fridays, my children and I would come for a stroll by the sea, as you say, Ms. Kelsoum. We are sitting among the ruins, the ruins of the war and its aftermath, and what it has brought us to [music]. I really wish I could see my family because it's been almost a year since I saw them, and I miss them so, so, so much. Yes, I'm affected and there's damage, but thank God.  Thank God, things are n't bad, thank God. A thousand thanks and praises to you, God. How are you, my dear? May God keep you safe. Thank God we arrived at our apartment. Thank God. This is my family, my relatives, and my sister. They built a wall around the door to secure the apartment during the war. I'm trying to lower the wall so I can go in. Thank God, Lord. It's devastated. I don't even know what I look like. I entered the house and was shocked, but honestly, it's my house. I chose it in a good location, maybe quiet, maybe far from any problems, close to the supermarket and schools. I chose all these places carefully for my children, for my home, and for my family. Unfortunately, there are no schools left, no hospitals left, no house left, no street left. There's nothing left. We will rebuild it, God willing. We will rebuild it and it will be better than this, God willing. God, we're going to the hospital. Be careful. Of course, this is a sad sight. I came to this hospital when I was appointed. I was about 25 years old.  This is building 8. This was the surgical building for general surgery and orthopedics. I'm looking at it like this, I can't believe it. Things are unbelievable, honestly. I'm shocked. I don't know what to say. Between these buildings, the hospital, and the doctors, our colleagues, this is Al-Shifa Hospital. It represents [Music] what you're saying. Honestly, I've experienced many beautiful moments during these days. My children were born in this hospital. I mean, my first child was born in this hospital. What happened to us is wrong. I mean, what is our sin? What is our sin? I'm speaking as a group of doctors, or a group of children, or a group of people studying at universities. What is our I mean, Al-Shifa Hospital is the life of every Gazan. Al- Shifa means the life of the Gazan Palestinians. This is what it represents to me, and this is honestly what Al-Shifa Hospital does.