The COVID-19 pandemic has completely disrupted our lives as the world moves from the initial outbreak phase to a more prolonged phase that could last for months. Countries must analyze their responses, find ways to improve them, and share their lessons learned and achievements with other countries. To encourage these crucial exchanges, the World Health Organization has developed guidelines that offer a methodology and a set of tools to help countries plan and conduct internal evaluations during implementation. An internal evaluation can be conducted online and/or in person and consists of a country-facilitated deliberative process involving key stakeholders in the response to the public health emergency created by COVID- 19. Deliberations can last from a few hours to two days, depending on their scope, and provide participants with an opportunity to share experiences, challenges, and best practices, as well as to build consensus around key findings. Internal evaluations help countries maintain ongoing reflection on their response and review national and subnational COVID-19 response strategies based on needs in order to reduce the number of  cases and deaths and lessen the impact of the pandemic on livelihoods. The government institution or competent authority requesting assistance will have to decide the response period, the main pillars and functions to be examined, as well as the participants in the process. Most country-level responses to COVID-19 comprise nine pillars: 1. Coordination, planning, and surveillance at the country level; 2. Risk communication and community engagement; 3. Surveillance, case investigation, and contact tracing; 4. Points of entry; 5. National laboratory system; 6. Infection prevention and control; 7. Case management and knowledge sharing on recent innovations and research; 8. Operational support and logistics in managing supply chains and personnel; and 9. maintenance of essential health services during the COVID-19 outbreak. We encourage countries implementing a DAD (Death and Disaster Assessment) to adapt this list of pillars to their own needs and priorities at the time. MS has also developed a database of more than 300 generic questions designed to stimulate discussion around the pillars, among which countries  Countries can choose before delivering their aid to ensure that the most important issues are addressed in the process and that essential questions are formulated and answered. Countries can also include other topics and use their wounds to examine the measures they are taking to curb the virus. Countries are encouraged to share the findings of their wounds or their exemplary achievements with other countries, MS, and its partners to facilitate peer learning of best practices. Continuously review and adapt the response strategies being implemented, identify what works well and what does not, and apply the lessons learned. This allows countries to also track the trajectory of the COVID-19 outbreak in the context of the fight against the pandemic. Wounds can play a key role in strengthening each country's preparedness and response to COVID-19, creating better health systems, and protecting more people.