My wife is very engaged too, she wants to know everything, to be informed about everything, it's very, very funny that she even talks to our little son, imagine he's a month and a week old, she says, "Oh, let's go, let's give Daddy insulin today." When I received the diagnosis, it was absolutely difficult to deal with, you know, with this situation now, you know, what's happening to me? Although I saw other people, people who were n't my age, you know, people much older who had diabetes, and I didn't know anyone my age who had diabetes, so I preferred to initially seek alternative paths in the hope that my reality would be different from those I had already observed in my family members, including myself. And of course, that didn't work, you know, so I ended up being hospitalized, you know, feeling very ill. It was a very long road of not feeling well and not being able to do the activities I did as a child anymore, so I went through this very bad experience, you know, and I see that there is another way, like me, to do my activities like a child, you know, and live life. Today, the advocacy department of the Diabetes Brazil Department participates in working groups with  The Ministry of Health and many other entities are working to improve diabetes care and access to different insulins and medications that people with diabetes need. I was fascinated by the young leaders' training from the very first meeting. Seeing people who also have the same condition as me living well and being successful in various professional areas was very rewarding and helped me a lot. But Mike, today I see him very much as a mentor, both in the area of diabetes and also in public health policies. We've been working together for a while now, and besides being a great leader, he's a mentor because I was part of the NR camp and he was my first monitor. So it was a very pleasant friendship and a great learning experience for me too, because he already carries a great legacy about diabetes and his studies. I don't know if "how" I inspire people is the best term, but certainly what I do is intentionally try to identify potential and give them opportunities, understand where they can go, and of course, invest in that and really encourage them to go further, not just stay at the basic level. I think that's very important, so I think it has been fundamental for me to provoke...  ...right, to facilitate or encourage the development of each individual, so, like, meeting DJ Fran, everything for me, and I say, I tell everyone, that Diabetes was the best thing that ever happened in my life. It's a very strong phrase, but it really was, because Diabetes made me meet the friends I have today, my best friends, I met them here [Music]. I'm going to draw attention to two things here, right? One of them is the costs. Brazil is the country in South America that spends the most per person with diabetes, right? And even so, it doesn't have good results. Two studies came out, one quite recent this year, showing that 30% of young people aged 13 to 19 already have some complication of diabetes. So it's a very sad reality, right? One that we can't accept and that we have to change as soon as possible. People with diabetes are not invited to participate in the development of diabetes policies and programs in their countries, therefore the programs often end up lacking this perspective, which is so fundamental to me. It has perhaps been the most important thing that people, especially organizations, understand the importance of collaboration and partnerships so that we can move forward effectively and truly.  reduce premature deaths from chronic non-communicable diseases