Hello and welcome to another episode of Transforming WH, a series of video interviews where I talk to colleagues inside WH about the work we do and how we transform. and we've set up a temporary studio here at the corridors of the World Health Assembly which is currently taking place uh in Geneva. And in this temporary studio, I'm very happy to have uh Rick Peacorn who is the WHO representative to the occupied Palestinian territories. And welcome Rick and thank you for taking the time in your very busy schedule to join me here in the studio. First, a little bit about yourself and and your career. You have a almost 40 years in in global health and public health. Originally a medical doctor from graduated from Amsterdam. Worked for some years in your home country of Netherlands. But then you spent quite some time I believe more than 15 years fighting HIV and AIDS in several African countries also working for UN AIDS also building health systems in Tanzania, South Africa, other countries in in in Africa. And then eventually you joined WHO I believe 12 years ago. First eight years as head of our country office in Afghanistan as what we call WHO representative which is the head of the country office and then the last four years in occupied Palestine where I believe the country office in East Jerusalem but of course you serve Gaza and and the West Bank and in that capacity. Is that a fair summary of your impressive career Rick? Well, thank you very much. Yes, I can a fair summary. I mean, spent most of my time indeed in southern eastern Africa actually working for local governments. I worked for the Zambian government as a what they then called the senior medical officer of the northern province. Uh I worked before that actually as a JO for UNICEF in Pakistan and Afghanistan. That was on the late 80s. I did also stint for UNISF and Madagascar. But then it was mainly southern Africa. So, Zambia, Malawi, uh Zambia for the for the Zamian government. And then I became an um diplomat because in the Netherlands we we we don't have a specific Netherlands uh I'll say uh Netherlands development agency. You're part of Ministry of Foreign Affairs and you work as a sector specialist health and then I covered Zambia and Malawi and Southern Africa. Correct. So almost 40 years in global health. That's impressive Rick. A fair part of that was like I mentioned HIV AIDS. So I thought we maybe start there because I mean HIV AIDS is is actually a success story when we look at the last 25 years. We made antivirals more accessible. Many programs have actually brought down the incidence of people uh who who had who got HIV and and and mortality. We're not there yet. Uh but but certainly many successes. But now we're facing a crisis because of the withdrawal of the US and funding especially the PEPAR program which was funded by the US government. So how does that strike you? I mean having worked with that area and now seeing the current crisis. Yeah, I have really witnessed very much personally the the horrific impact of HIV. Um when I started in in Zambia and uh well that process in when I started in southern Africa uh that was in Zambia 9394 up till 2002 and then you saw almost this this HV HVH wave coming from central eastern Africa actually rolling over southern Africa and I was there in the northern province and there were no entry rate for virals. uh there was too little known at least among the communities about HV8 uh and we were struggling always and on on many many ways and the only thing we could follow I was working then for the Zambian government was prevention prevention pre and they had this famous abstension uh you know the prevention use of condoms etc and care but in the meantime so many people were dying unnecessarily along the way and I was then an young uh physician and a public health expert etc. I will never forget that uh so everywhere around you were uh your friends and young men women like yourself etc and at one stage but so you could almost see were sitting in the meetings etc and then you thought oh my god she's also HV positive or he's also you saw sometimes skin uh discoloration etc. So we went through this horrific phase etc. Then finally when AUVs became accessible and I think I really want to credit the civil society and specifically the civil society in southern Africa for that and for the advocacy and basic making the constant argument of making the antivirals exactly possible and and of course and then together with WH and and UNH and many other of the agencies uh pushing for that and it changed it enormously and and now I mean like and and almost everywhere. Uh the access to entry rate for virals has increased tremendously and it is indeed it's many of these programs are now being defunded. I mean they're losing funding because they are very over maybe overly dependent by support from the US government in many ways completely. I think that's but I think first of all so let's say from from an an an horrific reality um a relatively successful story in in in in public health and and in collaboration not isolation collaboration world collaborated and focused let's say and you can see what is possible and this is of course really incredibly sad what is happening now when when key partners withdraw from a fight against uh HIV and it's a balance It's a between deep concern because of this but also hope for HIV because now we have Lena Capavia who sort of a long acting injectable it's almost like a vaccine. So we actually on one hand are discussing ending the pandemic of HIV and then the the other hand we are seeing a backlash. Yeah optimistic. So we are almost I think on on the you would say almost you would hope you're almost at the tail end of that kind of you know combating that horrific epidemic. Um you said something about withdrawal of key partners like the like the US. I also think a lot of capacity have been built in all those countries. A lot of capacity is there was there is has been built. I think it's also a wakeup call from all countries around the world like hey uh is health important for us health should always be a top priority invest in health invest in your systems and of course invest in HVAC prevention and and and control and I think many of the countries do this already and they can do more so it's also a wakeup call and opportunity for many governments in Africa many and secondly so that should happen and it is happening already but it should be really expanded. I mean countries should really take that responsibility and much more themselves which they are already doing by the way then I also would hope and expect that other partners wherever is necessary and I think WHO could assist there that we really analyze where really well we prioritize we analyze better where are the current the acute gaps. Yeah. Acute gaps and focus on that. Yeah. Moving a little bit uh further up in your career. So you joined WH 12 years ago, eight years as head of country office in Afghanistan and now four years in occupied Palestine. So these are I mean a lot of humanitarian challenges in Afghanistan and certainly currently in Gaza. Some reflections on leadership WH role in these context. I mean first Afghanistan and Gaza in in humanitarian crisis and etc. I mean what's the role of a WR country office? Well, I think it's that's a really good question and I think I've been also evolving myself around uh those years when I came to Afghanistan in in 2013 and and the first thing what I observed that we had a strong and organized polio program which was focused what I realized and that was a bit of a shock for me that all the other programs were uh that there was very little what we called assess contribution, core funding, etc. And and there was a little voluntary contribution which was again completely uh volatile. I mean like when I came I straight away heard oh you have to do something quickly because otherwise we lose a couple of nationals officers on on communical diseases and and we didn't even have one for non-comical diseases and uh we lose we will lose international officers as well. So for me the lesson is and that's the lesson on on for who and I think probably it's on all levels but specifically at country level one you you focus initially and say what is a core team what is essential because you cannot do it alone as ramp you should be a bit modest and step what is the uh what is a core team and what can I delegate as much as possible and a core team is absolutely not only international officers like in Afghanistan there was probably a group of uh 15 to 20 you know and maybe 10 uh 8 to 10 uh international officers and 10 11 national officers and you quickly sort that out and then what what are the most essential what are the biggest needs and of course you coordinated with governments and and with other partners and how do we focus uh better then you need to have a plan. You need to be you need to have a plan and and and I think sometimes that is lacking within who even a proper focus and reached out to partners. So we straight away we we established the core team. I established core team and then we started focusing on besides polio learning some lessons from polio. How can we expand in health emergencies because that was a huge need but also in comical non-comical disease and health systems RMNCHA etc. But what's the role of WH in that context? Let's let's say Afghanistan which is of course has many challenges you're saying polio emergencies etc. But also a difficult context I could imagine for security reasons lack of stable government government etc. I mean how does the WHO work? What's the role of who? Well, so I'm very clear about that I think and we have seen a shift over the last I would say 10 to 15 years in WH where WHO in the past when I was working southern Africa was really seeing more norms and standards and guidelines and and and workshops and and etc etc. I think we realize we have to be much more operational when there is a need when there is a need. Yeah. When there's no need you don't be operational. So in very low inome countries in countries in crisis where there's a need to also assist and being operational in many areas you should be ready for that and not just in polio or health emergencies also in other areas in comical non-comical diseases and and and definitely in in systems maybe I'll explain later a little bit better then of course you need your resources well we know that you cannot rely on sufficient core funding for that. So you need to have a plan concept notes etc on each of those topics and assertively almost aggressively reach out to donors and partners not just for the short term for the longer term. You have to build a reputation. You have to be you have to show that you deliver. I mean we we don't um um yeah you just don't get your respect. I mean you have to deserve that I mean along the way. So we we had a massive resource mobilization exercise in Afghanistan and ongoing and that is not just the work for WR. That's the work of key technical officers etc. And and I try to work always with we have a core team and I'm the team lead. Yeah. But then we have various teams. So I like to you know many people are team leads and team leaders. I do not believe I think sometimes the UN was too fraud with I would say ineffective hierarchical structures etc. We should be team leads. Yeah. And and coordinate as quickly as possible. Reach out and constantly inform your your partners and also your your donors. Work as closely with government as possible. But also there I want to make a division. You work as closely with government the ministry of health. But we are not the secretariats of the government or a ministry of health. We are the independent global health organization. We have to support them. I guess we support their exactly. So we we support them on the most evidenceinformed way. And as we know that changes sometimes over time etc. And we constantly they go the moment you're doing that and you sustain that. I've seen that both in Afghanistan but also southern Africa and Eastern Africa but definitely in Afghanistan and also in occupied Palestinian territory you will get you will get the recognition but you also get a report and you actually improve your relation with uh governments because they they know first trusted partner a partner which also raises funds for health not just for WH raises funds for the broader health sector. Yeah. and a partner who delivers and a partner who operates as independent as possible, you know, evidence informed and I guess much of that is uh and the experience and what your the principles, the values you just mentioned, you took that into your current role as as the WR for occupied Palestinian territory and then you were thrust into a huge human humanitarian crisis. I mean, what is happening? I'm speaking about what's happening in Gaza since October 2023. It's a devastating humanitarian catastrophe. I believe we just had the report here at the health assembly, the annual report on on the health situations and and I was just rereading this this morning. This is devastating what was reported by by the DG. I believe now 53,000 people have died in in Gaza due to the air bombings etc. 120,000 people injured. attacks on health care facilities and health care workers which are I mean out of a scale we haven't seen and and most of the population of 2.3 million most are displaced many even several times I mean how do how does can you tell us a little bit how does how do you see that personally I mean having worked almost 40 years in in global health and and then what you're faced with now I think that um you know having worked in in in certain Eastern Africa and and and and going through this uh horrific HIV AIDS epidemic building up primary health care systems etc. but changing. I mean, if you look at southern Eastern Africa now and you look at the infant and child mortality rates, they have, you know, they've massively decreased. I mean, and health has substantially improved all over uh the world. And yeah, we are all part of that. So, I mean like we should be proud. We should not forget that. I mean, like we all part of that. And and it is mainly the people themselves, their governments and the local partners, by the way, who do that. Now in Afghanistan of course I had so many lessons on on emergencies and crisis because it was a country in crisis all the seven and a half years ages I was there and yeah I witnessed some horrific scenes all over um Afghanistan when I transferred to occupied Palestinian territory I knew this was going to be complex not just as an let's not forget that occup occupied Palestinian territory is in crisis for decades. It's not just recently. Even before October 23, the healthare system in Gaza was not very robust and there were many we they went through many what we now call escalations which were wars etc etc blockades of of assistance etc. Yeah, but of course what happened and the explosion so they say the explosion of this crisis since October 23 I think I think none of us have ever witnessed and I think it's very difficult to even be prepared for uh for something like that and and I'm afraid it will have an impact for decades and decades to come and long after I'm gone it will still have an impact it will it it's changed the the not only the Palestinian Israeli conflict, the regional, the global uh the global context, etc. And and yeah, that is I mean it's incredible. Uh what did we do as you know when this explosion uh or or when this crisis I would say exploded. So first we had already built up some systems and learned lessons from the former escalations. So I'm four years. So we we had already a relatively strong health emergency program and again working with a core team with smaller teams and team leads and we had a strong foot on the ground in Gaza. We have an office in Jerusalem, an office in Gaza and an office in the West Bank, a strong focus on health emergency and trauma care which which helped us. We always prepo prep pre-position supplies for example essential supplies etc. the mass casualty management training had been done and what was really helped to save lives and reduce morbidity with the former escalations and crisis uh in Gaza. But this this time I mean all our supplies they were they were used within days of this um crisis. So what did we do? So when this when I s when we saw this happening from early October straight away uh the same almost day I changed the office completely we came together we we focused almost everyone on humanitarian support still trying to continue the development activities we did then of course the focus was very much on Gaza and the first focus was on our team because from the 26 national staff more than 20 were based in Gaza city. They were fleeing like all Gaza. I mean Gaza focusing on on the security and safety of which is very complex because they were all and they were in shelters and and this and that and whatever. Fortunately we had four to five staff still uh they were operation they were um their houses were in Kunes or Rafa and uh we were lucky two tactical officer were driver and and and and some operation officer I remember we only had a very small core team in Jerusalem because we some of our international staff were out the health team lead health emergency didn't even arrive yet so we yeah but with that core team what we did straight away we repositioned So we use first the existing funding in the most flexible way and we repositioned that our warehouse was destroyed in Gaza city our office. So in the same week we hired two warehouses in Kanunas we and I want to credit also the whole organization three levels here. I have immediate contact of course with my regional level, regional director and team, but specifically also with uh here at HQ, not only not only with DG, but very much Mike Ryan and and his team and um we straight away got funding from the CF. So the CV the the the contingency fund for for emergencies it works and it should be really and I raised that with all member states of course also getting a focus on getting supplies in from our warehouses in Dubai and supporting with emergency. But we were and because of that, so we quickly had 8 9 million and we were already working and we got we were the first one to get supplies in uh through Egypt from Dubai and through the Dubai up and everything to those warehouses and and and we were the first uh one not what you normally expect for international NOS's. So who being super operational from the start, we were the first, second, the first and fifth one who actually got those supplies to the north to shif that WHO provides is of course emergency supplies. It's health care supplies, medicines for surgery, etc. But what I think many people don't know is that who is actually also supplying fuel for the generators in many of the healthcare facilities and hospitals. I mean so it's it's a broad um sort of emergency supply service we run. Yeah. But for me the main lesson learned because you asked what the main lesson learned first make sure you have a core team that you can straight away focus have the right contacts at um HQ and the region etc. And then within we straight away we set no regrets policy. So we we we we became operational from the the start. We had a plan and I really credit the the the WHO opt core team for that. We had a with assistance from the very we had a plan within weeks an operational response plan which we straight away vented out to all key partners and donors etc. So we we were we did incredibly well on resource mobilization up till 20 for over 250 million. I mean like yes with assistance from HQ and the region but the bulk was coming from the work was at at OPT. So that helped us of course to to set up what did we focus on? We focused first on three humanitarian pillars that was first like how do we maintain essential health services and that everything primary healthcare referral care etc underpinned by this constant stream of essential medicines medical supplies the whole operation supplies and logistics area then when emergency medical teams got in we facilitated the emergency medical teams in there 35 emergency medical teams who supports them not only with supplies but also to bring them to their stations and the hospitals etc. already three medevac uh WHO has been facilitating and supporting over 7,000 uh patients to be medeffected out of Gaza that's an enormous operations internally medevac and then externally out of Gaza Egypt and many other countries in the region and and all over so that was a third uh component then in the meantime we also carried out three uh um two polio rounds and two polio campaigns together with the ministry and and UNI7 UNRA and you can see what is feasible you know there's one campaign during an active war and the other campaign during a ceasefire etc with coverage is over 90 from 90 to last one over 100 must be a constant challenge because I read the operational plans and and I think that as you say is excellent because it basically shows what we want to do and what we can do and then it becomes an investment case also and and then the dashboards which are basically showing the challenges but also what we do. But it must be very very difficult navigating for you and your team in this constantly changing atmosphere. Then there's ceasefires, then hostilities break out again and healthcare facilities are constantly being attacked and and being nonfunctional. I mean, and now it's going 20 months. I mean, can you how can you keep up that uh support? Well, I think you're right. The planning and the resort mobilization are incredibly intense exercises but that's one thing and and again the focus is on essential health services on public health intelligence uh also on coordination who leads and coordinates and then we start working on early recovery and rehabilitation the most complex part has of course been the people first the guards themselves but also our staff on the grounds so a huge number of the WHO staff self evacuated themselves. Almost everyone in Gaza, including our staff, they either lost family uh me. We lost an anime, a fantastic young professional in working for WH and her whole family when they when their house was bombarded and 31 of their family were killed. uh all WHO staff they either lost family members, they lost friends, neighbors, they lost houses, they lost a lot of their memories, a number of them self evacuated. We had to constantly recruit new staff, get international staff in. So I give a lot of credit to the team within Gaza. Yeah, the team within Gaza, both the international, the team leads and the national uh staff and then the Jerusalem team. From the Jerusalem team, we were constantly rotating in into Gaza and assisting where needed and where feasible as well with the support from some search staff. I want to also say three levels again. Initially, we got some really excellent search stuff from Webpro, for example. We got three people from from Fiji. I'm so grateful for them initially from HQ and from and from the the the region. So we were the most important part was building up that team but also trying to care for that team and that has been difficult because all the staff. So at very quickly we try to get the staff out of the shelters and try to get um guest houses for national staff and international staff and and just to remind everyone how horrific this war has been. I mean for everyone the story of staff I mean fleeing from the north shelters guest houses in Rafa the same we had warehouses in Khanunas in February I got 6 hours I got a call from the Israeli army you have 6 hours to get your supplies out of that warehouse etc we were just in time those warehouse were destroyed then we had warehouses and guest houses in Rafa after the siege in Rafa our warehouses were destroyed there and our guest houses we couldn't have we had to move to Dabbala as a all of that constantly. So to keep and and maybe what is the because it's this is a secret first of all it's resilience resilience of the Palestinians overall but I don't like that word because that word because you know nobody needs to be so resilient I mean like um over over time but it has been the resilience of Palestinians and the WHO staff. What did we try to do again? Constantly work with a core team with smaller teams. Constantly repprioritize, adapt your plan where it's needed. Be flexible. Have a very short lines within the team and and and overall. Also, don't take yourself so serious. That sounds a little weird, but don't take yourself too serious and try to keep a sense of humor. And I think on all levels I think we managed that to an a really extensive level. Did we do everything on the right way for for for ourselves and the staff? No. And I try now I think initially uh definitely this core team we worked like crazy and we worked all weekends for the first 6 to 9 months etc. And now we try to say please take one day in a week and try to reflect and relax. As we sit now here speaking I mean the situation in Gaza as I understand is that after a ceasefire uh hostilities broke out again in March uh that there is now a a very grave concern about the blockade of humanitarian assistance going into Gaza. So there's been uh a warnings of an impeding famine and certainly still many many healthcare facilities nonfunctional or only partly functional. So it doesn't appear very good now 20 months into this conflict. So what's the next step? How do you see the next operational plan? Well, I think you're completely right. So last week was my last mission in Gaza. I tried to be there every second month for for a week or two weeks or with polio even four weeks. Last week I was there and every time you come in Gaza and that is really also really horrible. So after this during the ceasefire there was some kind of hope and I was there also during the ceasefire and uh the south of Gaza and Rafa in the north in Jabalia it's a wasteland parts of Khanun is wasteland part of Gaza city wasteland but there was some sense of hope you saw families even some of our staff returned to their houses in the north. They were setting up tents here next to their destroyed houses etc. And there was a kind of a spirit of hope that of course is again has been um that hope is again vanished at the moment and every time you think like okay can the situation cannot get worse it gets worse. So the current situation not only the aid blockade the resumption of the war and hostilities etc. I was always very optimistic and I'm pretty optimistic and I still want to be optimistic. I want to remain optimistic because it's the only thing which we we have but every one of you you're all really the media etc. So yeah we we have to prepare for every scenario. So the worst case scenario is of course that this war continues and this ground offensive continues and that um what we've seen over the last couple of week again 600,000 people were forcibly uh evacuated you know for this for the ex time in their in the in this period we saw um health we lost hospitals and health facilities just over the last six days we lost four hospitals they became non-functional etc. So the worst case scenario of course is that this this war continues that many more people will be forcibly evacuated to the south of Gaza. I mean like that was that original plan indeed like around Mawashi and Dabbala etc. And then what happens then? Yeah that's and and and will they be will they will they will they be forcially be evacuated outside Gaza? I don't know. But that is of course the worst case scenario. The other case scenario which is in between which is also a bad case scenario is that we continue where we are now I call it muddling through. We have an ongoing we have an active war now maybe then we have a temporary ceasefire etc and then again hostilities etc. That is the mean and then the best case scenario would of course be and that should be the only scenario that we go to a ceasefire and that we can and of course we need to say also this is exactly what the WHO has been saying and keeps repeating and and we heard our director general saying it yesterday. We are calling for an immediate ceasefire of course allowing humanitarian aid releasing the hostages. We also need to to remember that and then of course uh helping Gaza to rebuild their healthcare system. this is what the WHO is calling for. But you're saying it's difficult to plan for for that because we don't know. I think who we've been very consistent of course releasing uh the hostages uh u a ceasefire make sure that you the UN and the humanitarians can do their work get the goods in as and make sure not only into uh into Gaza but all over Gaza to uh to where it's most needed and then start also protecting health facilities and protecting healthare professionals this is ingrained in our DNA even from our constitution in WHO that we are here to protect health facilities. Absolutely. And that's why we have this mandate and we we monitor we analyze reports on attacks on healthcare and we constantly report on that as well. But you asked me like that. So are we prepared for these phases? Um first and foremost and that should be that's my message to all the member states whatever happens Gaza will need humanitarian support for years to come. Yeah. In the best case no matter what happens. No matter what happens with ceasefire even with ceasefire and and early recovery they will need humanitarian support for a year to recover. In the best case scenario when the ceasefire and we can start early recovery rehabilitation it will be a combination of humanitarian support and development support who is we are ready for all well not ready we have a plan for all phases. Yeah. So my what is now my concern and you started with HVH and the turmoil the multilateral system is and the reduced funding. So we did relatively well in resource mobilization in the first 18 months and from the 200 over 250 million we we raised up to 24 we spent and allocated more than 90%. We delivered we reported and we delivered. Yeah, it gives us a lot of credibility. Now, number of donors and we we did a new resort mobilization round based on our WH operational response plan 2025. A number of donors came to us and they say, "Yeah, we're going to continue etc." But it's too few. Many other many partners we can see now and we hear this all over. They keep their cards against their chest and they wait. Yeah. And my I even having been a diplomat and worked for an I can see that point. You want to invest in something where you say hey it should be worthwhile but this is no time to wait for humanitarian support. So that needs to be supported. So we do another round we are and here on the health assembly I also approach a lot of the delegations and the same message. So that definitely should happen. The second point member states should stand firm. the UN and humanitarian partners they have a proven support system humanitarian support system which has worked yeah and definitely also during the ceasefire which worked very well there's a plan in place there is no need for an other system and even more when it is not based on humanitarian principles I mean certainly we are in a huge crisis I mean with the the lack of funding that because of the withdrawal of the US government and and many are sort of being concerned about the future of global health. How do you see that? Well, first of all, I think fir I think the in general people all over the world the majority believes in in in collaboration and coordination. The world has become very small as we know and they believe in collaboration and coordination not in isolation. So I know that we we we we hear and we see a lot of movements which is more focused to isolation instead of collaboration. I hope we see we have seen this waves before etc. I hope it will come back and I expect it will come back. When I look at international health and and and and I think if you ask anyone around is there is there need for a global health organization a world health organization as we have everybody will confirm there's a need for a world health organization now there's been a lot of discussions uh and I I think in the introduction you already asked me you know how I saw that and should there be changes etc and and and and so currently even in in a time where funding becomes more scarce funding should not be scarce I mean that is one thing funding should not be scarce for global health but we I'm realist enough that this is happening the first I think the first thing we should get across to to all member states and and and and and people that you want a multi You you want a multilateral system with key organizations like WHO who work as independent as possible. And what I mean with that, I'm not naive. Health is politics and politics in health. So there will always be political influences etc. But what you of course really want, you want the WHO which works and I think we've proven that we can do that which works as evidence informed as possible. We work hand in hand with governments with NOS's with private sector civil society etc. academia, but we need to radiate. We are the independent global health organization and and and and this if this is the agenda we push I think finally we we on the long term you you will get any you will get that respect because finally countries will realize that if they are pushing a policy or an approach which is maybe not in line what the WH or let's say based on evidence informed is the more effective approach uh we should stick to to that and and we should always realize finally all of us we work for the people and in this case what I'm doing we work for the Palestinian people I mean like and we work with all these partners including government to that and when I then look at at um at WH I mean because there's so many uh talks about the transformation etc where should we go and and how should we focus etc. Yeah, of course. I also have ideas about that. I mean like with and when I start let me start at country level and I like it that I constantly hear I mean hear that here that country uh level and our work at country level should be prioritized and supported. However, I think we should constantly focus re and rep prioritize and really focus what is needed, what is really needed and and do we have the tools and the capacity and the people to address that also when the resources are scarce on which group of countries do you focus for me it's very clear you focus on the countries in crisis you focus on wherever whatever level it is low income middle income country in crisis needs support. We focus on very low inome countries and low inome countries. I don't say that middle inome countries and high income countries and very high should be neglected or no in contrary but if they need support direct of WH support they should contribute to that and and and they should actually assist WH then be able to implement but by the end of the day as you're saying there will still be a role for WH also through this crisis if we prioritize and and basically focus on serving the people in need. I think absolutely now absolutely. So I for me uh multilateralism is absolutely not that does it need a reform and and and and maybe I'm a little direct I'm blunt but when I see that sometimes we have over 30 UN agencies and and I believe thousands of mandates I think there is a need for refocus. I can see that some agencies can merge and focus etc. Also within global global health there's absolutely need for a strong world health organization and and and and going back I made my plea for country and the country focus and on which group of countries etc. I believe also in a strong HQ, a strong center with a focus on norms standard with a strong health emergency program and health emergency uh program like that which helps countries in crisis etc. with a focus on areas which countries now need and let me say something where because so much countries has so much capacities themselves uh and in areas for example on communical diseases on HIV TB malaria etc but also on modern child health a lot of capacity has been built where often they need support is in areas besides health emergencies it's in areas of health financing health whole health information system health systems area but also of course non-cominical diseases and mental health. So focus on that the region the regions for me should also have an key role and fork almost like a technical support facilities and for example in the embryo region with a Dubai hub that we have this very strong link to operation supplies and logistics but we constantly have to analyze what is really needed at country level. Are we focusing are we prioritizing etc and will it have an effect on health on the health improving health on the people within countries within territories on the ground. Thank you very much, Rick, and thank you very much for for sharing your experiences and also your points of view. And uh I wish you good luck in the important work that you're doing with your team in occupied Palestinian territories. And thank you very much uh all of you for watching this episode of Transforming WH. And do stay tuned on this channel for upcoming episodes.