Okay, good afternoon everyone. Welcome to the second lunch session for the WHO's fil health for all film festival. Today's theme is going to be sexual and reproductive health and rights. I want to give a little note here before we start just so you all know um there is no graphic content in the three films that we'll be screening today but they will be addressing the themes of female genital uh uh uh cutting. uh they will also be addressing themes of migration, forced migration due to violence and about fetal loss. I just want to share that with all of you. They're also films with positive messages, but I think it's important to say beforehand that you know what to expect in the three films you'll be seeing today. So, we have some wonderful, illustrious, exciting speakers to join us today. Qua Larby is joining us here on the stage. Hello. She is the founder of action on preeacclampsia khana and will be telling us more about her projects and her involvement with preeacclampsia efforts. Online we have two speakers joining us today. Hello. So our first speaker is Dr. Christina Palito who is the WH department of sexual and reproductive health and research technical lead on female genital mutilation. Hi Christina. See if she could wave to us. And Dr. Dr. Doris Chu is online as well. She's a medical officer working for the WHO Department of Sexual and Reproductive Health and Research in the Department of Maternal and Perinatal Health. Hello, Doris. Great. And as always, Jill is joining us today and is the film festival leader and founder and he'll tell us a little bit more about the film festival. Thank you. Thanks a lot, Megan. And uh I thank you again. I I said that but we have new people and Joyce Brown as well for inviting us in this uh conference to to have this special sessions on the film festival by the way. So that's really great to have this opportunity. Great. So I will uh hello everybody good afternoon. Uh I don't know if some of you were here already yesterday. Do you have no we have new Okay. So a few so I will repeat something that you heard yesterday about the the concept of the health forall film festival. So health for all um as for me is really a multis sectoral uh concern. We we we saw that during the pandemic and COVID that transportation were affected then the workplace the business were affected the schools the education were affected and so on and so on and of course these are consequences of a pandemic but the causes also when we look at causes of many health issues uh we can see that multis seexural concern is is often uh very important uh the concept of so the concept of this for film festival is something I designed in uh 2019 and proposed to Dr. Tedro the do director general and after the first edition uh which was in 2020 we re we have received 1,300 short films from 110 countries so Dr. Teros decided that we should in who sustain this initiative on a yearly basis. So films are a powerful way to raise awareness, improve understanding and encourage positive behavior change. So that's the philosophy and why we want to encourage champions of health to submit their films. Uh it's open to NOS's to students to public institutions. An important thing to remember is that the United Nations production the the films by different UN agencies are not eligible because we really want to call for people outside the UN system to tell their stories on health. So let's share for instance now the we have a call for films. The fifth call for films is running at the moment. It was open on 1st November and it's going to close on 31 January 24. And every year we have three main categories as you can see on the screen. Universal health coverage, health emergencies and better health and well-being. And in fact these three main categories decided by Dr. Teros for the festival are uh the main global health public goal uh public health goal that is promoting in its general program of work currently operating. And every year we have a special focus on two themes. So in 23 we had climate change and health and sexual and reproductive health. And that's why we have this session today on SRHR. And as you noticed maybe [snorts] in the logos that my two colleagues had behind themselves. You saw HRP the human reproductive health program. It was the 50th anniversary of HRP program this year. So that's why we had also this special focus on this topic and for next year if you want to submit a film and uh or you know people who could submit you could spread the word. Thank you very much. You have physical activity and health as a special film price and uh migrants and refugees health also as a special film price. One big important goal is that we want to promote films for health impact and how a film can really bring behavior change in for better health. So we have a special uh I invite you to visit the web page. We have a special uh page dedicated to that and several educational tools that are already placed there and as well related links to uh different activities that do is developing in this context like behavioral science for better health. We have the world health assembly in 23 has adopted that behavioral insights should be part of uh all health systems activities and and do of course is has developed a unit for that and uh to in order to help the government to develop more behavioral insights in their activities and uh implementation of health care and so on. So you can visit this uh web page and uh and know more about that. Now the free films we're going to see today are not necessarily the ones selected in 23 SRHR category. They are winning films from also previous editions like this one. Ephoon about FGM female genital mutilation in Nigeria uh was the winner in 21 of the health education special film prize. We have preclumpsia predictor preventia that you're going to see which was the grand prix winner in 22 of a universal health coverage category. Uh and we have we're going to see another winner from 2020 edition. The there was a category a special category at that time on nurses and midwives because it was the year of the nurse and the midwife in 2020. So you will see this film war and grace about training midwifery in a war situation. So situation which could resonate to other walls that we are seeing at the moment. And uh if you want to look at the full list of films selected in the sexual and repositive category this year, you can go to our website, you will see official selection button and you will go to to the list and we have also YouTube playlist where you can see the films uh from the festival. So I think uh I'm done. I'm in time. Okay, let's watch the films. Screen those films. Enjoy. [snorts] ES every girl must pass through this right to become a woman. It is tradition and girls who go through it are clean, beautiful and become real women. It is time. Can I play with them just once more? No, you are no longer like them. Today you become a woman. I don't want to do this. You don't have a choice. Don't worry. You won't see it. The last time he prepared someone for [music] this right, it was my sister Oai. I remember Oai telling [music] me what it is like. She said it is like a journey to hell and back. Even though none of us has been there before, a part of her was me. She never got [music] better. She died. I said it is [music] God's will. They'll be here soon. Okay, don't worry. This will be quick. I don't want to be like Oai. What if I have a choice? You know, choice isn't one of the luxuries of every woman. [screaming] I want to be a woman, [music] but I also want to be able to make choices. Foreignech. pretty clumsier. for You know that Fore screaming. forch. control. Okay. Then alhamdulillah. Yes. What? [crying] [crying and screaming] What the hell? What the [screaming] screen. Say these three. I'm so Life is a miracle. Life is a battle. Life persists against all odds. In South Sudan, life is defined by war. Generations of children have been born into violence. Millions have been displaced, still searching for home, still waiting for peace. It is the youngest country in the world with the largest humanitarian presence and staggeringly high maternal mortality. [crying] Here lies the whole horror and beauty of human existence. It's one of the most difficult and [music] dangerous places. to be a woman. My name's Reil. I'm a South Sudan. I was born in Uganda in a refugee camp in 1968. I trained as a nurse. I worked for around 10 years. From there, what motivated me to become a midwife was the mortality rate of mothers and babies in the country. The death rate of mothers in South Sudan was too high. So the initiative of training midwives had to begin. In 2006 we opened a national training school for Kajuki had three classrooms a dometry for boys do for girls. We were about 105 students [music] and then there was problem of insecurity in Kajuki. There was a lot of gun shootings. The community had all run away. We decided to move away from the school. All what we had were left behind. We only secured lives of people. I had two things to decide on. I had a family which is my biological family and I had a family which was the students. But I had to sacrifice my life and let the children go with the father to the refugee camp. Then made sure that I moved with the students to come to Chuba. comes easy to insert into a vagina. When we arrived Juba, we rented a place for the students. It's not designed for our school. So we have the rooms enough for their accommodation but challenge is the classrooms. We do not have any item for skills lab. So the situation now is not the best. But at least it has kept us going. This school is not helping me alone. It [music] is helping the communities of South Sudan and it is improving the health of health South Sudan in general. Thank you baby. The outcome of the students that we have trained have motivated me so much. So as a midwife your role is to take care of a woman since from the day she got pregnant until the day she delivered and 6 week after delivery you make sure that you give her the necessary care you can able to give her and save her in case if there's complication if I'm the one who conducted delivery my baby saved and the mother is saved. I myself even will be more happier than the woman who gave birth cuz I've saved life and I've welcome what life into the world. open up and then use dilators to at least currently we are having three classes of diploma midwives training students come from all over the country so it's a national training school my students are united they feel they are one for life to see peace s and I would love to see if our women are really staying in a peaceful environment and they can able to educate their children without any interruption. So that's what we are hoping for. I believe one time the communities will come back then these trained people will go and work on the communities. The more midwives we have, the more opportunities we give to our pregnant mothers and the more life we give to our babies. This is a place with so little by so many measures, with a future so precarious and paradoxically so wide open. They don't have peace yet, but they do have [music] grace. So again, three very powerful movies with very powerful messages that we'll have the opportunity to talk about here together. What we'll be doing for the remaining time is we'll start off with a dialogue with ourselves here and with our two guest members who are joining us online. You'll see them show up briefly or very soon on the screen there. And for the last couple minutes, we would really love to open up the floor to all of you. So already maybe you want to be thinking about some questions you'd like to ask us or any of the panelists or maybe some open questions for other audience members. Great. I can see that our members online are also available for us uh to converse with. I'd like to start today uh with a question for Koa. Um, so I know that when you were pregnant that there was not enough information available about eclampsia and that that led to some tragic loss of life and I was wondering what do you do and how do you organize and raise awareness in Ghana and in other parts of Africa and how do you use film to do so? Well, um, thank you Megan for that question. rightly so. Um I'm a four-time survivor of hypertensive disorders of pregnancy. Out of four pregnancies, I've lost three babies. I have one surviving child who was just 10 years old. And the other three, one was a stillborn and two came out prematurely and died 5 to seven days after. Um ignorance killed my first baby. I had no idea. attended all the antiatal clinics, private hospital, the doctor saw me, the nurses saw me, but nobody mentioned or said anything about preeacclampsia. And so my first experience was full-blown eclampsia, not even pre. And after having that and a repetition of it in 2017, I decided to ask questions and find answers. Mhm. And that was when I yearned for a group or a survivor, somebody who could relate to my story besides the academician or the doctor. And I realized that there was no such group in Ghana. So I ended up getting help beyond the shores of Ghana virtually. And so then because of this and the fact that my mom had had preeacclampsia, but up until the time I was being rushed to the hospital with my first pregnancy and we called her and all she could say was, "Oh, that's my disease." We never knew she had it, but could you blame her? Maybe she didn't know it could pass on to me. And so it was out of this second experience that I decided to find an NGO, a patient advocacy organization, namely action on pre-exclamia Ghana. Mhm. To provide education to women out there both in the rural and urban. I mean hey I was an educated person always online social media talking to people but I still was ignorant. Mhm. And so that is what we do where we go into the communities educating people on the ground, educating their families and partners and also educate taking advantage of the virtual platform. Yeah, we also tend to have a a sort of education for the health practitioners because you would ask the question why were there all these symptoms but nobody said anything. What is the issue with communication with our health practitioners and us the patients? Why is it so hard for them to communicate the risk and the diagnosis therefore and so we do that as well by providing capacity building programs for these health practitioners as well. So that is the many ways and in doing that we partner with traditional leaders, we partner with the media, we partner with the regulatory system there in Ghana. We have Ghana Health Service and then we partner with every relevant stakeholder because it's a community affair. It's a community agenda and to be able to save lives, we have to do it together. Yeah, it's beautiful. Beautiful that you're taking a holistic approach to it and I think we'll return to that in a couple of minutes and thank you of course for sharing what you've gone through. Um that leads me to a question that I have for Doris. Um what is the UPW doing to increase awareness and improve health for women? uh at risk of having preeacclampsia or ecleia. Thanks Megan for the question and thanks COA for um sharing your experiences which um unfortunately we know that they uh are not necessarily uncommon as you say and I think you picked up on a couple of things that are really important um and that is first and foremost that it is possible to detect preeclampsia. It's possible to start preventative measures if a woman is identified as being high risk and it's possible to treat um a woman who has preeacclampsia to avoid eclampsia um and to avoid some of the outcomes that you've mentioned most notedly um losing a baby um either through still birth or prematurity. Um the idea is to get a woman who is at risk for preeacclampsia and or eclampsia through her pregnancy um and so that you have at the end of the day a healthy mom, a healthy baby and a healthy family. As we saw in that video, WHO is working on several fronts. um you know us as the normative agency meaning the agency that provides guidance and guidelines on what to do and how to do it. So if that if you're the health care worker, you are meant to know certain things. And I um qu to your point about the issue of uh why health care practitioners don't speak about this or give risk uh talk about the risks. These are things that we're working on um is to how to improve that uh communication but how to also make sure what that the health care provider feels that they know what to do and that they have the ability to provide those medications um and that they're safe to give. I can tell you um from experience having practiced um obstetrics that there are lots of physicians who don't feel that they can give a medication in pregnancy and specifically for prevention of preeacclampsia. You know that one of the medications is aspirin. We have a lot of education to give to health care professionals on the the appropriate use of something like aspirin for prevention of breaks. So that's just one example. I want to just touch on a couple things because I know that time is short but WHO is also working on research to improve access to medications for treatment of preeclampsis just as magnesium. One of the biggest roadblocks is how nurses and midwives and physicians can give magnesium sulfate which is uh a treatment to prevent eclampsia when a woman has been diagnosed with preeacclampsia. And the other thing is working on the front of policy and uh informing innovations with developing what we call targeted product profiles which basically say to the world if you want to be in this space of working to prevent treat or help in the space of preeacclampsia these are the things that we need you to develop if you're going to come into this space here make sure that it's safe in pregnancy I mean these are common these are common sense points sometimes, but we need to put them down on a piece of paper that says if you're going to work in the space, this is what we're expecting of you um as a manufacturer, as an innovator, as a researcher. These are the questions that we want you to work on. And the and the final thing I want to say before I pass it back over to Megan is quality. Quality of medications, quality of health care, quality of the experience. We will get nowhere if the medications that we're using are of poor quality. will get nowhere if the care that is prov being provided is of low quality. And as Quiet said, it is about partnership. I can tell you that listening to the the last video about how the midwife felt that she was the happiest, it is because it is that partnership there. It it doesn't everybody's part of this team. And so at the end of the day, WHO is working very hard to make sure that everybody in that team atmosphere knows their role and their responsibility and what they can do to make a change so that experiences are positive um and that we don't have um the the the things that um happened to Coyo and to the woman in the video on Pria Clamps happen before somebody says they have to do something. We have the means and the ways to make it right. the first time around. Thanks so much. Thank you, Doris. Just a wonderful and informative uh little talk there. And I think that we'll we'll touch on some of those points again in the upcoming minutes. But what I hear already as a sort of pattern emerging is this idea that it's a collaborative effort that you know on one hand we could say why did this person do something or not do something but it's also something that we can look at together as a team of researchers or um lived experience um experts or policy makers. So thank you. I want to take a small pivot to the first film that we watched and that was Ephoon. and Sheila, I actually would like you to to share with us uh some information that I wasn't aware of when I watched the movie for the first time and I only learned when we were talking about it and that's about um Anita um Abada that's the director um her choice in choosing a fictional story instead of actually a documentary style like the other two movies. So can you tell us why she chose to use actors and a fictional plot or a scripted um film and what she did with the film afterwards? Yes, thank yeah that's very important point for us in the film festival is indeed to to highlight how the film can you be used for health education health promotion and uh Anita Abada uh to take your second point she has used she has made this film and used it in Nigeria uh to to educate the community leaders she she she used the film in different locations uh and she invited the community leaders in the school where she could also invite the teachers and the girls and um and showing the films to this group. Uh and then making sure that the dialogue would be installed and that uh this right to say no to FGM for girls and for mothers to to to support them in that uh would be understood by community leaders. So that she she did a great job in Nigeria and I would be interesting later that you would tell us in Ghana whether this kind of thing could happen as you do also the similar things with uh about preeacclampsia and uh so we have if you want to learn more from an Anita on this uh you go to the web page I mentioned at the beginning during the intro elf impact through film you go to the educational tools and you will see one we made where Anita Bara was herself interviewed and giving a testimony about this action she has done now and also by way there's a panel discussion in this same web page where Koa was invited last year uh about preeacclampsia so you have another another tool another another panel discussion on preeclampsia in this um web page now whether why she made a fiction maybe ka would reply better than me. Uh my assumption knowing since I have filmed a lot in in African countries and I met um I had the chance to to to to cover that topic a few times. My assumption is that it could be very difficult for a documentary approach to be made with real girls, real in terms not fiction characters. I mean um because this girl is real but she's acting uh but for her to say the same or to do the same in front of camera and not as an actor but as as a as a as a as a young teenager in a village I suppose it's going to be very difficult for a filmmaker to record that because I remember when uh so it's a bit long ago but I'm not sure it has changed a lot in some remote areas in Mali in Nair I remember For instance, for interviewing some young girls, I had to use a strategy, okay? A strategy with social scientists being with me. And the social scientist would pretend he needs to interview the father. So he was taking the father away from me and then I could interview the young woman and making sure that no old woman would be around and listen because the young woman told me I cannot speak in front of an old woman because I am a young and she's elder and secondly of course the old woman would not speak in front of the men. So publicly I mean of course in the family it's different. So the only way for girls to speak together according to this interview was for them to meet at the water point only the young ones and then they could speak freely between themselves. So I don't know if it's still situation like that in Africa in some villages still the case. It was a bit maybe 10 or 15 years ago I recorded that. Um anyway, yeah, so being creative not only as a filmmaker and and trying to get the voices and and the narratives that you need, but also keeping in mind the the context the the sight specific um context and and rules and norms and practices. I don't know if you want to speak briefly to that in your own experience as a filmmaker. Just to add to it, um there's a saying that says that if if content is skin, context is God. And film is really one of the powerful ways of advocating and telling a story. Because the truth is where I come from, um we like reading, but we also don't like reading. And so um one of the greatest way to get people's attention, yeah, is through story and through films of this sort. So even as an NGO ourselves we produced a short documentary um called Preeacclampsia Diaries where you had women coming out and the the fact is a lot of women are ready to voice out but they only ready to voice out with a hidden face. Yeah. You only find a few who will really want to show their face to be part of such films and to project it. And so then I do understand why you know the producer of that film did use fiction because most of these matters are sensitive. You are also looking at culture. We are highly patriarchal society and so you can be voicing your story and your husband who knows your voice because your face will not be showing but at least you would have voiced out. Yeah. So, yeah, that's just the experience we have. Yeah. Thank you. I I want to link that to to Christina. Christina, I have a question for you that's that's related to this. Um, so how are you using experience narratives like you just mentioned the the voices of women um in your own approach to um encouraging people to stop FGM and to combine that with evidence-based practices? How does the WHO or your research team approach this? Yeah, thank you so much for the question, Megan. Um, this is really an important part of the work that we've been doing. In fact, um, we realize that in we know that there are 200 million women and girls who have already undergone FGM. So, of course, we need to make sure that that health care systems are prepared to provide the the treatment and care for the complications. But at the same time, there's such an important role for the health sector to play in prevention as well. And we've really focused our efforts at the primary care level in high prevalence settings. And so most of the health workers at primary care level are the health workers like Grace who we saw in the film who are um midwives who are nurses and who are really part of the communities but also able to reach the communities in a way that's um that's unique because they understand the social norms that are driving the practice. They themselves might have undergone the practice and in fact we also know that some healthcare providers themselves are performing FGM. So it's not just happening by kind of traditional practitioners, but sometimes health workers themselves are doing that. So this is really for us a really important area to reach. So realizing this and realizing that there weren't tools already existing to do this, we did a lot of listening and learning and really talked a lot to community members. We talked to health workers themselves and those working within the health system and professional associations and particularly with midwives and realized that um there is research from other areas as well that midwives are extremely influential and they can influence their peers. They can influence those that they're teaching as well as their clients and their patients and the family members and community members that they're surrounded by. So we um we listened to a lot of these stories as we developed our materials. And what we also did was we um we developed um an entire training package that's aimed at nurses and midwives. And the first step in that is for them to come together and really start to discuss the values and beliefs and attitudes that they themselves hold as a first step in trying to build them as communicators for change and to build their role as opinion leaders in their community to end FGM. So that's a really important step and a lot of that really works with um with listening to personal experiences and building on that and we use that as part of this training. We also developed a a video this animated video and I would be happy to share the link because I think everyone who sees it finds it really powerful as well. And it's a story of a midwife also who comes to realize that she can play this important role and she's always wanted to do something about ending FTM but she herself didn't know how. But then she realizes this whole approach that we've developed is quite powerful and she starts using that and communicating with all the different people around her in all the different roles that she plays. So um we we tested this approach and um we did so by having the midwives and nurses undergo this training and then they spoke to women on an individual basis during the routine care that they were providing and they used that opportunity to discuss you know where the women were in their beliefs and and trying to work with them about changing changing their beliefs and we did this in a person- centered way a woman- centered way and we had really positive results. We we actually tested it in a randomized control trial approach in Guinea, Kenya, and Somalia. And these results are really the basis now for us to scale this up. And I mean, we're quite excited about this because this is really an untapped sort of resource of the midwives and nurses and those working at primary care level. And really behind all that are the stories and and really trying to to build on those and to recognize the individuality of it and that women have reasons that they put their daughters through FGM. Um, and as we saw like the mother in the film, she's not her intention isn't to hurt the daughter. She thinks this is the right thing to do. So, it's really important to recognize that even though it is a harmful practice and we are 100% committed to to ending the practice, there's a lot of um reasons behind that and there's a lot of social norms behind that and um unless we address those even within the health sector and with our partners as everyone else has mentioned, it really is a partnership also with other sectors. But this is this is really um critical in these efforts and um and and also happens to be effective as well. So this is this is a big part of what we're what we're doing to try to uh make our contribution as a health sector to NFGM. Thanks. Thank you. And it sounds like you're using a variety of approaches. You're uh being creative not only in the materials that you develop and use. And if I hear it right, just kind of playing the long game. It's not something that changes overnight and it requires open dialogue and an approach that's again catered to the specific sites and cultures that you're trying to reach. Thank you for that. I think we have time for one question from uh the room here. Benta is available. Bena has a microphone in the shape of a spongy box. So if there's anybody who would like to ask a question to one of our panelists, now's your moment. All right. Hi. Um, my name is Julia and I'm from the University Medical Center Utre. Um, I was just wondering about the first film. it seemed like it was very focused on um empowering and seeing the women's perspective, but I was wondering why there wasn't also a focus on an integration of men's uh involvement in the kind of empowerment of men to also speak up against FGM and what the kind of decision-m process was or what we might be missing out on by not including that perspective. Whose perspective? I I the men's perspective the men's perspective. So the fathers, the community leaders, other kinds of perspectives because it seems like it put a bit of pressure on only women to speak up. That's a really interesting point and it's also I I assume a choice of the director to focalize through the mother and the daughter and and to but it is uh noticeable that that's a lot of women. I wonder Christina if if this relates in any way to the work that you've been doing and how you target um your information that you're that you're sharing or your interventions. Yeah, thank you for the question. Um I can't speak for the director about her choice but I would say that generally in most of these societies where FGM is practiced that it is um often the choice of um the the mothers and the grandmothers and the and the female family members. So I think that's um was probably a deliberate choice because often they are making those choices. Um this isn't to say that um we shouldn't involve men. Of course we need to involve men in these efforts as well. In fact, in in many of the countries, there is data on this too that in many settings um more men are opposed to FGM than women and in other settings it's the other way around. But in any case, we need to, you know, if this is a social norm and we need to change at an individual level and a societal level, we need really need to engage all of the actors. And often women report that they're doing the FGM on their daughters are having it done to them because it makes them more marriageable or because they will fit in better in society. And often they think that this is what men in the society will prefer. And and we do know that from research that that's not necessarily true, but there are a lot of really um impactful efforts that are happening on the ground that are engaging men. And um I think this is absolutely a critical element of the work that needs to happen in partnership and in conjunction with all of the other efforts that are happening across the other sectors and with all the other actors. Thank you. Yeah, I think we there's a lot of great body of information that your um research group is uh producing. You can look on PubMed but also on the websites and then see all of the wonderful work. Um I just I just wanted to add that in Ghana there's a Ghanian scholar by Dr. James Agri who says that if you educate a man you educate an individual. If you educate a woman you educate a nation. Yes we need a men's voices but the truth is most of the time we are the ones with the children and so with the woman has a voice when she's educated that is a ripple effect there. And so yeah I think that is a wonderful way to close this panel session. Thank you so much for that closing thought. Something to take with us. I'd like to before we end this uh give a special thanks to the technical support staff, all their wonderful work for making this go seamlessly. The organizers of the conference, especially Joyce Brown, Noah Copla, and Gina Melis for their help with these sessions. Um Benta who's been helping us with the microphones. Thank you, Benta. And of course, Shil uh for selecting these films for us. My pleasure. We have one more day today or tomorrow is the mental health session. Also, thanks again to our online members. Uh thank you for participating with us today and thank you for your wonderful wonderful comments. Yeah. Take a