The Health for All Film Festival - Grand Prix World Health Organization (WHO) Grand Prix 2023 / Universal Health Coverage category "Jonathan's Miracle Feet" by Mamihasina Raminosoa and Nantenaina Rakotondranivo (Madagascar) John Nikka - Jonathan's father: During the Ebola epidemic, my wife was due to deliver. So they called to tell me that my wife had delivered. She gave birth to twins, and they both had clubfeet. Later, one of them died. When I saw my child I was heartbroken. I was wondering whether it would be possible for him to stand on his feet. But you know Africans, whether something is good or bad, they blamed his mother. My wife was anxious because of how they mocked her. Aminata Ninka - Jonathan's mother: I was so tired of the gossip. It made me feel bad for a long period of time. So I decided that we should go to church so that the pastor can pray for him and the devil will depart from him. But nothing changed, his feet didn't become straight. My mother-in-law got some herbs to rub on his feet, and she said it will straighten them. But it was still the same. When it did not work, my mother-in-law told us to just leave his feet as they were. Because Jonathan is a twin, he has the special power to heal himself. After the war, Sierra Leone developed a network of physical rehabilitation centers open to anyone in need of treatment. That was when my brother called and told me he had heard on the radio that there's a solution for children living with similar conditions. When I heard him say this, I was so happy. When we got to the hospital, Aunty Adama the clinic coordinator told us that his conditions is called clubfoot. She said they can treat feet like his. I was so happy and started smiling because of what she said. They started his treatment process, a foot cast was put on. We would take him to the hospital to be examined. After the casting phase, he was fitted with a brace. Miraclefeet-supported clinics are connecting children born with clubfoot in Sierra Leone to the treatment they need. I feel happy now, because when I see my child playing football, he plays with other children now and runs around. I see him healthy now and he is fine. My child is walking, his feet are straight. If only those who provoked and mocked Jonathan were to see him now. Let him go to school and be educated, so that in the future he can be a lawyer. And let me forget about the pain I was going through.