Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, Ministers, Excellencies, Delegates, the crisis that all member states of the World Health Organization are experiencing is a major challenge for us all. Switzerland thanks the WHO for its unwavering commitment in the face of the pandemic. Switzerland also expresses its deep gratitude to healthcare workers who have demonstrated their unfailing dedication and courage around the world. Mr. Director-General, in these very particular circumstances, I assure you of my country's full and complete support for the WHO, and I reaffirm the foundations of our commitment: adherence to multilateralism, solidarity, and international cooperation. Today more than ever, these foundations are essential; they must be strengthened and, above all, not weakened. This is why Switzerland is working to build a coalition of countries, each representing a region of the world. The goal is to guarantee universal health security, with the World Health Organization at its core, transcending divisions to better protect our populations. To achieve this, it will be imperative to analyze the measures taken by the various countries. This will be done within the framework of the WHO.  The aim is to strengthen the International Health Regulations and future exchanges. In the past, the WHO has learned from the epidemics it has faced. I am convinced that the organization will also be critically examined in light of the current crisis to further improve its emergency management. In Nice, for the time being, it is nevertheless essential to focus on managing this crisis. The WHO must be able to draw on the experiences of each country, but it must also be able to act autonomously and proactively to address health emergencies. It is equally important to ensure the WHO has significant financial flexibility. Is this the case today? The organization depends on nearly 80% voluntary contributions. Let's all ask ourselves this question and let them stop demanding so much of it and paying so arbitrarily. The current crisis shows how much they have avoided having a strong, effective, and universal organization committed to the long term. However, for this organization to act, it must have sustainable funding that allows it to independently guarantee its expertise. Gentlemen of the Director-General, in the face of the crisis we are going through, please be assured of  Switzerland's full cooperation is essential. As a member of the World Health Organization, our primary task is to save lives, protect public health, and treat the sick. We will only achieve this if we act together, joining forces within the multilateral framework of the WHO. Thank you.