Okay, okay, well. And as you know, on Tuesday the 13th, I didn't go into surgery. I called four days before, and in the end, they operated on me. They removed my gallbladder on Tuesday, November 20th. Wow, the doctors have so much patience with you, Dad. Yeah, well. And I with them, huh? You're just like my father; you're terrified of hospitals. Well, I was so scared that I got out of bed in that gown, my butt hanging out, and ran down the hall. The nurse and I were after me. They took me to the operating room. And there was the surgeon who said, "That gallbladder is mine!" Oh no, there was no escape. When I woke up from the anesthesia, I was trembling, and there was the young nurse stroking my hand. And I, scared, asked her what was wrong. "I'm dying," I said. And she, who was more scared than me, said, "I don't know, I'm new." Poor girl. Oh, that's great, thank you, beautiful. Well, since the stars have aligned today and we're all here together, I'd like to confess something to you. Confess, no, share, say, come on, I want to tell you something. Well, it has to be done.  It's important that with the smooth talk you have, you choke on a sentence. Hey, words are important, tell me, tell me, come on, little sister, tell me, did he call you in bar mode, huh? No, not yet, he probably hasn't lost my number or something, I'm sure. Yes, but you're not sick, are you? No, no, no, Grandma, I'm fine. You adopted another cat, let's see, let's let the poor girl speak. Thank you, Dad. I wanted to tell you that I'm heterosexual. There's a girl here, maybe you should talk to someone, but how come all of a sudden? No. Look, it's not something I decided, much less suddenly. What's happening is that for the first time in my life, I'm really listening to myself, taking care of myself. I'm allowing myself to be. And it's also that I've fallen in love. His name is Alejandro, and we want to have a monogamous relationship. What do you mean, monogamous? Yes, it was a joint decision. We talked about it a lot, and we decided that we didn't want to be with anyone else, just the two of us. Yes, like in that series, what was it called, Mono-Monogamous Marriage? What was it? I'm too old for these things, Grandma. I know that all this may seem unconventional to you, but do you think it's unconventional, unconventional, daughter? But are you listening to what you're saying? You want to marry only one person, and  On top of the opposite sex. And tomorrow, what are you going to want, to give birth to children instead of adopting them? I knew you wouldn't understand, Tiana, darling. You know what position you're putting our family in, and people, people, when they find out... And what else will they say? You're going to make us look ridiculous, daughter, when they find out at the firm. I'm begging you, please reconsider. Think about your values, about everything we 've taught you. Maybe, I don't know, it's a phase, a brief stage, but it's going to change your life because people aren't going to understand. Diana, look, I don't want to see you suffer. You're an actress, and your career has just taken off. Do you really want to risk everything for a man? And if you make a mistake... Maybe I need to make a mistake, really. I just don't understand. I don't understand what it is that's so special about this guy that you're willing to give it all up. It makes me laugh. Alejandra, do you think there will ever be colors? [Music] I don't know, but you can start changing it from the end to the side. Forgive me, love, you'll see how quickly we get used to it. Yes, I suppose.  It's just a matter of time, mine in the end don't take it badly at all, even my father gave me... Seriously, how lovely Alejandro, do you think that one day we will all come to understand each other, or even just accept each other? H the potato [Music] [Music] ch ah