countries joining us online for this event. So, welcome to you all and to everybody who watches the live stream uh after this event. Um it's such a great event to kind of round up the year. Um ending definitely on a on a high note uh on a very high note for us. Um this uh this speaker series is really focused on uh a partnership um with the charity university here in Berlin. Um and uh really a joint vision about how we can work together to really bridge the world of academic public health and service public health uh to detect new health threats wherever they occur, whenever they occur and uh it's really been such an exciting experience and um many of the speakers will share their their reflections uh and their work with you today. Um I would uh like to also welcome uh in particular Dr. Katya Pulman um who's joining us. So Dr. Pulman uh who's joining us from uh the Ministry of uh the Federal Ministry of Health uh is the director general for um uh for health security, resilience and international affairs. Um and uh it's really a great pleasure to have her here this evening and she'll also share some reflections as well um from the ministry of health site. Um and of course uh we have professor Bata Kman um who uh has been working very closely with myself and our team uh to make this fellowship program a reality. So without further ado, we have lots of speakers and lots of great um uh science to discuss. Um but I will uh invite uh Professor Kman up onto the stage to give some opening remarks from the Sherry team. Thank you very much. >> Right. Thanks very much Oliver for opening the evening and welcome to everybody here again. It's just a wonderful opportunity to see so many people from so many different areas of science, public health and the open door that this place has been. And I think tonight we have an opportunity to really reflect and listen to how what that open door has also delivered between our two institutions. And it's a privilege to uh lead the center of global health at at the charity. And it's a privilege to be part of this partnership between an academic institution and uh you know the applied evidence in the public health space to to serve the overall intelligence. Um, as Oliver outlined, pandemic and EP epidemic intelligence depends on our collective ability and the collective ability is somewhat also already in this room although it's obviously a very wide space and the people that you will find today telling us about their fellowship experience here and their research reflect that wider infrastructure and the ecosystem that we've also tried to build with this fellowship. Um I think it was really a unique idea to come together to um sort of see what we can do when we open our doors in the way that goes beyond our own institutions. And just to give you a little bit of background of how it all came about. We jointly launched the research fellowship program and you know Oliver and I were really quite involved in that. It's been a pleasure and we wanted to connect science with the public health intelligence. We were absolutely thrilled and also terrified when we got 250 applications for the five fellowships that we could award and they came from 74 countries and we were really blessed with having a wonderful team who did you know the pre-selection to get us to a point where we could actually make some decisions and as you will see tonight I'm very proud of our decisions so um we could work in depth with both charity and who hub research researchers and the inaugural cohort as I might refer to them will present tonight what this program can enable and I think to some degree we would like to also set maybe an example to catalytically working in a way where we can bring in people who might not necessarily walk through our doors in a network or together and the people who have joined the fellowship program have really gelled over the time and we've had so many uh interesting consultations and they reached out to experts. They have uh already worked on data pipelines. They've worked on policy briefs. They've worked on a whole bunch of you know obviously um later on publications as well. So and I think the most important part of this is the collaboration across research and practice. And this is what the title is today bridging research and practice. because unless we can implement what we think is the best evidence we wonder sometimes why we bother. So um with that tonight's session is an opportunity to hear directly from the fellows and to learn about their projects and I don't want to take anything away from from their stories and so you will see scientific expertise you will also see how people haveworked beyond what they brought to us and what we hopefully have been able to give them on their way. And without further ado really I think we should open the floor and I give it back to Oliver to introduce our special guest. Thank you. >> Great. Thank you so much, Peta. uh you know one of the really exciting things about this fellowship program is that it's not just a fellowship program on its own but actually it's founded on uh really a significant piece of work that we actually spoke about in a previous speaker series which is the research prioritization that we established uh along with other partners including the charity team but also with the welcome trust and gloar um and other colleagues within who and this research prioritization lays out uh 23 areas of priority that we think uh need further investigation for uh for pandemic and epidemic intelligence. Um so the the work of the fellows is rooted in uh this prioritization effort uh which also makes it very very practical and very very applicable. Um so uh we look forward to hearing a little bit more about that as we go through about the applied nature of the work. Um, it's my pleasure now to uh invite our special guest uh Dr. Katya Pullman from the Federal Ministry of Health of Germany. Thank you, Dr. Pullman. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, it's a great pleasure to open the 12th session of the WHO hub speaker series and I thank the hosts um Oliver Morgan and Bata Kman uh for convening this important event. The theme of this evening, bridging research and practice could hardly be more to the point. Connecting research, data, and decision-m across PIP uh across disciplines and sectors is crucial to better prepare the world for future crisis. Policy must be rooted in science and research must be informed by real world needs. bridging this gap is essential for resilient health systems. Germany values the work of the WH hub. Since its establishment, the hub has become one of the key institutions for advancing our shared vision of stronger global health security. In only a few years, the hub has delivered impressive results. It has built strong collaborations through key initiatives in more than 150 member states. It has partnered with hundreds of organizations to accelerate pathogen genomic data sharing through the international pathogen surveillance network and it has advanced innovative approaches to public health intelligence including through the epidemic intelligence from open sources initiative. These achievements are not only impressive on paper, they are practical contributions to a safer and better prepared world. They complement Germany's broader efforts to strengthen public health intelligence through global cooperation. For us, one thing is clear. Health security is national security and it cannot exist without global cooperation in a robust multilateral architecture. Five years ago, the CO 19 pandemic demonstrated this very clearly. It showed that investments in global health are not acts of charity. They are necessary for the well-being of our citizens, societies, and economies. Therefore, Germany continues to play an active and committed role in WH, G7, G20, and EU in strengthening global health and pandemic prevention, preparedness and response. And we strongly com uh welcome the pandemic agreement and of course we also firmly support the ongoing negotiations on the pups framework. Together these processes are essential steps forward for a more coherent, resilient and effective global health security framework. At the EU level, Germany remains committed to strengthening Europe's leadership in global health and supporting initiatives such as the global health resilience strategy because even in turbulent times, our compass remains clear. Germany stands for a ruled rules-based multilateral system, strong global institutions and international cooperation. And the WHL hub is an important reflection of that commitment. Data generation and surveillance are core functions of the global health architecture. And the theme of today's session, bridging the gap between research and practice, lies at the very heart of effective pandemic and epidemic intelligence. Across all levels of global health, we have seen how fragmented data landscapes, limited interoperability, and delayed translation of scientific evidence into decision making can hamper our ability to act early and effectively. Past and current health crisis made this painfully clear. They showed us two things. That transparent datadriven decision-making is essential for effective crisis management and that reliable data combined with transparent political decision processes are key in building and maintaining public trust in these often difficult decisions. And in this context, I warmly congratulate the first group of the fellowship which has attracted a remarkable global interest as BA already mentioned over 250 applications from 74 countries across all regions. And my congratulations go to the five fellows whose proposals demonstrate outstanding potential to advance and transform pandemic and epidemic intelligence for the future. I'm very much looking forward to their contributions and findings from their research projects and I thank you all for your dedication and look forward to our discussions during the evening. Thank you very much. Thank you so much Dr. Pullman. Uh fantastic. I think uh collaboration uh is a necessary part of resilience and there's no better example of collaboration than participation. And for all of you in the room and online who would like to participate, you can submit questions as we go through the the event uh through uh there's a QR code on your seats if you're in the room. Uh and there's a link for those of you online and uh feel free to submit your questions as we go through uh the session and we'll pick them up uh at the end in the discussion. So uh I'd like to now welcome Dr. Katherine Smallwood uh from the WHO hub who will take us through tonight's program. Thank you very much. >> Good evening. Thank you very much, Oliver. Thank you very much, Dr. Pullman. Um, pleasure to meet you. And thank you, Bea, for your very warm words and introduction, demonstrating the the power that comes from a very big player on the academic side joining forces with a very big player on the public health expertise side. and how even before we've demonstrated the impact of this fellowship, we had a huge demand for it. So, um we're going to move into the next session. My name is Katherine Smallwood. Um I'm the head of public health surveillance here at the hub in Berlin and I'm very very happy to be hosting um and moderating the conversation and hearing from our fellows. um it's been a very very fast six months since they first arrived and uh we had this idea that um how would we showcase some of their early findings from their work and it's amazing to be here today. So welcome to everybody. Our five fellows who will present themselves and introduce themselves come from different countries, different parts of the world, come from different academic backgrounds, um have very very different research interests. Uh but for today we've decided to really tell a story and that story is around data and the journey that data takes from the moment it's generated all the way through to the way it's used to inform decisions. And just in front of you here you have uh this story and each of our fellows will present some of the findings from their research um in the context of this of this journey. So to start I would like to invite our first fellow to take the floor and give us a presentation um on his area of work which is the data generation stage. And with that, I'll invite my friend Adam to the stage and to make his presentation. Just waiting on the slides momentarily. Good morning, good afternoon, good evening depending on where you're joining in from. My name is Adam Abdullahi and I'm delighted to be here and I'm delighted also to be one of the five inaugural public health intelligence fellows and um today as a collective five would be taking you on a data journey and I'm starting off with the most nent part of that journey which is generating data. What does that mean? Right? So and within that context I'll be talking about how to accelerate readiness uh within the core context of some of the core components of generating that data and evidence uh across clinical trial diagnostics and the regulatory oversightes within the broader scope of epidemic preparedness. So I want to start off by saying uh we cannot stop outbreaks uh but we can stop epidemics and pandemics if the data and evidence systems that we have are just faster than the pathogens we're attempting to chase. And over the last decade or so we've seen that we have a number of medical counter measures uh and tools at our disposals. We have vaccines, we have therapeutics, we have diagnostics, we have prophylaxis, pathogen genomic systems. uh but they don't necessarily independently on their own stop epidemics or pandemics. Uh the tools are just as important as the speed at which we generate the evidence that allows us to control them. And that's what public health intelligence is really all about. How do we use data to inform decisions? And there's no better platform really than diagnostics uh and clinical trial platforms that allows medical countermeasures to become actionable evidence. Um that's because they link clinical care to diagnostics uh to pitching detection and regulatory oversight. So they form this rather intricate pipeline that ultimately drives epidemic uh decision making. So uh as part of this fellowship it's you cannot make decisions without really knowing what the landscape looks like and as part of this fellowship uh with a focus on the African continent and um I'm bringing outlooks uh from Africa. So if we look at clinical trial capacity as a surrogate for how much data can be generated within systems over the last 25 years uh on the map on the left the darker uh the country uh the more registered clinical trials therefore uh the amount of output uh from a clinical trial performance uh context and if we pass this a little bit more into vaccine trials and therapeutics it shows relatively the same story. capacity uh does exist. Uh the capacity is fragmented. Uh the capacity is specially concentrated across specific areas and regions. Um what does this mean? It means that there's structural delay in terms of how we generate data and how we use this evidence during outbreaks. Um but capacity doesn't tell you the full story because if you have capacity without regulatory oversight, then it doesn't really mean much. And again if we just look at the African continent there are about 89 countries that have accreditation in terms of benchmarking whether if so countries who meet ML3 and four means they can regulate therapeutics and vaccines and interestingly only two countries which is Egypt and South Africa that have the capacity to be able to regulate vaccines and the remaining countries have capacity to regulate therapeutics. So whether if you have countermeasures or not, if you don't have regulatory authority to be able to regulate them, it doesn't allow for deployment particularly in outbreak settings. So what does this mean? It tells us that well capacity alone cannot necessarily allow you to be able to respond optimally. Now to gain further insights, um on a microcosm level, uh Nigeria represents the largest country in Africa. um one in six Africans and Nigerians also around one in sixth of the GDP. So it tells you relatively the same story uh if you look at the map on the left it's uh accredited sort of trial sites in terms of capacity across the country and it tells you the same thing capacity exist and on the left hand side on the right hand side if you have a look at what the diagnostic capacity is tiered across how many pathogens can these laboratories that have being optimized by the national public health agency in the country the capacity is not lacking but what is really lacking is that there's no harmonized system that brings them together because you have a siloed system and Nigeria is not a unique case. It's a microcosm of what happens at a global level. Now again really complicated graph but I'll try to simplify it. Now if we have a look at um global initiatives and what the guidance efforts are at global level and at regional level um on the domain side we're looking at uh initiatives and guidance that focuses on these three core domains of responding and generating data which is the clinical trial diagnostics and pathogen genomics. One story is relatively clear if you thematize them is that there's a general agreement in terms of what needs to be done because the focus of all the initiatives are all around generating data, governing data, building workforce capacity, but there's no harmonized way really to do this and there are some difficulties particularly at country level to do this and that is probably the core uh the the core of what the fellowship output is is that can we build a harmonization framework for epidemic evidence systems in a way that we build evidence and systems that allows us to be better prepared. Now from the previous slide we could see that there's a general agreement in terms of what needs to be done but the systems are siloed because over the last 20 25 years we've built public health systems that are siloed that are disease specific that are fragmented. So the output in this framework allows us to think about this in a systematic way thinking at systems level not longer at programs level and uh this is uh the 10piece framework starting off with uh people policies uh partnerships uh platforms for four months protocol pathogens processes and it's the focus that if you want to put new investment and new resources into a new program if you looked at a framework like which was generated through this fellowship. It allows you to see how can you tie the thread in. So in a way that you have a cross cutting system that is not only generating data but is enhancing the systems that already exist. So to summarize uh the 10p really represents what we already know but what is not formalized at the moment. We need a harmonization framework that allows us to utilize existing resources to synergize better but also to amplify the impact in terms of preparedness of what the existing systems that already have. So although the challenges are not so technical in the sense that capacity exists, it really is a governance problem and frameworks such as this allows us to start thinking in a way that is collective but also at systems level. Thank you very much for your time and I do have the pleasure of welcoming uh Nikki uh who would be talking to us about data governance. Thank you very much. >> Hi, thanks very much. Um thanks Adam. It's a pleasure to be here as the slides coming up. There we go. Uh so I'm Nikki Tiffen. I work at the South African National Bionformatics Institute in the Western Cape in South Africa and I'm going to be talking about data governance and equity and uh my work in the the fellowship relating to that. So I don't think I need to explain to everyone that uh data are essential for evidence-based health care and for public health and public health intelligence and we use data in all sorts of domains. We work out what happened. We work out what we need to do next and we also work out what works best. And the way that we can do this is by sharing the data we have and new data that are generated. In doing so though, we have to be careful on the equity front to make sure that our global populations are fairly represented and that that we have a a full and correct view um of reality, the best possible view of reality. But we do have some reluctance to share data around the world and I come to this with an African lens of course um because of my perspective and I see a lot of concerns uh when it comes to sharing data about losing control over what's going to be done next with data sets and there are concerns around risk of community harms if you hand out data representing certain uh communities or identifiable communities. Is there going to be unauthorized unethical work done further and even national harms? We saw some of this of course in the pandemic with the co 19 reporting and then of course for researchers this very real fear that if you're in an un underresourced environment you might put your data out there and your primary research is going to be scooped by a better better funded group somewhere in the global north. Um and there there a lot of historical inequities and sort of neocolonial practices that that are thankfully falling away more and more but people lose the opportunity to leverage outputs uh from their own data sets for their own sustainability of research and practice and people feel there's uh sometimes no recognition recognition for the data generators um of the work they've done. it can be very difficult generating data in underresourced environments and it's nice to at least be credited when you've managed to achieve that well. Um, and a huge area which of course is an in everybody's uh thoughts at the moment and that is benefit sharing and return of benefits to the origins of the data, the populations from whom the data come or the environments from whom they come. So what we really want to do is is ensure that we don't have this um situation of samples and data from the global south and actions and insights in the global north but rather bring this into a more equitable framework where everybody knows what's happening next and has an opportunity to be involved and to ensure benefits acrew where they're due. This this issue of no return of benefits is is really quite a key one as well as as we all know. So how do we regain confidence around uh data sharing and and some of the thoughts we've had around this is that if we can establish an ability to establish more nuanced terms and conditions. So actually have detailed terms and conditions with very clear communication of what's permitted with the data use, what's not permitted and making sure it's unambiguous because a lot of data use even theus and data sharing agreements sort of have gray areas and it can be a bit difficult to navigate that space. And I think with this idea of um kind of clear communication, unambiguous messaging, we can also introduce accountability. Um, and another area that we've also looked at is this idea that there more flexible modes of sharing. So, there's some data that simply can't be handed out because they're sensitive, because there's no consent. Um, and we're getting more and more comfortable with the fact that we can do federated analysis or collaborative analysis or even put the data in a trusted research environment where people can do the analysis without actually accessing the data or taking ownership of them. So we're getting more flexible in our ways of working with data and making sure that they used out there in equitable and manageable ways. So these are some of the terms and conditions that we've sort of we've worked in various stakeholder groups and discussed what what are the important kind of terms and conditions for comfortable sharing of data onward. Uh and so I've listed them here. attribution, types of sharing, publication rights, whether commercial use is allowed, um cost recovery mechanisms, whether onward sharing is allowed, um and also whether the terms and conditions for for onward sharing are kind of share alike terms are derivatives or modified data sets allowed to be shared onwards these kind of questions. So for my fellowship, what I've been doing as a project is building a data sharing license. And at this point, I hope you can see in the top right a little Creative Commons uh logo for my for my material here. And I hope it's familiar to at least some of you. What I've been building is the equivalent of a creative common license but for sharing data sets. So the data sharing license is a browserbased tool uh and um it it's designed to create data sharing licenses that clearly communicate terms and conditions for using a data set onwards. Uh so you could generate a license for example if you have a one data set that you want to share onwards you can use the tool to create a license with your specific terms and conditions for that data set. But maybe you've got a whole collection of data and you want a license for all of those or even you have a database full of loads of different data sets and you want a data sharing license for everything in that database. So it's a very flexible tool uh to capture terms and conditions for onward sharing. So, we've uh created outputs that include a PDF document that really clearly delineates the terms and conditions for a selected license. Um, and then a set of icons um that that visually shows you the main terms and conditions that need to be adhered to when you use a data set. But we've also put some machine readable terms and conditions in there. So we've got an HTML output for people who want to embed a license icon in their website for example where they advertise their data set. And then also for the techies we've got some JSON machine readable code and that'll be supported with um scripts for creating fields and um automatically importing machine readable versions of the license into your databasing systems. and and we feel it's really about this ability to establish nuance terms and conditions uh communicate them with clarity uh without confusion um and and upfront. So this is an example of what the output might look like. And um yeah, so I'll come it's it's not quite launched. We'll come to that in a minute. But just imagine here we have an an icon along the top. This is for like a very picky terms and conditions like a very demandy kind of license uh which we did for illustrative purposes where direct sharing is allowed, commercial use is permitted, onward sharing is permitted. Um there's sharelike um terms required for onward use. So you have to use the same license. No derivatives. Benefit sharing is needed. Cost recovery is required. Uh you need an embargo period if you want to publish something from it. And authorship must be given to the data generator. So I'm just reading this example to give you an idea of how this might be communicated. And of course you can see the HTML on the side. So just to say this is going live probably within the about 10 days, 10 to 12 days. It'll be a browser based um tool where you'll go and answer a series of questions. Uh it can be used uh for any kind of data set by anyone anywhere. Um and you'll be able to just go to the website, answer the series of questions and um out will come the license according to what you've specified. So you can follow us um it's a product of the African data and bio specimen exchange. We're on LinkedIn. will be updating and I just want to say thank you of course for this uh fellowship which has been a really fantastic opportunity just to acknowledge my partners and also funding from the Gates Foundation in the form of Kalstus Juma fellowship that made the the work possible. So thank you and I'm going to hand over to um Nurman who's um going to come up and tell us about the combination of data integration and analysis. Thanks very much. >> Hi, good evening everyone. My name is Narmin. Uh I'm today I'm going to talk to you about data integration and analytics. Um uh I'm a senior researcher and I have a PhD in clinical research from the University of Copenhagen. I'm originally from Egypt and my project is about contextual frameworks for mapping uh global patterns of antimicrobial resistance and when we are talking about um my project it comes under the research priority area of analytical frameworks. We cannot speak about um uh analytical frameworks without speaking about data because if you don't have if we don't have data we don't have anything to analyze. So data integration and the harmonization is essential and having access to data publicly available data or federated data having such kind of accesses is is crucial for any kind of of analytics and the evidence generation we would like to have. So um with this in mind uh a little bit of background on my project I'm working with bacterial AMR uh which is actually accountable for almost 4.7 million death uh uh every year according to the global uh burden of disease uh study uh for uh AMR uh we have different national routine surveillance system uh systems as shown in this pyramid where we can capture uh patient who interact with the health care system. However, uh we will have a gap and we actually have a gap when it comes to patients or people who never interact with the healthare system or uh resistant genes uh that are present in the environment. And here environmental surveillance such as wastewater uh can actually provides complimentary uh population level information that are uh able of detecting uh antibiotic resistant genes. Um here uh we have to think about that actually it's not only uh having the data or the surveillance in place for such kind of uh uh resistant profiles but actually to be able to understand of understanding AMR uh it requires actually uh having or examining the broader conditions uh under which or in where there's resistant profiles emerge and develop. And here uh the UN sustainability development goals uh are offering actually uh K global insights uh on contextual environments of health and illness. With this kind of background in mind, um I developed the aim for this uh fellowship project uh to assess the potential association between the microcontextual determinance of health related uh to the STGS and the global variation in AMR. I have uh chosen to work with two uh main sources of data. bacterial metagenomic data from global seaw samples which is one of the uh largest uh data sets uh related to uh uh wastewater surveillance uh which measure antibiotic resistant genes. The data are publicly available from the global seaw project consortium uh which was run by the division for genomic epidemiology at the technical university of Denmark and the data are hosted via the European and nucleide archive. I have built uh some descriptive uh dashboards. You can access uh using uh the barcode uh showing the distribution of the samples along with some descriptive uh parameters. I also used the UN global sustainability development goals indicators uh data platform where uh it has uh information on uh on different goals for each country and the information are uh stored as uh country scores uh between zero and 100%. For the methods, I have uh used diverse analytical layers of intelligence. For instance, for data preparation and integration, I lengthened harmonized global AMR data profiles with contextual variables, namely scores for STGS. For analytics, I applied conventional statistical methods and machine learning to examine potential associations between STGS and AMR. And for the policy intelligence extraction, uh I used AI based tools, namely a large language models to extract and integrate information from the WHO data hubs on antimicrobial resistance surveillance policies. Here this uh map shows the sample distribution for phase two of uh the project. The consortium had samples from all all uh parts of the world and uh they had samples uh total with total number of 757 most of the samples were coming from OE city countries and subsahara Africa actually we have they had almost 21% uh of the samples coming from subsahara Africa and the rest from other regions. Now I'm going to walk you through a selected set of findings. uh first antimicrobial resistant genes uh uh originate actually using those samples they originate from diverse bacterial taxa classified from the film to the species level. So uh the data had hundreds of bacterial families and uh uh classes. Uh the data covers 19 classes of antibiotics including 63 antibiotics. After data filtering, the main finding that depending on the SDG domain for each goal, a higher goal performance was uh birectionally uh correlated with levels of resistant genes uh globally across regions and I found that um there were around 13 antibiotics with significant correlations between moderate to strong correlations. uh those antibiotics included um sulfame suazol tetracyclophenicol and chlorominicol I'm giving an example for this antibiotic because it showed it have shown the the strongest association or correlations with the STGS so the better STG performance was consistently associated with lower resistant gene abundance or counts and those the strong associations ations appear with goals related to STG index, health and well-being goal, water and sanitation, sustainable cities and the peace and institution goals. And in this uh figure you can see the transformed count of resistant genes uh having a reverse correlation with the score or the STG index. And to conclude using the contextual analytical framework that I have been working with the study findings along this highlights uh um from similar literature highlight that um understanding the underlying social, economic and environmental conditions of health rather than focusing solely on antimicrobial use is essential uh for reducing population level AMR and should inform form global policy and resource prioritization. I have left a couple of references uh for those who are interested about the antibiotic and also for the on the global se project. And um here I leave my uh LinkedIn uh profile barcode and to conclude I think I believe that we have to work together for global health. Thank you so much. Sorry. Sorry. Now I'm including my colleague uh Carmen who is going to tell us about her fantastic work on analytics data analytics. So to Carmen, >> thank you so much Narin. Um so hi everyone it's a pleasure to have the opportunity to speak and present u my research today as Nine said my name is Carmen Tamayo and I am a research fellow at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine in London and my kind of project uh has to do with this next step in the data cycle that we've been telling you about today and is focused around analytics. So as we know analytics is a crucial step in this cycle um because it goes from data to insights that will be then communicated to decision makers and my project specifically specializes or focuses on outbreak analytics which is this data science that is focusing on all of the analysis and methods across the outbreak analytic pipeline. And this means that there are methods to optimize the processes from importing data, cleaning and standardizing data to early descriptive analysis and epic curves to more epidemiological tasks like estimating disease severity, transmissibility and into later tasks like that include infectious disease modeling. So through the previous epidemics and particularly through the coid9 pandemics, we have learned a series of lessons that are making this area of outbreak analytics challenging. And I've put like what I believe are the main ones uh which are a fragmented tool ecosystem meaning that there are some really fantastic tools out there but that may not talk to each other very easily and that may not be interoperable. Then the lack of reproducible code which means that often code is not although we're getting better at it often code is not openly shared. Um and this leads inevitably to the duplication of analytical efforts which uh causes um inefficiencies in the process which could be is time that could dedicate could be dedicated to more interesting tasks or to novel developing novel approaches that are tailored to each outbreak. So focusing on these uh challenges that I mentioned, the project that I'm part of which is called Epiverse uh was established in September 2022. And this is a project that aims to develop an open-source and robust outbreak analytics ecosystem using the R language. And I've put a QR code there and also the website, but if you just type in EPverse on Google, it will hopefully come up. Um, and this is a collaboration between the MRC unit in the Gambia, the London School in in London where I'm based, and then the universities of Havana and Los Angeles in Colombia, and is also funded by data.org. And the way that Epiverse has been working over the last few years has been by developing new tools from scratch, which are the ones that in the middle um the hex logos are in white. um contributing to existing tools that have been developed by other research groups and also by contributing to the facilitating the interoperability between Epiverse tools and external tools and I've included some of these tools that are interoperable currently with Epiverse tools in um blue on the screen. Um so yeah that's a project that I have been working on and through the fellowship here in Berlin the question that I was interested in was basically focusing on are these tools actually useful for people? What changes can we make to them to facilitate their adoption and are there any major gaps that we are leaving for which we need to develop new tools and the fellowship here at the hub and at Cher has been a really fantastic opportunity to interact with users from many different backgrounds including modelers, epidemiologists and decision makers and I've been working with these different groups of experts to to basically answer this question. And for the for the sake of this presentation, I wanted to highlight a very special uh collaboration which actually um took place last week uh which was a collaborative analytics workshop in the regional office of WHO in Dakar in Sagal um where we had participants from eight different African countries from the WHO Afro region um including one person from each of these countries from the Ministry of Health and one country office representative. And it was really interesting to map out basically the outbreak analytics needs for the region. And then we had two full days dedicated to training uh training in R from like the R fundamentals to later tasks that I showed you earlier on the pipeline. And it was really interesting to hear people's opinions on what works, what doesn't work, and what are some of the barriers for adoption. And with this um at the end of the fellowship, so like next month, uh a report will be shared on all of the findings like general findings, but also specific findings about the changes that need to be made um to the tools that already exist. But to not bore you with the technical details, I just presented here some of the main lessons learned and hopefully way forward that we can focus on. Um I found that the main one of the main issues remains the data gap. So this means that there are tools that people either use already or they would like to use but the problem is that they do not easily communicate with existing data management systems. um and this process makes the adoption very difficult because there's not an easy um seamless connection. So that this requires many manual workarounds and extra code that needs to be written which is often not possible or within people's uh cap capacity. Um another barrier was customization. So I've learned that users require the tools to be flexible enough so that they can tailor them to their own case studies and not only that but offer more documentation offering examples so that people know what can I actually do with this tool um and is it actually the right tool for my for my um problem. Um then another issue that sadly continues to be an issue which is the lacking infrastructure and this includes um technical support but also when it comes to software and hard work with hardware which complicates the effective implementation of tools especially in field settings and then the last two which I think go hand in hand which are the need for training and support in basically coding and handsome some practice uh with outbreak analytical tasks and also a support ecosystem that people can use to communicate between them but also with instructors and developers. And I just wanted to quickly mention two actionable outputs that are already out there from this uh fellowship um that address these two last points of the need for training and support. One is this tailored training materials that we developed um with colleagues from the WHO pandemic hub. Um you have the link there. Sorry, it's a bit long. If you want to take a picture, I can share it afterwards. and it focuses on um training materials dedicated specifically to the needs of the Afro region with examples and also include how to make automated reports that you can easily share with decision makers and a new community of practice which is hosted by WHO that specifically focuses on this topic of Afro collaborative analytics that is now live and that um I think you can already join but uh there needs to be a process of setting it up properly. So stay tuned for that. Um and and I think that's pretty much it. Uh with this I will pass on to Verina who's going to tell us about the last step of the data cycle. Thank you very much Carmen for this nice introduction. And I'm also very grateful um to be here tonight to be part of this fellowship and to have the chance to present um some of my first results. My name is uh Vina Schroman. I'm affiliated with the technical university here in Berlin and the European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies also located here in Bin. However, um my research is mostly um focusing on countries on the African continent specifically in subsaharan Africa. And today I'm uh having the pleasure to give the final presentation of today focusing on the translation to policy part. How to translate evidence to policy with a specific focus on bridging the gap developing contextualized knowledge translation tools to enhance evidence use in policym in Ghana. And as already referred to in the beginning of this session, we usually face um a challenge here as um quite often researchers and policy makers or decision takers work in siloed approaches and not in collaborative approaches. And this is why I started my research. And um because it is very important that we include the scientific evidence which is very often there already to guide public health responses and especially during major health emergencies as pandemics and epidemics. Since during these times um well there is for example there's not only time pressure but there are very often also scientific uncertainties and there are political pressures. So I started my research journey with asking myself is scientific evidence really used during risk communication in outbreak situations in Ghana where I focused on with this research just really not to assume that it is used um everywhere and all the time and especially in these situations. And then I moved on into how um scientific evidence or research is translated into political decisionmaking. And some might assume that this path is quite straightforward. However, it isn't at all as we all from time to time realize that it is quite complex and usually iterative in order to translate the results we generate and how to communicate these results especially. And this really affords a creation of effective alignment between research and policy makers which needs to make sure that we understand the way policy is developed and the other way around. And the guiding question here when I went to those working in policy mainly was that I paid special attention to which type of evidence is used in the end for decision-making process especially in times of a crisis and outbreak. And so I started my journey with asking myself who in the end is really involved in risk communication in Ghana. and identified that this is a very structured and straightforward process headed by the Ministry of Health and uh the Ghana Health Service which is working underneath the ministry of health and usually there are several key partners involved in this process which are for example the WH is in with a usually quite advisory role several other ministry are involved uh on a regular basis for example the ministry of food and agriculture and also different labs and in Ghana there's one key lab which is the Naguchi Memorial Institute for Medical Research and shortly referred to as Naguchi and for example other institutions are involved Natmo which was established during COVID 19 or the Christian health association of Ghana which is providing care for more than 40% of the population and other partners which are already involved are the media social media and um community members. However, what I identified that for example the environmental sector is neglected too often and also the an animal health sector is not completely integrated and when it comes to our own role researchers are not integrated on a regular basis. It was reported that from time to time there were relationships for example between certain universities. However, when it comes to the regular engagement, this was not the case. So, I was wondering how is it going if there is for example an alert that there is an outbreak and it starts with Niguchi as I mentioned as the key research institution with testing. Then it continues to the ministry of health and the Ghana health service which is kind of the key player here um which are declaring the outbreak and thereafter we have an interdisciplinary meeting where usually most of the players mentioned before are taking part. This can differ depending on what outbreak is declared and then the entire process is led underneath the Ghana Health Service. also underneath the ministry of health. So it's quite a top-down process which we find here until it goes again to a reassessment of the situation whether any adaption is needed. And then I was wondering okay so where does the evidence come in? And when we look at this, it is really the case that at the moment the evidence um the GHS for example is working with is created either by labs or the GHS itself which means that they go into the field that they um conduct surveys that they interview people in the areas where the outbreak for example is suspected and they for of course also have an interdisciplinary exchange here. However, what is not regularly used is for example scientific evidence on the topic which might already exist. It might be the case that Nouguchi is looking at best practices for how to test for this research. However, it's not that they will look into existing risk communication strategies which have been reported in any kind of review which we as researchers would publish. And um so it is more preferred and more considered credible to um rely on sources provided from the WHO, experiences gained in neighboring countries or as said evidence generated by the lead institutions in the risk communication process. And this left me wonder with like the the final question of my research journey. How can we contribute to the uptake of research which is sometimes it's not even necessary to develop it. It's sometimes already there and what can we do? So it was not that we came up or during the interviews I conduct that we do not came up with completely new ideas which have never been there but it was mentioned for example that policy dialogues which are happening already but most of those interviewed were wishing that they would be conducted more regularly even on a quarterly basis or that when it came to policy briefs I felt like well I've written some so I know what you're talking about but maybe not completely because most of them mentioned well they should be one to two pages long and I was like okay those I've written are a bit longer so maybe we should shorten them and other formats as workshops and other meetings were mentioned and with this how of course it needs an interactive model of communication but what it needs is that the key players are on board from the beginning on it is not um possible to integrate some at the very end or maybe in a point when communication has already been done. And who is still missing are for example one health researchers and experts and for Ganaian perspective also too often religious and traditional leaders and queen mothers who pay who play a very critical role in the Ganaian context. And for sure last but not least um this is um for the research part the timeliness of information because if we provide it too late then it's useless. Thank you very much and I here with hand over to Katie. Thank you. >> Thank you to all of you. Fantastic presentations. And I wonder if we can bring back up that slide with the cycle because before I invite our fellows back onto the stage, I actually wanted to recognize um the many people involved in um supporting some of this work. And as a joint partnership, there have been partners um individual researchers from the Shahitier University who have been paired with our fellows and individual experts here at the hub, including myself um who have been um working. So each of these projects has been a bit of a threesome um and it's just been a wonderful um way to experience the past six months. So uh I wanted to put that back back up. But now I'd like to bring back our fellows to this stage and um just to take you back into the journey that we've just heard. Um we started with Adam. Adam gave us the challenge of how can data that's generated from clinical trials, from vaccine uh trials and from therapeutics uh really be more harmonized and generate data together. And he provided a governance framework for that with a whole set of 10 Ps um that allow us to look at how those different silos or fragmented programs within health systems can come together. Then Nikki told us a little bit more about how once data is generated, how it can be shared fairly, transparently, and how we can put in place a system that can really help to enable that sharing. And Nikki through her fellowship has built a tool, a license that every one of us can now go away and use. We then heard from Nurman who talked to us about how wastewater surveillance um and the prevalence of antibiotic resistance genes in wastewater surveillance can be negatively correlated to the performance around certain SG targets. That's an amazing finding and I'm really curious about where that will go next. come and talk to us about analytics and how we can develop all of these tools and these are tools that can be used to do a lot of things. But are they useful? Are they fit for purpose particularly in lower and middle inome countries where we have all of these gaps the data gap the digital gap the capacity gap there were five gaps I can't remember the other two but um several gaps that um we're now starting to fill. So community gap, you're building a community. And finally, Verina, who took me back to my PhD days where I looked at the use of scientific evidence in policym um who really looked at how evidence is generated during outbreaks and then used uh to make decisions and communicate it to the public and found that although there might be a good self-reliance and an ability to generate evidence locally, perhaps there's not the most effective use of evidence that already exists in real time. And in terms of outbreaks, time is people getting sick and then potentially dying. So, please come back up to the stage. We'll take a seat and uh we'll hear from the audience on some questions. So, just a reminder that you have a QR code um on your seat. You may be sitting on it. Uh those of you who have already put in questions, uh thank you very much. For those who have been stimulated by these presentations, please put your questions into that group. But before we go to those, I had some opening qu questions more around the fellowship itself and uh and I'd really like some of the reflections from from our fellows about what this fellowship has meant to them and what the potential impact of the fellowship might be. So I'd like to start with a question on the broader impact of the research that you've conducted during this uh this past six months and in what ways has coming together through this fellowship enabled you to connect with a broader research and practice community and what has that potentially brought to your own research or changed in your research. So um maybe I can turn to Adam and Carmen for some reflections on that question. >> Yeah. Uh thank you very much uh Katie. So just uh reflecting back. So the focus of my research work here and even prior to now has been how do we strengthen systems in a way that the the the data that we generate links into a pipeline of decision making and um it's impossible for a single entity for a single researcher for a single research team to to do this. So on the on the backdrop of the of the fellowship it's provided a rather unique opportunity. It's uh shared priorities. is shared language in epidemic preparedness and response and um ultimately how that links into into decision- making and um I think within the broader scope uh to to to answer your question and the broader scope is simple how do we now start thinking about how to harmonize the the systems we have so that data is not just generated it's not just availability of data it's also about actionable data using that data to make action I think um to to answer the final part of your ing in terms of how this has changed my research scope looking into the future. I think as a plain academic coming into into this fellowship, I certainly think less about output so to speak um and more about impact in a sense is that how can you measure impact beyond what's generated within a lab or within a system. Thank you. >> Is this on? Yeah. Um, so yeah, I wanted to kind of echo what Adam said because I think that my project proposal really lend itself really well to this type of fellowship because um, as I was mentioning earlier, um, these tools that we've been working on in EPverse like we know are useful within an academic context because that's where we are and um, we interact act on a daily basis with other people like especially within the London school and we know that it's useful for like academic use let's say but that's not the purpose that's not what we wanted to achieve so I think that it would have been very difficult um without the support or the networks offered by like the charity day for example um I was able to have like this specific training session with the team of modelers from Charit and RKI from infectious disease moders in Berlin basically uh which was amazing and then as I was mentioning during my my talk the connections through the hub and being able to access the an entire WH region um has been amazing. So I I really doubt that I could have gotten those insights without the support offered by this program. So yeah, thanks. And I think from a WHO perspective as well, it's been fantastic to see how we can take research that has been potentially happening within a very academic context and and really apply it to problems that we're facing on a day-to-day basis um at the hub uh when we're working with our countries and our regions. and and I think both of you have shown um that agility and and a ability to to change your own mindset and and and and adapt your research to the particular context that you're in. Um in terms of the objectives of the fellowship, one of the objectives is also to support um mid-career researchers um in in their own careers. and and I wanted to ask Nikki as as someone who who's professor has a big team um in your own country that you'll be going back to um what type of opportunities might a fellowship like this present to researchers in the academic space? >> Yeah, thanks. That's a great question. Thanks Katy. Yeah. So I think um for me I mean here I focused on the data governance uh program and project and data governance is quite an interesting space for research because you start you know when we started looking at research into data governance we did a look a lot of pointing at what's wrong. So this is a problem that's a problem and then from there the field kind of moved into announcing what people ought to do and should do. So we should fix this, we ought to do that. There was a lot of like um explaining what other people ought to do. And I think the the fellowship um has given me an opportunity obviously I've built a tool. I mean we do tend to build tools but to actually do something practical that can now be used. It's a framework that can be put out there. But the process of translating it into a tool that is is useful and um shown to the play the sort of the stakeholders who may want to actually use it. That process has been absolutely amplified by the fellowship. So I think it's really a a bridge to translation. I mean even writing a policy brief is something you can do as a researcher but writing a policy brief isn't the same as seeing a true translation of what you've done. And I think that translational opportunity and the incredible support through charite and the hub to really operationalize this tool and to make sure it's fit for purpose and to see where it's going to be useful in the in the public health intelligence kind of global effort that's a really exciting opportunity. So I think that next level which is sort of one step beyond research and that is making research actionable and operationalized that's a very exciting opportunity and one I'm very grateful for. Thanks. >> Thanks a lot Nikki and very much echoing what Adam was saying as well um about really rethinking the classical outputs of academic research more into what the real world impact of some of this work could be. And uh yeah, thanks. Just thinking about different sectors, different disciplines. Um Verina, you looked at a problem very much from a more of a social science perspective, looking at the decision science and where and how decisions happen and how evidence is used. Nurman, you bridged a very public health challenge with uh development uh SDG big picture thinking. So what I'm interested from you is is how over the six months um what have you learned about bridging these gaps between disciplines and uh and and also what you've learned about the value of a fellowship like this in bridging the academic research with the service or practice that Oliver mentioned at the beginning. >> Would you like to take it first? Thank you. Um well for me it was like when I started uh it was still something where I thought I have the the main concept in mind. However, um the fellowship provided me with the opportunity to receive feedback not only from a research perspective but also from the hub so from the let's say nonacademic more practical perspective which I incorporated before I went into the field and then while going into the field it was also to apply um real world research which which also made a difference because with every interview I conducted I also adapted a the questions I was asking because well you learn from every person you talk to and in the end like um as Nikki said it's something to provide a policy brief but also as as you developed or as Adam developed it's a framework and this is a real tool and this is something I was thinking about my own research so what I will do with it in in long-term perspective and I have the opportunity as part of project I'm involved in and I see colleagues here as as well from this project um that we are already conducting and using the format of policy dialogue. So this is a nice opportunity to include the insights I have gained and we are conducting this uh policy dialogue. I should have mentioned this in Ghana for sure. So this is something which will be incorporated and also um communicated to those who need to receive this information as I'm also now even more in touch with policy makers from different ministries who really were encouraged to um adapt their way of working and uh would have loved to hear back. So um this is not an end itself. Thank you. uh I believe that uh I have the privilege of getting insight from different uh stakeholders. So you have I had input from uh charity and the focal point and I have also input from the WHO hub and using uh data from different sources like I used the data from the global se project uh and that was a consortium uh organized by the technical university of Denmark and they made the data publicly available and then using the data from the SDG platform where also the WHO made their data available. So actually that's a privilege is not available for every researcher you know to work with. uh when it comes to integrating data and having data sources that are required for your research uh project that's uh uh one of the biggest hurdles and having accessible data publicly available and then having the analytics and they have the expertise from both sides from academia and from the prof professional entity like the WHO hub experts that's that was really AI would say um a very uh unique opportunity because you you get an interaction and the insight from people who knows about what's happening in real life you know so you get like I would say the best from every domain you have the scientific merit and you have also the real life perspective so that was a very unique opportunity actually to have so just a question I'm throwing it out there did you ever any of you ever sense a a big tension between what the your your buddies at uh WHO were saying and your buddies on the academic side were saying I would only say nobody at WHO said so are you going to publish a paper but uh yeah um no I mean other than that no I think there's a very unified view of where we're going with things yeah and and it's really quite refreshing to not thinking about publishing paper but we won't mention that to my university that I even consider So there will be a paper. Thanks. >> Great. Thanks. Um we're going to turn now to some questions from the audience. Um and the first question um is to Carmen. Uh though it's not possible to access national health data. Do you argue this should be an aim or believe it will never be possible? Um, I guess it means to access national health data from every country via the tools. Um, >> I assume that's not my question, but whoever is in the room, please feel free to nod. >> Um, it's hard to say whether there should be an aim for every single country. I think that for example at the moment uh there are direct links um through a specific package that is called read epi that can read in data from DHS2 and SMAS and we also had a collaboration with go data to read in data from that platform as well. So, I think that maybe um there could be specific partnerships with countries that are interested and I think that there's absolutely room for this. Um but maybe the the focus should be on making these partnerships with um kind of overarching organizations like WHO and like for example the European like at a European level or like CDC like something at that level first and then at country level. Um but again the I think the difficulty regarding this would be that there needs to be sustained further funding and dedicated projects for each of them if not so I think that's where the difficulty may lie. Thanks. And possibly a utility in the license that Nikki has created as well if uh data is being brought into some of those tools >> and different ways of sharing actually just to mention because as TRE become more popular or federated analysis the risk with health data becomes less because you have better ways of protecting them. So they're definitely ways forward that uh don't need to expose data or put individuals at risk. Yeah. Verina, a question for you. How can we make sure evidence-based policym remains stable despite political changes, election cycles, shifting ministerial positions, fragmenting geopolitical landscape, defiance in science, the list goes on. I have no idea where this question might come from. Somebody's aware of the political world situation. So when I also um went into yeah literature in order to prepare myself to develop for example the questionnaire and I also came across um initiatives which were developed by the WHO actually in the aftermath and during uh COVID 19. I felt like some of them are not alive anymore. Those would be an answer to um leaders which change and which change their opinion and their direction of policy. Because for example, if we have platforms which make um research accessible for lay persons or for policy makers, decision makers in terms of using a language which is easily accessible in a summarized format and this is existing. So for example, if there is a research publication, this can be translated into let's call it a toolbox and there you access it with a two-pager with a main findings and this could be something accessible on an platform which is not run by the government then in the end and then it would still be accessible to the public and other decision makers in place and this is something which is often a problem that it is not continued. these ideas have been there and it has been started somewhere and there's so much material out there. So I think very often there is a lowhanging fruit and we just need to pick it and make use of it. And a follow-up question um how does what you've done in Ghana uh find relevance or comparability to the situation here in Germany? >> Oh wow. Oh, this is a bit mean. Well, I would say I have closer relationships to policy makers in Ghana compared to those in in Germany. But maybe this can be changed this evening. that I would say it's it's always we need a starting point and it's very often in life it is about it sounds so simple but it is about relationships and networks and if you do not get it started somewhere and despite of changes which might happen and that the chancellor might leave and so on very often they can endure over time and if not maybe one big institution is starting and we have this collaboration here. It's the Shi and the WH. Why not bring policy makers here on board and the the government is present here. So maybe I should add speaker series to my slides next time. So this is something I think we can make use of these opportunities and it can start in a semiformal manner and then I could imagine that they prosper. Yeah. to stay hopeful. >> Can I add a very quick point to that? Actually, I think that also makes a very good case for people in research to be a bit more involved in policy because yes, governments change, but for the most part, they're actually people in the periphery and sometimes those people actually have some sort of um impact in terms of the way decisions are made. So if you actually have people who are a bit more hybrid, you probably still will maintain uh some some sort of ear at least to the that decision-m process. I would say >> maybe just to add one brief comment because in the beginning of my research I only focused on policy makers and it was highlighted by my focal points that I should broaden this term to decision makers which however is a very blurry term and can mean a lot in different contexts but as you highlighted now we should not only think of policy makers but also decision takers which um might be in different positions. people who decide what insights to share with whom. Back to you, Nurman. Uh very specific question um around your research and your analysis in particular. Does it include time series analyses of STG progression versus um AMR abundance um to infer something around the STG road maps against antimicrobial resistance? for that research uh I um I didn't consider the evolution of the STGS okay I considered the time at the time window where the data uh were collected it was between 2016 2018 19 so I considered the STG the development goals in relation to that uh time window but actually uh uh I think that my colleagues and al either in Denmark or outside they have considered also So um other designs where you can track uh the samples you know like in longitudinal design where you can see the progression uh and the changes in the resistance profiles along of different uh uh indicators you know so it's a very important question actually yeah so uh but for that analysis I was I was thinking about uh the resistant profiles as a snapshot of what's happening in the world and actually I was very interested in testing different analytics considering the evolution of AI. So that's why I was focusing also on you know uh uh experimenting with large language models and see how I can automate the pipelines and then put everything hopefully by the end of this month over the dashboards so people can look into what have been done a lot more to be done in that case so I have one final question for Nikki before we turn and close um this panel um and that's in the group that you're working with and the the the license that you're producing would data only be accessible once a license has been created and terms and conditions uh defined. >> Yeah. So I think um the thing to keep in mind is that the the data sharing license can be generated um to suit your purposes and you may have one set of terms and conditions with one end user and a completely different um set of terms and conditions with another user. So in fact you could issue the same data set with different licenses depending on who your end users are. So yeah so um also to add that to that one of the things that we did consider um which which is not the case for example with creative commons is the idea that licenses can expire as well because we um we recognize often if you have a data sharing agreement you have a fiveyear term or a two-year term. Um so we have built in that functionality as well. So so you could have a license that expires and then needs to be replaced or renewed um as well. So yeah, so your terms and conditions are very specific to what you need at that time. It would be my personal recommendation that you don't hand out your data set to anyone without um a data sharing license that clearly says what's required um in terms of onward use. Um it it also is not something that is a like um it's not meant to replace like a um a transfer agreement between across borders. It's not meant to be a a replacement for a legal document. In a way, you could think of it as a a ve a very clear advertising tool about the terms and conditions for a data set. But I would still say that if you're for example passing your data across borders or so that you would use that uh data sharing license as the basis um for your legal team to draw up the normal um terms and you know legal binding documents in addition. So it's not intended to replace legal instruments. Um, and yeah, it's more to explain what's allowed, what's not allowed in very clear um, and and unequivocal terms. And if you're sharing your data set with the lab down the way, you probably don't need a huge legal document, but you've still got this very clear clearly articulated document where where you've specified what's okay or not. Yeah. >> And no one can ever say that it wasn't clear. >> Yeah. And I I mean, this is, you know, the thing that people always ask, so what's the enforcement plan? Well, it's the same enforcement plan that you have for any um data sharing agreement or bicep specimen sharing agreement in that actually we don't really have good enforcement plans but but agreed it means no one can say which often they can at the moment oh well I didn't know that was a problem or I didn't know I'm not allowed to do that and and my thinking is that actually most people who receive data sets also don't want to do the wrong thing um and a lot of the errors that happen are really good faith errors Um so we can clean it up from all sides. Yeah. And and nobody can say well I didn't know I couldn't do that. Yeah. >> Thanks very much to all of you. Um before I hand over to um Oliver to close our session today, I just wanted to ask each of you in one word um to just give a word on the potential impact of this fellowship or or a key reflection that you have um from the six months. Maybe Adam, >> whoever. >> Um, so >> one word, >> one word. um inspiring >> hopefully motivated two words then I add the hopefully hopefully impactful um it's maybe two words but it's like path opener if that makes sense >> yeah I would say similarly expan expanding horizons yeah Yeah, and from me I expect more. So with that, thank you very much. >> Well, thanks everybody. I'm not going to take too long to close. Um I certainly want to thank all the fellows and Katie as well for having a a great set of presentations and a great panel. Um I also want to acknowledge that um both um uh from the shite side as well as from the hub side there's a large number of people who've made uh this fellowship a reality and who've worked in all different aspects of uh of the fellowship. So a huge thanks to you all and many of you here in the room and many online as well. So thanks for that and um not exactly to answer the question that was put to Vina about you know Germany's role in all of this but um I do want to acknowledge that actually Germany's playing a very important role in this um because the hub exists uh due to the partnership with Germany um and uh and the hub is really a joint vision that was created between ourselves and Germany um and so this space this um kind of exploration about how we can connect different actors working public health is part of this joint vision between the WHO hub uh or who the federal ministry of health of Germany. So um if that answers the question to some degree um it doesn't solve all other problems of course but I think it acknowledges the effort on all sides. So thanks very much to everybody for coming this evening and uh for joining online and thanks once again to all of the fellows.