the ringing of the bell. We're going to start in two minutes. We're live streaming, so we do actually have to be on time. So, I would say talks amongst yourself. I uh for the next minute or Where is Sorry, I can't read. Okay. Okay, everybody, we're going to get started. I want to just welcome everyone. This is our 10th session of the speaker series that we're hosting here in the WHO pandemic and epidemic hub and we're hosting it uh with the Sherite Center for Global Health. Um th tonight what we're going to be talking about is translating genomic data into public health action. Um and my name is Sarah Hersy. I'm the director of collaborative intelligence here at the hub. So I'm going to be sort of shephering you through this night. What we have actually we're live streaming which is why we had to start on time. We have people from over 80 countries live streaming with us tonight. And then here in the room, we're welcoming representatives from the German government, diplomatic missions, academic institutions, international organizations, civil society, private sector. I'm sure some of you define yourself as others. So, we're really excited to have you. Um what we're going to do is we're going to um be talking about pathogen genomic surveillance and how it's a really powerful tool for detecting emerging threats, tracking disease transmission as well as pathogen evolution and guiding our public health resources. So many of you in this room first really heard about genomics se sequencing during the co 19 pandemic and it was providing this valuable data on was this a new disease that we'd never seen before or was it a mutation in existing disease we didn't really know when we when it began how was it spreading and what were characteristics changing over time but many of the other people in this room actually were the people that were generating that data and so they were creating this data and providing the information to policy makers for real time decisionmaking during the CO outbreak. So tonight we're going to hear from these people. We're really really fortunate to have both people within Germany who are leading this work as well as some of our international experts who are going to be guiding us through a lot of the work that they've done in this space. Um and really importantly, you know, we talk about data, but at the end of the day, if we're not turning data into public health action, it's not surveillance and it's not the type of thing that we that's not as useful as what we need. So we're going to be talking about that translation of data. A lot of data geeks in this room. You know, you're with your people, but also what was that impact on policy? What was that impact on action? The second thing that I want to talk about is that we are celebrating an anniversary tonight and that is the second year of the international pathogen surveillance network or the IPSN. And this is a flagship initiative that we started two years ago to establish a global network of pathogen genomic actors. We have a vision with the IPSN and that is to create a world where every country has equitable access to sustained capacity for genomic sequencing and analytics as part of its public health surveillance system. And we've done I have to thank the team a really fantastic job over the two years of taking something from a vision to reality. Two years ago, we had 35 organizations in 18 countries that helped us establish IPSN. And now we have nearly two 350 partners in over 105 countries who are active members of this network. Um we've done things like establish a catalytic grant fund. So in 10 low lower middle- inome countries have been provided with resources to do research in strengthening genomic capacity in piloting innovative interventions and on building global goods that can be used by the world. We've established communities of practice that are answering really important um technical challenges. Um examples of that are how do you scale up genomic surveillance for EMPOX? How do you model changes in Epox variance? How do you enhance data architecture to improve connectivity and equity to e equitable access to genomic surveillance data? So these are among the many questions that we're able to answer with our communities and with our partners. Um we have also developed a genomic surveillance toolkit um that's providing practical guidance on a range of country needs that can be from how do you finance your system to how do you uh better equip yourself for data sharing in future emergencies. And so this is really a demonstration uh not just of the IPSN but actually of what the hub was established for and that's really to bring together collaboration, innovation and a shared commitment uh to to find answers to these common questions. Uh so tonight our speakers are going to be talking about how they strengthen um genomic surveillance, discussing their opportunities and their challenges to translate data into effective public health action and showcasing innovation tools and collaborations both at the country the regional and the global levels. We're going to have four presenters um and then after that we're going to go into a panel discussion. Um so this the panel discussion we'd really like to engage just with both the people in the room as well as online. So, what we have on your seats, uh, for those in the room, you'll see a QR code on on this card. Uh, so you can you can submit your questions through this QR code and we'll pull them together. And those people who are joining us online, you've been sent a link that allows you to submit your questions. So, with that, I want to first um introduce our colleague uh, Professor Biet Copman, who is the director of the Charity Center for Global Health. Um, Cheratee was one of the important founders of the hub several years ago and we have been co-hosting the speaker series together since 2022. Um, and in addition to the speaker series, we've really been building out partnerships both globally as well as in Germany on how do we address critical public health actions. So with that, yep, please join us. Thank you Sarah for opening the session and welcome everybody to tonight's session. Being here despite of such a beautiful day outside shows your commitment to the course. I'm really pleased with that. And um so uh it's my turn to just tell you a few things about how our partnership has evolved. The WHO first of all I should introduce myself. My name is Bati Khan and I'm the director of the um center for global health here at the charity which is a platform to bring together interdicciplinary research in the space of global health and uh we have for the last two years worked very closely with the hub both in the speaker series of which you see uh an example today as well as in our global health PhD program and more recently through a new scheme which is an academic fellowship at the WH for which we had 10 places maximum but but over 200 applications. So the team has done an amazing effort over the last two weeks to try and go through every single of these applications to make sure we really pick the most uh appropriate people for this scheme. And we're in the last phases of making that decision. And we hope that this scheme which clearly shows such a lot of attraction will get funded in the future as well. and that we can include many people who could come and benefit from the partnership between an academic institution like ours and a public health institution with a global mandate such as the WHO. So this new initiative also links to tonight's session because what we really want to do here is to combine scientific innovation with the questions around their public health impact and there isn't really a more well recent example than the COVID pandemic where um this was very very tangible. The monitoring of pathogen evolution, informed response planning, both are part of uh the processes that were put in place. And to fully harness the potential of the innovation as well as their public health impact, we need more than scientific advances. We need strong systems, equitable access and meaningful collaboration across sectors. And tonight we will explore exactly this topic. When you look at your list of speakers, you will see the full range of the innovators and the applicators, if I may say so. People who have worked together and have really looked at public health action across the variety of contexts and capacities. And I'm really um very pleased to first of all see my dear colleague professor Christian Drston from who in Berlin clearly needs no introduction but Sarah will do the honors and introduce Christian properly and our colleagues from the Akai and also from the welcome SA center in the UK and obvious for the WHO. Together, these speakers will help us reflect on what it truly takes to move forward from sequencing to strategy from collecting genomic data to making timely evidence-based informed decisions that safeguard public health. And thank you once again for joining us today. Also to all the people online and I look forward to the discussion and the insights it will spark. And now back to Sarah. Thank you. Great. Thank you, Vet. Uh, well, Kristen needs no introduction, but I'm going to do it anyway. Um, so, uh, Kristen Jordan is our next is our first speaker, and he's the director of the Institute of Verology at Cheretite and a leading expert in emerging viral diseases. He's held roles in veriology across several major German institutions with a focus on virus discovery and diagnostics. He co-discovered the SARS corona virus and developed the first diagnostic test for it in 2003. He's also worked on the Middle East respiratory syndrome corona virus for which he identified many aspects of the natural history of the disease in humans and animals. In January 2020, his team developed the first RTPCR diagnostic test for SARS cove 2 that was approved by WHO and then used globally. His subsequent work has focused on characterizing essential disease traits and diagnostic approaches for CO 19. And during the pandemic, he served as an adviser to the German and federal and state authorities and was appointed to the European Commission's advisory panel on CO 19. He was also a member of the German Ministries of Health, International Advisory Board on Global Health from 2017 to 2019. And I can't think of a better person to start us off for the evening. So please yes uh thanks for the very kind introduction and uh thanks for having me. Um it's great to have such an audience here. Um so translating genomic data into public health actions. Um we have to speak about viruses not only sequences viruses. I'm a verologist so um in the old days veriologists didn't care a lot about sequences. They wanted to see viruses. But we do phoggenetic trees. And what you can see here is um before SARS, this tree of corona viruses was not densely populated. Here on the right hand, what you see is um the situation now. And if you see how the diversity of the viruses was known, then you see a first benefit of general collaborative genomic data work. Um and the result the result is we actually knew all the genetic v variability of the relatives of the new corona virus SARS 2 already before it emerged. It just lined in with the with the diversity known and was very easy to design a diagnostic test. And for instance here in the German network um we were a able to um distinguish incidents identify incidents on on province level already early in March 2020 and arguably if you compare um stringency intervention stringus stringency between Germany and and the one reference country we we have in Europe the country that has the best data at hand the UK then we can conclude that we actually started about two weeks earlier relative to the start of the incidents in Germany just based on the fact that we identified our first wave in the lab instead of the ICU and this u caused a tremendous um head start in preventing um lethality. So you have this number of lethality in Germany about 111 per million population. Same for the UK is is a multitude. And uh if you apply the UK lethality to the German population, we would have had to expect about 60,000 fatalities more than we actually had. While our measures were not more stringent, they just came in earlier. That was the only difference. else everything is quite comparable. And so this immediate impact of of having genomic data and diagnostic tools ready has now led really to an evolution of disease and laboratory networks across the EU. For instance, starting from EVDNet, LapNet and then leading to the European reference laboratory mechanism on the CDC ECDC part and then on the Hera part um the um preparedness and response authority of EU big scientific networks forming around this theme. Um so if we review the the sequencing effort here for SARS we can see really this that this was a was a short um episode actually we are going down with the sequencing effort. This all costs a lot of resources and of course the funding is going down. We are now going down actually to the influenza surveillance level. And to reflect on this a little bit might be um to to to say what this actually was mainly used for. Right? So what we did based on sequencing was variant proportion tracing then variant specific case assertment and transmission tracing mainly. So this is really what the pure sequence information was uh was used for. And what sequencing by itself did not provide is is actually and does not provide is the identification of yet unknown pathogens. Then um the identification of virus changes s such as immune evasive capa capacity or transmissibility of v virilence um because the sequence by itself doesn't tell much. We need a reference in virus functions um and we need assessments of of of risks based on other data sources than just sequences. We can only correlate the sequences um with these functions. So tracing of virus functions means for instance looking at influenza antigenic evolution over 35 years and finding that every seven eight or nine years the virus jumps. We we speak of cluster jumps um and the overall term for this is antigenic drift that you may be more familiar with. But there are jumps here, saltatory events that can be characterized by neutralization tighter characterizations. And we can do now similar things to to SARS 2. And we can see that here on the left side the cloud here. This is the Omicron diversity. And then you see how the virus moves on in virtual space and changes its um antigenicity and how this actually is the sufficient explanation for one variant after the other canceling the previous one out. Yeah. So this is the reason why we see this emergence and disappearance of variants of concern or under investigation. This is the coralate of what happens in terms of sequencing and we can go on beyond COVID of course tracing viruses with pandemic threat potential such as Merse right a virus that occurs in the Middle Eastern region um and we can look at the the content of databases and find there is a new lineage that emerges from 2014 2015 onward here shown in in red that seems also So even in spite of the deal of of uh information here, this is only not like 15 million sequences for COVID, we have like a few hundred for for MERS, but we can still say the red lineage seems to cancel the others out. And if we study this in the lab, which is not easy to do because to acquire and to share the material is one of the topics on our agenda today is really critical for this. we can say this virus replicates better in all epithelial models we study and that might be an explanation for the virus coming in in a new form in a new variant. Um and this is selected in camels. It's not selected in humans. So it seems there is a selective pressure in the animal reservoir that's also valid for human transmissibility or disease causation. And we can say looking over time that the descendants of this lineage shown in dark blue here on top they are still around. So there is a big surveillance gap that you can see on X that you have the years here and you see that over the pandemic there was very little information. But now going back to the field we find the viruses persist the members of this lineage this more um we say fit lineage. Um and another example, a local example is we now have an incursion since a few years of Westnile virus into Germany and also this is traced um based on pathogen genomic data without a very fine grained analysis of the viruses around. We couldn't say where where they come from. Uh we couldn't come up with control strategies and also predict where the viruses might go next. So I hope this is a an impulse for you um from a verological standpoint and probably the the most relevant message here is that the sequencing not only provides a technical basis for making diagnostic tools but also it glues together the the verogical functional information and then the epidemological oversight. So functional studies of a virus is just playing around. There is no particular information there. On the other hand, just the sequencing also is is hollow in terms of what does this mean for virus virilence, for immune escape, for disease causations. But if you bring both together, then you can say well this one is coming up. So let's look at it in detail. Let's invest because this is really an investment and now let's bring it together and come up with explanations and then also to use this to support uh policym basically. So for instance in a pandemic preparedness context whether we have to move into non-farmaceutical interventions or whether we invest in medical countermeasures development. Thank you questions. Yeah. Great. Thanks so much. just so everybody so we'll have a panel afterwards um after all of the speakers have gone so you'll get a chance to a to ask some questions so thank you very much um I think I really liked that juiposition you showed of really the real life applications that can save lives immediately um and that you can get that data um and understand virus evolution before you have large numbers of morbidity and mortality but also it can't answer everything and that we really have to be looking at other specialized research as well as the contextual data to understand you know what what that what this gen genomic sequencing information is bringing us. So I'm very happy now to introduce our next speaker uh John Silito um who is a repeat offender here at the hub. We get him back a lot and we're excited to have him speaking with us tonight on some of the work that they're doing. So John has joined Welcome Sanger Institute in 2018 as the director of the genomic surveillance unit. Um, in this capacity, he's expanded the institute's role in global health and led efforts to translate and integrate genomics into global public health strategies. Under his leadership, Welcome Sanger works to fill gaps and enhance disease surveillance by equipping public health partners with genomic insights that drive evidence-based decision-making and targeted interventions. He leads collaborations with international health agencies to strengthen pathogen tracking, outbreak response, and long-term disease control efforts. And during the CO 19 pandemic, he led the UK's national genomic surveillance response, ensuring that timely pathogen intelligence informed public health policies. Welcome, John. Thank you, Sarah. Uh, good evening everybody. Thank you for in inviting me here this evening. Um, I would like to talk about data. Um, in fact, I'd like to talk about data three times. And since I'm talking about it three times, can I have 24 minutes? Is that okay? No. No. Okay. Oh, it was worth a go. I want to talk about data three times because I want to talk about data generation, which obviously been a lot of focus about. But following on from Christian's uh uh comment, you know, how do we integrate data because actually it's the bringing together of data where where most value is generated and then also then how do we analyze data? How do we uh make the most of these incredible uh resource uh this incredible resource that is there? But firstly, let me introduce myself. Um so as Sarah kindly said, I'm John Solito. I I I work at the welcome Sanger Institute. Um and actually my whole career has been around data and global 2018 very much in the health sector but but a career in data. Um the welcome sanganger institute um I'm sure many people are aware of it's worldleading center in genomics research and and uh it it's it's produced uh working in collaboration with with many organizations around the world some of the world's largest data sets that are used within uh within the research space. Um the the unit that I lead um is is uh is different to many of the other components of SANA because our focus is in translation and translation of genomics into the public health arena. Um this includes the continual development of new lowcost methods. It's about how do we drive down cost? It's how do we make things easier to use. It's about supporting partners with analysis and analysis of data. And it's also about building multipathogen responses and multipathogen solutions and working with partners on on on their projects uh around the world. Again, just just following on from Christian, we as part of what we've done as an organization, uh we stood up a very large scale uh operation during the pandemic. Uh and we were generating 10,000 sequences a day at the peak of those operations. And it's allowed us to look at how do you drive those costs down? How do you drive data in real time flows and how do you connect it with other data sets and decision making? But even with all of that, you know, we still scrape the surface, I think, of the value that is gained from data and the data that exists. So I I'm I'm very lucky, I'm very privileged to as part of my role um to to to spend my time going around working with partners, talking to partners in in uh across the world. What I wanted to share tonight was was the changes in what I'm hearing. Okay, the questions that I'm being asked, I'm getting less around how do I generate data, the whole challenge of reagents, uh how do I maintain my operations and the the ongoing need for training. Don't get me wrong, those issues still exist. Um but they're not necessarily at the top of everybody's lists anymore. Partly that's to do with the huge uh success of what's been done here at IPSN in terms of the toolkits, the concerted efforts and support that's been going on with within that space. Um and I think it's clear to everybody here that you know the challenges that exist in this space are now ones of sustainable funding and continuous improvement to to make this a sustainable model. But more and more the questions I'm being asked are questions of data. Okay. So, uh they they start with, you know, which tool should I be using? You know, how should I be bringing data together? How should I be analyzing it? More and more I get questions around but where do I put my data? Um you know, we've we've we've started to generate data from from a whole range of sources and a whole range of places, which is absolutely fantastic. But as those individual sample uh uh sequence samples and and public health data starts to grow, well, where do you put it? How do you analyze it? I was with a organization last week that has generated two terabytes of data and has no ability to analyze it because they have no compute capacity for that. Okay. So, so, so all of the things that we saw on the lab side are moving to the data side as data is being more and more and more data is being generated. uh uh as I say it's it's a natural part of our journey but it's a fantastic piece everybody's interested in I AI so how do I apply AI to my data well interestingly when I talk to perhaps larger and older organizations the challenge is where do I find my historic data uh and uh let alone so how do I apply AI to it a few uh few nods in the room on that one um some of the organizations uh that we're working with as well are recognizing the need for complete national systems. What do I mean by that? How do I take the data that's being generated? How do I integrate it into decision making or in real time vaccine adjustment and then feeding that back into my national cycles as well? The recognition of the uh the need for a sustainable environment and a complete end-to-end loop. And the last one um which something I'm hugely passionate about which is you know when I share my data how do I enrich it too many times we see conversations which can I have a copy of your data well we're a really collaborative world that's great and the data is shared but that data is never enriched it's never a growing resource that is enriched and enriched as we connect more things together. So in addition to what what um I'm hearing, I'd like to just add a four more observations. I'm seeing increasing commercial focus on accessing data sets. Uh this whole concept of data as a product. It's a world I'm used to. It's a world I've worked in historically. And what we see is that the commercial organizations see huge value in these data sets. But what we're I'm also seeing on the other side is increasing national and regional legislations around data to try and protect data and I understand where that's coming from. But sometimes then it's making it hard for us then to share data. Um so we need to work through some of those unintended consequences. The other great thing I see and there was uh and and again definitely huge huge credit to IPSN for this and a lot of the philanthropic funders is you know successful networks developing and these networks are uh linking groups with similar needs. So not necessarily adjacent in geographical areas or things but they have similar needs and these networks that are coming together I think are really powerful when you think about how we evolve those going forward. And then the last piece which I've already touched on but I just wanted to re-emphasize it is this mo move to how do I keep using and retaining skills. We've had a lot of focus on capacity development. A lot of that training and uh and those areas but actually if we can't keep using the skills if we can't retain the skills then a lot of that um you know is is is not going to create a sustainable environment. and more and more the partners again are focused on how do we solve this problem. So those are my observations wii with within this space. Um and and I think what does this mean to moving forward? Um how are we going to have to change? What does the next three to five years need to look like? Um so I think we need a number of paradigm shifts actually about data uh within our domain within our sector. And I put four up here and I'd love to have a you know a debate and discussion uh uh on this further. But often we've seen data as a means to an end the means to answer a specific question uh for a spec particular piece of research or for a particular outbreak um uh study. But how do we move to a state where we recognize and manage data as a valuable product? Uh it's what the commercial world is doing with data. So how do we take that spice? Yeah. How how do we make sure that we see data as a as a valuable product touched on again by by Christian but but you know data historically typically used by few used by people who generated it. But how do we tag observations to that data so that it can be used by many? Okay. So it's not about making everybody in the world a genetic expert or a public health expert, but how can we put tagging onto data that makes it more easily used by many? We have and I started to talk about this with networks, you know, we we have I'm you know a whole set of fragmented repositories. Uh we can all go and choose our favorite. We've got lots of networks as I said networks starting to develop. So how do we integrate this environment? Now move away from a mindset of the the ultimate repository that rules them all to a mindset of how do we integrate these environments these networks together. How do we shift that mindset? And the last one again as I said it is dear to my heart. How do we move from can I use your data to how can I connect to your data and enrich it? Okay, lots of integration, lots of networks. There are more of these. I'd love to discuss them later. Thank you all very much for listening. Great. Uh thanks so much, Sean. Um and really appreciate too um that you really highlighted the genomic surveillance we often think of as a laboratory science, but it's really a data science. and just the sheer volume of data in in a a trip to to welcome Sanger, you quoted a number to me of what the what the volume the capacity for was that you were needing to manage and I'd never seen that number before. It was so large. So, it really is extraordinary and you know sort of emphasizing that we can't just be collecting data, we really have to translate that into use. um that the there are complex analytics that we can apply but we're also still missing some of the basics um and also trying to uh make sure that we're not losing the types of capacity that we built particularly during co 19. So with that we have our next speaker is online if we could bring up Sophonius. So uh okay hello um so unfortunately Sophonios was not able to join us uh but I'm pleased to introduce uh Sophonius Tessimma is the program lead for pathogen genomics center for laboratory diagnostics and systems at the Africa center uh for disease control and prevention he's a public health genomics epidemiologist with extensive experience in molecular diagnostics genomic sequencing and biioinformatics at Africa CDC he drives a continental vision to improve improve outbreak detection and reporting through advanced molecular and genomic tools and in this effort he leads the Africa pathogen genomics initiative which is catalyzing genomics and biioinformatics capacity building in Africa he's committed to advancing innovative approaches and promoting technical transfer or excuse me technology transfer and capacity building in genomics and biioinformatics in Africa and he's also a champion of strengthening public private partnerships to translate scientific advancements into impactful public health outcomes on the continent. So, we're very pleased to have you. We're sorry you're not in person, but we're looking forward to hearing from you. Over to you, Savonius. Thank you very much, Sarah. Can you hear me now? Okay. So, uh thank you so much for the invitation and I'm really disappointed that I I couldn't make it in person. Um in my presentation today I'll just take you through some of the observations from the past the current and the future horizons of pathogen genomics in Africa and how best we can translate uh genomics for public health action. Uh to introduce I work at the Africa CDC and based in Saba by Ethiopia and I lead the uh pathogen genomics program. In my presentation, I'll be very quick in touching on uh the initiatives that we have launched in 2020 to expand genomics capacity in the continent. Um and then also we are seeing some a paradigm shift in in generating and discovering uh pathogens in the continent but we still have several gaps. uh I will go through some of the gaps uh and then also the way forward uh based on my uh observations here at Africa CDC for the past five years. Imagine what was presented earlier uh from uh the two presenters. If uh we do not have access to this technology in the continent where pathogens cause the largest uh morbidity and mortality, we have the highest burden of all pathogenic diseases uh but we have very limited uh capacity in genomics and bionformatics in Africa. In 2020 after understanding this challenge uh together with our several partners that you see here uh led by Gats foundation and many other uh public private and philanthropic partners uh we launched a program called the Africa pathogen genomics initiative. Uh this initiative was bold and ambitious and wanted to address these five key areas. How can we create enabling mechanisms? How can we democratize sequencing? sequencing for all especially in countries where we have the the largest burden of uh pathogen uh uh morbidity and mortality. How can we strengthen a continental and international networks and ensure data is shared and then also uh enable data utilization for public health's action translating the data into uh decision making. We focused on four areas. The first one we were far from having access to the technology. So we focused on building the core infrastructure and training people. The second one is how do we integrate genomics into existing surveillance system. The third is on the data. I think John has clearly presented the issue of data, the quality of the data, the sharing of the data and uh the the archiving of that data. And the last one is how can we create enabler enablers the ecosystem and then also sustainability mechanisms. I'm not going to go through all of these uh but we look at it from an end to end perspective because uh the system was new in Africa. We had to go through each step uh from the use case to the specimen to the testing uh the sequencing the data and then also uh some of the cross cutting issues uh for example workforce development. We didn't have well-trained personnels. We didn't have uh we have still have challenges around internet connectivity which is critical for pathogen genomic data uh sharing and the use of cloud-based bionformatic solutions. So over the past five years, we've seen a very rapid acceleration of genomics capacity in Africa. You can see uh the the map red uh there's limited capacity or no capacity in 2019 and now in 2024 we've seen a very rapid expansion of this capacity partly uh catalyzed by the coid9 pandemic uh but also the commitment and hard work of several partners uh to expand genomics capacity in Africa. As Africa PGI, our initiative has uh distributed quite a lot of sequencing equipments to support member states to build this capacity. Uh strengthening bio banks, training people, moving sample from one country to the other or from one district to the other district and then also supporting member states to develop their national genomic strategies. So for us uh expansion of this genomics capacity is about equity, is about access. This is really personal to me. For me, uh to see the first next generation sequencer, I had to go to Australia 12,000 miles away uh to see what it looks like. So, uh we are really bringing technology to the continent to the public health institutions to the public health system. But it is not really about bringing the technology only. How does it plays its role? How can we increase output? How can we increase sequencing within the continent and use that data to inform decision making? For example, you can see the SARS CO2 sequences just uh in December 2020, we were at about 5,000 but in one year we are able to increase the number of sequences by 12fold. If you look at for example again MOX which is an active outbreak at the moment, you can see how uh the number of sequence are increasing over time. uh although empox is not a new disease in Africa uh but there were very limited number of sequences but beyond that we were able to discover the emp 1B variant here in the continent using the capacity that was built uh for covid-19 we are also using genomics for old diseases that are causing uh severe outbreaks of kolera for example you can see here on kolera we are working with seven countries uh these are hard hit countries with Koler outbreak. Uh we are trying to increase the number of sequences but systematically designed to help us address some of the questions uh that are pertinent for public health decision making. We are also seeing the use of genomics in Marberg outbreak in Rwanda uh to discover the uh origin. Uh we are also using genomics in Uganda uh to see how this uh the Sudan Ebola outbreak emerged. Uh but this is not enough. uh we have to prioritize, we have to do more and better to expand and integrate genomics in the continent. You can see here there are several areas that can uh benefit from uh the use of genomics in the continent from outbreaks to endemic diseases. At Africa CDC uh we have several pilot projects that we are using to test the system to strengthen the capacity to enable the data sharing across member states. These are just some examples. We are also seeing uh collaborative projects like the ones that are supported by ADCTP3. Uh there are several uh projects that are happening in the continent. Uh they are expanding the use of genomics for uh public health decision making. But we have several gaps. This is a busy slide. I'm not going to go through each of them. Uh I think the the issue is now we still have uh 15 or so member states that are still with limited capacity. Maturity of capacity in many member states is still a work in progress. Resources are limited. Optimization is needed. Uh supply and chain and customs related challenge are really big uh in the African continent. And as John said, data and bionformatics is still uh very limited. So uh we need to come together to address uh these gaps. We also have a data gap. I think I'm not going to repeat what uh John said. uh the data gap whether it's in the bioinformatics infrastructure standards sharing and then also connectivity and the cloud sources we've really been working and advocating uh to expand access to data uh infrastructure and data systems and also connectivity through uh Starlink. We are also very excited about artificial intelligence and its role in genomics in Africa. uh but some of the findings from our uh assessment that you see here is a little bit uh requires more work to be done. uh for example blue means you know they there is a strong support to the question and red means there is no support to the question for example if you look at just the training here the red bar uh most people have no formal training on AI whether short-term or long-term but most people are interested in getting those kind of trainings these are experts that are working in public health institutions in genomics and bionformatics space we also have a lot of work to be done in the regulatory ethical uh considerations and privacy related issues when when we apply AI. So we are excited about AI but uh the findings are telling us that we need to do more uh to ensure that AI can actually be part of our uh efforts to expand genomics in Africa. So overall we are seeing a significant progress in in the continent in expanding access to genomics capacity. Uh but we need to fill the several gaps that we have. we need uh optimization. How do we optimize this? How do we make sure that sequencing is done in a timely fashion? And this data is shared with public health uh bodies like Africa CDC, who uh so that these products can actually be this data can actually be used to inform decision making. Uh finally, the translation to the strategies, policies and products is really dependent on uh the capacity that we have on the ground. So we still think that you know we need to strengthen the capacity in the continent and making sure that this capacity is optimized and used uh for public health decision making. We work with several partners that are listed here. I will not go through all of them. Again thank you so very much for the invitation. Uh and thank you for listening to my presentation. Over to you sir. Thanks Sophodius. just that that stark reminder of the enormous um growth that we've seen in genomic surveillance capacity on the Africa region between 2017 and today. Um and I really want to credit uh the the leadership um of both Africa CDC and Sophonius in leading that scale up and then also looking at very critically that we can't lose that that capacity. We could go right back to a sea of red again. But a lot of the work that they're doing is how do you integrate that now into national surveillance systems and he pointed out the capacity building the building the equity and the access around it are really critical. So really want to to acknowledge the work that's being done um and thank you for bringing that to us today. Um so now with our last speaker I'm very happy to introduce professor Nata Melhamm. uh Nat is a professor of verology and immunology at the faculty of health sciences at the American University of Beirut. She's also the director of the division of health professions and the chair of the medical laboratory sciences program there. Um Nata's research focuses on pathogen genomics of viral diarrheal diseases and SARS cove 2 in biological and environmental samples and during the co9 pandemic she led the SARS cove 2 national surveillance genomics program for healthcare workers and hospitalized patients in Lebanon. She's an elected council member of the International Society for Infectious Diseases, a member of the WHO virus evolution tag, and serves as the National Polio Containment Coordinator and a member of the National Committee for Communicable Diseases in Lebanon. And like many of the others here, she is also a very committed uh member of IPSN. And we're very happy to have her with us or have her with us uh virtually today. Um over to you, Natada. Thank you very much for having me. Uh and I'm happy to be to be presenting after all my uh colleagues. Uh I'm not going to dwell a lot on the uh significance of uh uh and the importance of uh can you see my slides? Can you see the slides? All right. Thank you. And so like I said, I will not be uh u spending more time on on talking about the significance of genomic surve surveillance and genomic data sharing with public health policy makers and we have seen the uh uh the thrive of its use during the coid9 pandemic as an essential component of emergency preparedness at Scot. So I'm going to dive immediately into Lebanon. Lebanon is a small country in the Middle East and unfortunately uh due to the l we lack national genomic surveillance programs for pathogens as well as decentralized health informatic system as well as gaps in timely data availability and sharing uh for informed uh public health responses. And um this is due to a fragile uh healthcare infrastructure and uh underresourced uh uh uh environmental uh ministry of public health and in order to support the ministry of public health during the co 19 pandemic we've established at the American University of Beirut specifically the faculty of health sciences a national uh laboratory network to perform continuous genomic sequencing of samples from covid 19 positive healthcare workers as well as hospitalized patients. And we were able to develop uh nationwide uh this network which included 16 public and private healthcare centers that are distributed all over uh the uh country. And between December 2021 and September 2024, we were able to collect 18300 nasoparang swabs and perform viral RNA extraction and the sequencing for 780 of these, 654 from healthcare workers and 126 from hospitalized patients. And we shared um the data with the ministry of public health as well as the national WH office uh in order to uh track the circulating variance of SARS K V2 and uh assess the dynamics of disease transmission as well as guiding vaccination strategies and deployment and of course earlier during the pandemic uh the uh uh implementation of uh non-farmaceutical interventions among others and we also uh shared these data on the GADE uh platform. I will not dive into the details but we reported to the ministry of public health and who uh on the circulating variance and the emergence the the emergence of uh uh Omicron and its uh covariance and subvariianes as well as lineages from both uh groups healthcare workers as well as uh hospitalized patients and like I said these were uh uh instrumental uh for for sharing with the ministry and to in order to guide uh uh public health uh decision making and translating what we have at the level of genomic surveillance into um uh uh public uh uh health practices. Now while uh genomic surveillance of uh clinical samples is extremely important, wastewater surveillance or environmental surveillance is as important because it serves as an effective early warning tool to detect and monitor circulation of SARS K2 at the community level. And uh uh this is done through tracking uh hot spots of uh uh circulation at the community level even prior to uh the uh beginning of uh symptoms and viral RNA of SARS CO V2 is shed in stool uh 3 to 5 days prior to the onset of clinical symptoms and can persist for several weeks after the symptoms uh sub subside and we have seen a surge in integration of SARS CO V2 waste foreign surveillance uh uh in in uh national surveillance programs uh in several countries uh globally. Now with the decline of CO 19 testing in Lebanon, of course, as well as globally, and to promote the significance of wastewater surveillance in Lebanon, we performed the latter in an area of Beirut, the capital of Lebanon, um which hosts a number of uh Lebanese, vulnerable Lebanese individuals as well as refugees living in suboptimal conditions with poor access to healthcare. And this is the first uh uh wastewater surveillance uh uh program that was established and uh is being used as a pilot in fact to to scale up. uh we performed uh GIS uh spatial mapping uh uh through this program and uh accordingly we selected manholes and from these manholes we collected 188 samples during 2023 and this uh the entire year whereby we accounted for both the wet and the dry season and again we were able to report as well the data of what was circulating during that year and 18% of the uh samples that we sequenced from wastewater in that area were positive for SARS KV2 and the majority of the data that we that we had was actually mirroring similar to the clinical samples of what was going on uh uh globally. Now uh many of my colleagues have mentioned the importance of scaling up the use of genomic sequencing and genomic data sharing uh and this is um actually is being made possible through a grant that we've received from the IPSN uh in order to establish a wastewater genomic surveillance network for viral diarrheal illnesses specifically norovirus roto virus and hepatitis A virus and again this is among vulnerable groups of refugees as well as liban people. Now, these viruses are foodborne and waterbornne and they propagate of course in settings like Lebanon, low-income countries and low middle inome countries due to the weak uh uh healthcare infrastructure but also the weak water infra uh structure and again these three viruses responsible for diarrhea and affecting uh you know all age groups um are shed in stool weeks prior to the beginning of uh symptoms caused by these viruses. And the objectives of the scaleup uh uh and this uh grant is to again uh develop and map uh the the through community engagement the sites and develop a wastewater network and then uh collect samples from the from these uh networks and perform genomic sequencing and share the data uh with the ministry of public health while identifying uh these the circulating variance and trends. I failed to mention that uh the burden of morbidity and mortality that is caused by these three viruses is completely under underestimated and unknown uh in in Lebanon. One of the most important objectives of this uh program is to actually develop and pilot an integrated dashboard. The data integration include uh the the spatial mapping along with the genomic sequencing data and the epidemiological data. Uh that will be tested and we will train public health uh officers uh on the use of this dashboard for continuous monitoring of uh uh uh these viruses and deployment uh uh for that uh matter. And by uh actually uh performing uh both genomic sequencing and data sharing for clinical samples as well as environmental genomic sequencing for uh uh of waste water in uh resource limited setting. We would we would be able to push the agenda of datadriven public health interventions and and the uh we will promote and enhance the genomic data sharing with health oper health authorities in order to uh early detect disease outbreaks and improve preparedness response and recovery. And like I said, the most important component of these um programs is the fact that we are able to scale them up uh to and to be used for pathogen surveillance in similar context. And this is important for equitable and sustained access to genomic surveillance. And this is why every effort uh is needed to uphold the global health security. But this relies uh on the access of every country to pathogen genomic sequencing and analytics as inherent components of public health system. And any delay in generating and sharing these pathogen genomic data will threat its usefulness. And if we have learned anything from the CO 19 pandemic is that during the inter epidemic phase or during the interpandemic phase for that matter, resources are continuously needed in order to perform public health services and we need to maintain uh uh strong infrastructure as previously mentioned by my colleagues to respond to future uh threats and this uh maintenance and sustainability is required uh accompanied by flexibility of funding and not like what we have seen previously. Obviously during the covid-19 pandemic the boom and the bust the boom whereby we had a surge uh uh of uh funding um uh during crisis and then a decline as the uh later on and the extra attention uh should be given to low inome countries as well as low middle inome countries to build and sustain these resource resources not only through funding but also through political will and political engagement. Um thank you very much for listening. Great. Thank you so much, Natada. A couple of points that I really wanted to emphasize that that that linkage between the academic institutions in Lebanon and the and the government and that importance of having that that free flow of data and information sharing. So, thanks so much for talking about that as well as the introduc introduction of these innovative technologies and how they can impact vulnerable populations. Um, I really love that that emphasis you said with this research that you're doing is not research for research sake. It's research to really do um to impact datadriven interventions. Um, so thank you so much for for that emphasis. So, now we're going to our panel discussion. Um, and so I'm going to ask our panel moderator to join us. Uh, Dr. Hosaphina Compos is the unit head for emerging pathogen intelligence platforms at the hub. And I'd also like to introduce uh Dr. Sabrina Weiss who is also joining us on the panel. And she is the head of public health laboratory support at the center for international health protection at the Robert Caul Institute. So please join us as well as if the other if the other speakers can come up to the panel who are in the room. Um, and a reminder that you can um you can submit your questions online through the QR code. Um, so you go. Thank you Sarah for the introduction and a big thank you to all the speakers for joining us in this panel where we were going to go a little bit deeper into this how we translate genomic data into public health actions. So first of all to Dr. Sabrina Bayz who is leading a joint project between thei and the Berlin have on how we strengthen integrated genomic surveillance through greater capacities in public health. So Sabrina, based on your experience leading this work on how we integrate genomic surveillance through ARKI, how do you see uh the main challenges and opportunities in building this in a holistic way including labs by informatics and policy in public health system especially focused on limited resources. Thank you Josephina and also thank you Sarah for the nice introduction. Um, yeah. So, I'm really taking you back to the ground now because I still do hear the question of, okay, how do I generate data? Where do I get my reagents from? How do I import them? How do I how do I get the funding? And in the countries we are working with, which are five countries on the African continent, we are um faced with limited infrastructure first of all. And when I say limited infrastructure, we really speak about reliable electricity, reliable water supply. So really the basics and of course limited workforce availability, supply chain bottlenecks, many of the challenges that had been mentioned before. Here we also speak about uncertain funding models. So a lot of of the genomics work is still relying on external donor funding and very often there's weak or no policy frameworks or even or also legal and ethical frameworks. So I think all those things we we are trying to look at in a holistic way. And another topic I would like to mention is also and it's been nicely um presented by my by my previous speaker the um limited multis sectoral coordination. So what we try to do when we start working in the countries we usually start with a convening stakeholder meeting by gathering all the national stakeholders and that includes all technical areas. So laboratory, bioinformatics, um epidemiologists but also policy makers and we try to gather them from all relevant sectors also. So looking at en environmental sector um obviously the health sector also animal health sector and um yeah try to work together with them to identify priorities because we can't do it all and not all at once and we try to um see and work with them how the project can support their countryled process because that's what we want. It's not us coming telling them what to do. It has to be a country-led process. I think and having them um lead the way so to speak. Um and it also offers us the possibility within the project to adapt to the local needs and the local constraints because the the circumstances they always differ depending on on on the country um framework. Um and what we also see which is quite nice is that very often those meetings acted as initial spark. So the countries started the discussion among themselves and they established technical working groups that are now convening. So it really had this initial yeah this initial had it all all that was needed was the initial go in that um and we also include the academic sector where we saw a lot of benefit because very often the capacities are there in countries but they are not available to public health. They are used for research purposes and they partially had been used at least in the countries we are working with during the pandemic but now it's not in a routine way that they are included. Um yeah so we try to to make sure that um we we also include them and to create synergies there and we also invite local representatives and also um representatives since we are working on the African continent only also representatives from Africa PGI and of course along the way in the project we also provide the technical training that uh is across all the all the um technical areas looking into how to integrate the data into existing surveillance systems which are very often still paper based. So that's also a challenge trying to get this on an electronic basis. But overall I think what we are trying to do is work as an enabler and not kind of of yeah we really try to facilitate the countryled process and and get the countries lead the way and I'll stop here. Thank you. Thank you Serena. So now to the panel a little bit go into data data data because this is what bring us here. So we all have been discussing about data sharing how essential it is but I will bring back to to two two highlights from the from the speakers tonight and how data alone is genomics data alone it's not enough how we combine that data and also how we shift the paradigm for connecting and enriching enriching that data. So from your perspective and we have here country perspective, institutional, individual and also regional perspective. What do you see the main incentives and barriers to sharing genomic data? Questions like why should we share our data? What do I get out of sharing our data? How much data is enough data to actually make uh uh public health action? So I can start maybe with John if you want to jump in. Okay. Thank you. Um, sorry. Can you hear me? Is that Sorry. Before I break it, is that working? Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Uh, trust me to break it. Anyhow, the uh so so I I I I think that um I I think there's a lot of fear with data. Okay. There's there's incredible value in data. Um uh there is um and when I say there's fear in data um you know the the data can tell you huge amounts of things. It can tell you you know obviously about the the disease that are circulating um and I'm sure many people here have come across scenarios where we've identified new resistance within uh within certain scenarios and governments have not been happy for that data to be shared. Um so so there's a there's a political angle to the data there is that there's a whole set there. So actually I think one of the key enablers to this is building trust is about building trust about how the data will be used. It's about you know and and actually I think one of the ways to do that um and I think we need to look to other sectors of this is to look at traceability of data. So actually can I look and see what happened to my data after it was shared after it was used. Um and I think that that again back to shifting paradigms is a is is a is a key piece to um to to how we need to move forward because you know we have seen lots of examples of of uh data being exploited for for other purposes. Um and so I think finding that finding those mechanisms that are essential for trust I think are are really key within this space. Thanks John. Maybe we can go to our virtual speakers. So Sophonius maybe from a regional perspective do you want to share about how do you see data sharing moving forward and what what do you see at the main enablers and barriers on that? Thank you so much uh Josephina. I think for me um one of the barriers for data sharing as John said is the first thing is has to be trust. uh there should be trust and there should be uh protection but beyond that um I think sometimes we don't realize that do we have the mechanisms to share data are this data being processed do the people have the skill sets to process this data make it ready link it with the necessary clinical and epidemological data and make it ready for sharing I think that mechanism that capacity that capability has to exist so that we can u address you know other issues around governance other issues around trust and protection uh but but the critical step is how can we build uh that kind of capacity capability uh to curate the data uh to process the data to understand what is in it and then also share uh that data regionally and and globally I think from our experience the sharing part. I I think Africa is leading when it comes to data sharing. We share data very quickly. Uh a lot of the time the the challenge are uh the capabilities, the capacities, uh the ability to analyze and process and understand what that data is. I think that's really critical. But as John said the trust part is very important which can negatively impact data sharing if we are not trusting each other. So uh I think having that mechanism the capacity and the capability is very critical for data share. Thanks so maybe to Christian what are your thoughts around data sharing and the main enablers and and and gaps there. Yeah. So, so data sharing is not only giving data away or passing it around. It's like there has to be a benefit for the donating part. Um, this often is let's say academic credit. Um and so I think there are ways to arrange this in the academic community and traditionally has been easy once you work with people who have a true academic interest um the less political the better that somehow let's say mutual data um sourcing and harvesting is enabled rather than sharing. Yeah, sharing is something that's in in reality is not really happening. There is common interest and and this has to drive it. Um what worries me a bit is that there is a growing um notion of political control over how collaboration and uh collaborative exploitation of data um is enabled. So um it really was like if there is a an interest there will be a way. But now more and more even in political systems where you think well all the all the prerequisites are in place that there is now an intervention from the political part if we consider for instance information around age five and one influenza in the United States. Yeah. So in the last slightly more than a year with um this pathogen coming up and spreading in a new way in an in a reservoir that we didn't know a lot about and the whole international surveillance and and verology community puzzled over this and a lack of information that lasts weeks and months. Right? this is something well that's a new perception and now think about let's say our insight in um in genomic data around the time when China opened up its its covid control policy and when actually there was quite an a data gap around the the question what is circulating there can this spread is it evolving fast giving a completely different population background where the virus is now exposed. Yeah. So these big issues um in the in the global pathogen surveillance sphere, we haven't really seen this before. Thank you. So going a little bit deeper on on on genomic data we see that it has become a standard unit of currency in global health and it was mentioned but still yet many countries operates with disease specific national action plans. So why this fragmentation persist and what opportunities could arrive of from pathogen genomic surveillance for a more integrated and crosscutting approach. So I will go to Sabrina first on this question. error. Well, I think first of all policy changes need time. I think that's that's the most evident um explanation for it why it still exists and also there needs to be an added value of of genomic data and that's not the case for every public health action and there's not not every problem can be solved with genomic data. So I think those are the the two very practical considerations that need to be taken into account. And uh again speaking from the country perspective it's really a matter of capacities but the cha chances that are is that or the the the um enablers obviously genomics is a very versatile tool and once you have it established for one the major step is done in a way to kind of expand it to to other and um connect it with other data sources as we have seen before. But um for for our in our part partner countries what we see is really that changes take time. Good. And Natada from a country perspective and with you mentioned your experience in low resource settings and and in vulnerable populations how do you see this fragmentations persist and how we can work together to make it part of the system? Well, I mean the the fragmentation of uh health care systems as well as either the the the uh lack of uh good surveillance systems or you know uh weak ones. Uh the lack of intersectoral type of cross talk between all of uh the public health decision makers as well as other community of practices. These include you know like has been mentioned earlier academia research lab central labs uh the lack of central lab in low-income countries and low uh in the low middle inome countries. I mean all of these are only some of the superficial uh challenges that continue to persist and to lead to continuous fragmentation and inability to actually uh uh sustain the uh provision to uh low-income countries and low middle inome countries with uh data genomic data as well as ability to uh in that case sharing uh these data and really it is important to to increase investing in relational pathways between all of the uh sectors that are involved uh in um developing uh uh national genomic data genomic surveillance uh data and sharing those uh so all the community practices these are extremely important and uh we need to also uh invest more into uh probably and and again I keep on repeating in in low-income countries and low income countries to invest in national probably funding programs in order to push uh uh these countries to uh actually promote and enhance the cross talk that is needed in order to uh actually uh generate and develop uh uh professional skills. uh and not only that but also attract and retain these skills in order to continue being able to generate uh and share the data and this is only a glimpse actually we can go for hours talking about this component. I wish we can have hours to keep discussing all these topics. I will with a few questions from the audience. So we know sustainable founding depends on how we communicate the impact of those investments. So starting with Sophonius, how do you how do we do better to connect all these impacts? How we can translate the value of the data generated to integrated an analysis of that data into a cost effectiveness investment. Thank you so much Josephina. That's a a difficult question. Of course I think this comes to the issues of uh integration. Uh for me, genomics joined a fragmented surveillance system. Uh several vertical systems, systems that are not talking to each other, systems that are not linked and integrated. So when it joins that fragmented background surveillance system, now the genomics is also following the same path. Uh one thing that we are really trying to work with countries is to be intentional towards integration to bring together the environment department, the health department, the forensic department, the uh animal health department bringing them together and start thinking and discussing about how can we bring this together. It's not easy because the systems have very different uh uh operations. they are managed by very different ministries ministry of health, ministry of environment, ministry of animal health. So how can we integrate genomics while the whole system is not uh very well integrated? I think this is the discussions are happening. Some countries are uh creating a template. I I would call it a template for others to uh to see and uh follow. Uh but this is going to be a long way. But when it comes to sustainability, I think the first step for me is we have to have it before we can sustain it. I think quite a lot of countries are still struggling to have it. Uh when we say have it, it's not about having a machine or it's not about having uh something there but it is actually having the system. Do we have a genomic system that can be sustained? I think uh for many countries in the continent we are actually trying to have it. Uh we're working towards having it. Um uh of course when we work towards having it we day to day in our operation we have to think about how do we sustain it. So I think one mechanism that we look at is having a national strategy a strategy uh genomic surveillance system an integrated surveillance system as it was said by uh Sabrina of of course it's difficult but we have to tackle it and uh the last one and the most important part uh to sustain it uh at least uh to leaprog it and sustain it uh we really want to advocate how can we sequence African pathogens in the African continent. I think it's not lack of always resources. There's quite a lot of pathogen genomic data in global databases that are not sequenced in Africa. So how do we bring that so that that can help countries to see value to integrate it build capacity and then sustain uh that capacity? I think that proof of concept uh that demonstration showing added value is something that's really needed at this stage so that countries commit and support uh genomics uh in the continent. Uh I think we we just have to have a very realistic approach on how we think about sustainability. Thanks Sophonius. And another question from the audience. So a speaker refers to historic versus realtime insights from genomics. So to Christian, both of them are important, but where are the enablers for insights to actually inform response policy in real time? I think you you mentioned some examples in your presentation. Well, it's it's translation of course. Um I mean every every piece of data we gather needs to be explained and put into context. Yeah. And uh often the mechanisms in an academic data presentation are slow. So if it really has to be real time, you need an alignment in a in a functional surveillance system with public health. Um that's the the simple answer, but it's very difficult implementation obviously in in some parts. Yeah. In some countries this is properly in place but even in Europe we have a huge diversity um and a lot of room for improvement. Um and I can can only actually secont what what Sophonius just said. Um it's I mean to to really make pathogen genomic data effective we have to ask where is the benefit so where is the benefit for the country often for the country rather than the region rather than other parts of the world and where is the benefit for the patient. Yeah. So in many systems it's the patient actually and so the patient can only have a benefit if pathogen genomics becomes like the the glue to to fix broken laboratory and surveillance systems on a national level often on a on a hospital level. Yeah. It's maybe often just a a few structures in the country that make a start. Thanks. And John you mentioned uh around infrastructure and how we need to advance. So for low resource settings how we can effectively implement pathogen genomic surveillance if we cannot advance in that infrastructure moving forward. Yeah, it's a it's it's a huge challenge and one of the things that we're seeing in the uh technology infrastructure in terms of the compute infrastructure for example is we're seeing the same level of um uh of of cost variance as well as we see in the reagent space and the equipment space. So again, you know, significant variation you multiple times more expensive that um uh again, so we we've got all of those same hurdles to overcome within that space. Um I I think that uh you you know given all of the uh as often as a case you know a challenge of power or a challenge of of internet connectivity within this space um you know that there's there's often a challenge with with with the use of cloud uh with within that space and um and so so I think that uh you know there's a lot of work we still need to do with with that infrastructure. I think there's potentially the ability to share infrastructure um uh with within within a region the same as you know initially started off with with sharing labs and lab facilities. because I know that was a key part initially with with uh the work that uh Savonius and team led during the pandemic of creating you know initial labs and then as the capacity built out could look at the same approach potentially for for infrastructure although that is harder because you still need that internet bandwidth and connectivity um between those spaces but we're also seeing as I say which which surprised me particularly in the uh hardware space that uh that we we we're seeing that same disparity in in uh in costing mechanisms as well. Thanks John. Continue with some questions from the audience. So for Sabrina, how can we ensure equal governance and access to data as the global political landscape becomes more complex? How we can ensure equal global data stewardship and you have a lot of policy discussions in in the countries you have been working with. That's a difficult question actually and I don't think it's that easy to solve but I mean there are there are discussions ongoing around around frameworks. So I think we we do need frameworks that um clarify a lot of the questions clearly about data ownership. I mean that's the very basic question that needs to be answered also about benefit but also about consequences of of of sharing data. It's not only who benefits from it and who owns it. It's also what are the consequences if I'm sharing my data in in into the wild and we've seen that and those are also the questions that we got asked during the pandemics from our partners that were actually not sharing the data that we produced with them. Um yeah, so I think um I think there are discussions also from people on the panel and and and initiatives um that that uh John is is leading around developing frameworks um for global data sharing and and ownership and access. Thanks. And going back to to Sophonia, so you you mentioned some of your collaborations with the private sector organizations and what do you see the role in supporting the development on interoperable data infrastructure for public health system from the private sector? Thank you so much uh Josephina. I think um for genomics especially in the African context the private sector has a huge uh role from a um lab capability to the uh data uh building the data infrastructure. Sometimes it's not only about resources. It's about getting the right thing at the right place uh with the right type of uh uh format and context and uh fitting it into the situation there. For example, if uh we are struggling with a low bandwidth internet that would be difficult probably to change it overnight. uh can we think about a low bandwidth uh uh products that can still do uh the purpose um from a private sector for example we are collaborating to uh uh pilot uh the use of starting internet for genomics data sharing. Uh these are innovations coming from the private sector. Uh but how do we make them accessible? How do we make it context specific? How do we target it towards genomics data? Um most importantly uh it's also not about building infrastructure but how do we maintain it? I think that being closer technically being closer within the continent and providing that technical support uh to countries to maintain what they have whether it's in the data servers or whether it's in the um uh in the lab space. I think that providing technical uh support being there supporting the countries is something that we really cannot just only buy the the private sector has to uh commit and uh in the past few years we've seen a huge commitment and very strong support from the private sector uh to uh address some of the challenge in Africa and the other factor that I want to say is genomics is still expensive and again private sector has a responsibility I think in reducing that cost through innovation or through other cost reducing mechanisms. Thanks Sonia. So we'll go to our last question. So Tunatada uh a lot of the genomic surveillance from SARS K2 rely heavily on academia and you show some examples but that's lacks of long-term positions and well-trained scientists sometimes leaves to industry. So what's the way moving forward to sustain that capacity? Um thank you. uh so we we have to work together and like I mentioned earlier about building strong uh relationship in relation pathways uh specifically in low-income countries and low middle inome countries if they have uh you know uh weak infrastructure of genomic uh surveillance and data sharing with academia as an important partner uh and then academia could actually support you know the development of standards of protocols uh capacity building uh the uh development and implementation of applied research while linking everything to uh to the governmental public health uh officials. However, it is always better that a nation has this capacity uh once built to be inherent to a surveillance and a national surveillance program. uh and this is through um it requires you know political commitment, it requires money uh it requires the uh uh you know uh intersect you know coordination between the different sectors. I mean it is really also important to probably invest in certain either small national hubs in order to serve the uh the objective and the goal of national genomic surveillance as well as data sharing uh um you know in communicate in connection with in coordination with uh with academia and uh national programs but maybe also regional uh uh hubs. connecting each others uh in order to continuously share uh capacities and resources specifically in uh areas with weak infra infrastructure. But nevertheless, I'm an avid uh you know an advocate for uh making every country inherently uh having its own uh uh infrastructure to continuously being able to monitor and track uh pathogens and to share data about those to uphold the global health security. Thank you. Thank you very much for this discussions and how we can get deeper into genomic data. And as we said, we we can stay here the whole night, but I will pass to Sara to close. Thanks so much to our presenters uh both in the room as well as online. We won't keep you here all night. I will just say a few a few closing words. You know, one of the things that really struck me kind of a throughine of what everybody was talking about was this idea of connection. And I thought thought that was really telling because it was connection on so many different levels. You know, we're talking about genomic surveillance is extremely valuable tool, but its value comes with the fact that it can't answer everything and it needs to be connected to other types of research data, other types of contextual data, other technologies and tools. Um, and so how do we bring those two together? um that the data generated by it is extremely valuable product. Uh but you really need to use that data by facilitating the interconnection of networks. So not one country can have all of the information it needs. Um and it can't remain insular. So we need to be connecting our partnerships and our networks together. Um genomic surveillance is very specialized. Uh but I think Sophonia said it very very well that it actually has to be integrated and connected into our national surveillance systems. it really can't stand alone. Um and in doing that we can we can really influence who has access and the equity to genomic surveillance and also um hopefully the sustainability of it. Uh so though as you also said uh we can't uh unless we have it we can't sustain it. So we we we hear you on that one. Um the data sharing element is incredibly critical and you know highlighting those linkages between the academic sector, the governance sector, the private sector which was highlighted um regional institutions and how all of these different partners need to come together. Um also um needing to build the trust and also identifying both the benefits as well as you know the consequences for what data sharing brings. um and being very very clear about that upfront because bringing these different partners together is not always the most seamless things. We often come with different incentives and different thinking about what public health is. So having that open conversation is extremely important. And then recognizing also that resources are waning as well as systems are already fragmented and often getting more fragmented. Um and so maximizing the type of funding that we have, the technical capacity and bringing that together, bringing that expertise together through partnerships, um through systems integration, through the shared infrastructure that was discussed by influencing the policy makers who make decisions about where that funding goes and the private sector that can be actually much better capitalized on. um and that um that really this is kind of all about connection and collaboration and I think the hub is really was here to try to facilitate that connection and that collaboration. Um so I'd say you validated our reason for being tonight. So we appreciate that. Um and also we're really excited by the work that our partners are doing, what they've shared with us. We're excited about the next phase of the IPSN and what we can kind of bring bring um and how we can bring our partners together. Uh so we'll invite you particularly those online who haven't joined us before um if you go to the WHO pandemic website you can learn more about how you can join IPSN and also the other various initiatives that we're doing here. Um and so you know we're very excited that you joined us. Um we want you to look forward to the next speaker series. So have a look out. There will be one in um probably in the next couple of months. Um and uh thank you for those who joined us online. uh for those who have joined us in person uh big thank you to Sheret for co-hosting with us um and a particularly another round of thanks to our seam speakers. So thank you very much. So have a good evening everyone.