Good evening. Uh, welcome to this evening to the WHO hub for pandemic and epidemic intelligence. My name is Oliver Morgan. I'm the director of the hub and it's my pleasure to welcome you all here today where uh we have an exciting session today. Um we'll be uh discussing how large language models and artificial intelligence are uh show uh opportunities for uh public health and how we can implement these new technologies in new and exciting ways. Uh this speaker series tonight is also a very special speaker series as well because it marks uh really our fourth anniversary uh as a WHO hub here uh in Berlin. And uh I'd like to uh welcome uh some distinguished guests that we have here um who we'll have uh a chance to hear from later on uh on stage as well. But I'd like to recognize uh in particular uh the strong and dedicated support of the uh the federal government of Germany and the ministry of health in particular um as well as our foundational partners the robber institute and the sher university who are also here with us and have also been uh partners from the beginning of our journey here. Uh we'd like to start uh also by uh showing a short video just uh to capture a few key moments of the last four years. Um and then uh we'll move on to some uh additional remarks from um professor Vata Kman from the Sheran University who co-sponsors the speaker series as well. So uh if we can have the video please. >> The CO 19 pandemic presented a learning opportunity for global surveillance work to keep the world safe. We need to better sustain innovation, build networks and earn trust before an emergency hits. has a pathway to change. The WHO hub for pandemic and epidemic intelligence was launched in September 2021. It has a clear vision, a world where collaborative surveillance empowers countries and communities to be better prepared for future pandemics. >> Since the WHO hub in Berlin started in 2021, we have come a long way with our partners to turn a bold vision into an exciting portfolio of work. Today we work with 150 member states and 210 partner organizations around the world. In the last World Health Assembly, over half of all member states who spoke about who's work in emergencies mentioned the activities of the hub in Berlin. >> The work with our foundational partners, the Robert Kulk Institute and the Shite Center for Global Health has grown into a strong partnership. It's really wonderful to have this whole department and source of expertise of the WHO here but with open doors for partners from all around the world to come and to really convene us and for us at RKI at the Robert K institute it's really nice to have this sort of triad of friendships with countries or partners around the world who come here but who also come to the hub and there are many many collaborations where we can do this together we share the goal of global health surveillance over the past years our partnership has really deepened and broadened we can meaningfully combine charity's experience and practice with the hub's collaborative and innovative approach and together we can support countries to identify critical health needs and we can support them to assist with epidemic and pandemic prevention and detection. We are all together traveling through troubled waters and uh the best thing you can do is uh that you can uh stay the course and in my view this is exactly what the WH in Berlin here now is doing. You are staying the course and you are fulfilling your mandate which is more than important in today's uh times. We have innovated and scaled technical solutions for better data, better analytics and better decisions. >> Public health intelligence is about a lot of collaborative surveillance and US initiative is always looking at bringing all other actors to play. So I think that is a key thing is important for public health intelligence. Collaborator is developing a digital environment that leverages the convening power of WH to bring together the epidemic and pandemic intelligence professionals from around the globe to collaborate on analysis and produce joint, timely, effective, and actionable insights. Lessons learned from past health emergencies and the recent pandemic revealed the urgent need for this platform that will empower epidemiologists, modelers, and decision makers to effectively simulate various pandemic scenarios and intervention strategies to help us make the best decisions possible. We have strengthened country's abilities to prepare for and respond to health emergencies. I've been working with IPSN from the start which has been a really excellent experience so far. I mean we've seen unfortunately going back to the pandemic pathogens do not respect borders and um we also saw how fast it goes whenever something appears somewhere and we don't know where that will be. It's going to be here in in in a second. It's inevitable to look internationally and to to collaborate globally on this. We have built the national health observatory to triangulate data from different source. We are being able to anticipate up to six months what's going to happen in term of the trend of malaria, colera and other diseases. So that demand new tools, new frameworks, new knowledge and then this is what hab is provided for the world. Our objective not to have to duplicate system in another country but to have specific system in the country in order to have answer for our objective. >> This belief in multilateralism and the fact that we can come together working together collaboratively on some of the hardest problems in the world on how to prevent the next pandemic takes a lot of wisdom. It takes knowledge, but most of all, it takes a spirit of joint vulnerability around the future that has really brought us together. >> The work is far from being done, and we can't do this alone. At a time when isolationism is invoked and multilateralism is under assault, we need a strong signal that in these divided and divisive times, countries can still come together to collaborate and find common ground. >> None of our progress would have been possible without the steadfast commitment of Germany. We look forward to continuing our close collaboration. >> As we look to the future, the WHL hub will continue to drive innovations, foster collaborations, and strengthen public health intelligence for future generations to come. >> Join us. Good evening everyone. My name is Pet Khan and I'm the director of the center for global health at the charity here in Berlin and the partner one of the partner institutions together with my colleagues from the Robert K institute uh here at the hub. Now this is the fourth anniversary and I'm a pediatrician. So what do you think about when your child turns four? We had a sack race when my child turns four. So, but today we have this fantastic video and we have the opportunity to welcome our great panel and speeches and speakers on a brilliant topic that will really entertain and educate us all. I would like first to thank Oliver and the WHO hub team for the kind invitation and for organizing this anniversary video and inspiring us all to be here assembled tonight. And welcome to everybody also who's online and can't be in the room. Many thanks also to Paul Sububay from the German ministry federal ministry of health who has uh continuously supported the activities of the hub through the governmental support and is strengthening public health intelligence and warm welcome to all colleagues here in Berlin and beyond. We have many of our colleagues also from our educational programs in the audience. So as you heard the the hub was established in the aftermath of co 19 and the whole video has already reminded us how far these collaborative efforts have brought us and how we here today really to also celebrate and harvest some of the fruits of these collaborations. We at the charity center for global health are really proud to partner in this journey and we have managed to not re not just have Oliver as a speaker on our PhD program but also to really apply shared agenda and shared research priorities to the recently established academic fellowships. And we are really privileged to have one of our academic fellows joining us on the panel here today. And if you want to learn more about the details, we also have a little poster there and the Robert Institute has some illustration of their wonderful contributions to the joint journey on the other side. So um there are milestones of a partnership that has really evolved over the last four years and we really look forward to strengthen this further in the years ahead. the theme of this evening. Now, I do speak some languages, but I really do not speak large language models, and I'm really really keen to learn a lot of new things here today, but the subject is vital and really timely. And at the charity, we're trying to also work with AI uh through um simple algorithms that can help not just drive the technologies, but first of all to be applied to pandemic preparedness questions and uh respond to outbreaks, but also to keep an eye on the equitable access to these language models and to the way in which AI will develop further nationally and internationally. So as we look ahead tonight, we would like to keep both of those dimensions in our minds. On one hand, the remarkable technologies that have evolved, but on the other hand, also the collaborative framework with which we're trying to strengthen global health preparedness worldwide. With that, we look forward to the rich perspectives that are going to be re revealed by our keynote speakers and the panel tonight and the discussions to follow. And it suffice to thank you all for being here tonight and please have a great evening. Thank you. >> Great. Thank you so much, Bata. Um, now it's really my distinct pleasure now to uh to welcome uh Paul Zubile. Uh Powell is the deputy uh director general for European and international health politics at the Federal Ministry of Health here in Germany. Um but beyond his uh official title, uh Powell actually is a close friend and colleague who was one of the very first people we actually met when we came to Berlin in 2021 to discuss uh creating the hub here and has been really a rockolid partner with us uh ever since. and uh I think has really um been one of our key successes as factors for success uh here in Berlin and without his close partnership and unwavering support uh I think we would not have been able to achieve uh everything that we've achieved so far. So it's really a huge pleasure for me to welcome Powell Zubal to give some opening remarks tonight. Thank you Paul. Well, thank you very much Oliver for the kind words of introduction so I don't have to introduce myself again. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues. Um it's a real pleasure for me to be here tonight and to speak to you. I think it's the 11th speaker series of the WHO hub and I would like to begin by uh thanking the WH hub at large but um uh precisely also Oliver who is now in the lead at the helm of the hub for quite some time and that's very reassuring for the German government to see you leading the hub and doing such an amazing work and I do not want to miss out to also thank the charity center of global health and biatic campan for uh organ helping organizing this um important event tonight. Now uh you heard it already. The um theme of this event today is building large language models LLMs and artificial intelligence for public health's intelligence. And I truly believe that it couldn't be more timely and it couldn't be could hardly be more important that we actually learn a lot uh tonight um about uh making use of AI for public health intelligence. it bears great opportunities not only in the future but already in the present. So I look very forward to hearing uh uh different opinions on how we can actually um how LLMs can actually help um the world uh to prepare better for future um outbreaks. Now, as a government official, I have to say this. Germany has been a strong supporter and a reliable partner of the hub from the very beginning since its inception in 2021. And uh I just want to be very clear, we Germany will be committed and continue to um foster this very fruitful partnership that we've built over the years. Uh I know there have been a lot of rumors on what's going on with the hub. uh we will continue to build this partnership uh going forward. Now um since it's the fourth anniversary of the hub, I would like to take a few moments to really reflect a little bit on on what the hub has achieved. And uh thanks so much um that under the leadership of um Chik before and now of um Oliver, the hub has been able to build strong collaborations through key um initiatives in more than 150 member states. I think that's remarkable. But you've also partnered partnered with almost 350 organizations to accelerate pathogen genomic data data sharing through the ISBN and you've strengthened public health's intelligence by building on the epidemic intelligence from open sources EIOS. So that's actually a great achievement and thank you actually for having uh put all of this great work uh forward. But besides the financial support that Germany offers, Germany is also offering its ex its expertise that helps strengthening global health to foster national scientific ex excellency in the AI sector. The German federal ministry of health for example supports research on AI technologies and public health particularly through the center for artificial intelligence for public health research at the robot um institute. The center develops and evaluates innovative AI applications including large language models and what it does actually it strengthens disease surveillance but it also improves public communication and accelerate biomedical research and especially and I come to that a little bit later on the building um improving public communication. I think that's more important than ever. We've seen so many misinformation. So we need to actually um engage the public and convey the right information and also have it channelneled through the right uh um communication channels. So let me briefly come back and uh reflect on three uh key areas that really struck me. The first one is AI for early outbreak detection. I really look forward to learn more about this as we go along. Um the center develops uh and refunds surveillance indicators. It enables public health authorities to early detect outbreaks and uh by and large um then be more effective in its responses. The second one that uh really struck me is the social listening with a n with natural language processing. So this is really something I'm not very familiar with but I'm happy to learn a lot about because it's uh used to analyze content from multiple social media uh platforms and that enables public health authorities to identify emerging topics but also to uh to look at misinformation patterns and societal health needs. So these findings will then help actually tailor uh communication strategies, manage infodomics and uh uh yeah at last also um uh build greater trust uh with the public and I think that is something that we've seen actually decreasing in the last years and something we really need to work on. The last one is the natural language processing for biomedical research. Here I'm touching up on um the AI's potential against um cancer. It's a part of a larger EU initiative that the center employs AI and natural language processing to analyze genomic and clinical and scientific data and also helps to advance diagn diagnostics personal personalized therapies and at the end of it improves actually uh patient um outcomes. So looking ahead, um language models and I will be indispensable uh in predicting and miticating pandemic and epidemic data uh risks and improving um public health intelligence overall. But um I also would like by closing to say a word of caution and AI is certainly has great benefits but it can only be as good as the data behind it and better data as the hub also generates will be essential to drive innovation and again I come to the trust part of it and to actually make it also trust um trustworthy. So the covid uh pandemic has clearly shown all of us that it's high quality data and it's reliable data combined with transparent political decision-m processes neither can actually live with the without the other only reliable data without transparent decision-m process not going to get you anywhere in the other way around. So that's really uh what it's all about and if we combine those we can also uh build trust in emergency situations and that is usually the time when trust actually diminishes. So I'm delighted uh uh to be here for today's event to listen to all our great speakers and also to find not all of the answers but some answers to how we ensure that better uh better an analyzis can actually lead also to better decisions for all of us. So I look forward to this evening. I thank you all for your hard work for your dedication and I look forward to a very engaging discussion tonight. Thank you very much. Great. Thank you so much. Um, so we're all here to learn a lot. Um, we're really excited to hear uh from our expert speakers uh and panelists. Um, I'd also like to welcome uh the president of the Robert Institute, Lash Shad, who's here with us tonight. um again a critical partner um and uh and good friend and colleague of ours along with the rest of the Robocco uh team who's many of you are here and who work with us on a day-to-day basis. Um and we also have about 300 people online from about 60 different countries. Uh so I'd like to welcome everybody who's also joining us online for tonight's event. Um so I'm going to hand over to uh Philip Abdul Malik who will uh take us through the technical discussions and uh introduce our speakers and panelists. Over to you Philillip. Thank you. >> Thank you Oliver and good evening everyone. Uh I want to start maybe just by echoing the welcome that you've already received and so welcome to this evening's speaker session on artificial intelligence and large language models for public health intelligence. Um as you've heard we've got an exciting program ahead with a number of distinguished speakers and also as you've heard we'll then be asking our speakers after they give their presentations to all come up on the stage. We've got one speaker online as well and we will have a panel where we'll dive more deeply into some of the conversation or some of the presentations that you'll have heard um and hopefully have a a dynamic and interesting conversation around those topics. Uh and of course we want you to be part of that conversation. So, if you do have questions throughout the evening, you can submit them through our online Q&A platform and you can access that by scanning the QR code which is on this little pamphlet that should have been on your chairs. If you don't have one, uh, please let us know. We'll be happy to to provide one. I don't know if this is going to work, but before we get started, you didn't come to listen to me, but I do want to take just a couple of minutes, maybe hopefully less, um to just set the stage and make sure that uh we're all on the same sort of wavelength when we're talking about AI and LLMs. Um so, just quickly and just humor me because you probably all already have your own ideas of what AI is. AI is the ability for machines or computer systems to perform tasks that would normally require human intelligence. I'll just define it that broadly for tonight and I think you'll hear more about that from our speakers. Um, and it's important to say that automation is not the same as AI and so we want to make that distinction. Um, and and I think hopefully that'll also come out in some of the conversation. Now before uh we move on to LLMs, I just want to quickly take a bit of a poll just by show of hands. How many people have ever used an LLM? All right. How many have used one in the last week? How many have used it today? Okay. How many have had a coffee or a tea today? All right. So LLMs are becoming pretty much a common day thing. Um, and I think you'll probably be familiar with a lot of different LLMs that are out there and more being uh are coming out. We'll hear about one specifically related to public health as well um from from uh Jiannis who's going to speak later. Um, but that little experiment tells us that LLMs aren't distant technologies. They're here. They're woven into our daily routines and you're very familiar with them. LLMs are one type of AI um and one type of AI model and they're trained on massive amounts of text. Uh and of course there are fears um around that and and I tried to express that with some of these uh cartoons. Now you you'll notice that these cartoons were actually created as a collaboration between me and Google AI Studio. Um so this was a back and forth uh arguing with each other until we arrived at these cartoons. And this reflects what we call multimodal models which go beyond just the text which is what LLMs are and they incorporate site vision images audio things like that. So now that we've established um what AI and LLMs are fairly broadly uh I think it's uh good to sort of move on. I think I also just want to highlight on the side there where we've tried to put down some of the things that you can think about when you're thinking about AI and LLM applications to public health and the generation of better insights. So that's the space that we'll be exploring tonight. As we do, I just wanted to keep one thing in mind. AI and LLMs, and this has sort of been touched on already, they bring incredible potential. Uh, they bring great power to accelerate science, to spot threats, even to save lives. And you don't have to be a Spider-Man fan to know that with great power comes. >> I was hoping you'd say retirement, but yes, great responsibility. Um, and I think that also uh will be part of the conversation because I think that's the balance that we're trying to talk about here tonight. So, I'll now move on and introduce our speakers. Um, it's my great pleasure to introduce our first speaker, Dr. Michael Borowitz. Uh, Michael is the chief economist of the UK Health Security Agency, deputy director for advanced analytics, and leads within the HSA a team in health economics, infectious disease modeling, and artificial intelligence. He's currently leading pioneering work on evaluating the economics of AI for public health use cases. He has a doctorate in health economics from the University of Chicago, but also trained in medicine and infectious disease. Before joining the UK health security agency, he spent a decade as chief economist of the global fund to fight AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria. And he worked with the World Bank and USAD on health reform across Asia and Central Asia. Please join me in welcoming Dr. Michael Borowitz. Thank you. It's a a great pleasure to be here and actually to present some of the work that we're doing at the UK Health Security Agency. I mean, just as aside, I mean, UK the UK Health Security Agency was also created during and in in the aftermath of COVID. It used to be called Public Health England. Um, it's the National Public Health Agency. Um and so we we have a very particular sort of niche area about trying to actually use um public health actually to support the mission of of improving public health in the UK. Um so I just wanted to briefly touch about um in the presentation about one our strategy. So we've developed a new strategy around artificial intelligence. It's brought a part of a governmentwide initiative around artificial intelligence in the United Kingdom. And but in particular, I wanted to talk about particular use cases in public health because I would say that the dominant part of of um AI has been really much more in clinical medicine. Um and there are many many use cases as a doctor, you know, that you can think about for for clinical medicine, but to think about it for public health is a very specific niche and I think it's very important to to keep public health in the agenda for artificial intelligence. Um, so the strategic approach to artificial intelligence, we have a a new strategy that we just released. It's part of it is to empower our use of artificial intelligence and a lot of that has to do with data protection issues. Um, trying to make sure that we can use the data in the appropriate ways ethically and safely. Um, one of the advantages that we have is that although we you do some stuff um on the web, we have our own high performance computers so that we can do stuff actually with our own data. So that allows us a lot of data protection issues to solve some of those. A a lot of it is around embedding AI into into our natural work. Um, and a lot of that has to do with more enterprise level activities. So using AI really for things like human resources, for business plan development and stuff like that. And then as a health economist, it's around allocating resources to the best use cases for AI and trying to develop sort of health technology assessment methods about where we think that we would get the most sort of benefit from using artificial intelligence that would maximize public health. Um, and then of course we have capacity building. The workforce needs to be trained. There's a lot of hesitancy for people to use AI. It's partially a generational issue. So we have a lot of work on developing capacity building around AI. Um but it's clear that AI has very important issues. I mean one of them is just as just visual recognition, pattern recognition. Um we've been using AI for example to identify public health hazards like car tire dumps or the kind of um tire um the kind of towers that have Legionnaires disease. Um but the most important also is particularly for pandemic preparedness is the ability to do things quickly to stand up guidance and to do um research reviews very quickly. So real-time analysis and then also around scalability um and efficiency. So where are the cases where we think that AI would be most beneficial. Um but I I what I wanted to really specifically talk about was some specific use cases within AI. Um so first really is around one of the things that we need to do is to be able to actually decide tools that are available like which are the ones that we're going to purchase. For example, we can use AI for translation for screening of medical literature. So we have to have the ability to understand when we might actually purchase AI from some vendors. The second is and I as I mentioned before was actually enterprise level solutions. So although this is a bit more mundane, I think a lot of the uses like within our own organization would be on simple things like for example human resources and hiring people, we have a lot of HR issues um at UKHSA and trying to hire people more rapidly using HR tools and also developing business plans for business cases. So actually those are the kind of activities that seem mundane but actually would have great improvements actually in terms of the efficiency of our organization and then developing specific public health use cases which I want to talk more about in detail actually. Um and obviously um our strategy more or less for UK HSA is to prepare for epidemics. We heard that from Philip but also to respond. I'm going to talk about that before. and then also to build capacity within the organization and also to focus on equity whether or not we can use AI to actually reach populations that we haven't really been able to reach more effectively. So first I wanted to talk about the one that Philip talked about which is much more on machine learning that's not really about large language models but we are using AI particularly around areas around antimicrobial resistance. The example that we currently have is that we're doing a lot of work with all the TB samples that we have to develop resistance patterns in the UK for which drugs to use um and actually what the sort of outcomes are. So we're also actually in the process of using it for wastewater surveillance from airplanes and also from other sites. So this is actually more traditional big data um using metagenomic data not really large language models though we do use large language models as an interface for this kind of work actually in order to develop dashboards so but it's much more of traditional AI using machine learning and big data and so what I really wanted to focus much more really was on the use of large language models so so one of the things that we've been doing as a public health agency is seeing how well different large language models perform different public health tasks like classification into coding of like infectious diseases using ICD9 codes. Um taking our guidance and turning them into multiple multiplechoice questions and then running them against different types of large language models. Um and we we can then actually assess all the different large language models from chat GPT to other aspects. Um, and I think what we found over time is that the large language models are performing better and better on public health tasks. Um, but I think this is an area that we could work much more closely with who the collaboratory about about trying to actually do benchmarking of uh public health tasks and how well large language models perform. And that's I think one of the things that needs to be done really by government agencies and international organizations. Um this is I think one of the areas that I think is the most important which is something that we've developed which we call the guidance checker. So one of the things that we do um in almost anything is issue a lot of guidance. So like if there's a new epidemic like EMPOX, we issue guidance about um about the different disease and that guidance has to be stood up very rapidly. And so what we've done is taken the corp working with our guidance team, we've taken the corpus of UKHSA guidance so that we can search against it. And so what it does is it checks any guidance that you're going to issue against all existing guidance that UKHSA has to determine whether or not it's consistent. Um and it it seems to perform extremely well and this is just an example um of sort of you can feed in any type of guidance and it checks against all the guidance to see whether the guidance you're issuing is consistent. Um and we feel that this is actually one of the critical tasks and one this is in the process of being implemented but our guidance team is particularly interested in this because it's it's it allows us the ability to stand up guidance very very quickly um in the case of a pandemic and the parts that you can do after that is to um to also translate the guiding large language guidance you can translate the guidance into other languages and you can also actually simplify the guidance to use it for more easier you're digestible for people in the population and for different groups and stuff like that. So we feel that that's actually one of the great public health tasks and it's something that we've been that's been sort of really wellreceived and has been working rapidly and the next step after that once we have this system in place is to turn it into a chatbot like an internal chatbot that allows people to actually sort of assess our own guidance and discuss it. So what I would say is I think that these tasks are are this is really useful for any type of public health agency because this is largely what we do which is issue guidance. Finally, what I would say is that just from the evaluation standpoint that so I talked about this benchmarking of large language models. So I think that they're improving so rapidly that we need to start thinking about how to evaluate multi-agentic models. So the idea now is that you're going to have an agent that then draws like on some other data set or draws on a model. And so it's not a simple task to evaluate. And so we're really struggling with how to evaluate these kind of multi-agentic models and artificial intelligence. And I think that's something that we really need to start thinking through about how to evaluate the sort of the transformation that's occurring in artificial intelligence. So I will leave it at that. Thank you very much. Thank you, Michael. I think you've covered quite a lot in there, quite a broad range of things um and more complex concepts than uh than the ones I just sort of broadly defined. So, thank you for that and I'm sure we'll come back to that in the panel. Um our second speaker uh this evening is joining us virtually. Uh professor Januzis Pascalis is a distinguished professor of engineering, founding professor of computing and data science and director of the Herreri Institute for Computing at Boston University. He also leads AI development for the Beacon Project, a disease outbreak reporting system designed to identify threats in real time. He earned his PhD from MIT in electrical engineering and computer science and his research spans robust learning optimization computational medicine and computational biology. He has published more than 300 scientific papers, supervised nearly 40 PhD students, and received numerous awards including recognition from a whole bunch of acronyms. Um, IE E, IFAC, NSF, and you can ask him at some point what all those acronyms stand for. So, please join me in welcoming Dr. Yianis online. >> Thank you so much. Uh just want to make sure that you can hear me and you can see the slides. >> Yes, we can. Yes. >> Perfect. Thank you. And uh apologies I'm not there with you today, but I'm very pleased to join you from uh from Boston from across the pond. Um so I'll talk a little bit about uh what we call a beacon in AI enabled global disease outbreak detection and reporting and beacon stands for biothreats emergence analysis and communication network which is uh a new system that we have developed uh here at Boston University in partnership with uh a team at Boston Children's Hospital and u the motivation for embarking on this work is that you know obviously we have experienced what living through a pandemic uh looks like and uh there were gaps that were identified in terms of detection and in terms of reporting and even though there are a number of efforts right now there is no uh open-source globally accessible effort and beon was essentially engineered and designed to fill that need Uh I'll tell you more about how Bitcoin operates. It's a uh a system that you can access it for free. There is a website where you can get all of the uh outbreak reports that Bitcoin is publishing. That website is bacon bio.org and maybe you can check it while I'm talking. Uh, Bitcoin essentially is a system that combines a number of AI agents that uh are always looking throughout the worldwide web for any report of an outbreak published anywhere and also uh collaborates with an increasing network of subject matter experts, infectious disease professionals in many different countries. uh and it receives essentially notifications of any uh disease outbreak report that has been published anywhere and also it can receive information from this network of subject matter experts. So things that may not be published that they may be aware in their community uh they can contribute them to the beacon uh injection pipeline. And then what happens after that? There is a a an AI pipeline that we have built that does uh the processing of all of these uh uh disease outbreak reports automatically and generates a concise report written in a specific format that uh the BCON subject matter experts prefer. And that report uh is there in the system to be checked to be uh edited potentially by the network of subject matter experts and approved for publication. And once that happens then the report finds its way on the Bitcoin website. So I'll sort of open the carton a bit and show you uh what is the AI pipeline that is powering the system. And you can see on the top on the left of the slide the injection point uh there is uh some filtering that is being done. So identifying disease outbreaks that uh refer to human diseases uh versus others. There is also a lot of uh essentially tasks that a human would perform. Uh for instance uh extracting key information from the outbreak report, understanding whether that is critical to be published right now or not. Assessing the quality of the report, assessing the quality of the source where the report came from. And then also potentially uh assigning a risk score that is going to inform whether that report needs to be published and what is the context that should be put in the final report that is published on the Bitcoin website. The only difference is instead of all of these tasks being done by a human and taking hours to perform are now done by uh AI agents and they take on the order of two to three minutes to be performed. And uh what we have done in order to power this AI pipeline, we have trained uh a large language model. We built that large language model on top of an open-source model. So using uh the metal lama model that is open source and essentially we took a generic instance of that model and then we did two things. One is we provided to the model a lot of information on infectious diseases. Uh you can see on the left of this slide where that information came from. So essentially thousands of documents uh even half a million or so papers on PubMed 6,000 books many documents from reliable sources like various CDC's uh regional CDC's and uh that corpus of documents that is about 50 gigabytes or so was used to retrain the model adjust the parameters of the model so that the model ingests all of this information that a generic instance of an LLM would not necessarily know because these types of documents in general LLM represent only a very small fraction of uh uh the training set for the LLM. And then what we did also we used many examples of prior prior outbreaks and fine-tune again the model to be able to perform really well on the types of tasks in the AI pipeline that uh I showed to you in the previous slide. Uh I will not in the interest of time bore you with uh a lot of the details. This gives you a little bit more information on the type of risk scoring that the model is producing. Uh essentially we score any disease outbreak in terms of six different domains that you can see them described in this slide in terms of pathogen characteristics for instance transmission dynamics, geographic demographic information that may be relevant and then by essentially having the LLM answer a number of questions that relate to these domains then we provide a final score to the disease output. break that the SMMES can look at and make decisions about what to publish and what not to publish. Uh very quickly this is showing you that the uh domain adapted LLM that we have produced does significantly better in the specific tasks of interest compared to generic versions of these LLMs that have not gone through the type of training and fine-tuning that I described. And we have tested the LLM in a number of different public data sets. Uh one data set for instance provided a lot of information from disease outbreaks and then had the model answer a variety of different questions in different domains. And the second data set provided snippets of news reports and ask the model to classify these snippets into eight different categories. And uh these plots uh essentially show you that the domain adapted model that we have produced, we call it the pandemic llama model, can significantly outperform a number of other alternatives including some uh generic LLMs and including even LLM that are much larger than the model that we have trained. Our model has about 8 billion parameters. GPT40 for instance has uh billions uh many more billions of parameters and yet our model because of the domain adaptation is able to outperform so very quickly uh we uh launched beon last April since then we have more than a thousand users in uh over 160 countries uh there is a a report that you can receive by email by subscribing to the system on a weekly basis. We have covered since that time more than 400 outbreaks and we have published more than 800 reports on the BCON website that are spanning about 130 or so pathogens in 50 species and have appeared in 124 countries and uh and territories and uh with this QR code you can go directly to the BCON website uh and I'm here presenting this to you but uh this is the work of an entire team. uh the overall beacon project is led by Nahit Badilia who is u an infectious disease uh doctor and expert here at Boston University and uh Britta Lasman is the chief editor of BCON and John Brownstein and his team at Boston Children's Hospital have collaborated with us particularly in uh uh feeding us a lot of uh information through their AI agents that are looking throughout the worldwide web for uh any disease outbreaks. So, I'll stop here. Uh thank you so much and I'll be happy to discuss with you later on uh any questions you may have. >> Great. Thank you very much, Janice. Thank you for the overview of Beacon and also for letting us know about the potential of maybe smaller but domaintrained and specific language models. Um our third speaker brings us perspective from Pakistan. Uh Dr. Zanab Samad is a cardiologist and theina endowed professor of medicine at Aakhan University where she also serves as chair of the department of medicine. She co-directs the NIHR which the UK National Institute for Health and Care Research um I've just moved things here technology. Yeah. Uh the NIHR global health center for impact and she leads the health data science center in Karachi. Dr. Samad's research spans cardiovascular epidemiology outcomes and the innovative use of AI and data analytics in public health. Her work emphasizes genderinclusive approaches to strengthen cardiovascular health in resource limited settings and she's a strong advocate for harnessing AI to empower women in medicine. Please join me in welcoming Dr. Zavad. >> Thank you. It's a real pleasure for me to speak to you today about how we are thinking uh about public health intelligence uh in Pakistan. Um the challenge in a low malome country is this that you similar to other LMIC's Pakistan's faced with almost consistent like a fire hose style way of getting outbreaks at the health system. And you can see some uh pictures here of like the HIV outbreak, the deni outbreak in the setting of floods, typhoid, cholora and so on. And they emerge faster than the systems can respond. And so policy makers need real time evidence-based insights. But the problem on the other hand is that the data is fragmented as fragmented as the health system and there's weak infrastructure beyond major hubs. there's a shortage of skilled workforce that um and the governance capacity required for data organization curation transformation doing the analytics and the drawing the insights but there is high demand for this work. So keeping that context in mind about 5 years ago prior to the pandemic we decided that we needed to develop the health data science center at the Akhan University. I was a medical student trained at AKU. Uh we lovingly called the Ahan University AKU and we I knew that we had tr of data. Uh because the institution had the foresight of developing a digital health system right from the get-go. So our goals were very relevant to our context and our needs and our goals were really to create a datadriven model for quality improvement and research to enable learning health system looking inwards at our own institution. But then we had outward-facing goals and that was to develop a health data ecosystem that informs disease priorities and guides policy makers in Pakistan. And then finally because we are at a university we needed to be learning but also sharing those insights with others in the country through either short medium uh training or long-term training and I can say very proudly that in the last 5 years we may managed to do a a variety of innovative work but the first was to get the right people together and here you can see that we have um 61% female team of people that include clude PhDs in computer science, a very rare breed there, PhDs in mathematical modeling, epidemiology, um, PhDs in population health and public health, masters in our artificial intelligence and health data science and we also had trainees along that pipeline. So we we had a multi-disiplinary team but the expertise existed across trainees to all to professors and the additional thing that we did along with training was that we actually developed the curriculum for a health data science masters that we are going to launch next year. The first cohort is going to start next year. we were able to um with our work serve and contribute to the national AI policy that came out in Pakistan this year. So I think about disease the way I think about it is that you've got risk factors and these risk factors could be environmental, genetic, personal, commercial and they lead to over time a certain disease and that disease over time if unchecked will lead to either the person landing in the community surviving or passing away either in the community or in the hospital. Now how can we understand this continuum uh and this progression of disease and that is through data and that data could either be structured or unstructured. Uh we see it in sort of the digital exhaust of our interaction with the internet but also in structured surveys that are conducted um over time by the government or by institutions or other studies. We have the electronic medical record system that several institutions do possess. Um and that contains both structured and unstructured data. And then finally when people pass away most governments would have a very strong mortality surveillance system which I'd say that we do not in Pakistan. So causes of death are not necessarily recorded, but there is a way we can do verbal autopsies in the community and understand what the causes of death are and compare them to how they're different in the hospital. And so the way our team has been working on this is not only trying to understand the data, make sure that the data is high quality, but using AI to understand different aspects of this from a perspective of data. If you look at using um satellite imagery for example to understand green spaces in Karachi which is a mega city 25 million people we have used AI to do that we've understood how we can get under a a good understanding of the burden of a a disease like deni uh not just with one institution's data but developing a collaborative of several institutions who can pull information and then give us an understanding of how that burden looks like in Pakistan and then forecasting at using AI models. When in an individual comes into the hospital, we want to know how high risk they are so they can be put in the right spaces in the hospital and every physician or every health care professional is working together to try and save them. And so we created a model, an AI model that actually predicts in hospital mortality within the first 48 hours. And I'll tell you later why it was the first 48 hours. And finally, when we're looking at work that actually has been done, you do the research, you publish the findings, you have to take this to this decision maker. And we're using large language models to create policy briefs that are quick and that can be uh sent uh you know, shared with our policy makers. So you know this was stressed earlier but I can't stress it enough and it really has to do with the data that actually we use to inform our decisions in our institution. We took a very um clear pragmatic way of how to to understand our own data. We took use cases. I'm a cardiologist. We started looking at heart attacks. We said okay let's see what's happened with heart attacks in the institution over last 30 years. they've actually gone up but the mortality has gone down and while we were doing that project we understood a lot about the data well where is sitting whether is disconnected and we created solutions as we went went along and we found was in that lean data project on heart attacks that women actually had worse outcomes compared to men over straight 30 years and so this is the kind of problem that you can't sit with 14,000 charts and then start digging through them to unpack why women are doing worse than men. And so we created a natural language processing tool to actually go and scrape information from the discharge summaries to understand if women had different symptoms than men. And what we found was that actually women did present with similar symptoms like chest pain as men, but they also had additional symptoms like abdominal pain, fatigue, dizziness, those kinds of things that people wouldn't necessarily trigger thinking heart attack when they came in. So that was a little bit of the unpacking and how we used NLP. We were looking at all comers and we found that actually a lot of the inpatient mortality happened very early on in the hospital and so this was our problem. We wanted to fix figure out why that was happening but really to actually alert people create a model for that data. We applied um Duke University's machine learning data quality assurance um framework and we understood what were the features that we could use for the model and which ones we could not. And so I think that's one one bit that we end up doing. Here's an example of the AIdriven green space mapping. We found that Karachi actually has um less than the WHO recommended uh green space per capita. uh so again a setup for a lot of different kinds of diseases especially cardiamatabolic diseases with the with the heart attack project that's led to a lot of understanding of data we also created a generative synthetic um data set that can be shared more widely because there's privacy and other regulations with health data. So that was one way that we're trying to figure out how we can share our information more broadly and then um and there we have described the inhosp mortality model that we created at AKU but also what validated at a high income country institution. Our key learnings have been this that while um the process maybe is is is is transferable that the technology often needs adaptation when you're moving from a high-inccome country to a low-inccome country and to do some good work you need a lot of collaboration and that trust requires ethics transparent use of data and really win-win situations for people a data quality and validations are essential to reliability and impact and I think there are several opport opportunities that we should avail as we think about health intelligence and particularly public health intelligence. These include um the use of LLMs to strengthen capacity widely across the world. Um test and adapt multimodal LLMs, use and explore causal AI models and then you utilize LLM for very rapid analysis of public discourse. If a government introduces a policy or like a new initiative, we quickly look at what's going on in the public discourse to see how we need to iterate and change course. And finally, to build capacity through national and international collaborations and this is my call for action. I think we need to invest in local innovations that address real world health needs. We need to move towards global health equity by scaling AI solutions for low-income countries. And then we do this through very strong partnerships and collaborations that are both national and international. And finally, I would say that the WHO has great convening power. And in a time in the pandemic when every single country was trying to fight the fire off of their own head, this was one organization that was really coordinating action across so many places. And so this body can really serve to support for setting standards, ethics, making tools available, creating tools and collaboration. Uh just want to acknowledge our multiple partners, international, international, our funding partners as well as our team. Uh thank you very much. >> Thank you Zanab. Um, and thank you for reminding us about the importance of workforce literacy and competencies as well at the beginning. Um, and the importance of equity and considering the impact and the utility of these tools for low and middle inome countries. Uh, and now for our final speaker, Professor Nikki Tiffen. Uh Nikki is based at the South African National Bioinformatics Institute at the University of the Western Cape where she leads a research group at the intersection of genomics, health informatics and epidemiology. She's committed to developing equitable and ethical approaches to data use in Africa. Um and among her achievements, she was awarded the Kalstus Juma Science Leadership Fellowship by the Gates Foundation, which supported the creation of the African data and biopecimen exchange. Uh, Professor Tiffen is also a WHO hub and Sherite global health fellow. So, I have the privilege of seeing her almost every day. Um, and she's building global partnerships for responsible use of health data. So, please join me in welcoming Professor Nikki Tiff. Thanks so much and it's really a great pleasure to be here with everyone. I'm talking about equitable use of AI and LLMs uh in public health intelligence. So, thanks for the intro. I don't have to reintroduce myself. So, of course, I'm coming with an African perspective. Just declaring that up front. When I'm thinking about equity, it's a bit hard sometimes to put a finger on what we mean by equity. And I think an easy way to explain it is to say it's about ensuring that less resourced populations can also benefit from AI and LLMs. So I'm going to talk about three different components of that sort of from a data perspective, but then also about people and about systems. And it's about trying to work out how we can benefit from AI and LLMs across this entire ecosystem. We have samples and we generate data. They lead to insights and action. But we want to make sure that that is locally beneficial even in underresourced areas and regions. So talking about the data, I think what we're talking about here is making sure that all the populations in the world have representation when we're talking about LLMs and um and using these large um you know data sets for AI. um and analysis. So the first problem is availability. When you're looking at underresourced areas, where do the data come from? Are there data that exist in certain areas? And sometimes they're in languages that that are not familiar to the the large language models currently in development. We also have this issue of depth. And by depth, what I mean is, is there a lot of data for an area? Is it enough to really draw sound conclusions and to be able to do sound analyses or is it very sparse data for particular populations or regions? Another issue is the quality of the data depending on where you're getting those data. So certainly there regions where the quality are quite poor. They may come from very scattered resources um and we really can't depend that the data are very solid and reliable. And finally, this really big issue of bias in the data. So, who do the data represent? And you can imagine in underresourced and underdigitized communities and populations, there's not a great footprint in the data of certain sectors of the population. So, this might be whole regions or rural versus urban, but it might be certain groups within populations. maybe in some uh sort of societal uh settings women are under reppresented or the elderly don't appear in the data. So we have to think about all of these uh four components particularly when we're looking at the application of AI and LLMs uh in areas where we know that these are all compromised um in terms of the kind of data we have representing populations. So the second component I wanted to talk about is about um the people the people who are engaging with AI and LLMs and I think in the first section about the data I'm saying who do the data represent in these in the populations but now I'm talking about who are the people who using AI and who are the people who are really getting their hands dirty with LLMs and trying to bring this into our public health environment. So to be able to do this equitably, we need on the ground, we need the skills, the local skills development. Um, and and having local skills can support sustainability and equity in the way that LLMs and AI are harnessed in the the kind of under reppresented regions. But another very important point is context. And this is about using the AI and LLM's capacity to ask appropriate questions and to have appropriate interpretations of the output. So if you don't have the context on the ground, you can really make some quite crazy errors in the way you you analyze and interpret the output um from different regions. Yeah, the the utility is really important. what might be an incredibly interesting and important use for um AI and LLMs in the global north might be totally irrelevant in the global south and vice versa. If you're if you're sitting in a tropical African country, the kind of questions you might be asking might be very different to something that's in interesting to someone sitting in North America. And we tend to forget this because the clustering of all the capacity and the skills tends to sit in those global north environments. The utility also talks about being agile for local challenges. So if you're not set up locally for AI for your local challenges and LLMs in your health service on your local challenges, you're not going to be very agile when you have a challenge that um maybe is kind of only relevant to you on the ground in your particular country. And then uh acceptance of LLMs and the and the kind of outputs of AI. uh there's a lot of interpreting of these outputs that can be culturally acceptable or appropriately communicated and sincerely there are a lot of these interpretations and communications that can be very culturally inappropriate. So yeah final point um is to talk about the systems and this is also about being locally relevant and locally contextualized. You need local governance uh to be able to ensure that policy is relevant to what's happening on the ground in your global south or underrepresented regions um so that your decision making using LLMs and and AI is is relevant and governed appropriately locally. Also um uh data integration bringing together the data sources if you don't understand the data sources and where they're coming from that's very difficult. uh independent confirmation of accuracy and reliably uh reliability. If you're going to do this properly, you also have to have the understanding from the areas that you're actually um analyzing and and working with. And then sustainability, of course, is being able to develop and maintain local AI and and data systems so that people on the ground across across the globe can participate in the sort of AI and LLM revolution. So just a few practical data checkpoints because I've done a lot of talking about what we must do and we ought to and we have to and we should. So I think um these are just some areas where I think we can have some positive actions. The first is easy. It's uh local infrastructure and skills to uh easy to name not necessarily easy to do of course uh local infrastructure and skills to generate manage and analyze highquality digital data. And I just want to make a little point here. I see in underresourced areas a disproportionate amount of money going into generating health data from participants and populations for research. And the problem with research data is it's used for research. It never gets translated into health care for individuals and it kind of goes to places to die if it's not properly maintained. I want to put in a shout out for for EMRs and digitalization of health data for continuity of care and service delivery um in underresourced areas and to stop this competition between um money for research, money for health service delivery. If you've got great digitalized data, you can actually with the right governance models harness that to do your surveillance, to do your research, to build your LLMs. So it's a little shout out to not forget digitalization, health service delivery because patient outcomes are our primary goal at the end of the day for data depth and data quality. I think we have to just make sure we retain the poor data and build in metrics to manage the fact that they're not ideal because the temptation is to say the data are poor, the data are sparse, we exclude them from our analysis, but that's excluding whole sectors of our um world populations um which we really don't want to do. And I think the LLMs are smart enough to build in metrics and to be able to um measure how the data perform and the quality of the data and incorporate that in the modeling. And we can also use validation with different approaches to to kind of augment what we've got. And then finally just routine routine assessment um of who's represented in the data. This is kind of straightforward um uh descriptive stats actually but we mustn't forget to do it and we can also build it into models. So yeah just to acknowledge funding and my group um and all yeah all the funding and the fellowship of course which is a fantastic opportunity. Thanks very much. Thank you, Nikki, and thank you for highlighting ethics, equity, and particularly context, which isn't just about, you know, climate and environment, but also the way people live and interact. So, social, behavioral, cultural context. Um, so that that brings us to the end of this segment of the evening. Um, and we're about to start the next segment, which is to bring all the speakers back up again. um and allow you and and our panel moderator to challenge them to have a discussion to ask questions. Um and so first uh I'd like to introduce the panel moderator um who's my colleague here, Dr. Julia Fitzner. Um Julia is a medical doctor and epidemiologist and the unit head of collaborative analysis here at the hub. Uh with over 20 years working at WH in different areas, so she's um a very loyal staffer at WH. Her work has focused extensively on enabling data reporting and analysis from different sources from around the world. Covering the complete cycle from defining surveillance objectives, data collection, data harmonization, analysis, reporting, responding, training, and evaluation. Her passion is to enable the use of data so that it's least burdensome and most impactful for decisions to prevent and mitigate outbreaks, epidemics, or pandemics. The panel's already come up. I didn't even ask them to come up. They just did it. I just want to remind you if you want to ask a question, please do use the QR code on the back of the flyers. And with that, Julia, over to you. >> Ah, there we go. Thanks a lot, Phillip. And um yeah, first I guess I need to do my LLM to actually know what I have to say. No actually I'm looking at the chat so that I can understand what the questions are. So thanks a lot and thanks everybody from the panel. I think there were quite a lot of perspectives as we as Philip already said from the local solutions from the bigger ones and also on how to bring in equity. Uh I guess I can I can start a little bit with the um the and and anybody can answer a little bit. It's uh how to deal with the unreliability of elements in the context of public health decisionm. I guess that's a big big question. So I don't know who wants to I don't know Michael you want to start. Do you have an answer to that one or or can guide people? >> Well I think at this stage I mean there'll always be a humanin the loop and so it's really in a way it's doing as you say the pre-processing of data and then some human will decide. I don't think we're at the stage where where you know we're just going to allow artificial intelligence to make decisions. So >> yeah, well I mean I guess that that is a bit the the overall thing know how to use and how to decide what are the LLMs that we want to use or what is the artificial intelligence that we're using any other comments on? >> Yeah, I think it's a great question but I think one of the things that we can keep in mind is that we don't also have to rely on LLMs to do our primary analysis. We can also use them for the validation, the secondary analyses. So we keep that core of human uh input as as um as we we're all agreeing I think. But triangulation and validation is a very important way to doublech check and triple check what's coming out of the models um together with the the human component. Yeah. >> Yeah. Thanks a lot. I mean >> if I can add a comment I I will just say that uh I think it's important also to recognize how fast the field is moving and uh I'm I'm not only talking about LLMs but in general the field of AI and uh its applications in healthcare and medicine and what was possible even two years ago is very very different from what is possible today and I I think the field will continue to evolve in that very fast pace. So we need to become a bit more comfortable about maybe for some tasks maybe not critical decision making tasks we at some point become more comfortable giving some autonomy to these AI enabled systems on the context of beon. I fully agree what we have done so far is we have a humanin the loop and uh the human is the ultimate decision maker uh and the one who is responsible for the output that gets published on the Bitcoin website. >> Thanks. >> And I would add you know um to some of the comments that have already been made that one you do need expertise. um the LLM can hallucinate and it's important just to know that when you're interacting with it. The third is that it is it it makes your job fairly efficient. I mean something that would have taken you hours of work is done very quickly. So there's that tradeoff that you make in terms of time how much time it would have taken to do the work that it has done in in minutes. And then you've got the aspect of hallucination that you need to deal with on the side. Um so that is that's where the humanin loop becomes important but um actually uh this technology is moving so fast like uh Jiannis pointed out that I think this is this problem will probably be dealt with over time. No thanks and I I think those are I mean it covers a lot of the essential things but it also comes back to how do we deal now with these kind of expertise that is needed and and how do we bring it in that how who do we need to have in the system so that we can actually um do all that I mean I think yeah the last two years everybody is saying that now everybody is using it but a lot of people are I mean even hearing again these kind of presentations I think a lot of people get lost in all those names they don't even know what it means how do we choose which LLM to use how many specific LLMs do we need how can we is there a way that we can together sort of um get guidance or expertise and and how do we move forward in that regard so I would propose that this is really a multis sectoral problem because we have data modelers who are fantastic at data modeling and understand some of the core business but we're in the business of health. So, we need clinicians, but we also need the epidemiologists. And I actually think it's a joint effort to kind of unravel and disentangle all these bits and pieces. I don't think any of us are going to manage it on our own. So, I actually think we need everyone in the room, which is not not a very helpful answer, but really that's that's my feeling about it is that and we need the governance and we need the ethics. So, we can't just dive in without having a complete spectrum of these different uh skill sets. That would be my my proposal. Yeah. >> You know, I would say that it's important to think about it in terms of evaluation um frameworks and having those ready in the context of public health for different LLM. So there can be some level of guidance of for even a novice user. This is this LLM is good at these tasks and this is what it's not so good at. And so when you walk into um it's like for example a drug with a label, you need to know what the side effects are when you use it and you need to know what the ingredients are as well. So having that I think would actually be really helpful and something that a lot of uh institutions are working in this space and collaborate and develop over time. Um so I think that's one area that I think would be helpful um in in in addressing some of these uh issues. Yeah, I mean just to say that the work that I presented about LLM benchmarking is like kind of what we're doing which is to see how well it performs against public health tasks and I think this is something that needs to be kind of internationalized so so that you know like how well say for certain tasks like classification tasks of say clinical coding of infectious diseases how well did the different models perform but a bit what Janna said I mean the it's moving extremely rapidly and so and to to be honest, they're actually doing quite they're they're getting better and better at the tasks. And so then the tasks are going to become more and more complex and those become very difficult to evaluate. These multi- agentic tasks are very difficult to evaluate. So I think that's something that we're going to struggle with trying to develop an evaluation for. >> Thanks a lot. And I mean on that a little bit, it's sort of you all kind of called for the local development which I think is is very important. on the other hand, how can we also bring back the local development to the global side as well because I mean having all the local solutions is helpful but it doesn't actually we need to bring everything together again as well and and I how how could we help how can can we all help that the local solutions are are there but also are brought back to the global solutions as well I mean not only everything in in the behind the walls of of a secure network. I mean, I think Julia, you're spearheading a really fantastic effort with the collaboratory uh that should address some of this, right? It comes down to knowledge sharing people uh and community of practice so people can share what they have developed and if they've used another model, how did they fair with using that model? And so really sharing the learnings um using a platform uh like the uh like the collaboratory. Yeah, a quick comment on this. I think the computer science community and in general the tech software industry they have a term of this it's called open source and I think this is important. So making these models to the extent possible uh open that would be a huge contribution to sharing the results and to allowing many to adopt these types of models and these types of approaches. And I would also note that you know if you look at the development of the LLMs that has not been the norm and and I think that is something that needs to be thought about and and addressed. The majority of the commercial LLMs are closed systems. Nobody has access to the code. Nobody has access to the training data. There are some efforts out there that uh produce models that are semiopen source but I think the more we can do as scientists, governments, organizations to encourage open-source models and sharing of these models, the faster the development are going to be and the more confident as a society we're going to be uh in terms of the trust that we associate to these types of models. >> I know that that is a good call for the open source one and I actually on that note it's it's a little bit the call for this kind of equity as well. we we you were both actually everybody is is calling for the equity part as well not to leave people behind that are either um don't have the data but also don't have the infrastructure for that and and I guess the open source is one little piece of that solution but um is there are there other needs that we need to sort of tackle in that regard as well >> I think there are two aspects of it one is training uh one so knowledge sharing, right? That can happen through a platform, but intentional training. And the third is resource sharing. You pointed it out early in our workshop. I think that was a great idea. Um, can one extreme expert be shared across centers of excellence on two continents? So, can that happen or not? You know, so those are the kinds of things that we need to think about. I think there's also a lot that can just be done um in terms of infra infrastructure on the ground. Um but I think we also need to be looking quite carefully where we put new infrastructure in to try and be a little bit more ecologically sensitive about how we do it. Um so it's almost an opportunity when you start to build infrastructure for these kind of uh you know modeling tasks to really do it in a in a slightly more envir environmentally aware way as you go. Um yeah so I think we should be looking at putting infrastructure in but we should be rethinking how we do it so it's a little less um serious impact on our environmental resources. Yeah. and and maybe another picking up on uh this excellent point uh I think this is important. What is also important I think from the perspective of equity is that uh computing capacity is now very much controlled by these really big tech companies that own the data centers and own uh many many GPUs. And for those of us that are in academia or even in the uh public sector or in the nonprofit organizations getting access to the computing resources that are needed has become more challenging and much more expensive. So I think maybe this is something else that uh in the long term needs to be addressed uh by governments and uh by those who have access to resources to provide more equitable access. Uh and this would allow many more to enter the field and make contributions. uh and you know some of these contributions are not necessarily the type of contributions and the type of models that are going to generate profits for companies. So there may not be an incentive for them to work on these types of problems. Uh so it is important that uh academia uh and other organizations can more easily get access to resources to be able to contribute. Thanks. And I I guess that is a little bit of call for for the global community again. And and similarly actually there's a question also from the chat and um and how do we then also prevent the commercial ad that kind of gets into the LLM secretly or how do we teach people to sort of disentangle the commercial use um of it? I don't know if somebody wants to answer that. How how do how do we get the commercial side and potentially unwanted um for for the user unwanted sort of tearing towards some some solution. I I don't think we can get rid of it, but I think we can ask for transparency maybe. I think that's probably the best we're going to get. And I guess that would be something that at the end of the day probably we're going to need legislation to make that happen. Uh so it's not a very optimistic answer. Sorry. But I do think that that's something that's only going to be achieved Yeah. at the higher level and it's only going to be achieved um as a transparency, not a removal. Yeah. >> Michael, you also had >> well it's just it's a bit what Janna said. I mean a lot of the open- source models perform as well as the commercial models. So I mean you know so I think that's one of the you know is it really worth spending extra for like a tiny improvement and because the open source models are performing well and I think the introduction of deepseek and some of the Chinese models like illustrated that that that a lot of these um models are which are open source actually you know have a lot of possibilities. So I think this going back to this broader sort of push to actually have open- source abilities that are at you know it for most questions I would think that that would be adequate actually for for a lot of the work that we do. So >> and I mean maybe sharing that insights as well so that people know what exactly they they should be using um uh as well would be good as well. U and maybe you know picking up on the need for some form of uh uh regulations, guard rails, rules uh that's also important. I don't think we will eliminate commercial use and we should not eliminate commercial use and and in fact those revenues and potential revenues are have probably led the the LLM revolution. Uh but you know asking as it has been said for transparency and asking for uh some form of uh you know opening up some of these models would be would be a contribution not necessarily for sort of making uh those investments that the private companies have done sort of publicly accessible to everyone but more from the perspective of sharing with the rest of the world. Some of the benefits that these companies have already obtained by using the whole knowledge of the entire world over million of years that uh they have distilled in training their models. >> Thanks a lot. >> Yeah, I mean at some point needs to be treated like a public god, right? >> Yeah, let's let's call for that one. Uh and may maybe just to sort of I I I think we are getting towards um sort of the end of the panel. Uh I think that was there were quite a lot of insights but um just sort of giving each of you sort of the another moment of of of reflection on what we should sort of give to the to the group back and and how we can what kind of message we should take away with with use. And I think it was a lot of there was a lot of um there's a lot of optimism on how we can use it and that it will be useful but there is also a lot of call for for the um for regulations a bit or helping to regulate it and so if you have any quick words on that uh on what what would we tell what should we take with this? So I can maybe just wrap again from an African perspective. So I think LLMs and AI have a great um sort of promise to to actually leaprog a bit for underresourced areas and to move forward uh faster than maybe areas that are more resourced in in the same stage of development and and that's fantastic but it's not going to work without data. So I think I think we have to keep coming back to this idea of digitalization of health information of various sorts and really focus on building that to be able to then harness this potential to leaprog and and use resources well by the application of AI and LLMs in underresourced areas. Thanks. >> Yeah, I'd say you know I think this technology is moving so fast that we need almost essentially two groups of people. one that are constantly scanning and seeing what's coming and what's new and what needs to be acted upon and another that really looks at picks up from that conveyor belt of knowledge the pieces that we need to act on whether it's from a regulatory standpoint from whether it's a benchmarking evaluation frameworks um uh you know guard railing and so on ethics governance all of those pieces so I think that the there should be two two groups that almost kind of exchange hands on information and action there. >> Um well, I think that commercially that clinical medicine that there will be a lot of uses of AI. Um but I think public health will always be the stepchild. Um, and so I think that's going to require like government intervention and government funding um, in order to encourage and make sure that AI is used in public health for things like as we just heard about outbreak detection and surveillance. And so those are going to be the neglected areas that we need to ensure that AI is is used and and I think that's going to require government support. Thanks and >> I would say that uh you know it's a brave new world and things are happening very fast and there is a lot of potential from applying uh AI into public health into medicine. Uh so I don't think you know we can put the genie back in the bottle but I think the word the term I would like to use is we need to critically embrace AI with critical being a a very important keyword in this embrace. uh and uh I think as it has been said it has the potential of in many ways democratizing access to very advanced models uh that are developing in some place that has the resources and uh has the data and so on but uh these models could be used uh by many many different groups across the world. >> Well, thanks a lot and thanks thank those were wise words. I'll I'll take them as such and give it over back to Oliver to close us off. Thank you so much. >> Great. Well, thank you very much to the panel. Maybe I'll ask our panelists and speakers just to stay on stage for a minute while we wrap up. We're kind of at the end of time uh here for the speaker series. Um it's actually concludes 3 days of uh discussions with a number of different partners who are in in the room about how do we harness the opportunity of AI and LLM for public health. So this is a very active conversation here at the hub with uh our colleagues on stage but also many of them who are in the room and uh and also colleagues who are online. So I invite you all to uh continue the conversation after the end of this session. Um and also to um I guess uh recognize that uh as we move forwards, we're all going to have to um keep studying to try and keep up um learn not only the new uh the vernacular of LLMs, but understand the opportunities uh and maybe some of the challenges that lie ahead for us with public health. So, thank you very much indeed for coming to this speaker series and I look forward to continuing the conversation. Thank you very much.