Food safety is everyone's business. It is essential that consumers can consume safe food. This is where the Codex Alimentarius, or simply the Codex, comes in. The Codex is a joint initiative of the World Health Organization and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) aimed at establishing international food standards, guidelines, and codes of practice to protect consumer health while ensuring fair practices in food trade. The Codex Alimentarius is a joint initiative of the World Health Organization and the Ministry of Agro-Industry to promote food safety. We are working on strengthening the Codex Alimentarius. Codex Alimentarius has established standards. Codex standards are used worldwide to harmonize national food safety regulations. They are officially recognized in the World Trade Organization Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures, thus establishing an essential international benchmark for food safety. Codex standards are gaining importance as they are considered in agreements. The World Trade Organization and the participation of member countries in the Codex process at the international level have become very important. Mauritius has been a member of the Codex since 1971. Given the international importance of the Codex, the Ministry of Agro-Industry established the Codex Contact Point and a National Codex Committee within the Food Technology Laboratory in 2010. The role of the National Codex Contact Point is to liaise between the Republic of Mauritius and the Codex Alimentarius Commission, while also effectively managing activities related to the implementation of Codex standards in the country. The Ministry of Agro-Industry and Food Security took the initiative in 2010 to establish the Codex Focal Point and the Technology Laboratory. This has allowed Mauritius to have greater participation in the international standardization process. In addition to our role as a Codex Contact Point, the Food Technology Laboratory is accredited to ISO 1725, and we are therefore able to participate and share our data for the development of...  The National Codex Committee is comprised of a team of members from various stakeholders in the public and private sectors. The committee's main objective is to engage in discussions of national importance related to food standardization. The Ministry of Agro-Industry and Food Safety, as well as the Ministry of Health and Wellbeing, are the two main actors in the National Codex Committee and are regulatory bodies responsible for ensuring food safety from farm to fork. The Ministry of Health, the department known as Public Health, is responsible for the application of the law. Our law is a law that is adapted from Codex standards. For example, a product meets quality standards, especially regarding safety and nutrition. It's not the Codex standards that we take from the Codex. Now we also have the Mauritius Food Standards Agency, an organization recently established by the Ministry of Health. This organization is responsible for coordinating other organizations in Mauritius, such as Food Safety and Food Nutrition, and its standards are primarily inspired by the Codex.  The office is also an important player in the National Codex Committee and represents the national standards bureau. The Chamber of Agriculture and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Mauritius, members of the National Codex Committee, represent the interests of operators in the agricultural and food sectors. Indeed, the National Codex Committee plays an important role in ensuring that stakeholders comply with food safety and quality standards in the country. Members of the National Codex Committee are engaged in several activities such as electronic working sessions and the development of Codex documents. Codex standards include, among other things, aspects related to food safety such as contaminants, pesticide and veterinary residues, food hygiene, and food and nutrition labeling. These standards and guidelines are based on scientific data that are regularly updated in light of new developments in food safety. These standards are used to enable businesses to operate effectively at the national level and guarantee the safety of their products. For example, the Codex General Principles of Food Hygiene is a standard that covers hygiene practices from primary production onwards.  From production to final consumption, highlighting key hygiene controls at each stage, this standard describes the HAC system, which is the most widely used internationally. One of the most widely known and applied guidelines, the Codex Alimentarius Committee states that when producers and traders comply with Codex standards, consumers can have confidence in the safety and quality of the products they buy. The Codex Committee on Food Labelling is of particular importance to consumers because it establishes standards and guidelines regarding the nutritional information on food packaging. This allows consumers to make informed decisions about their diet. Furthermore, the Codex provides guidelines on food composition to ensure nutritional safety. It also provides advice on general food labelling, particularly regarding health information or the nutrition declaration made by the producer on the packaging. The Codex recommendations aim to inform consumers about the products they buy—a system that applies to food. This is what is very important for consumers worldwide because it is a matter of producer and consumer business. produced in Mauritius to provide us with information, this is really what the Codex food system is all about. So, he participated with local scientists and it allows us to be able to bring us into the Codex system. So, trade is important, and the way trade is done protects consumers. Given the crucial importance of Codex standards for regulatory bodies, operators in the agricultural and food sectors, as well as consumers, it is essential to further strengthen Codex structures in Mauritius in order to improve our participation in the international standards development process. The Codex Trust Fund project is one of many initiatives implemented by the Mauritian government, some in collaboration with various partners, to strengthen food safety and security in the country. To improve our participation in Codex work and to make our voice heard, a request for assistance was made to Codex, and since 2020, Mauritius has benefited from the " Building Codex MA" project, which aims to consolidate Codex structures in Mauritius. The importance of Codex and better implementation of updated Codex standards in the country are key. Some achievements under this project have been the development of  A website for Codex Mauritius aims to increase the visibility of the Codex, its activities, and its importance nationally and regionally. We have also been able to initiate a joint program with the Netherlands for sharing technical expertise. We are working here at the regional level with about fifteen laboratories throughout the region that are working on these issues of product analysis and verification. Do these laboratories have the necessary equipment? Do they have the required training? Have they obtained the regional and international certifications? When they affix their stamp to the relevant labels, this ensures that other partners know that this stamp, this guarantee, is valid, recognized, and potentially mutually exchangeable. With over 230 NMES, 1003 directives and codes of practice, and 6000 maximum residue limits, among other things, the Codex can help us guarantee this, and Mauritius has everything to gain by participating in the work of the Codex. In conclusion, the Codex plays an essential role in ensuring food safety and protecting public health. By developing global standards based on scientific data, the Codex helps create a level playing field for businesses while reducing the risk of costly recalls and legal disputes. Whether you are a consumer or a business, the benefits of the Codex are clear, and we can all have confidence in the safety of our food.