Hello and welcome to another edition of transforming WH, a video series where I talk to colleagues inside WHO and outside about the work we do in the World Health Organization and how we try to transform our ways of working. And today here in our studio in WHO headquarters in Geneva, I'm joined by my very good colleague Maria Nara who's the director for environment, climate change and health. And welcome and thank you for joining Maria. Thank you. My pleasure. First a little bit about yourself. I mean you have a long career in in public health and with WH originally from Spain medical degree from OVO in in your country but you quickly went into and shifted into public health. You worked in in the field in the '9s and in Central America and Africa very much in communicable diseases. Then you joined WHO working on communicable diseases through the '9s. Then you went back for some years to your own countries as a leading uh in food safety I believe in Spain and then you rejoin who headquarters I think actually 20 years ago. Maria. Absolutely. as director of basically the current function you have now on environment and health. So that's a long distinguished career in in public health. Well, thank you. Definitely very much u rewarding what I had as a professional experience. I I was trained as a medical doctor then specialized on a very sophisticated uh hospital in Paris on endocrinology. I thought all my life will be on a hospital because I was by vocation an endocrinologist. But then I went to a refugee camp in Central America with Medson and Frontier and then I discovered public health because you cannot keep doing only clinic work. You need to go as well of what are the causes of those diseases and this is where I discovered my passion for public health. I've been working in all wars in in unfortunately conflicts in in Africa and Central America. But then I arrived in WHO I think with some background strong one on what that means to respond to outbreaks to to work on the causes of the diseases and how we can promote health more than just to cure our patients. And then yes I have this experience in Spain very rewarding as well because then you see a government inside. I was vice minister of health and in charge of this food safety and nutrition agency and happy to come back here because for me who cho is home and where I feel so proud to be and I have been dedicated and thank you for joining and today in the conversation we are going to tap into your huge experience and knowledge knowledge especially in the field of of environment and health and also climate change but we'll start with one of the the very big determinants in in environment and health which is air pollution. ution. Air pollution is a big killer and it's a global problem. We'll just look we have the first slide up please here uh which is basically the whole world and that's showing the levels of air pollution that's measured in many different ways but but one of the key indicators is the uh concentration of what we call fine particulate matter which is PM2.5 and and the greener it is the more air pollution we have. If it's light green, it's it's approaching the level that is acceptable. Even many of the places which are very light green in this map exceeds the WHO recommended level which is five micrograms per per square meters. Uh and it's actually I think less than 1% of the population who actually live in very very safe environments. So air pollution is a big killer. If you just take the next slide which is an infographic from uh issued from your department on air pollution and health and this is basically showing that we have annually excess death excess mortality around 7 million air pollution affects many different organ systems even the brain the heart the lungs half of that mortality is from pollution inside the homes another half is is side huge burden in Asia and subsahar in Africa. So, so that's sort of laying out the the thing here. So, you worked with this for 20 years. What have been the challenges? What have been the successes? Well, challenges is that uh we still have every year and is is very frustrating 7 million premature deaths due to exposure to our pollution to the bad quality of the air we breathe. And it's not because we don't have the scientific evidence telling us. Yeah. Uh we have the evidence proving where are the areas where the levels of air pollution are very high. What are the interventions that work? What are the legislation that work? Uh we have um proof that uh at the city level you can do a lot to promote sustainable transport or to reduce this uh um energy efficient. We need to transition to clean sources of energy. So it's not by lack of knowledge but probably the fact that there is no political commitment to react to this massive public health issue which is represented by air pollution is is one of the is the the risk factor. The most important one now and and we are not responding at the level of ambition that will require the the dimension of the problem and not at the speed that will be required. And another important thing is that air pollution and climate change overlap in the sense that most of the the responsibility for this air pollution is as well responsible for with the fossil fuels. Exactly. The combustion of fossil but you you spoke to sort of the the political high level recognition etc. Some critics might say it came a little bit late uh to WHO. uh we have the first resolution in the World Health Assembly I believe in 2015 speaking to environment and health and focusing very much on the determinance and the science reducing uh the use of of harm harmful um fuels in homes which is a big driver of why we see this especially Asian subsaharan so it's basically how do you heat your home and cook your meals and you use dangerous fuels etc. So we had the focus 10 years ago. Um we are making progress. I believe the first high level uh meeting on this in 2018 and there was a second high level meeting just a couple of months ago in Kath where you went. Yes. So are we making some progress? Where do you see the progress being made in? Definitely we see progress. We are not where we were 10 years ago and the evidence is there. We are accumulating now evidence because you you show on eurographic the the impact on our respiratory system, cardiovascular system but brain we are now accumulating a lot of evidence hor pollution is affecting our brain as well and this is really a a a very important part of our work now to make sure that everybody understand that this is really touching every part of our body and and we need to react to that. Couple of months ago we were in Kartahena the indas in Colombia. Incredible uh conference global conference on air pollution and health. And I say incredible more than 100 of countries attended. I think 500. Exactly. It was it was really 750 participants more than 100 all parts of society and different sectors that needs to contribute. energy sector, transport sector, of course, mayors were their architects because they have and of course health professionals. 40 millions 40 millions health professionals before the conference join a call on saying we want clean air. So a pediatrician can treat a boy or a girl with asthma but they need as well to ensure I believe some of the governments even at the meeting were committing to reducing uh air pollution. I mean the governments of India, the United Kingdom, Colombia, Brazil, several in that meeting committed. Are these commitments ambitious enough in your opinion? You know, is the level of ambition is never enough when you are talking about public health. So, but still we have more than 50 very strong commitments, not legally binding of course, but we will be able to monitor that and scrutinize and and confront it. Some of the commitments were about reaching who standards on air quality according to our air quality guidelines. Most of the commitments were about to reduce by 50% mortality health impacts by 2040. Some commitments were done at the city level on intervention on sustainable transport. Other commitments were about reaching uh zero neutral on the health system. So a lot of commitments that we will we just saw the infographic I mean a premature mortality annually of around 7 million. I mean compared to many other killers like communicable diseases the biggest killer in communicable diseases TB, malaria, HIV in total is more is less than that. I mean so why are we not focusing more on environment than health? Well, this is the question we are asking ourself because uh 7 million premature deaths due to air pollution. But if you put all the environmental risk factors together, the environmental risk factors that can be modifiable, then the mortality that you could reduce is 13 million. So we could avoid by 25% and reduce by 25% the mortality every year if we invest on environmental health interventions that have proved to be effective good for the economy tackling the causes of climate change tackling the causes of air pollution reducing exposure to certain chemicals and increasing access to safe water and like you already said it's very much outside of the health sector I mean absolutely we can certainly see the implications and we have the science in the health space so to say but it's in traffic it's in energy and and it's in many other sectors of society so it's it needs an all of government approach is that one of the barriers here it's is one of the opportunities I would say because when you use the health argument and this is said what we have been telling all the cop negotiators you know on climate change we are now giving them the health argument for climate action and we are convinced that the health argument is the most powerful. The moment somebody understand that there is a connection between an asthma case and the level of pollution in the city, that moment that the patients are convinced that the the citizens are putting a lot of pressure on their governments and that can advance. So yes, but the health community has a huge responsibility because the price is already paid by our lives, by our health and our hospitals and then the the cost business case for that. Exactly. Before we move into climate change and and leave air pollution just one uh maybe success story or potential success story you maybe you can explain. Let's just pull up the next photo please. And this is basically a map of uh the city of Paris, the capital of France, which is a huge uh city. And I remember going back when I was younger when visiting Paris, the traffic was terrible and the air quality was terrible. And basically this is a map over I think two decades showing the improvement of air quality in the big city of Paris. gradually we see we see how bad it was and then gradually we see it uh improving and improving and then looking fairly nice for for a big city. Uh so what are the uh root causes of the success story here? What did they do in France and well I'm very happy to say that Annie Dalgo who is the mayor of Paris and one of the most responsible for this transformation she always say that she's using the health argument. We have the opportunity to discuss with her few years ago, presenting her the health benefits that she will obtain by cleaning the air, by making sure that people will be able to have a more active lifestyle, reducing obesity, reducing, you know, sedentary lifestyle related. She went through a very difficult political situation. As you can imagine, there were a lot of conflict of interest against that. But here is the result. Here is the success. So what did they do in Paris? Sustainable uh public transport systems uh making sure that they will reduce traffic and in certain areas more green areas and green spaces. Obviously promoting the the biking lines and the and walking lines. Did you see the river now? It's completely different. People can go there. any any success stories emerging from Asia where we see a huge impact and some big big a fantastic one sorry a fantastic one that was presented at the Kartahena I was so happy to see the slide presented by the vice minister of health in China where he was able to prove and we have all the scientific evidence so it's not just a green wash or anything they have reduced dramatically the the air pollution in the big cities in China and it has been you have a demonstration Even if you go there, you feel it already that your throat is not suffering. And in that slide, he was proving the decrease on the air pollution and the still increase on the GDP. So proof that you can reduce pollution while still having an increase on your economic development, which is the argument that sometimes represent an obstacle, but as you can see, it's a fake obstacle. Wonderful. Moving on to climate change and health. man-made climate change is certainly very high on on everybody's agenda and the global agenda. Uh the consequences of that and also the health consequences and what health systems can do has has emerged I would say in the last maybe 15 years uh been high on the agenda. I think in WH it was first recognized in a world health assembly resolution 2008. 2018 uh but we have to come into recent years before it really achieves a much higher agenda. I believe on the we have these annual global meetings that the so-called cops on climate change and it was not until I believe four years ago in the Glasgow meeting that health was recognized as a separate tract. So now there's a health dedicated program a health day on all the cups but that's only four years ago. So it's sort of and now with a recent new strategy for for global health that WHO um accepted in the health assembly last year the the general program of work the GPW14 this is one of the six priorities. Yes. So we are getting there. Some critics might say we were late. No I don't think so. I think if we manage to have in Glasgow for the first time on a COP a health commitment is the result of many years previously of work as you say the first resolution on climate change and health was in 2008 and it was uh you know we got a lot of support from the member states which was a kind of positive surprise for us then it's true that the allocation of resources has always been very modest but still I think it our role on environmental health and climate included is on influencing. And when you have a very good argument and interventions and everything to influence, what you need is to go to the cops and say, "Okay, here is the health argument." And as a result of that, we have now a decarbonization of the health system. Yeah. Which is something, you know, the health system contributes 5% to the global carbon emissions, which is not an small one, it's a big one. Yeah. If you compare it to a country, it's not like top five, right? It will be on the top. So now we are decarbonizing the health system which is part of our you know contribution. So that's basically health systems taking responsibility for for basically the careful there because some countries are saying I don't need to decarbonize because I'm not even generating any you know emission which is true and those countries they don't need to decarbonize is correct. what they need is to gain access to clean sources of energy. So what we are doing there is to make sure that we influence and we push for those health systems in Africa in Asia to gain access to photobaltike. There is no reason why we don't have a solar panel in each healthcare facility in Africa which will also make the health facilities more resilient to climate change because Exactly. you know the cost of the diesel for the diesel generators but also the disruptions by flooding and all all other climate effects. I mean you will have the flooding disrupting energy etc. I mean so so it's actually a multi-pronged approach of decarbonizing healthare system making health systems more climate resilient and then of course also addressing the health effects of man-made climate change. This is the positive part because we are telling all the negotiators here are the health benefits that you will obtain if you tackle the causes of climate change if you mitigate and the health benefits are coming from nutrition. Yeah. You know you will have a more sustainable food system. Exactly. And therefore reducing mortality by nutri lack of nutrition. The second one will come from access or accelerating uh transition to green renewable sources of energy. Yeah. And again the the the health benefits will be the reduction on the debts caused by air pollution. And the third one is the transformation of our urban spaces our cities place where 70% of the population in few years from now will be living there. So we need to make sure that we have a and many other health effects. I mean spread of vectorborn diseases uh uh heat wave heat stress and and even the mental stress of of climate change. Yeah. We need to ensure as well social interaction and the the reduction of the mental health related diseases having more green spaces in our cities. So all of these healthy orment planning transition to clean sources of energy and sustainable food system is our health agenda and nobody can say that there is not the health business. It is but now it's a key priority of who it's in our general program of work but who is actually also like the rest of the global health community now struggling with challenges in in funding and and and support. uh how do you see that going forward in keeping these priorities? uh certainly the situation is challenging but our strategy is not changing and we need to use as I say our influence sometimes influence doesn't require a lot of financial resources our voice needs to keep very strong very uh appealing in in the sense of having very strong arguments and we have it I think quantifying those health benefits at the at the climate negotiations making sure that as the health system we contribute to decarbonize and proving that this is very rewarding and not only is good for the environment, it's good for the health of the people and to reduce the bill that the hospitals are already paying because we are already paying the price that will require a good climate change adaptation and you know the investment on climate resilient health system means nothing else but basic public health intervention. So it's a very common sense investment. Making sure that our health systems will be more resilient to climate change means more epidemiological surveillance, uh different ways of preparing our health centers, uh looking at diseases that will be associated with the conditions created by climate change, more training for our staff. I mean interventions that after all are nothing else that common basic public health interventions good to invest on it. Sure. So you worked 20 years environment health and now also climate change and more than 30 years in public health any what are the big achievements what are you most proud of in in your career? Uh well I think on environmental health we have many things that but you know when when it's about primary prevention you don't see immediately the benefits. you don't quantify it, but I think remove it lead from gasoline was an incredible environmental health success or mercury all the treating mercury. You have now uh a standards on occupational health to protect workers from exposure to certain chemicals. We have air quality standards and legislation. The European Union has just approved a directive on air quality. So we have a lot people gaining access to access to safe water and sanitation. many things that have moved and you will not uh see it on the health lines because you are preventing not delivering but uh a lot of challenges a in front of us endocrine disrupting chemicals is a is an issue. Any regrets in the last 20 years? Anything you sort of wish you would have done? I definitely uh regret not to have a chief access to for everyone on water and sanitation is something that I don't have explanation for that because is something that the society has been done uh regrets of not having maybe the resources to do more in endocrine disrupting chemicals or or the impact that electronic waste will have in our in our health. Big issues like on plastic what plastics represent for our health. So the agenda on environmental health is huge. Regrets is that um I will love to have convinced more the the the the governments and the negotiators at COP and others to invest more because this is the best common sense cost effective agenda ever. But you can still do that. And now the current challenge, the current crisis that we've touched upon to global health, it's it's a crisis of funding and support to WHO and the work we do. But it's also broader than that. It's also in many ways a challenge to to the values, the principles, the science. I mean many examples, the US government is also dissociating itself from the Paris accord and climate and even the STGS etc. So how do you see that any future for multilateralism? Listen, multilateralism has to exist and and then otherwise our society will lose completely a wise approach. So I cannot imagine a world without this collaboration. We can call it as you wish or we can change or we can you know the society goes sometimes on a pendular movement. So maybe we are now here and we will be there but I cannot imagine a world where we don't have collaboration and uh even more now and it will be really against all the technology we have we can't avoid to communicate to collaborate to have support to each other and this multilateralism is what giving us and I believe so much on global health so I'm sure that the the global health will be the argument that will bring us back again on on having a very good global health architecture, the one that respond to to the challenging and growing needs of our citizens and still with a strong role for WH as in our special mandate. Definitely. Definitely. Thank you very much, Maria. Thank you very much for joining me here in the studio and thank you very much everybody for uh joining this episode of Transforming WH and please stay tuned on this channel for upcoming episodes.