In Thailand, about a quarter of all people suffer of hypertension. And of those, only a quarter or so have controlled their disease. So there's a huge gap when it comes to controlling hypertension. As we know, hypertension is a high risk factor for cardiovascular diseases, diseases of the heart, strokes, people can get heart attacks and so on. At the same time, Thailand has a very strong health system, with easy access to health services for everybody. So what happened was that in 2020, the Chiang Mai University and Thai Hypertension Society got together and looked at guidance that WHO had provided, called the HEARTS Technical package to deal with hypertension. And the HEARTS package is not just around a simplified treatment protocol, but is also around lifestyle changes and so on. We managed to enroll around 1400 people in using that protocol. And basically these are people with hypertension who are being put on simplified treatments to see how it goes. And what we saw was that the results were really encouraging. After six months, around 60% of those enrolled had their hypertension controlled and still controlled, compared to 28% of people who had not been enrolled in the same package. So it was actually a success. And so what is happening now is that Chiang Mai University is using that initial small scale pilot and expanding it to a much larger area to see if they're going to get the same results. And if they do, then clearly we are onto something, and then the government is willing to look into: Can that protocol be used nationwide? In all primary health care facilities if it continues to give such good results also in a larger context. On one hand, WHO has a norms and standards role, and that means in practice that WHO uses the science that exists and basically puts that into guidance for countries that is easy to use. And the HEARTS package that I mentioned around hypertension is one such an example of how science has been taken and converted into a package that countries can use. Our role in this case was to help and kickstart it, see if it works, and then if it works, let other partners then further expand it and maybe even make it national. So it's an illustration of the work that WHO does both on the side of norms and standards and on the implementation side.