Roz, India: Loneliness, perhaps it’s there for everyone right? It exists in the lives of all people, right? My name is Roz and I am 21 years old. On screen text: Roz has faced rejection from her community and suffered deeply from loneliness and social isolation The World Health Organization presents The Social Connection Series Roz's Story Roz, India: I was in sixth grade when I came to know about my father. When I came back from school, I saw a crowd in front of my home. I was quite young then, and saw the police were there. I felt so lonely then, when my father used to come home drunk. It was really hard for me to see these things. I knew about the problems we were facing, that they may decide to send us to an orphanage, all alone. I was thinking about all these things. Sorry. On screen text: The community distanced themselves from the family Roz, India: This went on for some time, and we were evicted from our rental home. I was sitting outside on the road along with my household belongings. And at that moment, it was the loneliest I had ever been. I wished that someone could have been with me then, even if it was my father. If the community was there for us and had given us a helping hand, extended just a little hand there, then perhaps my mom would have felt much less helpless. I stopped talking to people. I started spending more time alone. My loneliness became my companion, but it also motivated me to do something for myself. Community... Community plays a vital role in a family, doesn’t it? I have recently started social work. I never imagined I would be a social worker. I didn’t find it easy. After finishing twelth grade I felt there was a need to financially support my family. I started talking to people in the community, I started engaging with them. I would like to share things openly with others, but I find it difficult to do so. But I started engaging in social activities. My generation faces a lot of pressure to be happy. It can be difficult to share personal issues in casual conversation. I feel that my bond with others is getting stronger as we open up more. On screen text: Loneliness can affect anyone, anywhere. But the power of connection can make a positive difference. On screen: WHO and WHO Commission on Social Connection logos