When I think about loneliness, I think about not having a person to depend on. I always feel isolated because I don't think I have people that understand me. I don’t have someone that I can trust enough for that. My name is Macy. I’m from Zimbabwe. I am 32 years old. I work full-time at a daycare. I have four kids. Two boys and two girls. Being a single mom, you have dependants, and they’re only depending on you. You don't really belong anywhere and it all comes back to me not having somebody to tell what I'm going through, whether if somebody is abusing me or if I feel like crying. So I’ll just take whatever comes. People don’t believe that you can feel isolated and lonely even though you are busy. I'm busy with other people's kids and my kids at the same time. So when other people's kids go mine are still there, they're not going anywhere. Sometimes I just cry myself to sleep. But when I cry, I don't want my kids to see me so I would go maybe to a bathroom and just cry a little bit. Or when they go to school, I can close the door behind me... cry a little bit, shake it off, then continue. I don't have enough time for me to say I'm going to be depressed about things. I wish there were groups for single women and, you know, groups where we can talk about things. But I have one or two friends that I can say: “Okay, I'm going through this”. At the same time, I still don't think they do understand me. I don't think they do understand my background. It's been hard. It's been a hard life. Since I was a child, I never had the opportunity to think about dreams and stuff. But as I grew up, I realized that I have a love for kids. I've had people that supported me to, to do a course in early childhood development, which was huge for me. I never thought somebody could do that for me and I'm really grateful for that. I hope to give back. You know, to love the kids that come through my hands. I love those kids. With the kids, I give it my all because, you never know that child's future could be changed just because they passed through me. Right now, it's only like a very small daycare, but I hope to have a big daycare that I can make more impact. So as much as there’s bad in the world but there's also good I think that's why I still I'm still standing. When you meet somebody kind and when you have supportive system around you, there's a group of ladies, from time to time they check on me. People don't owe me anything, but I owe myself that. I owe myself to be the best I can be. And for my kids.