Julio, Costa Rica: I’ve always been known as a sociable, easy-going person. But as I’m reaching old age, I’ve become more isolated from society because people continue with their everyday lives. It has affected me because I don’t have the same ability or ease to socialize as I used to. I didn’t think that I would reach 60 and come to a standstill. On screen text: The World Health Organization presents The Social Connection Series On screen text: Julio's Story At one time, I had a boyfriend, I had a partner, I built a home. He passed away, I became a widower. If I had known years ago that I would reach this age and it would lead to me withdrawing from civil society, maybe I would have prepared myself psychologically for how to embrace old age. Because we are considered disposable. That’s a mindset that we have created in our society regarding older adults. That’s in general. But in our LGBTQI+ community, it’s more entrenched, it’s even stronger. There are spaces, don’t get me wrong. But in the context of the LGBTQI+ community, what’s available here is very limited. I have always been a hardworking person, I have been independent and have managed to get by, but nowadays, I can't do it anymore because at my age, I am no longer offered a job or work opportunity. So my days are quiet. I don’t go out. I don’t do anything. I feel stuck, and I feel a sense of loneliness, as if I have nothing left that merits continuing with my life. So it's important to socialize because I have realized that people, when they get to know each other, they have a strong bond of unity and support each other. I live in the here and now with faith, hope that at some point the spaces will open up or we, as a community, will take the initiative and be concerned that we will all become older and we need to address that loneliness. For me, it would be nice to be able to continue asking, “What can I contribute to society or the world?” So I believe that the most beautiful thing that could happen in our society is empathy for older adults, respect, admiration, because we can overcome many situations and have reached the age that we are at because if we don't help each other we won't fulfil the circle of community. On screen text: Loneliness can affect anyone, anywhere. But the power of connection can make a positive difference. On screen: WHO and WHO Commission on Social Connection logos