the impact of recent funding cuts on global health. WHO has compiled feedback from more than 100 countries to understand that impact and the support of those countries need to mitigate it. The results show that severe disruptions to health services in three/arters of countries and closures of health facilities in one quarter of countries. We also see increased out-ofpocket payments for health care in one quarter of countries. They also report job losses for health and care workers and disruptions to information systems and the supply of medicines and health products. In response, countries are revising budgets, cutting costs, and strengthening fundraising and partnerships. Who has been working with countries for many years to support them to transition away from aid dependency to sustainable self-reliance based on domestic resources. We are now supporting countries to accelerate that transition to avert the health impacts that this sudden and unplanned cuts are having. There are several principles that we advise countries to follow. First, prioritize the poorest and prevent exposing them to impoverishing out of pocket health spending. Second, protect health budgets and resist reductions in public health spending. Third, donor funds should be channeled through budgets instead of parallel donation systems and aligned with national priorities based on one plan, one budget, one report. And fourth, avoid cutting services or closing facilities and absorb as much of the impact as possible through efficiency gains in health systems. In the short term, immediate measures include introducing or increasing taxes on products that harm health, including tobacco, alcohol, and sugary drinks. In the long term, countries that don't already have social and community based health insurance can introduce it in which individuals or families contribute a small amount to a fund which finances health services. WHO is working with affected countries to identify which measures are best for them and to tailor those measures accordingly.