Brandy, USA: If somebody said: “We're picking you and you're going to lose a child”, would you say, “Pick me”? Toney, USA: I'd much rather be barbecuing where Englyn is standing right outside laughing and talking, dancing, playing music. When Englyn passed, we lost that. Englyn is the baby of the family. She is one of eight. From the time she was born she was vibrant, trying to speak, was babbling. And from then she was a firecracker. Just dancing, singing all the time. We were on vacation a week before all of this happened and... normal teenager. On screen text: The World Health Organization presents On screen text: The Social Connection Series On screen text: Toney and Brandy's Story Toney and Brandy, USA: It is... almost no words to describe the isolation that you feel once your child is gone because it hurts that much. We ordered pizza that night. It was around 22:30 and we ate and she said, “Okay, I'm going to bed.” And we were like, “We're going to bed too.” And she said, “I love you all.” And we hollered, “I love you” back. And those were our last words. On screen text: At just 14, Englyn Roberts ended her life in her family home. Toney and Brandy later discovered that social media had exposed her to body shaming and other harmful content, influencing her tragic decision. And it wasn't till after she passed that we found out all the things that were on her phone of how she was feeling and where she got the idea from. I didn't know how to describe what I was feeling. You didn't want to talk about it because it brought you back to that night. So it was just Toney and I and we felt that we were the only ones we could talk to. How do you describe the grief? And you do feel isolated because who do you really speak to? On-screen text: The couple reached out to a foundation that supports grieving parents facing similar circumstances. Toney and Brandy: Every two weeks we would get on Zoom with probably about 20 other families, and they would send us to these breakout rooms. So Toney would be with the dads, I would be with the moms, who have lost kids to suicide and we would talk. So we found sort of a new family that can help us without being judgmental. It's a comfort that you can just speak freely about how you feel and not be judged. You can cry. This has been three years for us and a year for them and the family that have invited us over for Thanksgiving, we happened to be an hour away from them. And when they found out we were there... we had a hotel room... they called us and said, “Wait a minute, you're not staying in a hotel. You're coming here for Thanksgiving anyway. Come spend the night with us.” We stayed up till 2:00 in the morning just talking. Being able to talk and just cry... Hugging. Priceless. Just to experience pure love from friends that you probably shouldn't have never, ever met. But now we really have a strong community that if we want to call one of the parents and just say, “Hey, how are you doing today?” And that's kind of what got us out of our isolation. So Englyn is living through us and through others every day. And so we try, as tough as it is, to make sure that we honour her life as we knew it. On screen text: Loneliness can affect anyone, anywhere. But with the power of connection we can make a positive difference. On screen: WHO and WHO Commission on Social Connection logos.