Imad, Austria: You can be surrounded with a lot of people, but still you feel lonely. I was trying to stay indoors, not communicate with other people that much. Just like retreated. I haven't spoken about my loneliness before. It's kind of like psychological health is quite a taboo, especially where I come from. So my name is Imad, I am originally from Syria. I'm 31 years old and I'm living in Vienna with my wife in a care home. On-screen text: Imad started working as a volunteer at the care home in Vienna, Austria, to escape the loneliness he was feeling. On-screen text: the World Health Organization presents On-screen text: The Social Connection Series On-screen text: Imad's Story Fleeing my home country made me feel really isolated. I got away from the environment that I was familiar with, from my friends, from my family. So the isolation got really worse and worse. But I noticed that I wasn’t doing very well, so I had to take a step. I had to take the first step in order to change that. So I decided to do something social for the community and I decided to be a part of the life of retirees. When I started working here, I had mixed feelings because, of course, I have the feeling, I'm not from here, I'm not Austrian. I look different. How are the people going to react? We’re just talking about the microphone. On-screen text: Med, Resident Where’s your wife? We had to kick her out! We've known each other since we moved in around October or November 2020. Exactly. Even though I have very good contact with my daughters, grandchildren, sons-in-law. I don't want to burden my family with anything. I always have Imad. Unfortunately, a lot of people are lonely here. They don't have any family members either. And I just find this mix of people who are at the end of life and young people who are still at the beginning of life, I think this mix is very good. We benefit from each other. It helps me too, it [living here] has taught me to be a bit more patient and more relaxed. Exactly, patience. That's right. When someone feels lonely, there are millions of people who feel that way. You may have to take the first step. In the beginning it might take some effort, but then it gets easier. Yes, exactly. The volunteering work that I'm doing with retirees is giving me the feeling that I'm doing something meaningful and that's improving my psychological health as well and it's taking me away from feeling isolated. They ask about me, I ask about them all the time. We send each other postcards when we are traveling, and I didn't have that before. So if I travel to the past dark moments where I felt really lonely and down, I would give my past self the message that, with a connection, with a community, with the help of the people around us that really love us, it would get better. On-screen text: Loneliness can affect anyone, anywhere. But the power of connection can make a positive difference. On-screen: WHO and WHO Commission on Social Connection logos.