Amy, United Kingdom: I'm Dr Amy Kavanagh. I am 34. I live in West London. I am a disability activist, and I live with my partner and my baby son, and, of course, a guide dog, Ava, as well. Ava, come. Come here, come on. Down. You wait there. Well done. Good girl. I was born with my visual impairment, but I didn't know anyone like me. And so I used to not talk about my disability, I used to hide it. I used to pretend, I used to say, “Oh, I forgot my glasses,” or I would just mask my disability, and that was an extremely isolating experience. Shame makes you alone, and feeling like my blindness was a bad thing or a negative thing or something that should be hidden. On screen text: The World Health Organization presents The Social Connection Series Amy's Story Amy, United Kingdom: Loneliness. This is a difficult topic, right? One of the reasons people are lonely is it's hard to talk about being lonely. It's hard to be vulnerable. It's hard to say, “I'm alone, and I want friendship or I want connection.” There are different groups of disabled people who face different challenges with social isolation and with loneliness. You know, for me, I can't see people's faces. So making that connection to start a conversation, that could be a barrier, and if we’re thinking about inclusion and breaking down isolation and tackling loneliness, good conversations are at the heart of making the world more accessible. And it can be a simple sentence like, “What support do you need?” “How can I make this work for you?” “What will make this experience accessible?” But one of the biggest barriers I face, it's about attitudes and behaviours. So that negative assumption, that expectation that I don't work, I don't have a family, I don't have a social life. And I think that's something that prevents connection and community for a lot of disabled people. On screen text: To cope with isolation during the COVID-19 pandemic, Amy created 'The Staying Inn', a virtual community space. Amy: So in the UK, when the pandemic started, we locked down late March [2020], and I already had a big online community of friends and we all jumped on an online call. And we were chatting, and each night somebody else would get invited. "Oh, I'll bring these friends. Oh, I'll invite so-and-so." And it got bigger and bigger, and my friend said: "Oh, we're staying in. It's 'The Staying Inn'." And it became a community that reached, over 2,000 people in the first few months, and each call we, you know, a couple of times a week we would do a quiz. We had a craft club where people brought their knitting. If we could do it online, we made it happen. On screen text: Amy has made it her mission to create safe spaces for connection, and ensure every voice is heard and valued. Amy: I would love conversations that are not about my disability. I would love to talk about that terrible film I've watched 100 times, or the terrible spaghetti. I don't always want to talk about my blindness because that in itself can feel quite isolating. And I want people in their thinking about isolation in their communities [to ask] Who is not at the table? Who's missing, and why are they missing? And what changes do you need to make to fill those seats around the table so that everyone can participate? That's my vision. That's the future. On screen text: Loneliness can affect anyone, anywhere. But the power of connection can make a positive difference. On screen: WHO and WHO Commission on Social Connection logos