Mental illness can create such social isolation that even the geographical location of a settlement cannot create. Because you literally cannot tell anyone what is happening to you. My name is Polina, I am twenty-four years old. I was born in Chercaniv, but now I live in Poznan, Poland. I was lonely all my life because I could not reveal my neurodifference. I didn't even know what was happening to me at the time, but I knew for sure that I was different from others, and not for the better. The World Health Organization presents The Social Connection Series I was a pretty active kid, I was good at school. Perhaps even because of this, I was not immediately diagnosed with my disorder. But, nevertheless, I had constant problems with my peers. At school, I faced bullying, and unfortunately, it continued until high school. Because of this, I had almost no contact with my peers. Sometimes I sit in lectures, and outwardly I am cheerful and reactive and no one knows that at that very moment, for example, I may be thinking about suicide. I found out about my diagnosis very late, also because of my social isolation. I really missed some examples of other people, for example, to understand that this exists, that it is normal, that it can be treated. I am haunted by another feeling of shame for what happened during the war. And again I find myself in a situation where I can't do anything about it, but I feel bad about it. I was just scared, and I didn't know what to do. Most of my actions were just on automatic. Of course, I was lucky to come to a wonderful country. I am grateful to Poland in every way, because Poland showed me what a society for a neurodiverse person should be like. Nevertheless, I still face great difficulties. Loss of normal life, loss of language, loss of the ability to be yourself, and just everyday difficulties. I have even less strength, more anxiety, more depression, and other mental disorders. Against this background, it is difficult to deal with this... the stigma of refugees. Any word on the street from passers-by or anyone else hurts very much. And every time I am ashamed of myself again, just for who I am. It helped me a lot to ask for help, despite the fear, despite the possible stigma, despite everything. All situations are very different. But in my case, peer support groups worked very well. It was a way out for me, and it was one of my best decisions. We can support each other, because we completely create a safe space in which we can open up, in which there is no stigma of discrimination. I think we need to continue to develop inclusiveness. And not only on paper, but also in real life.