Hello and welcome to today's social media live. We are going to be joined by um a really exciting panel from all over the world. This year's World Health Day will kick off a year-long campaign focused on maternal and newborn health titled healthy beginnings, hopeful futures. Today we have guests with us who will uh midwives from different parts of the world who will share their experiences and challenges and we will talk about the role of quality midwifery. Let me introduce um our guests today. We have Edith Geha. She's joining us from Kenya. We have Deborah Lewis who joins us from Trinidad and Tobago. We have Olria uh Renstrom who is our technical officer here in WHO Switzerland joining us from Geneva. And we have Nha Manani who is a uh who is from humanitarian engagement and climate um advisor from the international confederation of midwives and she's joining us from Karachi Pakistan. Um so let me start with the first question for Niha. Uh Niha what is child birth like in your country and what are the challenges around access to healthcare? Thank you Dea for that question. So Pakistan is really interesting the healthcare context over there um and it's similar to a lot of uh South Asian context. So what's interesting is that the child birth experience now in Pakistan has become quite medicalized. So there is a lot of reliance on hospital settings and interventions particular in urban areas. But with this medicalization, there's also a lot of dependence on cultural norms and traditions that are very different across Pakistan. It's not um homogeneous at all. And that includes birthing physicians, postpartum rituals and um so and also access to healthcare infrastructure is quite diverse. So there's advanced medical technology in private hospitals. There's basic uh maternal health centers in rural areas. There is still a very big reliance on traditional birth attendants and home births in rural areas as well. Um not always with uh trained midwives. Then the other thing is that the healthare system has various levels of healthare professionals. So we have lady health workers, we have lady health visitors, we have midwives, we have different levels of doctors and specialists. Um so the access that women have to care in their pregnancy depends on where they are, what their financial situation is, what their family context is, how much mobility they have. So all of these factors affect and the other thing that's really interesting again I think similar across South Asian context is that there is a very big reliance on support particularly from mother-in-laws from mothers extended family and that remains paramount during pregnancy child birth and beyond um and it's a really big part of how the child birth process is perceived in our culture. Okay, thanks Nha. Um we will again circle back on this issue and I also want to remind our audiences tuning in that if you have questions for us you can use the hashtag ask who and my team will bring me the questions and and I hope some of your questions will be answered on today's live. So with that I'm coming to Deborah. Uh Deborah what is the reality of child birth and how painful is it? Um and can women and their partners really prepare for it from your experience? Over to you. Yeah, thank you for that. Um, generally most people would describe it as painful. However, um, to be clear, the experience and so therefore the intensity varies significantly between people and even between pregnancies in the same person. Um, and can you really prepare for it? Absolutely. Preparation is vital. The preparation though must start at the beginning of the pregnancy and continue throughout. Um so the first thing that that that you must do is choose an appropriate and supportive care provider. Um later on in the pregnancy then the education and the information that is shared should focus then on the labor and the birth process so that you can understand the process better and understand what's happening. Um many times the lack of understanding and education causes fear and anxiety which then you know affects the the experience overall but also it's really important to learn how to cope, how to manage the process. Um people use different methods. There's relaxation and breathing and visualization and there are different methods but I think that they all work in a similar way which is to shift the focus away from the discomfort or pain as some people would call it that you're experiencing. Um, usually with my clients, the the um example that I use is your body is trying to open to allow the birth to allow the baby to come out. But a very normal reaction to anything that's uncomfortable or painful is that you close up. You know, you sort of tighten up and you close up. So, it's a very normal reaction. What we're asking you to do is the opposite. So whatever technique works for that person is what they should utilize to allow your body to relax enough to allow your body to do what it's trying to do. So in a nutshell having an understanding um of what to expect and preparing for that understanding what's happening can absolutely help you um so that you have a much better experience and you're much better prepared. Okay. Thanks a lot Deborah. That's very reassuring to hear that lot of things are under our control. Starts with the mind of course. Um and I'm now going to come to Edith. Edith, if you um you're now back with us, you there was a slight technical glitch and I hope I'm completely audible to you. Um Edith, what are some of the most common questions and myths that you hear around child birth? Would you like me to repeat that or it's all good? It's all good. I heard you and thank you dear and the rest of the team and thank you for having me. Uh so we do get lots and lots of questions and there are so many myths that we need to bust uh related to mother and child especially around pregnancy and delivery and many questions are like moms like to know how long is labor? Uh uh am I being rushed? uh for C-section uh when I shouldn't be rushed for C-section. What are the signs of true labor? Uh I don't have enough milk. How can I get uh enough milk for my baby? How can I take care of my baby? And these are questions which show us that uh moms are actually quite concerned about uh how they carry the pregnancy because they do want to have a baby who is healthy remain healthy uh themselves. So for the question about uh what are the signs of true labor? Uh true labor has uh two things which you can think about. the contractions which is the pain. We need to know what pain is it and is it true for true labor pain which is lower abdominal pain and it usually will radiate to the back. So you will feel for a mom you will feel it on your lower belly and it will radiate all the way to the back. It will be like tightening and when you put your hand on on top of your belly you'll feel like it is tight like a tennis ball like something uh really hard and it comes and goes intermittently and as time progresses you find that the pain the duration of pain increases and the interval from all contractions. Then the other one is we have a cervical dilation. So as that pain is happening then your cervix is getting ready to open up so that the pain can now pull your baby down and you can be able to then deliver. And this for a normal mom it can go even up to 18 hours. From the time this process begins to the time it ends. So we should not be nervous. We should listen to our health workers. Let us go to the hospital. Let us explain how we are feeling so that we can work together. We are partners midwives and your nal nurses who will be taking care of the babies. we are working together uh to make sure that you deliver safely. Uh for the t for the question about uh do I get enough milk? How do I get enough milk? they don't have enough milk to make sure that as soon as the baby is delivered and for us as midway is our goal to make sure that as soon as the baby is born within one hour we have put the baby on your breast and this will help to stimulate your brain to start releasing hormones to be able to create the milk that your baby requires to be able to grow. And so we need you to start breastfeeding immediately after delivery even in C-section within one hour. We put the baby on the breast so that we can be able to uh your breast can be able to create the milk uh that is required both produce it and eject it uh from the breast so that your baby is your baby is able to get the milk. So after a few days we realized that now we stop relying on hormones and the more we put the baby on the breast and the more we empty the breast the more we get the milk. So now after a few days of breastfeeding you're going to see that the more you empty your breast the more you're going to get milk. So for me those are the main questions we get. Uh back to you dear. Thanks a lot Edith. It was you really described the whole process very um lucidly and it really comforts uh prospective moms and also women who are going through this journey of childirth. I'm going to take some audience questions now. We have um a question on X from Abdul Rahman who's saying with maternal mortality rising in some regions could scaling up midwifeled care or techdriven interventions be the key to immediate and lasting impact. So I don't know who from the panel would like to answer that. Um Ulria maybe if you'd like to answer that question from WHO. Thank you so much Dian. Thank you listeners for your questions. Uh so midwifery models of care it's a a service approach where midwives are the main care provider and uh they provide care during pregnancy, childirth and uh the postnatal period and they can provide quality of care. So uh the the latest evidence and research has shown that with midvree uh models of care we can reduce uh maternal mortality uh we can save lives we can also provide more person centered care to to women and and newborns and we can provide a care that is more um holistic and that it's it it's shown to to be more uh wanted by by mothers and and pregnant women. So uh that's why uh WHO and UNFPA and UNICEF and other partners are collaborating to u to inform about uh uh transitioning to midway free models of care and also to provide guidance on on this model of care. I'm going to ask a question that is about uh what can women expect following birth after after they've given birth and what are some of the ways to support a healthy recovery? Deborah, I'll come to you for that question. Um over to you Deborah. Okay, thanks very much for that. Um the first thing I want to say is that we have to recognize that this is a huge period of transition. There's so many things happening at the same time. Um quite often the focus is on the physical things. Um and the primary ones of those are the bleeding. Um the uterus contracting back. So you have some cramping. Um you may have some soreness in the paranal area if it was a vaginal birth or abdominal if it was a C-section. Um your breasts are becoming full. Um, Edith has talked about, you know, preparing for breastfeeding. Um, and there's a lot of fatigue caring for a newborn because you absolutely do not get, you know, continuous many hours of sleep. But I think we put less focus on the emotional changes which I think are are just as important. Um, there are a lot of hormonal changes taking place which can really impact your emotions. So you can have um mood swings, anxiety, that type of thing. And coupled with the fatigue, the lack of adequate rest can make this, you know, a challenging period. So how can we support it? Um as you said, to support a healthy recovery. Well, the first thing I think is that we have to plan for it in a better way. Uh quite often families are prepared up to the point of the birth but we don't spend a lot of time focusing on that period immediately after the birth and I think that this is a period that really needs a lot of attention. Um so the the with my clients um what I do is we have long conversations about this and one of the primary things I ask them to do is identify their support network. Identify what that would look like um for them. So somebody from their family, somebody from the church, a member of the community, whoever they think can be available to provide the support that they need to ensure that they're getting the rest that they need in that period. And it cannot be their partner. It doesn't matter how supportive that partner is because I want them the partner to be able to bond with the mom and the baby as well. So, I don't want them spending all the time doing the chores. Um, but once you've identified that person or persons, you have to be really clear about what the support is that you want. I don't know about other cultures. I think it's similar though, but in this region too often when people offer to help, they think they're coming to help hold the baby and bathe the baby and all of that. And that's absolutely not what you need help with. um babies feed and sleep um in the beginning you know they don't really do much more than that so you have to be really clear usually what I suggest is focus on laundry house cleaning um but most importantly food um because yeah I want you to eat regularly on time balanced meals so resting every single time the baby's asleep you need to be off your feet resting it is not an opportunity to be doing things and of course the food. If for some reason they're not able to identify someone to provide food, then we talk about preparing meals ahead of time and freezing it. So the only thing you have to do then is heat it up. So just again in a nutshell, resting, being wellfed, but planning and being realistic about what to expect in that period and planning for it, I think really goes a long way to helping them com cope better and helping ensure a healthy recovery. Thank you so much, Deborah. Um I have another question from one of our um viewers who's tuning in on Facebook and she first starts by complimenting uh the amazing guests that we have on our panel. Um Maka is asking what are the most effective ways to improve maternal and newborn health in lowincome communities. Um perhaps Nha if we come to you on this question because you started the conversation talking about the context in in Pakistan. So um Niha over to you. Thank you. Um thank you for that question. I would say honestly the biggest uh solution the driver of change is quality of care. Um it has to be and it's always over quantity as well. Uh we talk about midwiffrey I represent the international confederation of midwives and I am a midwife and I say that midwives are such a big part of the solution. But even when we want midwives to be part of the solution, a really big part of what needs to happen is strengthening how midwives work and improving access to education. Um, creating an enabling environment for them so that they're able to provide that quality care. Um, so a lot of the work that ICM does and a lot of the work that I do in country uh with other midwives as well is around strengthening quality of care. So that because when you want to increase access especially in rural outreach areas you need community level healthcare providers who can have do who can have um last mile health services available to all women. So for me the short long and short of it would be quality of care and improving midwifree services. I'm going to segue to the next question which is a little bit about warning signs. Um, what are the warning signs that post-natal women and families should be aware of in themselves and their baby? Edith, could you um address this question for us, please? Thank you so much. And this is a very vital question and like Deborah said, we need to make sure that we we take very good care of ourselves as moms and the babies that uh we've just gotten. So having or having knowledge on what are the danger signs is going to prepare you to be able to seek uh the care that you require and you need to do this uh promptly so that we don't get any complication. So for the moms uh I can be able to list uh at least uh five which we are currently using uh in Kenya and in Africa setting heavy bleeding. If you give birth and you continue to bleed then you need to go back to the hospital or to the facility where you got your help where you got your your delivery where your delivery happened and uh have somebody check what could be happening because we are not supposed to have excessive bleeding. Usually uh after delivery the bleeding will be between 300 500 meals and anything above that stream and this can even change based on the mother's condition. So after you have already gone home and you continue seeing red blood a lot and you're changing your pads uh very frequently then you need to seek help at the hospital. If you have a fever, a fever would be indicative of infection and so we need to you to come back to the hospital so we can do a thorough checkup to see uh whether you have an infection uh uh in your in your body. Severe headache and convulsions. Severe headache and convulsions are associated with high BP uh what we call preeacclampsia and eclamsia. And sometimes we have some mothers who converse even after delivery. So it is very important that if you are having severe headache that is not going away then you need to come back for a review so that we make sure that uh you are uh and everything is okay. Foul smelling vaginal discharge it should not be foul smelling and foul smelling is something even you when you hear it or not hear it when you smell it it it it it's almost disgusting. So if you are having vaginal discharge that is foul smelling this could also be indicative of infection and so we advise you to come back immediately so that you can be able to assess uh what could be wrong. So for me these are five signs which mothers grandmothers aunties cousins whoever is near there your husband is a part of this whole process. If we're able to pick these five signs for moms, then we should come back to the hospital for assessment uh so that we can take appropriate action for babies and this is where we as N3 our efforts on. There are several danger signs. If your baby refuses to breastfeed, that is a big danger sign. Come back to the hospital. If your baby is having difficulty in breathing, if your baby is breathing very fast, come back to the hospital. If your baby has a fever or is a little too cold, then you come back uh for review. If your baby's sleeping too much, then you also need to come back for review. So dear, for me, those are the danger knows and take care of them as quickly as possible. Back to you. Thank you. Um, thanks a lot, uh, Edith. Uh, of course, um, these warning signs, the more you know about it, the more action you can take and and really care for yourself and your baby now during pregnancy as well. Uh, Nhan, I'm going to pose this question to you. What are the warning signs to watch out for? Can you talk a little bit about baby movements? Yeah, absolutely. So um there are a couple of things that we um there are quite a few actually that we tell women to keep an eye out for during pregnancy and uh you know we like I work in an antiatal clinic and I think often women will come in and they'll just not be confident about asking so many questions but I'd always say that it's better to anything that gives you even a little bit of stress it's better to bring it to your healthcare provider that even if you have a little bit of doubt um so there are baby movement is one of them. So what with movements they will um usually start for the first in the first pregnancy they will usually start around 20 weeks and beyond. It'll start as quickening which is this is the term we use for it. It feels like a flutter and then uh becomes more regular as baby grows a little bit more in utro and in subsequent pregnancies it might start a little bit earlier even as early as 16 weeks. And fetal movements are really important that they because they are a sign of baby's well-being. But what we usually will say is that mothers should become aware of how their baby moves because what you need to look out for is changes in movement patterns. So uh when there's a reduction based on what your understanding of your baby's movement is is when they you should be concerned. So we will not tell them I will usually not be pres prescriptive and say that your baby needs to move 20 times in two hours but the baby needs to move how the baby has been moving and what is normal for you. Um and we do tell them that a lot of times the when they start feeling like the baby's not moving is when they're in the middle when they've been um when they when they're in quiet and they feel like they really start to focus on it. So we tell them that you know just keep an eye on it. And uh the other thing that I will always say which I think is bit of a misconception is that uh a lot of times women say that when you're fullterm um pregnant you often cannot feel the baby move because baby's too big. But the the example that I always tell uh women is that baby should not obviously should not stop moving when you're full term. Baby should still move. But the example I'll always give is that look, if you were in a very uh big room and you were dancing, you'd be able to dance with a lot more. You know, you can move your limbs a lot more. You feel it a lot more. But even if you continue to dance in a closed box, you're still dancing. That those movements are still there. They just feel different. So, we cannot say that if you're full, you should not be able to feel your baby move because that is one of the best and most important indicators of fetal well-being for us. Um, there's that's around baby movements, but then also a few other warning signs to look out for. Severe abdominal pain is one of them. This can be very serious. um especially if it's um pre it can be pre-term birth if it happens before your full term or it could be a sign of any other pregnancy um related serious challenge. Uh heavy vaginal bleeding again needs immediate medical attention. Uh as Edith mentioned postpartum headaches and visual disturbances are a problem but they are also a problem in pregnancy because they can be a warning sign for preeclampsia. I've had women in my clinic who have literally been at the verge of having an ecleptic fit and they've just said that you know I can see stars around my eyes and that's where we've just you know referred them immediately. Swelling of hands, face and feet again related to pre-clampsia very very dangerous and severe edema around over the body. Um and another one which times people are not aware of is generalized itching which um if women say that they feel itching all over their body especially around the palms and soles u we would often say that they should get like their liver markers checked and highlighted with their healthcare providers because of and this is something we see in our practice quite a bit is around it's uh when their liver enzymes are elevated. So this is something to see. So these are just a few of the things that women should look out for in pregnancy. Thank you. Thank you so much, Nha. I'm I'm going to um narrate a comment that we received on LinkedIn from Fadila Ahmed. She says that I gave birth a few months ago, so everything being discussed resonates deeply with me and I can relate to every bit of it from the physical recovery to the emotional and mental changes. Um also, it's such an important conversation that needs more awareness and support for mothers around the world. So, thank you um Fidela for that comment. It's it's really heartening to know that you're finding this conversation so useful. Um now I'm going to segue to our next question which is to Olria. Ula are demographics of pregnancy changing in um uh in countries. Are there things uh women should watch out for if they're expecting at an older age or advanced age? Thank you. Thank you so much. Yes. WHO we acknowledge that the demographic of pregnancy it is changing in many countries uh with more and more women that are choosing to have their children at an older age and older uh maternal age can be linked to a higher risk of complications those that my midwifery colleagues here had talked about such such as uh diabetes during pregnancy or high blood pressure during pregnancy or even that the baby may come earlier than it was expected that we call pre-term birth. So that's why it's so important that all women they go to to their antiatal uh visits and in many countries this happens with a midwife. Uh and especially if you are older, it's super important that you go early immediately when you know you are pregnant, you go to to your midwife or to to your clinic where where you can can get anti antatal visits. And then that you go for your regular checkups during the pregnancy. And some tips also to to keep healthy during your pregnancy is that you you think about your your nutrition, what you eat that we also heard uh our midwife from Trinidad and Tobago that you also think about physical activities that you you you take a walk or something uh that you have regular physical activities. uh and that you also uh think about reducing uh stress and and uh uh other factors that can can uh uh affect you negatively. So those are some tips uh for for I think it's even for all women not just if you're a little bit older. Thank you. Thanks Erica. I will stick with you because the next question talks about who collaborations and yeah guidance around maternal and newborn health. Can you help our audience understand what uh who is doing in this field with partners? So over to you. Sure. Sure. Yes. So so partnerships is is really important for for who is um we we we have several partnerships and and within maternal and newborn uh health we we have something that we called every woman every newborn everywhere. Uh so Ebini is the uh is the abbreviation and this uh partnership is supporting more than 55 countries all over the world to improve access to to quality uh care that we heard also it's so important uh and and to support countries to to strengthen their health systems and to meet the the sustainable development goals that many countries have committed. for women and and children. So, uh the every woman every new newborn everywhere partnership is really focusing on on supporting countries to to provide uh uh quality care during pregnancy for all women everywhere and that all women everywhere can have access to a skilled health personnel during labor. And there we have seen that that a midwife is uh u in many countries uh uh accessible and and uh uh also a skilled health personnel and uh of course care after birth is also very important. So that is also something that we focus on uh and of course emergency care for for women who experience complications. But then we as we have also other partnerships of course. So now we also work closely with UNFPA, UNICEF, ICM uh and JPIGO on on midwifree models of care and there we have a a position paper that we launched last year uh the transitioning to midwifree models of care and I I I recommend you all that are interested to to to read this paper. uh and currently we are working on the implementation guidance that we hope will will be launched in in May this year. So those are some of of our partnerships when it comes to maternal health. Um thank you. Um it's fascinating to learn how much goes into you know supporting moms and babies and that so much needs to be done uh in this sector. I'm going to come to Deborah with one question. Um, Deborah, what is and and maybe you're representing many of the midwives on this question. So, um, what's one moment from your work as a midwife that reminds you why this job matters so much? Any any special moment? Yeah, there are probably so many, but I think um for me it's just um that moment um that the baby's born and you know that the family is present and just the joy um of that experience when it can be a positive experience. I'll say to clients, I don't I want you to be able to look back and say maybe it was hard. I'm not saying it's easy sailing. Maybe it was hard, but it was a positive experience. And I think that's the moment that stands out most for me is that immediate moment right after the birth when the baby's just born, the joy and the emotion and the vulnerability and the transition and all of that. Deborah, I'm going to ask another question. Um, not sure who from the panel uh could answer, but I'm still going to take an audience question. This is from uh Valentine uh on LinkedIn and uh they're asking what policies are in place to ensure that pregnant women in war and conflict zones receive adequate care during pregnancy and childirth. Um would anybody like to take that question? If you been or if Nha wants also I know you you are also very familiar with this one. do you want to start and then I can continue? Yeah, sure. I thought Yeah, I think that would be that would be best. So, um I can talk a little bit about uh what ICM hopes to do for this. So, we've really been doing a lot of work around how um the role of midwives specifically in conflict and climate disasters and humanitarian settings. How the role of midwives is just really essential because they are present in communities. They're part of the fabric of the community and they can ensure the continuity of care that pregnant women need who are living in conflict or disasters. And part of there are few things that we do for this. We work with associations. We work with midwives on ground to give to build capacity, work with in partnership with other stakeholders to build their capacity to work in uh humanitarian settings, but also work with midwives and associations to um to advocate for them to be part of the response network because they need to have a seat at the table to be able to um inform preparedness planning, to do disaster response, to understand early warning systems, um to work with women because they really do get what the needs of women are in these situations. So, equip midwives with what they need to to work in humanitarian settings. Give them that knowledge, give them that education, give them the resources, but then also help them be part of the response by um equipping them with uh stakeholder mapping and just getting them to be part of the response fabric. And I'd love to hear what your uh addition is and what WHO says about this. Thank you so much. um as conflicts and um you know crisises arise uh you're absolutely right Niha that this sector of work also needs a lot of attention um to for women to deliver safely and with dignity um and hopefully there's going to be a more peaceful future um as we tackle this topic. Uh now the last question I have for all the panelists today um can we end on one hopeful note? What can we do to ensure positive child birth? Maybe one line each if you if you have any reflection on this. Uh Deborah I can start with you and then we can go to the other panelists. Um certainly I think if we could fully implement the midriffrey model of care throughout our health care systems um I think that would capture so many elements such as respect for maternal newborn care etc. So fully implementing the midwifree model of care in our health care systems public and private. Thank you. Anybody else on that question? Uh edit. Yes. Yes. Thank you. Uh for me, I like the awe model. Every woman, every newborn, everywhere. It means every mother, every baby. that that component not being separated and we as healthcare workers and policy makers and partners making sure that every woman and her baby everywhere are kept safe and they both able to survive and thrive. So for me I'm hopeful that that's going to happen. Thank you. All right, Niha. Uh, Olria, one quick uh parting line about hopeful futures. Sure. Uh, I think I'll first. So, um, I think we just again talking about midwives. I think uh like I think about what I love about midwives is just how they approach the child birth process and you know how they are just like the word midwife means with women like how midwives um connect with women through the ch child birth process how they hold them and how they carry them through pregnancy through birth through postnatal postpartum and beyond and how we can in um to make that process better for women we can just work very closely with midwives get them what they need invest in midwifree education and training, improve their working conditions, provide access to resources, supplies they need so that it just uh strengthens how they serve the women that they work with. Lovely. Uh and from who any final words before we wrap up? I think I think this uh session here today tells the story. Look at all these mids from all the regions or most of our regions. uh how knowledgeable they are, what kind of skills they have and and uh so I think I think uh they present the future for us the midwives because they work with passion. You could see how passionate they are and and they welcome all women everywhere. So I thank all the panelists and I think they tell the story. Thank you so much for today's live. I'm just going to take a few moments to recognize some of our audiences who've joined from USA, Mali, Sagal, Mazambi, Ethiopia, Nigeria, Singapore, South Africa, Egypt, Morocco, Bangladesh, Kivoir, Moritania, South Sudan, Pakistan, South um Rwanda, Gambia, Afghanistan and the list goes on. So, thank you so much for your active participation and happy World Health Day which falls on Monday. And with that, goodbye and have a lovely weekend ahead.