Many of the treatments in traditional medicines, whether it's Chinese medicine, whether it's a Uvea or African traditional medicine, yes, one single plant is used, [music] but many times it's a combination of plants. There's a reason for it why there is a combination of those plants because they would then work in synergy. But we are saying in traditional medicines that whole mixture combination it is your active pharmaceutical ingredient. You then need to test it. You then need to make sure you standardize it. There must also be reproducibility and repeatability. That starts from growing the the plant bringing into the lab and developing these complex mixtures. That is important. uh so that then we can get the whole benefits of all the plants that are in that mixture other than isolating trying to get a single molecule but we are also concentrating the toxic effects of that molecule because it's no longer in an environment that it has to work in synergy with the others. Let us develop you know these [music] complex mixtures. Let us standardize them. Let us make sure that they are safe. that does make sure that they are have of good quality and they effective and that's something I think you know we should be focusing on and then giving the people the medicines that they want. Science has changed. There are many new technologies and [music] now we are able to test for these complex mixtures. There must be inclusivity. We need to create trust with [music] our communities uh so that then we can incentivize them to come and work with us. We hold them by our our hands and they understand where we are going and [music] we go with them. We need to harmonize our policies within the region so that there will be impact. If you are too fragmented, [music] you cannot be strong. Harmonization of the research you know how then do we go about doing research in traditional medicines so that the research I do in South Africa is acceptable. I think in Malaysia it's acceptable everywhere. We need that harmonization. We can show you that it is possible. We need to come up with one or two products that are based on traditional medicines that are well researched that are universally acceptable right through the [music] world. Then we can actually say that's what we told you. We can do it.