Our purpose is to maintain scientific integrity in healthcing traditional and medical medicines, evidence, regulations, frameworks, traditional easing neurological effects, and create [information]. I'm seeing some benefit, Professor. It's been a while since I last used it .  My problem/intervention was addressed almost immediately; in other words, there was an intervention. Parkinson's is essentially a story of a deficiency in brain chemistry that extends to the body, mind, and psychology .  It's a subject I know absolutely nothing about.  It's such a complex issue, so far beyond our control, that even when you investigate, it just doesn't quite fit .  Because I've never met Parkuon.  The size of it, things like this, to make oneself feel good, or for patients to feel good, these kinds of healing touches are needed. I think this is true for all patients [of music] .  We all want that kind of compassion.  I have always believed this. Well, perhaps imposing modern medicine on the people living in Anatolian lands in this way, unless they want it [music], is reducing their trust in us and their participation.  And cupping therapy is one of the oldest in Anatolia; we call it cupping therapy. Evsi came first in the group in the game they played every day.  Yes.  And she came home cheerful.  His spirits had lifted.  The conversation was like speaking a foreign language, it was something the English had invented. The first year I came, I gave up and didn't get a degree. The second and third years I got second and first place, and we came in first, but there was no Yesap (a type of Turkish dish). Our heads were spinning, instead they said olive oil [music]. He has a motorized bicycle. He's riding his motorbike to the seaside. Birç is going to play.  He's playing board with his friends .  He's going to eat. They have some social activities.  So, she's not afraid of social situations. Of course, we've met some of the shopkeepers. Now I have a available space in the middle of the engine.  I'll take your belongings. I'll take the baby.   He's not the kind of guy who can sit still for long, but he said, "Okay, let's do it."  In half a day, you can do this and that, for example, during the pandemic, we're at home, you can't go anywhere . He made two boats, he made bicycles. He built a truck.  So he's not just sitting still .  I don't know, he made windmills.  He did a lot of things. This should actually offer great hope to Parkinson's patients .  Because Uncle Oytun has been living with Parkinson's for 12 years. Hoppala. [music] I've had pain that's been present for both a long time and a shorter period.  [music] I had a pain in my lower back that was particularly bothersome during my period and when I stood up .  [music] I also experienced severe pain in my knee when going up and down stairs and slopes I also wanted [music] to be a remedy for all of this, in addition to traditional medicine. Here, by activating fire, we will set in motion the cycle of air, fire, earth, and water .  And so, within this cycle [of music], we aim to increase our own creative output.  The joint space will also return to its normal form when cartilage formation increases and fluid builds up .  Acupuncture incorporates a philosophy [of music] and a scientific method based on yin and yang, organs, and meridians .  Air, fire, earth, and water are balanced within these meridians, and we create [music] by making adjustments to the flowing motor points we set.  We stimulate these points sometimes with needles, sometimes with cupping, sometimes by drawing blood from them, to determine what the area needs. In this way, the body tries to achieve internal balance by balancing neurotransmitters, hormones, enzymatic and immune secretions.  This is the difference between us .  Finding the real causal causes of illness [music].  You know, finding the root cause. I'll place the moccasins on the knees shortly .  This is an indirect method.  Moxa will heat the needle.  The injection will create a warm sensation inside your knee joint.  [music] Don't worry, it'll get warm here, but it wo n't burn.  That deep heat will heal the series.  [music] In Türkiye, traditional and complementary medicine practices are what we call GETA for short .  It is performed by licensed [music] medical doctors in universities, training [music] and research hospitals, relevant state hospitals and private practices with the permission of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Turkey . As physicians, we must manage not only illness but also health, in accordance with the [music] recommendations in the World Health Organization's 1999 guidelines. We must prioritize a protective and preventive approach. How do you feel, Ms. Deren?  I feel quite comfortable [with the music] right now. Well then, you can continue with your normal life .  Get well soon. Thanks.  [music] Thank you.  Thank you. Sharing strengthens what [music] we can achieve creating a united path towards progress for people for planet and restoring balance G