Our goal is to safeguard indigenous rights and healing methods, allowing for more sustainable use of traditional resources and knowledge in essential health systems.  [music] from historic treatments protected in policy to break through collaborations in medical education and [music] the shared vision of healers and hospitals. When these threads combine, we create a powerful woven story of lives and livelihoods, all in the pursuit of restoring balance. Bolivia. [music] We at least walk 2 km, 3 km a day.  The goal was to find a patient, and we would stay there tending to and healing the sick.  They recognized that we, the Callwayas, were traditional healers and doctors [musicians]. I am Cayabaya Abelino Paucar Pacheco. I am 82 years old. At this time I am handling more than 220 medicinal plants. For us, everything from a 30 or 25 m tree to a 1 cm straw [music] is medicine. You need to know the strength, the power, and how to consume a medicinal plant.  That's our strong suit. The callas have been declared as doctors of the Incas.  From this they have been able to generate itinerant, [music] traditional medicine treatments in Bolivia.  There was a wide range of operational actions that we developed so that traditional medicine could be implemented.  From this, Law 459 was created and the Ministry of Health has the institutional capacity to offer traditional medicine to the population free of charge, as is the public health system.  This law has led us to medical pluralism in Bolivia.  There is academic medicine, but there is also a coexistence of traditional medicine. Without this law, we would be lost, fighting with academic doctors and traditional medicine.  Thanks to this law, there is respect.  Now that's where the future is. Give each other that positive support.   The plant in the ground keeps giving, keeps giving its product.  Years for the plants to continue growing, plants of traditional medicine. The total medicine was losing, wasn't it?  We young people no longer wanted to learn, we emigrated, didn't we?  Looking for new opportunities.  We want to ensure that those traditions of our great-great-grandparents are not forgotten tomorrow if I am going to take all that knowledge with me.  There is a lack of health infrastructure in the communities.  Therefore, the most immediate option for the population is to resort to traditional medicine.  Generally, when we talk about health systems, we only refer to the state institutional system [music] , but other medicines are not considered , traditional medicine is not considered . It is a cultural heritage of indigenous peoples and communities.  It is a daily survival practice in the face of a population that I believe is native peoples all over the planet, because they have been dispossessed, invaded, and their cultures destroyed. Those who survive have maintained survival strategies, and traditional medicine is one of them. It's an approach to [music] institutions, isn't it?  And precisely with UNAM.  What can we do? Then a diploma program in traditional Totonay medicine was launched.  It started in 2019. We have 10 masters in traditional medicine in the six [music] specialties. Healers, midwives, healers, healers, sweat lodge practitioners, and herbalists. They are the very same people, the music teachers of the boys and the professors of the UNAN.  We get involved in certain topics such as research methodology, data collection, and information systematization.  We made two manuals with the traditional medicine school house, one for midwives and one for massage therapists. And [music] this right now the dictionary of traditional Totonac medicine is already in physical form.  That's an achievement because the information there comes from our own traditional doctors who participate in the arts center.   A form of dialogue that is not about extractivism, but rather materials that belong to them and are for them. We have had this outreach to the health sector. The doctor who is there in the community recommends us, and sometimes we go to see the doctor when we feel like it.  The recognition already exists from the regulatory side.  What we are really looking for here is the articulation, the interrelation between traditional medicine and health services in order to move from the theoretical to the practical part, no longer seeing it as, ah, well, traditional medicine doesn't help us, right?  Rather, they are two that have now become related and united to seek the common good, which is health, right? Hospital is also allowed now you can take piripir, cotton leaves, marma leaves, whatever you require so that you can give birth faster.  I can prepare it for you.  I'm the hospital's kicker , that's why when you're really stressed, you grab a leaf from this bath to bathe a sick person who's in the house.   There are a good number of 283 native communities from different areas here in Atalaya, and that has made it necessary for us to ensure that if we want to serve them well and open the doors for them to access these health services, it has to be under conditions that make them feel calm, confident, happy, and welcome here in this health crisis, right?  And also when we interact with the medical specialists, we can get the messages across, in this case, about perhaps a surgery, or some laboratory test that can be done, so that we can reach them and so that they can also access both the developed Western medicine and the traditional medicine here in Talaraya, right? Together, we both build bridges to strengthen our healthcare and better reach the indigenous population, right? Working with the gynecologist makes me feel safer, and here it's not just us doctors, but also the midwife who helps with everything, and it's like having someone from your community here with you. If the heartbeat is okay, we just have to keep waiting, right? So I will continue to accompany myself, consulting her massages, all that.  Already. I feel proud to be part of the ancestral knowledge at the Intercultural Hospital.   We both respect them, we get along very well. Oh no.  Once the pain subsided, we lifted him up.  Yes, you can do it, you can do it.  We're going down, down , down, down, down .  That's it, that's it, that's it.  Very good.  Keep going, keep going, keep going, keep going, keep going, keep going.  Come on, you can do it.  Yes, it's already being released.  Very good.  Ready.  That is. Yes, thanks. Sharing what we know strengthens what we can achieve.  Creating a united path towards progress. for people, for planet and [music] for restoring balance together.