Yes, yes, it's the series of alerts. How old is he? Hockey could tell me the signs he's showing. Okay, okay, there you go, there's only breathing, this myth called the little guy, male head, and peace that we can, Henry Namphy, the swing, yes, and Dr. Eric, here, this is the only alert, and we extracted the sick person, and at the health area level, we first have the thing is years, community-based, time there are rumors when there is a community death, he feeds there, they really told us that by calling the alert service, once the alert service is notified, the investigation team will go down to further the investigation, it's a student who was given by the selune, the communication, so it's a breath of the community, yes, you see, badly started, the Catholic Church, yesterday there is a house where there are the CP CE1 students who were counting on shaping, not the investigator, going into the field to do an investigation, he takes a communications officer and a psychologist from the  Vaccination is also a dollar for infection prevention, which they do in a multidisciplinary team to carry out the investigation. To arrive at this site, it's first the psychologists who try to boost the patient's morale, then the communicators who explain the risks they run if, possibly, it was a beautiful thing. So they try to convince him to accept that the investigator will ask questions to learn more about his background and his illness. He therefore tries to deepen the investigation to possibly see if there is an epidemiological link. The woman indicated it; he had gone far away, greedy. There was one from Helaba, so he was in my cage, and the void erected. It's complicated; they are young, they are families, and so the assets are... but logically, it must be at the web level, at best at the kidney level. Goma, his family... The psychologist takes the time to really prepare the patient. The communicator communicates about the risk. Then the investigator... how is his investigation going? It becomes a complementarity, given that they were already in contact with their parents, who are starting... and if, sir, we...  We will list the contacts, and that's why we insist on 21-day follow-up. We will follow up with a team that will remain for 21 days. They will start the process immediately upon signing. We will directly implement public health measures. Neighborhood leaders will participate, and after listing the contacts, we will begin the recruitment phase for community liaisons who live in the area. These liaisons will be responsible for days of follow-up, visiting contacts to check on their health. This team, like the DEL (Department of Local Development), will not limit itself to simply visiting contacts. If a community liaison goes beyond this, if they want to raise awareness, they must also engage in social mobilization. This means that when there is a vaccination campaign, they must help by saying, "Here is the vaccination campaign; you must go there to get vaccinated." This is how we can spread the virus and vaccinate contacts and contacts of contacts in order to vaccinate the entire community. That's why they are all obliged to work together. Professor at the start had many rumors surrounding the vaccination. Today everyone will get the vaccination. Unfortunately, the vaccination is not a mass vaccination; it's a vaccination that fights for contact. It was confirmed here that the party will be in five different health areas, and in each hour of the oral health fate, investigators will be accompanied by a mixed team. As you so rightly said, we will discuss how you will organize this investigation. It's a different concept. When we start to develop a problem, we really try to prepare it in order to direct it to the transit center because the results are positive. The investigation team returns to Earth to make a contact list for those who had come into contact with the patient. This is to be able to send these people back to the treatment center for reasons to prevent these people from contaminating their loved ones and then to have a better chance of curing this person. Passion, the seven people who have long been in the navy spread the same thing to spread the same thing, Georges, and this at the dikes, the rapid contamination returns the person, and this person who remains for days increases with the virus in their camp. The goal  Those with the weakest defenses of the body are at greater risk. Currently, the biggest common challenge, I would say, is first and foremost the deep commitment of the community because the contacts, and so far not all of them, agree to stay where they are for their follow-up. For the twenty-fifteen days, it is necessary to detect diseases very early because the disease started in Mangini. The trials of contacts who refused the vaccine led to Beni Abbés, but also those who refused the vaccines led to Butembo. In Butembo, in Agathois, they all resisted. The resistance was enormous; they even burned the CPEs (Child Protection Centers) and they refused the vaccines. So it is those who refused the vaccine who can still bring the disease here. There is a lot of population movement. We provide food to high-risk contacts for 21 days so that those who do not move to seek to live in other environments do not move. Something that circulates. Many players are trying to understand the interest of seeing a positive case declared cured and recent cases falsely claiming to be alive. The fact that they have been detected and then, of course, they take it without treatment, they emerge from the...  [Laughter] because the community, whatever it may be, is death when things get complicated, and when it's truly death, sometimes it's like all the efforts we've made were in vain. Okay, toughen up, Naters Bombay, we'll go with him to the city level, sometimes even with Tamboura Lavaud, my agent, and make him understand that no, you see, there are people who came out alive. It's a kind of awareness-raising. As soon as you come early, things can be different than when you come very late. It's when we're misunderstood, when we throw stones, when we do our job. It's when there's death, when we're threatened and killed, no, that's not right.