In September, world leaders will have a unique opportunity to make a real difference for the health of the world's people. On September 27, 2018, the United Nations General Assembly will meet to assess the progress of efforts to protect people from cardiovascular diseases, cancer, respiratory diseases, and diabetes, as well as to promote the mental health and well-being of our people. This high-level meeting on non-communicable diseases is an opportunity that I modestly believe we must not miss. To achieve this, it will be necessary for the highest government authorities of all countries to renew their political commitment and unite so that things can change favorably for people. We need to protect our citizens from the main risk factors for non- communicable diseases, such as tobacco, a terrible scourge for humanity; unhealthy food and beverages; the harmful use of alcohol; and physical inactivity. It is also necessary to promote policy coherence with input from all sectors of government, as well as to secure the commitment of all actors in society to contribute to these efforts. This fight is a fight of  Every citizen must be able to identify people at risk and provide them with the necessary care so that they have a focus on realizing the fight and thus universally achieving health for all. Many countries have already been taking steps in the right direction, but they are still insufficient to reach the global goals we have set, such as reducing premature deaths from non- communicable diseases by one-third by 2030 and protecting future generations from adverse health conditions that are also easily preventable. We have no time to lose. Next September in New York, we need to commit ourselves more deeply and say that we no longer want non-communicable diseases to continue taking the lives of millions of people and so severely damaging our societies. They are responsible for almost two-thirds of morbidity and mortality worldwide, in addition to the enormous negative economic impact that their treatment demands, since significant resources are allocated that could be used for such necessary public policies as the construction of decent housing, education, and public safety.  It is imperative to make the health of our people a priority public good and embark on decisive and convincing actions to defeat these non-communicable diseases. I invite you all to join this effort to protect the life and health of our people and make the high-level meeting in New York a truly successful milestone on this path. Thank you very much for your attention.