Universal health coverage is a promise that everyone everywhere get the health care they need without facing financial hardship. However, the universal health coverage report [music] for 2025 delivers an urgent reality check. Over many years, the world had been making steady progress. Fewer people had been falling deeper [music] into poverty because of medical bills, and more people had been receiving the care they needed. We saw remarkable gains in areas like infectious diseases. But in the past decade, momentum has slowed dramatically. Progress in health services coverage has been uneven. Care for women, children, and babies has [music] mostly stalled. While care for non-communicable diseases is improving, it is still the [music] weakest performing area of care. The rising burden of heart disease, cancer, and diabetes is straining health systems. and forcing [music] families to shoulder costs for care year after year. The reality, 4.6 billion people without essential [music] health services. And for 2.1 billion people, care comes at a crushing cost, paid out of pocket, straining families [music] to the edge of what they can bear. For 1.6 six of the 2.1 billion people. It means giving up basic [music] needs like food, safe housing, education just to afford health care. Medicines are a major driver, accounting for more than [music] half of people's out-ofpocket spending in most countries. The path forward is clear. We must increase service coverage and reduce financial hardship and do both at the same time. This requires strengthening essential health services for people of all ages, prioritizing health and national budgets to protect people from unaffordable bills, reducing or eliminating fees for health care for the poorest and most vulnerable. Reducing out-ofpocket payments for medicines, and addressing the broader conditions that shape people's health, such as sanitation, income, and education. Commitments exist, but we need to act [music] now and together. We must protect progress achieved and take decisive action to deliver on the promise of accessible, affordable, quality care for all.