The life sciences are advancing at a rapid pace, bringing great benefits but also potential harm. Imagine a research team modifying mosquitoes so they cannot carry malaria parasites, a potentially fatal disease affecting over 200 million people annually. Or consider the advances in neuroscience that help us understand brain function to prevent and treat diseases like Parkinson's, depression, and other neurological disorders. But with cutting-edge innovations also come challenges and risks, such as accidental or deliberate exposure to harmful biological materials. The technology to modify mosquitoes could also be used to introduce less desirable foods into populations, either through design or by accident. Advances in neuroscience can be misused to manipulate how we think, move, or behave. Both examples raise significant technical, ethical, legal, economic, and environmental questions. Many of these challenges are inherent in research, especially when working with pathogens and toxins. They can be addressed through both individual and collective efforts, including unconscious collaborations from researchers and their institutions to funding bodies, publishers, and regulators.  From the private sector and security agents to other relevant individuals and organizations, it is our duty as stakeholders to be aware of accidents, understand them, and prevent and mitigate risks to the extent possible, including potential misuse. We must reflect on potential challenges, weighing the pros and cons, and stay informed about relevant rules and regulations. We must discuss safe and secure practices, leveraging our leadership role in public health. MS engages with various stakeholders to increase awareness and determine options for limiting the risks of scientific and technological advances, including misuse, and to establish and utilize existing mechanisms to adopt changes in practice that ensure responsible conduct in life sciences research. Ultimately, responsible life science management is a shared responsibility that concerns us all. Let us work together for responsible life sciences for a better world.