Life sciences are progressing very rapidly, bringing great benefits but also presenting potential harmful effects. Imagine a research team modifying mosquitoes to make them incapable of carrying the parasite responsible for malaria, a deadly disease that affects more than 200 million people a year. Or consider the advances in neuroscience that allow us to understand brain functions in order to prevent and treat disorders such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, depression, and other neurological disorders. However, major innovations are often accompanied by difficulties and risks, including accidental or deliberate exposure to harmful biological materials. The technology that allows mosquito modification could also be used to introduce less desirable characteristics into populations, deliberately or accidentally. Advances in neuroscience can be misused to manipulate how we think, move, or behave. These two examples raise important technical, ethical, legal, economic, and environmental questions. Many of the challenges are inherent in research, especially when working with pathogens and...  Toxins: These risks can be addressed through individual efforts as well as collective, collaborative efforts. Researchers, institutions, funding bodies, publishers, regulatory bodies, the private sector, security professionals, and other relevant individuals and organizations are all aware that, as stakeholders, we must be attentive to accidents, understand them, prevent them, and mitigate risks as much as possible, including potential misuse. We must reflect on potential risks by weighing the pros and cons, stay informed of relevant rules and regulations, and apply safe and risk-free practices. Using its role as a global leader in public health, the WHO collaborates with various stakeholders to raise awareness and identify options for limiting the risks associated with scientific and technological advances, including misuse, and to establish and leverage existing mechanisms to adopt changes in practice to ensure responsible behavior in life sciences research. After all, the responsible management of life sciences is a shared responsibility that concerns us all. Let's work together to ensure responsible life sciences for a better world.