Ladies and gentlemen, delegates, it was a great honor for Benin and for me personally to have served as Vice-President of the 64th World Health Assembly and as President of this historic Second Special Session. I was touched by the messages of congratulations and support you sent me this week. Before addressing the overall picture, allow me to take a moment to thank all of you who were present in the room and those who joined us remotely for your encouragement, your help, your smiles, and your collaboration in our work. Thank you very much. I especially thank the secretariat, the IT team, our interpreters, and the catering staff, who all worked tirelessly on our behalf, as well as the Director-General and his management team for their exceptional leadership. I would also like to thank my colleague, the Chair of the Session, Her Excellency Dr. Anne Alpari of Qatar, for her generous support and unwavering commitment. I am also grateful to Her Excellency Madame des Chanoines Mots du Butin for her leadership as Chair of the  64th World Health Assembly and I express my solidarity with him as domestic affairs prevented him from attending this special session in Geneva. the world has changed profoundly in recent years. The seventy-second session of the World Health Assembly in May 2019 recognized, like its sisters, that none of the four hybrid sessions that followed. The personal interactions that normally make these events so productive and enjoyable are now fewer and more strained, even when operating under the strict transmission control conditions that are in place here this week. Of course, most of the world cannot replicate such conditions, and consequently, social interactions are even more severely reduced. But this is the price to pay to prevent the spread of illness and death. We have all been affected; every part of our lives has been impacted. It is therefore extremely encouraging that over the past three days we have heard repeatedly that you, as well as the Member States and the organizations you represent, are ready to unite to reduce the  The risk of this happening again means we must all come together to say never again. Many Member States and their partners want a binding treaty that makes each of us responsible for our actions to protect one another. We want to take care of each other, our children, and our grandchildren. We want a health mandate with the necessary powers and financial resources to realize this vision. There will be challenges to overcome, of course. Several delegations recognized the importance of the deliberations of the Working Group on Sustainable Financing and the draft recommendations that will be discussed at its fifth meeting, to be held from 13 to 15 December. We must encourage the Working Group to be bold and ambitious in its recommendations. The issue of increasing compulsory contributions, for example, deserves careful consideration, recognizing the importance of a progressive and gradual approach to such increases. But I am sure that with reflection and goodwill, we can transform the spirit of this week into a change the world needs. I am truly honored to have played a part in achieving this first step, and I thank you all once again for your  work