What is the impact of the current financial funding crisis on public health? The biggest impact unfortunately is in countries all around the world. Withdrawal of everything from you know treatment of HIV, tuberculosis, malaria, even if there were more funding from anywhere, it will take a long time to recover. Uh both medically, public health-wise, but also trusting communities. Um suddenly they've had services which are no longer available to them. We shouldn't get too focused on what's happening in WHO or in Geneva. The impact in the countries is where the real impact is being felt and will continue to be felt. The US, the United States has been an incredibly generous supporter of who although often we focus on the financial consequences. I do also want to both credit and thank and praise US expertise and the loss of that expertise will be keenly felt. We sincerely hope the US reconsiders and comes back. How is the global health architecture changing both in the long term and in the short term? It's not just the World Health Organization that's affected. Many of the other organizations are also affected and having an impact. Actual day-to-day services in many many countries, technical support, scientific uh evidence-based policy decisions, national public health authorities, you know, the impact is huge and those agencies are all affected by this. We also need to appreciate though that this challenge and this disruption has happened. We can't wish it away. We have to deal with that sense of loss. Countries are taking on much more responsibility, many of them. And the expertise in countries is very significant. WHO and the other agencies must adapt to that new world, not the past. How will become better prepared for the future and including these conversations around UN reform? Are we ready or fit for the future transformation agenda that Dr. Tedros led seven or eight years ago has made the organization more capable of doing this. Absolutely. And so it's an evolution of that rather than a revolution and the prioritization exercise so far has been bottom up countries regional offices then headquarters and now of course we need to bring all that together and then have a strategic sense where are we going as an organization. I wouldn't want to be going through this through a financially induced crisis but nevertheless there is an opportunity to become the organization for the future and I think that is the optimism and hope that we have to hang on to. Thank you so much for your time and lovely talking to you as always. Yeah. And you