I've wanted to be a nurse since I was about six. I spent a lot of time in hospital myself as a child, and I was on dialysis for four years, and then I had a life saving kidney transplant when I was seven. I think the doctors and nurses when I was younger just made such a difference for me, they were like a second family to me, and I wanted to make that same difference to someone else. I think the main obstacles for me were people's attitudes and people's perceptions. A lot of people, when I tried to get into university and when I applied for jobs, they struggled to see past the disability. People just assumed because I had a disability, that I couldn't perform even the simplest of tasks, even as much as operating a fire extinguisher. Getting into nurse training was particularly difficult for me. I went to career advisers, and they'd just look at me, and say: why don't you apply for a desk job? And I'd say: well, I don't want to apply for a desk job. And then even when I did actually get interviews for university courses, the interviewer would just look at me before I'd even sat down, and she'd say: I don't know if this course is physically suitable for you? Yet she didn't even know anything about me. I think the main reason I was treated differently, since I set out to become a nurse, was probably because people were scared, because they've never been faced with anyone like me before. I was made to feel like a liability really, because of the way I look, and one of the things they made me do was to carry out risk assessments, which no-one else had to do. This involved just having loads of people stand round me, watching me, whilst I completed basic nursing tasks, such as holding a baby or pushing a wheelchair. I think having a disability has actually made me a better nurse. I can fully empathise with the patients in my care, because I've had similar experiences myself, so I know what they're going through. The ward I work on now is a renal ward, which is an excellent grounding for the future for me, but I know that I still have a lot to learn, because I am only newly qualified. This is disability to me, what's it to you?