Iron Man or Woman with Quebecois GT of the Lightning Dwayne Bowe Times in order to study user- friendly NVP 9 a.m. tricks for the military and the PNN Learning meshes, growth of being supported, Honda MX Milk of the Wall and the Cub Back to My Eyes and Shine Date in two respects, burnished by all future nine majors that we need to take Chuck Norris FSP Athens region nolva and young human rights interview in Paris Match n° 3 August including the users and treatment of canticles, actors and inform this young girl, the actors of this society. Hello, my name is Max and I am a clinical psychologist specializing in mental health at Handicap International, Humanity Inclusion, and I work in Brussels. Today I am going to talk a little bit about mental health. Mental health is really about everyone and it's not just the absence of illness, the absence of symptoms, it's really the capacity of each and every one has found their place in society to find meaning. With the WHO, we promote a rights-based approach, the Quality Wright, which is linked to  The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, particularly Article 2, has led us to begin training our staff, our partners, user associations, and staff members from ministries of health in this approach. We will continue to do so in the coming years. The idea is truly a shift in perspective, moving from a purely medical approach where the individual has no say to a much more egalitarian and social vision of mental health, where everyone can express themselves, be heard, and say what is best for them. This is quite exciting. With MSF and MS, we are engaged in Quality Wright training in humanitarian contexts to make our emergency interventions much more inclusive and participatory. With ACHI, we encourage you to follow the Quality REX e-learning course to reach as many people as possible. This is not only good for your own mental health but also to support as many people as possible worldwide. The training, which has completed 105 participants, highlights the importance of quality in our services.  health and raise awareness to build thus obtain a compromise without counting the empowerment correspondences practical social public servant also taken to the social foundations and combines AIDS which we call the question of openness difficultly is to the correction a position to our services of 5 it is a possibility that they treat us Audineau Russia this capital is consolidated by Estrada Metals Areva indicated that the subtitle the researchers it is equal or on the paths behavior because Le Mans the Casamance people an ideal idiocy in 2004 they are hired by then we are a guy freedom Candrea Thomas Doustaly Smetana victims and at whose place should he be led to test as a manager