What happened, loot Hello, welcome to the special Hindi Life of the people. We are connecting with you from the WHO headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland. Our experts will answer all your questions regarding the current COVID-19 situation in India. Today our experts in Hindi are WHO's Chief Scientist, our Principal Scientific Practice, Soumya Swaminathan and Dr. Sandeep Guleria, Director of the BP-based Inch. Now welcome to both of them. Jai, let me tell you that you can ask us questions on Facebook, Twitter and YouTube from our space. So, we start the topic with you. As our viewers write their training, till then, first of all, my question to you is that this year, as we are seeing, people have been vaccinated. Some people have been vaccinated with both the doses and many people have not been vaccinated at all, but these three types of people are getting COVID-19 infection. So, this question arises in people's minds that if we get the infection even after taking this vaccine, then should we get vaccinated? Please explain it in detail. Namaste, Isabgol, Namaste to those who are listening. So we are talking about vaccination because the immune response to the virus, which is also called immunity or immunity, develops in 2019 and provides protection against the disease. Developing this immunity through vaccination means that the disease and its consequences are reduced. So, the question you just asked is whether people are still getting infected even after one dose or even after two doses, then it is important to understand first that even if a person is not available, two doses are needed and it takes two weeks after the dose, after which complete immunity is formed in our body and yes, it has been seen in the clinical trials of handbag cases that this immunity is formed in 60 to 75 percent per dose then if someone says then there is definitely some chance that one can get infected even after 2 doses or it becomes very less, so like ICMR has a breakthrough in infections.  I told you about it a few days ago when the data of India's population was released, they kept this figure that out of 10,000 people who have been vaccinated, two or three or four people can get infected even after two vaccinations. That is in 2006, so there are very high chances that after two vaccinations, if an infection occurs, then the important thing is that the chances of dangerous complications, which are such symptoms that may require going to the hospital or getting admitted, are very less. Even if one gets infected after vaccination, then that is a lung infection, a slight cough or now half a respiratory infection and cold and cough can be dealt with there itself. Going down, it prevents pneumonia etc. in the lungs. So, those people should not think that because people are getting infected after vaccination, the vaccine is useless, it is not at all effective; it protects a lot and even if it does not protect completely, then there are definitely many serious diseases and complications due to it.  It definitely keeps us safe, we should get vaccinated because the disease and obesity are reducing due to worry, so after this our next question comes to testing, Doctor Guleria, my question to you is that right now there is a lot of pressure on the testing centers, there is a lot of pressure on the health workers, it is also seen that people have got themselves tested and it is taking many days for the results to come, many times the test is negative but they are showing some other symptoms, so in such a situation, please understand and tell me what symptoms people are having, they should feel that whether they have been tested or not, now they have to be careful and then they should take precautions, you are right that if we see that people who are getting tested and many times they have all the symptoms, but the test is not positive, this test report takes time, so friends, it is important to understand that in every phase, there is a sensitivity on special duty, this means that only Vedic means that if this test is positive then definitely they reach, the meaning of all these  That this test is positive in some people but it will not be able to pick up the virus and if we talk about the disappearance of artificial virus, then it is close to eighty percent for me and the dependent test was also taken naturally and it was done from the transported vehicle, so many times it happens that you have got infected and your Activa but the symptoms are complete and what are the symptoms, that symptom is that you have fever along with fever, sore throat, cough, body ache, that can happen, from here we are tracking and general click is not good, if all these videos you should understand at this time in India that the chances of corona increase, there are some people who may have stomach upset, sleeping, diarrhea, there may be a lot of swelling, if they also have symptoms, you should be careful, these are also some such symptoms, these are the symptoms which can cause corona, along with this, if you have any such symptoms that you have cold, cough and fever, you should first isolate yourself, we do not want that because of you  If anyone else in your house has a serious infection, you should completely isolate yourself. Wear a mask. Hands should be washed even inside the house. All your food, drinks, and other activities should be isolated. You should avoid meeting people. You should wait for your report. If you continue to have such symptoms, you can contact your doctor and start treatment. You can take medicine for fever, cold, and flu. Most people will have a common illness, which will be cured by taking your medicine. So, there is no need to panic, but you should monitor yourself. When we say monitor yourself at home, it is very important to do this. Try to get your test done. If the report comes, it should be done as soon as possible. Dr. Squirrels, we are also getting questions from some people. The first question we are seeing is what impact are we seeing on children in India? And second, if you have been infected once, can it happen again?  So first of all Dr. Guleria, if we look at your 5 children, if we look at the numbers, it seems that the infection in children seems to be relatively more, but percentage wise it is not that much, but it is true that in the beginning when it was less than the infection rate, the infection in children was more or more in the forests, some reasons are given for this, one reason is that before this we tested the children thoroughly, kept them indoors, kept all the schools completely closed and did not allow them to go out, in January-February when our cases decreased, many schools opened and children started coming out and the quarantine that was to be done could not be done, hence this population which was subject to infection, rather those who had not got the infection yet because they were protected till now, they got the infection more and hence the infection was seen more in the younger generation of children, along with this it was also seen that this is the population which is benefiting the most, those who felt that as the younger generation grows, they do not suffer so much, if in the show, that is why they said that quarantine is different, Like wearing masks, maintaining a distance of two yards has stopped them from coming and because of this they are not getting any less infected than anyone in this sector. Now we will see that in the second survey we saw that the younger generation has shown more immunity to some extent but this is because the virus has changed, the virus is now infecting only the younger generation, that is the epidemiologist done and the reason is that this happened because of this, so now some people are also asking us on our timeline that why are we not wearing masks, let me tell you that we are all very far away at this time, Doctor Soumya and I are in our homes in Switzerland and Doctor Guleria is in New Delhi, who is probably spending his days and nights in AIIMS right now because such is the situation there, he is handling a very serious situation. Now till now our next question to you is that if someone has been infected once, can he get two types of infection, we are seeing that the immunity which is formed in our body, which is called immune response system, actually varies a lot from one place to another, many people Those who have simple infections or remain asymptomatic do not have any symptoms. Scientists discover this later after infection. In such people, the immunity that is often formed is at a low level. And in those who are seriously ill and are admitted to the hospital, the immune response is even higher. Therefore, the chances of a second infection in many people are very low. As we can see, 140 million cases have been documented worldwide. But the reports of second infection are also relatively very low. So, this means that immunity is definitely formed due to natural infection, but we cannot say for how long it will last and if there is only one type of immune response. That is why our advice is that even if you have been infected with the combination before, it is necessary to get vaccinated. When it becomes available in your case, your eligibility criteria will be met. If you get a chance to get it, then you should definitely get vaccinated because vaccination  It is a product of immune response that is created in the vessel. So, the body can get infections but they are very rare and the second time infections occur, they are often minor and not of the same kind. Vaccination is necessary here if there is a first infection, then vaccination should be done after previous testing. Now we will come to treatment, what should you keep in mind about the amount of treatment while staying at home and going to the hospital, but before that, it is certain that in India right now we hear about variants and then we hear about double mutation and triple mutation and Sky Rock, what action should the common man take after hearing this because when we hear this, a lot of worry arises as to what does it mean, what should be done with this information, what action should be explained, I am amazed about T series itself, there is a lot of talk these days about variants and mutants and people are also scared by this, what is this not a thing, so Lakshmi, we should recognize that this is actually a natural acid mission of the virus and  Normally, when we replicate and multiply, some change occurs every time. This is called mutation. We have been monitoring this from the very beginning, ever since this panoramic combination began. We have been monitoring this globally, and if we look at it from the 2020s till now, many key changes have occurred in this virus. Mostly, the mutations that occur in it do not make any difference - there are some stages which give the virus some advantage, like right now, people are not panicking because of the talk of these two double mutations. This tension has been found in other barriers as well, like one of them was found in the South African variant condition, and from that, scientists have shown that the virus which goes into our respiratory tract, goes inside the nose and mouth, there is a receptor called S2 receptor in our cells, on which it goes and binds. So, the virus  This new mutation, called evaporate, has brought about such a change in the water protein that it can more easily attach to our cells. So what is the effect of this? It increases its susceptibility and can spread more easily. Some studies that were done in Britain and South Africa with RIMS, it was found that if one person can infect another person, its infectivity increases by one and a half or two times. This only means that, but other things like its route of transmission have not changed. It is also possible that there are some mutations that used to work in place of antibodies. For example, after natural infection, our antibodies are formed or after vaccination and they point to the virus, but due to the situation, they used to reduce its effect a little. So, what message can we give from this in the first place? So, the first thing is that because this variant causes more infections and right now I want to say that the research on this is currently going on in India. In fact, we are having discussions with WHO scientists in India and till now it has not been considered a variant of interest, which started mostly in Maharashtra in 1997 and is now increasing rapidly in the rest of the country as well. They will verify it only when the results of their ongoing experiments and research come out. So people have to take precautions there only. It is a very helpful measure, as Dr. Guleria was just telling, if you have fever, cough, cold, then isolate yourself and stay safe. People should wear masks. If you go out, it is necessary that we all wear masks. If people are meeting inside a room, then meet in a place where there is good air maintenance, where the technology is open. And if you ever have to go to a place where there is some emergency, then wear a mask. For the safety of the person and the safety of the person, I must definitely raise it in the first meeting. Nothing has changed. And as the solid reason is found, the unity among the people increases, so definitely the infection rate will decrease.  It may be so far, but we believe that the treatment being done nowadays using roti is still effective for periods, if more antibodies are produced then it is even more effective and as we said, those who have serious consequences due to this infection like pneumonia, hospitalization, death, that is what their team is working on. Thank you, Dr. Guleria. I have a question for you, if we talk about testing, tell us that if the test is positive, we know that we have it, then which people should stay at home and treat themselves, but on the advice of the doctor and what is the protocol of that treatment, tell us about it. It is very important to understand that if we get corona virus, then there is no need to wear any mask, so it is very important to understand that more than eighty-five percent of the people who have got corona have a very serious infection, like we have symptoms of corona, which are not burning, sore throat, which is dangerous, these last for a few days and get cured on their own, you only need symptomatic treatment of fever.  You should take medicine, take medicine for cold and flu, take medicine for cough, you have tried home remedies, you will get cured with that, there is no need to panic much, there are people like Roshan in whom this virus can also enter the factory and can cause complications in the system, due to which there can be lack of oxygen or some other complications, she has been on Facebook in the last few days and about two or three percent of people below 5 years of age need ventilator in ICU, so the first thing is that if you get a voltage drop test, then do not panic immediately and there is no need to rush to the hospital immediately, but it is true that you have to monitor yourself at home, so contact your doctor and take his advice completely, you should also take all the medicines from him which you can, which is mainly symptomatic treatment, there are many areas in India where some antiviral drugs are being heard, now Prabhavir and Xtend, this is Rakshak Naukri, there is no data on it, so they say that this medicine is very effective and this medicine is like this You must definitely take this medicine, many people subscribe to Ramesh, but I believe that you should take your symptomatic treatment, along with that you should monitor yourself, check your fever, you have a small oximeter available everywhere, which you can put on your finger and you can check your weight, how much blood oximeter is there, how much percentage you have, monitor it and if the situation in your oximeter goes above 94 and you do not have high fever and there are no such symptoms, then you can treat yourself comfortably at home, contact your doctor, contact a health care facility, many states and many countries have helplines where people have been made available in your state where they can give you complete information about what to do and what not to do, you have to isolate yourself at home, know about that also properly how to isolate yourself so that you do not get any infection, stay inside the house, there should be ventilation, attached toilet and kitchen  As for that, you have to keep your eating utensils separate, how to sanitize yourself, clean yourself and keep yourself covered, all those protocols and comments are also available on the website of Mitti, Fateh Institute's website is also free, so these things need to be done, if your fever starts increasing suddenly, it is a high grade fever, your temperature starts decreasing to ninety-three or less, for those who are seeing this, it starts decreasing, you have symptoms like chest pain and your breathing rate has suddenly increased, it is getting weak, you are not able to breathe, you are feeling very weak, then you should contact your doctor and if there are some such symptoms and if these symptoms subside only after five to seven days, then you may need hospitalization in those 15 days and on the need for admission, I believe that not everyone needs to go to the hospital immediately, there is no need to keep oxygen cylinders at home, there is no need for medicines immediately, in our country it is also the case that many people think that on the first day we Remember to take steroids the day before applying the remedy medicine, it can cause more harm to you, the yield will be less, therefore it is very important that we understand that the treatment of this disease is different for each stage and the timing of the medicines is wrong, not everyone needs to take these medicines in the beginning, even if your condition increases to moderate, then also you should take most of the medicines, which is the group of minor medicines which is in more than eighty-five percent of the people, but a lot of medicines are needed, you just need to monitor yourself at home, this is very important because due to this there is a shortage of medicines, because when people do not need it, they are keeping oxygen at home, you are applying oxygen when it is not needed, if your situation option is right, there is a file of 184, there is no intention of applying option in it, it is not that if you do my conspiracy 94251, the option in our body, the capacity which is in the blood, it will not make any difference if that attraction has increased now because then the option of boxing is called John, the option which makes SIM  If it is a flight, then it will not make any difference. Your circulation may seem fine. Secondly, I would just like to say one more viral thing that those who have notice, let's say they have hand problems, the elderly people, they should take more care of themselves and if they have diabetes or any other respiratory disease, they need to take some care and sometimes because those who are COVID positive, it increases and it has increased suddenly and there is some complication, then they have to be admitted due to that reason, so these are the two categories, one is those who are on two cigarette things, those who have COVID properties due to which the combination can be more serious, only these people need to be quarantined, as I said, their quantity and question test point is much less than two, that a doctor player, we are seeing on social media, WhatsApp on our network, a lot of appeals are being made for medicines, especially embassy in officers and plasma, so let's spend some time on this, first let's talk about recipes, jobs, if you can explain to us briefly the guidance of gambling, for remedies Then we will talk to Dr. Guleria about how we are seeing its use at the ground level. When the pandemic started, there was a lot of curiosity that some such anti-viral rejects were also one of them, but there were others as well, like the ones used earlier for influenza, Pfizer etc. So all these were put into clinical trials in which one group of patients gets the medicine, the other group is not given the medicine, they take the standard Pfizer, so WHO did a similar thing a little late in the country, against the trial that came out, India was also involved, that trial was done abroad and in that 2500 people who got the remedy, 2500 were in the control form, so in that we found that Ramesh Veer was  Such patients who are admitted in the hospital should be given a high-quality ventilator sleep for 10 days. Was there any difference found in the names in this particular study or in depression, like if someone was not in an accident, out of them how many people got into an accident, how many people went on ventilator, there was no difference in that too and there was no difference in the days of hospitalization also. There have been some small studies like there was a series in yes, in which they saw that we can do some work on the depression of this big boss pistol, for example, from eight days and they saw that they can get relief after staying in the hospital for six days, so the reason for this was that there was confusion in our trial, there may be a rank picture, like in some holidays, where the first means those who are in the hospital, but they have just started oxygen, so there may be a small group in which the remedy may be of some benefit, but in most of the patients, it was not a hot romantic fast, that it is not a life saving drug, I know that people are getting very desperate right now and to get relief from long also, so forget it, doctors have said this many times.  It should be given only on the prescription of doctors. Patients who are admitted in the hospital and those who are getting the prescription should be given to them. So that is a very small group in which Vimlesh VS can do some work. Absolutely, there are two such people who are at home, who have mild symptoms or who are very serious, it does not work even in them, so it should be decided by medical professionals only and if it is used in this way, then I think there should not be any shortage in the playing area in India. The next question to Dr. Guleria is what are you seeing, how is remix pyr and plasma therapy being used in this Swachh Bharat, how much benefit is it because there is a feeling among the people about these two things that it is a killer and we have to organize it as soon as possible, so please tell us about it, as Sonia told that in the WHO century also and many trial runs were started from China also, the registered team showed that the remedy is an anti-viral, it is a very limited user, there was not much benefit, some traditional things had shown that  Hajj relation of fertility is given, it reduces for a few days but that 10:30 benefits of saving lives, there was no significant difference at all, on this basis Remedy was found to be used in ambulance use operation up to some extent, if we see, it was used in G Central, limit was found in it, interview was done from passport only in those people whose moderates were replaced, those people whose options situation was falling, who were admitted within a week, whose lungs probably had pneumonia, only those people were given Remedy, there was no benefit in giving it before this and it was seen that the use of this Remedy is very limited and it is not that taking Remedy will save someone's life immediately, there is no data regarding this, because we have so much information about it, I would say in social media that people, some doctors have had this incident that only Remedy camp can save people's lives and whenever they take it, then it will have an effect, so we saw this  It is that many times doctors have started studying giving it in the early stages - even on day one. I have talked to many doctors about using it. They said that there is no benefit. Many of them think that it is an anti-viral, so if we give it to the virus that is replicating, it will be more beneficial. But its updated Rs.1 is not an anti-viral, hence there is no benefit of taking the remedy daily in the early stages. There may be some harm also because every medicine has its own side effects. Therefore, it is very important to understand. If we talk about it in a language, and it is not alive setting the weekend decrees, then your hospital mission and evening dad, there is probably a shortage of the patient who is admitted and whose model is two rings. Therefore, the time it is going on in our country right now is due to its misuse. Because of this, when I talk to many people, I am very surprised that many people keep an injection in their home. This will be joint in the market due to side holding, this layer will fall and you have the same day saver, return it to the hospital.  And I would still like to say that there is no benefit in injecting at home. Many people think that I should inject it at home in the microwave. If I inject it, it can cause more harm than good. So, there is a lot of misconception going on that remedies are life saving drugs. If people take it, only then their lives can be saved and if it is not taken then there is a lot of danger. This is a wrong notion and this thing that it should be used even in the early stages. This is our occupation. Both these notions have to be changed and for this, healthcare professionals will have to come forward and explain to the people. Till then, tell us about the total area of ​​Lord Elgin or plasma therapy. Appeal for this is also seen on social media on your network, how it is being used on the ground and what people should know about it. Mohammad Rafi is no one, I mean, especially in 1968, when a lot of people died in it, even then plasma therapy was used. Now recently it has not been sold anywhere else. It has been said that it has been used globally, which we say even for a minute, but the data that has happened And in international studies, even in India, Yudhishthira had corrupted it for a century, in that, a lot of therapy did not yield any benefit. On the other hand, it is necessary to understand that the class does not have to be that in the conversion plasma that is given, the antibodies that you say in the dry fruits, there should be sufficient amount of antibodies in the plasma only then it is beneficial and its benefit is limited in the early stage when antibodies are not formed in the body itself. If you give it later, then antibodies will be formed in the body itself and there will be no benefit of giving it, so please do not roll for 15 minutes. Initially, we thought that this will make a big difference and many plasma banks will open in India where plasma teams were formed, which they had become powerful, but they will not do the antibody test, that was done and we know that there are many patients who have mildness, they do not take antibiotics for it, those entries are not so much in the contra voucher class that Gurudev will benefit any patient, so it is important that if you want to give plasma, then it should be tested thoroughly.  You will see that there are antibodies in sufficient amount in this and secondly it has a very limited role, it is not that there is no data from Planet Therapy Life, whatever data has come, like many of your multisport randomized controlled trials have been done, they also do not say that there have been no major benefits shown in this, in general, so now we will take some questions from our viewers, first of all let's start with the fact that our social media is so fast on our network that you come across it, whether you have any question or not, everyone gets confused, in this way every information is going around in the social media circus, so it is that women, especially girls, should not get vaccinated during their menstrual period, Dr. Please tell us about this, it is taken as a pin code mixture, there has been an epidemic of information in this and people from all around are talking about it and telling, on one hand it is normal, it happens that confusion happens, if I get many social media posts every day  If more and more devices become available, it becomes more difficult to understand. So, I would like to tell those people that like before, if you are getting notifications or if you need information, then you should get that information from this side, that should be credible, you should get the right kind of information, like the ones at the bottom of the comment and the doctors who work in government hospitals or the doctor, that is, Subhash Maharia, is well known from that place, that this doctor will say that he did not understand this disease, it is very important to understand that if there is no panic right now and we also need some trust and uniformity and responsibility, only then we will be able to help each other, like Dr. Guleria was saying, if everyone wants to buy oxygen and remedies and other medicines and keep them at home, then the patient who needs them will not be able to get them, so do not hold anything at all. What you were talking about during periods is not such a contraindication, in fact, there is no such contraindication for getting vaccinated, we just say that if you are sick at that time, you have fever, any, that is, even a normal fever or  If there is any problem then you can go and get the vaccine after a few days. But if you have any acidity, allergy or any medicine, then you must inform the health care worker there. That is why after vaccination, they make you sit there for fifteen-twenty minutes. If there is an allergic reaction, it happens immediately, within 15 minutes, and you can be taken care of there itself because there are hill trees there. So apart from this, there is no such contraindication. Those who have been infected with VA and at that time their vaccination time comes, they can postpone it a bit. After they are completely cured, then get the vaccine. And I also saw another question from someone that why has it been increased from 28 days to 42 days, 4 weeks to 6 weeks, for administering it, it is based on research which showed that if you increase the time between the two, then the activeness can increase further. So because of this, the government increased that gap volume and  Even if there is a slight delay, he does not care. The second friend should definitely get vaccinated. So this question was from Varsha Jethani ji that from 1st May, all people above 18 years of age are going to be vaccinated, so should girls get vaccinated during their periods or not? I definitely heard the doctor saying that there is absolutely no problem in it, you can get vaccinated during periods, but if there is fever, this was also a question that if there is fever, can we get vaccinated, so I heard the answer of my doctor. The next question is from Sandeep Bhattacharya, I have made a total area, I will ask that I am so sad to take a promise since avoid infection. Vikram Singh is an antibiotic and we normally give it, which we say is for bacterial infection, it has no role for viral infection, with Addison and there was another fact which was called investigation, some elements also affect our immune system, hence some people give A Promising at the time of menstruation so that your immune system is terminated and the viral load of four days, this viral application should be reduced, but there is no discussion on this.  There is no data anywhere as to what it does, so like I talked about other medicines that people used initially, hydroxychloroquine, airplane, a promising person, bicycle also, and people use it, they use it only on that, thinking that it might have benefits, there is no data on it, it definitely has antiviral hair oil, if we want to focus on this by saying that it is an antiviral drug, then this assumption is wrong, by the way, it is an antibiotic, not an antiviral drug, Mahendra, your full name is Pallu, I am Mahendra Prem Narayan Prajapati, you are asking what should we do at home if the corona gets locked down, Dr. Guleria has explained about it in detail, we can go back and see, now we have one more question and this, Saumya, you are just asking this question, this is also a question of our viewers that is whether lockdown is the only solution and that WHO recommends long gowns, after that the total area of ​​stadium, these questions were asked, so we have to understand how this virus spreads and it spreads from one human to another. And it requires that people be close together in a crowd and close to each other and when we eat or speak or learn, it can spread through small liquids and there are some viruses which are Trojan viruses in minutes. If we are in a room where everything is closed, doors and windows are closed or there is air conditioning and there is a Sanskrit infected person in it and many others are sharing that page quickly, then it is a very dangerous situation. If one person gets infected then the chances of other people getting infected are very high. Or people who work together will automatically spend a lot of time in the same place. So to break this chain of transmission, it is necessary that the people should be sensitized and this work should be done. As the doctor was saying, in the last few months we have seen that people have become exactly like they were before the pandemic. The measures had also gone down. Going to each other's homes, going to the market, crowds, studying, entertainment, going to sports functions, now celebrating weddings in a big way and going to fairs. And what happened to everything was that the virus got a lot of chances. In crowded places, people started spreading easily among each other. It was happening gradually and a time came when it is not seeing exponential growth but it is increasing very fast. So now we have been seeing this for a year. It happened in one country, you can experience this in other countries and in many countries. Therefore, it is important that we should strengthen public health. We know where we do it, like maintaining a distance of two yards in the middle, do not go to protests, if not necessary then do not go out of the house, keep the finger running, essential services should be running properly, do not use milk too much in transport. If everyone follows this responsibly, then the infection will automatically reduce and there will be no need for long gowns. But the people who are treating distractions, what the government says in containment, it can be done there, like recently, get tested quickly and community centers are formed here. If you cannot do this, then this is something from the government.  Interventions can be like community centers being made where people can sleep comfortably and rest, they will get it and after that if someone in my house is infected then I will have to set up my own centres for the day whether there are any symptoms or not because symptomatic transmission can also happen, so I am also told that that should also be done, so all these things, we had made a very good increment last year, if we bring it back quickly then there will be no need for complete lockdown because it affects my life in fact, mostly the poor people, so now as it has started in some cities, then we will also have to make arrangements for food and drink for those who are on daily wages, so I would like to come to you on the Loot Doctor Total Area Lock Town Work Question Fairer, exactly like how do we need it and what is there is 38, so that means infrastructure to make centers, simultaneous vaccination will also make a difference, but the third one is very important for me, we have to stop the transmission, spread of the virus.  We can stop it and we know that the virus is spread from one person to another through water quickly. If we want to stop its transmission then we will have to break the unity movement of transmission because this virus is highly infectious and if one person gets infected then the whole family gets infected by it. So for this it is very important that we take such a step so that we can break its transmission. First of all it is important that the code of conduct is given very good importance because then we can stop the refilling of infection. Complete prevention should not be done right now. You have become very dependent on it in the last few months and you can read all such events of the superseding comments that if one or two persons are infected there then they can spread the infection to the whole crowd and how they can spread it immediately. And to some extent we have seen this in the last few days. Therefore, because our areas are so big, it is very important that we benefit the areas where the infection rate is coming high. If cases are being generated very frequently here, where customs and  If there is a containment zone, we can also tell them to micro micro people that we should complete the testing, track and isolation of the people who are interested in the history. All those who are there who are positive, they should either do home isolation and if we cannot treat them at home then we should isolate them in a health care center so that the infection does not spread from that area to other areas where there is work right now. If we do all this then there will be no need for people at the national level. Regional level containment zones with regional level long gowns will have to be done in the containment zone because only then we will be able to stop this low-priced mission and people will have to understand their responsibility because most of the people think that they have to stay here for two weeks, so they try to somehow go out and meet their friend or go to some function somewhere and that too takes the infection out of this area, so people's participation is very important, we will have to invite people or these local leaders.  We will have to invite them, explain to them, take them all along and create print elegant zones so that we do not give this infection to Paris, control it there and reduce our questions there, the time on that side is very tasty, your person in front is very valuable, many people will act on that side, the total area and we are flooded with questions, there are many questions on that side, so I will ask you that acting, then let's talk a little and after that we will start referring to this life, so if we look at the Ayurveda, then our meeting with normal transport was held a few days ago in the joint meeting of ICMR and all the data of Ghaghra which is not a medicine was seen on that, some people believed this and for that, if we look at our guidelines, then the youth or youth meeting has been written as possible use because some data which was almost being collected, there is also eroded energy cells, many people have commented that this medicine may make a little difference to its application, but begin a strong  No, WHO members have not shown any use of it, the medicine which can do this is easily available, it is also cost-effective and it is used in the developing world for the treatment of bacterial and bacterial infections, so if I open it, it has been added to the guidelines, there is no provision that we can give it, but it is being used extensively in our country and neighboring countries and people believe that it makes some difference in mild cases, but still there is no need to collect attention on removing it, if I add then the recommendation of one and a half is that it should be used only in research studies and it should not be used now, it has side effects, it can cause diarrhea and people can get more sick, so it means that if the doctor says so, then only use it and the doctor squirrels in the name of buying it themselves, right now there is a lot of pressure on all the health workers and health services and hospitals, so what will you people say to him, how to take care of himself, the next one is very positive, so  How to keep yourself safe, keep yourself healthy but the pressure on hospitals and health services should not increase. Shyam Vakri is everyone's fight and we should see that we should understand that I am quality and people are configured - you can get well at home too, so do n't go straight to the hospital or think of a mission, do n't think of putting oxygen on immediately because people who need oxygen, people who need oxygen, then they will not be able to get it, if everyone does this then he said that I should also do enough, so we need to jump from this grade sperm, that those who can stay at home, they should click that they will get well at home too, they will get complete treatment, they need not worry, just do 10 to 15 questions, the remaining people are such who need hospitalization, stay positive, don't worry, don't panic, this criminal is 1 - he can absolutely get well, laugh like we are saying that the fat lettuce is very less, one is 2%, hence 98100 to them  Withdraw, you will be absolutely fine and go back, you will be fine, but if we add water, if we vote for the brothers, if we hold salvation meetings, then this will create a critical situation where people will not be able to get medicines, oxygen and other categories, then our burden may also increase, so if we all together understand our responsibility to avoid any obstacle and do not waste time, then my point is that we will be able to come out of this situation that we are seeing, we will be able to come out quickly, there is a lot of shortage of time for both our trains, but still, I would like answers from both of you in brief on two last questions which I am seeing and which are very important, the first question to you is that people are hearing that the combination can spread through air, so it is scary to hear this, please explain this.  After hearing this news, we have to ask ourselves what the public should do to protect themselves. This virus is a kind of desire. People who say that it floats in the air, you are right. But for example, there is infection of minerals, where if a mineral case is in a room and he leaves the room and after some time someone else comes, then also there is a chance of them getting that kind of infection and virus. So, its Aa Gaya Hero transmission rate is that it is under 22 and if we look at the work of this round two to two point five such users, then on this side there are 1520 many and that is a lot of infections. So, whatever has been done till date, it has been found that cross contact is the most risk factor for the spread of this virus. So, if we meet people within a distance of two yards and do not wear a mask, then like there are small drop tests coming out from us, if we sing or shout or eat then it is even more.  People go out and that directory can be read by looking at the other person's face properly, it cannot be read with the eyes, it is very microscopic and if we take it inside then it can cause infection, so that is why it is very important that people wear masks properly and maintain distance between each other and if many people are sitting inside a small room then they should wear masks and as far as it is necessary to meet someone then do not meet outside and in a viral minute, if you have to meet in an indoor environment then keep the windows and doors open and talk wearing a mask, but for a few days like this, as I said earlier, keep essential things at home and do whatever work you do from there and the second thing I would like to say is that it is very important to maintain mental balance at this time because there is a lot of water everywhere, we are seeing very depressing scenes, so what can be done for mental balance, one is to deliver and people who do pranayam etc., they get a lot of relief from it, secondly we should connect with others and talk to people whom you trust,  We can help each other. Stay in regular contact with your close ones and tell them how you feel. Talking to each other, which is called socially connected, is called physical distancing. If you are socially connected, then maintain a good FD. If you keep hearts connected, then in the last question, I would say the same to Dr. Guleria that right now there is such an atmosphere, people are sitting in their homes, there is the sound of sirens and ambulances outside, a kind of worry has settled in people's minds, on this I would like to ask you, you and your acting are so busy, how do you keep yourself mentally healthy, please give some tips to our viewers also, I would say that we all have to fight hard in this battle and do a daily exercise, we must definitely push ourselves mentally, whether it is yoga or check out the exercise, we should sit for some time and do our exercise or if there is an open area outside your house, then set some emphasis on that and focus on your physical activities right now, along with that, pay attention to your diet and eat green vegetables, this also increases your nutrition.  There are weapons for the general public too, but it is very important to think positively and keep connecting with all the people on social media, keep talking to everyone and do not worry about the decisions. For the elderly people who are inside the house, I would say to them that you should not worry. You should always talk to your children, whether they are in India or outside India, every day. Talk to them at tea time, zone, rodi, late night, that we are watching, keep discussing some things. Now talk about some light things and have full faith that this phase will pass and we will come out ahead of this and will definitely win. A particular area chapter, Soumya, now both of you took out your time for this, thank you. So this is our Hindi live. You have asked a lot of questions. We tried our best to answer them from the factory, but we are short of time, so we are getting answers to your questions. You will also keep getting answers to your questions on all the channels of WHO. We try to keep providing you with that information as and when it comes, so this is my brother and today We end today's live show here. Take care of yourself, take care of your loved ones and keep your mental state stable and encourage each other. Hello, that was a disaster.