This disease has been killing humans for centuries. In fact, there are references to it in literature, in history, religious text. There's even a goddess in India that protects you against it. We are talking about cholera today with Kate Alberti. Many people think cholera is a disease of the past, but it really isn't. In fact, in the recent years, as many as 30 countries from across the globe have been reporting outbreaks every year. What do you need to know about cholera and how can you prevent it? >> Welcome Kate. So, what is cholera and why is it still on the rise? >> Mita, thanks very much. And you're right, that chalera should be a thing of the past, but it's not. So cholera is an infection of the gut and people get it when they eat or drink something that has been contaminated with a bacteria called vibrioide. And that means that somehow human waste or poop got into what it is that they're eating or drinking. So when cholera strikes, most people will get mild diarrhea. In some instances, they'll get severe diarrhea and vomiting that leads to life-threatening dehydration. In fact, someone can have mild diarrhea in the morning and by the evening they've died of chalera. The good news is that in most cases, people can be treated and survive. So why is cholera on the rise? Well, poverty, lack of ailment and conflict have always created the conditions for cholera. And now in addition to those, we also have climate change. And you see that cyclones, floods, and drought can disrupt water systems. And that is also increasing the risk of chalera. And in fact, what we've been seeing is countries who hadn't seen chalera for many years are now seeing outbreaks. >> Okay. Uh a recent who UNICEF report said that one in four people around the world do not have access to safe water. If kolera can spread so fast, how can we stop it? >> Well, you're right. That report is really the key to preventing cholera. If people have access to safe water and sanitation, then you can prevent cholera. And other key elements include hygiene measures. So, washing your hands after going to the toilet and before preparing or eating food, cooking food thoroughly and eating it when it's hot, and keeping human waste out of what we're eating and drinking. We also have an oral colera vaccine. It's safe, effective, and can help protect people during outbreaks or even before they occur. The challenge is that the demand for the vaccine is much higher than the production of the vaccine even though that's increasing and so we're having to prioritize high-risk areas for vaccination. Communities themselves are really at the heart of preventing cholera. >> So I learned something new during uh while we were researching this episode that OS was actually developed for >> You're right. So oral rehydration solution or OS most people associated with a quick and easy treatment for childhood diarrhea but in fact it was developed for chalera and for adults. It was seen that it was so effective for cholera that it started to be used for all these other diarrheal diseases. So during big outbreaks in addition to colera treatment centers which are like small hospitals specifically for cholera we also set up something called oral rehydration points and those can be in primary healthcare centers or independent inaffected communities and people with mild disease can come and get oral rehydration solution there. It's a really important part of the community response to outbreaks. Early access to OS is critical to saving lives. So what's the impact of golera? Well, the obvious thing is health. People get ill and many people die. But the impact is a much broader than that as well. If there's no free access to treatment, then people a are losing their livelihood because they're not be able to work, but families are also paying for health care and even transport to get to that healthcare. So, the ripple effect is much bigger. I remember vividly during the first caller outbreak that I was working on, there was a a woman came in. She was lifeless and we had multiple members of staff were trying to get an IV into her so that we could rehydrate her and one of my colleagues luckily succeeded. When I came back to the ward a couple of hours later, she was sitting up in bed and she she waved at me. And that's an example. This woman was the bread winner for the family. So if she had died, they not only would have lost their mother, but they would have lost their income as well. So the effects are much broader than we initially think of. So what can people do to keep themselves and their loved ones safe from CO? >> There essentially five things. One is to make sure that they are drinking and cooking with safe water. The second is implementing hygiene measures. So that means as I mentioned earlier, washing hands after going to the toilet before preparing food and before eating. A third thing is cooking food thoroughly and making sure you eat it while it's still hot. Seeking treatment quickly is also very important because the disease develops so rapidly. And the final thing is vaccination. If there is a vaccination campaign in your community, make sure that you and your whole family get vaccinated. And remember, individuals can be part of the solution by sharing accurate information. You can share accurate information on how cholera spreads and how it can be prevented. That information can help save lives. And even if your community isn't directly affected, you can advocate to your government or authorities to ensure that everyone has access to safe water and toilets. No one should die because they don't have access to safe water. >> Thank you, Kate. That was Science in Five today. Until next time then, stay safe, stay healthy, and stick with science.