 good morning, honourable ministers, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. It is my pleasure to welcome you to the launch of the WHO Health Emergency Appeal 2026. To begin, I have the honour of inviting our co-host to deliver opening remarks, his Excellency, Mr. Noel White, permanent representative of Ireland to the United Nations in Geneva. Thank you. Thank you very much. Director General, colleagues, it is a great pleasure to welcome all here this morning to launch the WHO Health Emergency Appeal 2026. I am delighted to do this morning co-hosting with my colleague from Norway. DG, it is self-evident and we have discussed this in many places that the world faces multiple and overlapping health emergencies from climate-driven crises to conflict-induced health service delivery disruptions and to the ever-present threat of pandemics. These pressing global health issues threats, rather, are fuelling deeper, longer-lasting health crises and, of course, as a result, putting the world's most vulnerable at even greater risk. The fact of the matter is that every humanitarian crisis is a health crisis. The work of the WHO's Health Emergencies Programme, the agility and the rapid response of the Contingency Fund for emergencies and indeed the WHO's collaboration with civil society and other partners remains crucial if we are to support countries in preventing and preparing for and responding to and indeed recovering from health emergencies. It has been a difficult year for the WHO and for many others in the multilateral community, but we're glad to see that the Health Emergencies Programme remains a priority for this organization. And now more than ever, the WHO has a crucial role to play in assessing public health risks and needs in fulfilling its coordinating function and working together with all health actors so that the scarce resources for health emergencies are used to maximum effect. At precisely the moment when we should be coming together in solidarity to secure better health for all, we are in fact seeing significant reductions in the volume of official development assistance with very real negative impacts on the health and the well-being of those who need it most. Like others, Director-General and colleagues, Ireland will not look away and humanitarian assistance is an integral part of our foreign policy, of our values in action. Partnering with the WHO is an expression of solidarity with crisis-affected communities and a demonstration of our commitment to the right to health for all. Ireland is proud to support the WHO's humanitarian function through unnear marked contributions and through flexible, predictable support for the Contingency Fund for emergencies. In 2025, we have been amongst the largest donors to the Fund, and for the period of 26-28, we are further committed to provide predictable financing, which includes a specific allocation for emergencies amongst other areas. We remain deeply committed to enhancing global health generally, to strengthening health systems, and to accelerating progress towards universal health coverage. We are fully supportive of the WHO and the protection of health and well-being, especially for those in crisis. We believe that together we can save lives, we can safeguard health as a universal right, and we can help communities to rebuild in the wake of crisis. So as ever, Director-General, we will be with you in support, we will complement your efforts, and we work together with you to achieve better outcomes for all. Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your excellency and for Ireland's strong support to global health. I now have the pleasure in inviting the WHO Director-General, Dr Tedros Cabriersos, to deliver his remarks. Thank you. Thank you, Ambassador White, for your support. Thank you so much. Excellencies, Honourable Ministers, Ambassadors, their partners, colleagues and friends. Thank you for joining us for the launch of the WHO Health Emergency Appeal for 2026. Around one quarter of a billion people are living through humanitarian crisis that have stripped away safety, shelter and access to health care. These are families displaced again and again, children growing up amid conflict, communities experiencing crisis after crisis with little opportunity to recover. For millions of people, crisis is no longer an interruption to life. It has become the condition of life. Health systems in fragile settings are under sustained strain. When they falter, the consequences are immediate and severe. These pressures are unfolding in a global context that has changed. Many governments face real fiscal constraints and political attention is turning inward. Resources are being redirected to domestic priorities, including defence. Global defence spending now exceeds 2.5 trillion US dollars a year while humanitarian and health financing is experiencing its sharpest decline in a decade. The result is a widening gap between what people need and what the system can provide. Nearly 10 years ago, in the aftermath of Ebola, members say it has created the WHO Health Emergencies Program. The purpose was clear, to protect lives during emergencies while strengthening national health systems, not bypassing them. Since then, the program has reshaped how WHO works in crisis. It has enabled earlier detection of outbreaks and faster response to emergencies. Last year, WHO responded to 50 emergencies across 82 countries and territories, supporting more than 30 million people with essential health services. We help keep thousands of health facilities functioning and we sustained outbreak detection and response in fragile settings. In recent months, we have stood with WHO teams and partners in some of the world's most fragile settings. We have listened to families who have fled repeatedly. We have spoken with health workers who continue their work under fire. We have seen clinics destroyed, ambulances targeted and health workers killed. We have seen patients turned away when medicines ran out and women forced to give birth in unsafe conditions. Amid these pressures, one constant remains. Health at the human right. Health enables a child in Ukraine to keep learning because vaccines and mental health support are available. It allows a mother in the occupied Palestinian territory to deliver safely in a temporary clinic. It keeps Kholerat Bay in camps in Sudan. It ensures that people living with diabetes in Yemen can survive displacement and loss. In 2026, WHO is adapting its emergency response again. We are applying the discipline of emergency medicine, focusing first on actions that save lives. We are placing greater emphasis on country leadership and local partnerships. We are concentrating on areas where WHO adds the greatest value and reducing duplication so that every dollar has maximum impact. Today, WHO is appealing for $1 billion to sustain its emergency operations in 2026. These resources are needed to maintain essential services, prevent outbreaks and support those delivering care in the hardest conditions. Predictable and flexible funding allows WHO to act early and prevent emergencies from escalating at far greater human and financial costs. Disappear is a call to stand with people living through conflict, displacement and disaster. It's a call to keep health at the heart of humanitarian action. I thank you. Thank you very much, Dr. Tedros. Next, we'll hear from Haiti and Ukraine, where WHO is working in partnership with the government and local partners. First, I invite her Excellency, Ms. Anne Katerin-Laseg, Permanent Representative of Haiti, to the United Nations in Geneva. Thank you so much for giving me the floor. Mr. Director General, Excellencies, Distinguished Colleagues. I thank the World Health Organization for bringing us together at this crucial moment. The Health Emergency Appeal is not merely a financial mechanism. It's a lifeline for millions of people whose health and survival depends on our collective actions. For Haiti, Health Emergency setting is not a theoretical notion. It's a daily reality. Our country is facing an overlapping crisis in security, population displacement, climate shock, earthquake, fragile infrastructure and persistent humanitarian needs. This pressure places immense strain on our already fragile health system and above all on our population, particularly women, children and the most vulnerable communities. Since 2010, Haiti has experienced a nearly uninterrupted succession of emergencies. The 2010 earthquake, followed by the cholera epidemic, marked the beginning of a decade of successive shocks. The following years saw the emergence of epidemics such as Shikunguia, Zika, and more recently, COVID-19, as well as the resurgence of cholera. The aftermath of Hurricane Matthew in 1016 and the 2021 earthquake continues to wait on our health infrastructure in the climate of political instability and recurring violence. Added to these shocks have been major social political crisis, urban violence, pollens and stability, internal population displacement, attack on health facilities, and growing food and security. The accumulation of crisis exerts constant pressure on our health system and limit its recovery capacity. Today in Haiti, health facilities operate in areas marked by insecurity, where access to both patient and health personnel is often hindered. Displaced population require essential care, vaccination services, management of chronic disease, and maternal health care. Epidemic outbreaks, whether cholera or other threats, demand constant surveillance and rapid response capacity. Every service interruption can have immediate consequences for life of families. In this context, access to essential health service become both difficult and more vital. Health emergencies do not only cost life directly, they weaken resilience, exacerbate inequality, and slow recovery. The situation in my country, Haiti, also remind us of an essential lesson. Resilience in the face of emergency is built before and during crisis. The initial response decided during the first 24 to 48 hours, rely primarily on our country's pre-existing capacity, a period during which the number of lives saved is the highest. Strengthening health service during period of calm, including primary health care, surveillance, human resources, supply chains, information system, and governments, constitute one of the most cost-effective investments to mitigate the impact of future shocks. In this period of strengthening that we attach great value to our partnership with the Pan-American Health Organization and the World Health Organization, the presence of PAHO, WHO in the field, through technical support, assistance with coordination, surveillance, emergency response, and system strengthening, is essential to maintaining vital services under extremely complex circumstances. But it must be stated clearly, humanitarian health action cannot be sustained amid uncertainty. Predictable, flexible, and rapid financial is indispensable. When resources are delayed or fragmented, response capacity weakens. When support is continuous, lives are saved. Systems stabilize and recovery become possible. Investing in emergency health response is a shared responsibility, essential to global stability, and the preservation of human dignity. We therefore strongly support the WHO Health Emergency Appeal and call on partners to maintain and strengthen their commitment. Behind every line of this appeal are real people, real communities, and a future at stake. Let us ensure that help remain at the heart of emergency response, not as secondary element, but as a priority. I thank you. Thank you very much, Ambassador, for this powerful intervention. Second, I invite His Excellency, Mr. Yoveni Honchar, the Deputy Minister of Health of Ukraine. Hello. Civilian casualties reached the highest level in 2025, with more than 2,800 attacks on healthcare documented signs in 2022. Also Russia weaponized winter by timing attacks on Ukrainian power and heating system to maximize civilian harm. Strikes focused firstly on high impact nodes, combined heat and power plant, transformers agreed for creating cascading failures across heat, water, and savage networks. Thus infrastructure is also targeted to weaker system. And right now in Kiev, the capital of Ukraine, where living, I guess, 10% of all population is around minus 2020 below zero, and Russia's attacking heating plant. When electricity is cut, surgeries cannot be performed, intensive care units cannot operate, and life-saving equipment falls. Supporting Ukraine energy resilience is therefore not only about infrastructure, it's also about keeping hospitals functioning and saving lives. In this context, Ukraine deeply values its strong partnership with the World Health Organization. It would like to express my sincere gratitude to WHO for its unvarying support of strengthening Ukraine's healthcare system. As we launch the WHO Health Emergency Appeal for 2026, Ukraine strongly supports the call for sustained and predictable financing. Continued investment is essential. To maintain health service, protect lives, and ensure resilience, especially specifically in Ukraine, where the health system operates under daily attacks. We also thank WHO leadership, in particular the WHO team in Ukraine for standing with Ukrainians in Harkiv, Odessa, Dnipro, and Kiev through this freezing winter. Thank you. All colleagues. Thank you, Your Excellency, for these important reflections. We now turn to WHO's operational response, and it is my pleasure to invite Dr. Chikwe Ihekweatsu, the Executive Director of the Health Emergency Programme, to share his remarks. Thank you. Excellencies, distinguished delegates, thanks for coming out so early to join us. Thank you for your engagement at the moment when global needs are rising faster than the world's capacity to respond. As reflected in the 2026 global humanitarian overview, the humanitarian system has entered a new era of hyper-prioritization. What does this word mean? Hyper-prioritization. Responders are being forced to focus only on the most essential, life-saving interventions, because the gap between the needs and resources has never been wider. And we have incredibly hard choices to make. This is the reality that shapes the WHO humanitarian appeal before us today. In this environment, the WHO's role is irreplaceable, as a health cluster lead agency, as the provider of last resort, and as the organization that is uniquely mandated to stay and deliver health services when no one else can. Across 24 health crises, the WHO coordinates more than 1,500 partners, and critically, most of these are national and local organizations. This leadership ensures that scarce resources go exactly where they have the greatest impact. And when these partners cannot reach communities due to insecurity or system collapse or access constraints, it's double-edged a step in to keep health services functioning. This is what being the provider of last resort means in practice. Our Director General already provided a high-level picture. Now let me just highlight a few examples, six examples of what exactly this means. In Sudan, where up to 80% of health facilities are non-functional, the WHO has kept the essential health services alive by delivering over 3,300 tons of medical supplies, supporting civilization centers for over 100,000 severely malnourished children. In Gaza, where the health system has collapsed, the WHO supported a dedicated rehabilitation hospital, deployed emergency medical teams, provided assistive devices, and conducted a large-scale medical evacuation, have continuously conducted large-scale medical evacuations for critically ill patients. And this is just a small sample of the work we do in Gaza. In Afghanistan, a crisis many have forgotten. Reduced humanitarian financing has already forced the closure of over 400 health facilities. The BLHC is concentrating limited resources on high-impact services such as maternal care, routine immunization, surveillance, emergency treatment, which no one else is doing. In Ukraine, you've already heard some of the details from our colleague. The BLHC is supporting expanding psychosocial services, rehabilitation services for over 600,000 people, missions to the frontline regions, strength and trauma care, emergency medical services, ICU capacity, preparedness and response to chemical and biological threats. When major health care stock, Myanmar, the BLHC has a great three-level response within 24 hours, deploying over 20 EMTs and medical teams, providing trauma care and 170 tons of supplies. In Haiti, extreme violence, as you've heard, has forced the closure of most health services, leaving a quarter of the inpatient centers non-functional. Dear colleagues, we are the one organization able to maintain health services and outbreak response, coordinating partners as the health cluster lead to ensure the continuity of care. With 66% of health cluster partners being local or national, we are deliberately shifting financing and decision-making to bring it closer to delivery point. In Ukraine alone, more than half of the BLHC's emergency funding already goes directly to local partners. In model, we are expanding Afghanistan, Lebanon, Myanmar, Sudan, Somalia and Yemen. In 2025, the BLHC supported over 30 million people across 50 emergencies, kept 8,000 health facilities working, deployed 1,370 mobile clinics, delivered 5.3 million childhood vaccines and enabled 3.9 million mental health consultations. These results show clearly, every dollar invested in our organization produces life-saving and measurable impact. Therefore, hyper-prioritization means investing to save lives. The BLHC must be financially supported to ensure that the millions we serve are not left behind, are not left without essential care. We have proven time and time again that when we deliver that value through global standard setting, technical authority, rapid response capacity, operational presence, leadership of the health cluster, that no other agency can replicate to deliver humanitarian help. Excellencies in the United Nations. When health systems hold, communities hold. When BLHC is funded, health systems hold. We ask for your partnership to sustain this work, now that it matters more than ever before. Thank you very much. Thank you very much Dr Chiquay for outlining this scope, scale and urgency of WHO's emergency operations. Next we'll hear from one of our health cluster partners, Dr Alia Bajo, the CEO of KOSIMED in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Over to you. Thank you very much. Thank you sir, I confirm that we can hear you and see you. Yes sir. We express our sincere appreciation to the World Health Organization for the invitation and this opportunity given to KOSIMED to share its experience during the WHO Health Emergency IPL 2026 large event. This reflects the value of strong partnership between international institutions and national actors in advancing effective community-centered responses to health emergencies. KOSIMED is a national partner, based in the Democratic Republic of Congo DRC, one of the countries with humanitarian settings and health emergencies where access constraints, fragile systems and community mistrack can significantly underdetermine response effort. Our experience demonstrates that preparedness and response depend not only on technical solutions but fundamentally on meaningful engagement with local actors and affected communities. Local health workers, community leaders, civil society organizations and community-based networks are often the first to detect unusual health events in hard to reach and insecure areas. KOSIMED, with the financial support of International Development Research Center, IDRC, and the technical collaboration with WHO country office and Ministry of Health in DRC, developed the AFIAGAP platform to enable communities to share outlets, report and meet needs and local solutions. AFIAGAP demonstrates how community-level capacity can be thwartened to support yearly detection, rapid outlets and coordinated response. Beyond AFIAGAP, KOSIMED collaborates closely with WHO in the implementation of self-affounded projects, including the delivery of insensual health commodities to remote and hard to access areas, as well as the implementation of community engagement activities. In addition to operational and technical collaboration, KOSIMED works closely with WHO in supporting humanitarian health coordination mechanisms at both national and subnational levels. KOSIMED saves as a colleague of the sexual and reproductive health working group, secretary of the mental health and psychosocial support working group, and secretary of the subnational health cluster in North Kiv, India. This joint effort demonstrates how collaboration between WHO and national partners enables global strategies and technical guidance to be translated into timely, locally adapted action on the ground. Thank you. Over to you. Thank you very much, Dr. Badger, for this very important perspective. As we draw this event to a close, I have the pleasure in inviting our final speaker and co-host, Ms. Marita Serhimrensvik, deputy permanent representative of Norway and the United Nations in Geneva. Thank you. Thank you, Director-General, the wider WHO, co-hosts and all colleagues. Today we've heard about people living through conflict, disaster and displacement, and about the health workers serving them. Humanitarian workers, including health workers, are heroes in today's conflicts, at least the national staff, often receiving little or no pay, going long days and nights without sleep, months, even years away from their families. And they are frequently being attacked, seemingly deliberately. They put their lives on the line to help others. From Palestine to Ukraine and Sudan, attacks on healthcare devastate health systems and cost lives. In 2025 alone, the WHO verified 1,350 attacks, killing nearly 2,000 patients and health workers. This is outrageous. The national humanitarian law is crystal clear on the obligation to protect civilians. Attacks must stop immediately, and we must do what we can to make them. That's why Norway has supported the WHO attacks on healthcare projects since 2018.  it tracks and verifies attacks and documents the casualties they cause, working to make both patients and staff safer. When a crisis hits, we often see pictures of field hospitals and hear interviews with foreign doctors and nurses. Such a surge of capacity is very welcome and a testament to health ecosystem evolving over the years. The WHO coordinates this emergency health response, often like in Gaza during the war, playing an essential role in maintaining a pipeline of medical supplies to regular hospitals and emergency hospitals alike. The WHO supports the regular healthcare system before, during and after disaster strikes. Behind the scenes, the WHO is supporting the national and local health services, local clinics that treat minor health trouble before they become major ones, large hospitals that deal with complex and severe injuries or diseases. They keep life-saving health services running in crisis but also where there is no crisis. The WHO is key in supporting the detection of outbreaks of disease and in their containment. A crisis we never heard about because it never happened. Finally, the WHO plays an important role in healthcare systems, providing amongst other sexual and reproductive health services that allow both men and women, boys and girls, people with disabilities and the chronically ill, the services they need to live their lives healthily as possible. Now is pleased to support the WHO's work to strengthen health systems in order to reach all groups of people with assistance because inclusion is right and the only way to a healthy and thriving community. As we are launching the WHO's Emergency Appeal for 2026, I have been encouraged to share just a few pieces about Norwegian support. We know of course that the humanitarian situation in a large number of crises are dire. Needs are increasing while funding is decreasing. The money must last as long as possible. Norway expects our humanitarian partners to do their utmost to collaborate and find joint solutions to reduce costs and enhance efficiency, to use local staff and organizations when possible and its national staff and organizations when necessary. The WHO supports the national emergency health systems to achieve this goal. Another way to get money to last longer and we have heard this today from many of you is to provide flexible and predictable contributions and that is on us as donors to secure. Our support to WHO's country level appeals is un-airmarked. We also provide multi-year support and funding for pooled emergency funds which allows our partners to disperse funds quickly without external approval routines when a crisis occurs. The WHO's Continuity Fund for Emergencies is one such pool fund that we have supported since 2018. Last year, like the year before, we gave about 5 million US dollars. And the beauty of this fund, of course, is that it allows WHO to allocate funding as a starter or even before a crisis happens, thereby saving time resources and more lives. And if a donor later decides to support this particular country situation, the money goes back into the fund and in this way the funding can effectively be used over and over to provide more efficient and effective assistance. Nor will we continue to support emergency pooled funding mechanisms in 2026, aiming to provide as unmarked funding as possible. We have already disbursed 100 million Norwegian Kona to Palestine and 55 million to Ukraine this year for this year's appeal and we intend to further support the emergency appeals with a significant amount. And so, let's all encourage each other to continue our international solidarity, ensuring that health remains at the heart of humanitarian action and to continue to provide unmarked and predictable funding to the WHO, because it really matters. Thank you.