Tuberculosis is in the news, but not for the right reasons. A severe resource shortage is threatening the global response to end TB. And the disease is appearing in places where people had forgotten that it existed. Is the world on the brink of a global TB crisis? We are talking about a millennia-old disease that the world has not been able to end. In fact, in the five minutes that you will watch this Science in 5, 11 people would have died of tuberculosis. Our expert today is Doctor Tereza Kasaeva. Welcome, Tereza. Tereza, I heard something that I was also not aware of and it surprised me that a quarter of the world's population could be infected with TB and not even know it. Could you explain that? How concerned should we be? You are absolutely right, Vismita. The world doesn't seem to recognize how widespread the TB bacteria is. An estimated one in four people globally have been infected with TB bacteria, and yet not many of them realize the risks. While only five to ten percent of people infected with TB will develop an active disease, that's more than 10 million people falling ill every year. So Tereza, TB is a highly infectious disease, right. It's airborne. It spreads through air. Is there a cure? What's the treatment and how do we diagnose it? TB is in fact a curable disease, but it requires completion of treatment. It would take several months, from four to six months of treatment with a combination of antibiotics. And even the most challenging, difficult forms of drug-resistant tuberculosis could be successfully treated. We have much better options available now. We have shorter, fully oral, injection-free treatments and more effective treatment now available. While tuberculosis affects primarily lungs, it could affect also other parts of our body - bones and joints, skin, kidneys and even the brain. Tuberculosis could be successfully treated. but the essential condition is early detection using rapid molecular diagnostic tests, including for the detection of drug resistant tuberculosis. Tereza, how can we protect ourselves and our loved ones from TB? Protecting ourselves and our loved ones starts with awareness, early detection and treatment. Consult your physician if you see symptoms like prolonged coughing, fever, or weight loss, especially if you've been in contact with someone diagnosed with tuberculosis recently. This is especially important if you are belonging to one of the so-called risk groups like children, people with immuno compromised systems, people with HIV/AIDS and diabetes and undernourished. So are we, is the world really on the brink of a TB crisis? In short, yes. Tuberculosis is the of the world's deadliest infectious disease. Remember, tuberculosis is a disease of poverty exacerbated by stigma, conflict and migration. Tereza, why should the world invest in TB? And why is that more important now than ever? Investing in the TB response is not only a global health issue, it is a social, economic and global health security imperative. Tuberculosis devastates economies. It affects people in their most productive ages. It increases significantly health care costs. It drains the workforce. Unfortunately, millions of people with tuberculosis still don't have access to the lifesaving treatment due to the chronic and significant funding gaps. For the first time in more than over a century, we have 16 vaccine candidates in the pipeline and we know that vaccines could become game changers in the fight against TB. That's why urgent investments in TB research are required. Strengthening TB programmes actually improves global pandemic preparedness. TB is an urgent crisis, but one we can end if we act now. The cost of inaction is measured in lives and we can't afford to lose any more. That was Science in 5 today. Until next time then, stay safe, stay healthy and stick with science.