Every year who selects a health topic to highlight it during the celebration of World Health Day. This year the topic of World Health Day is food safety under the slogan from farm to plate. Make food safe. The safety of our food is something that is fundamental to the health and well-being of every single one of us. Safe food underpins sustainable life and allows us to enjoy good health. Unsafe food can lead to a range of diseases and impedes soio economic development by straining health care systems and harming tourism and trade. Ansafe food is known to be involved in more than 200 different diseases from communicable diseases such as cola and other diaral diseases to a range of non-communicable diseases including various forms of cancer and food born and waterborn diseases can kill an estimated 2 million people every year including many children. WHO seeks to encourage and promote public health actions that will strengthen and improve the safety of our food. Food safety is not an issue for the health sector to deal with on its own. Public health actions must be anchored in the governments of our member states and include actions among the different stakeholders in their civil and business communities. So farmers, food industry, food business operators and consumers need to come together and work alongside the health sector and the government in order to understand the significance of their respective roles. And this needs strong coordination. We all want our food to be safe. Yet a study shows that in one part of our region only 28% of people wash their hands with soap and water after a toilet visit. In addition, many people do not consult a doctor when suffering from diarrhea and often in turn the doctor does not request a laboratory analysis to confirm the identity of the organism causing the illness. And even when a laboratory analysis is made and the causitive agent is identified, this result may not be reported to the national surveillance system. We must all recognize that personal hygiene in all contexts, including food handling and preparation, is an issue that should be addressed vigorously in the home, in schools, in the workplace, everywhere. We want our food to be safe. Under the international health regulations, governments have agreed to establish the national core capacity which is needed to deal with food safety events of international significance. In other words, governments have committed themselves to establish, operate and maintain well functioning food safety systems. And such systems must span the domains of all the ministries and sectors concerned in the food continuing from farm to fork. This crucial task is being prioritized in some countries of our region. But in others, food safety systems are fragmented, they are underfunded, and they are underststaffed. Of the 22 member states of the WHO Eastern Mediterranean region, only five have reported that they meet completely the core capacity requirements of the international health regulations with regard to food safety. And it is my firm belief that reform of food safety systems and revision and updating of food laws should be placed high on the public health agenda of all member states. And I call on ministers of health and ministers of agriculture and their colleagues and other ministries involved to get together and to review the food safety situation in their own countries and initiate action when necessary. I recognize that this is no easy task. In fact, the area of food safety may be viewed as a litmus test of government ability to foster multis sectoral dialogue and interministerial coordination, especially between the health, agriculture and trade sectors. But I must stress that only the health sector can take the lead in this particular exercise. And for this reason, we in WHO would like to see all our member states meet in full the core capacity requirements for food safety laid down by the international health regulations and then go further still in their endeavors to protect the health of their own populations. WHO is always ready to work with member states that may need our support to engage in such initiatives. In our region, we have countries that rely almost entirely on imported food to meet the needs of their populations. But we also have countries whose national economies are highly reliant on their ability to meet international standards and so gain access to export markets for their products. In both cases, the safety of the food involved can be ensured only through collaboration between the countries of origin and the countries where the food is consumed. Consumers expect their food to be safe regardless of its origin. And we all need safe food to sustain our good health. So on this World Health Day, from farm to plate, make food safe. Thank you.