Did you know that chronic low back pain is a major cause of disability around the world? How big is this issue? What kind of treatment should you ask for? And how can you manage your pain? Here to talk about it, is Dr Yuka Sumi. Welcome Yuka. Talk to us about chronic low back pain. Low back pain is a common experience. Our estimates suggest that in 2020, 1 in 13 people had low back pain. By 2050, even more people will be affected, especially in low- and middle-income countries where the population are getting bigger and people living longer. It is important to recognize that low back pain can affect people of all ages. Low back pain can badly affect your well-being and quality of life. It can impact your physical capacity, sleep, participation at school, work, at home, social life and your relationships. That makes low back the leading cause of disability. Is it inevitable that as we age we will get low back pain? No, we all can achieve healthy ageing. Low back pain is not inevitable for everyone. Talk to us about treatments, what kind of care should we ask for? Treatment should consider your needs, values and preferences. I will give you examples. It might be important for you to pick up your grandchild or go for long walks or simply have a good night’s sleep. The treatment should prioritize for you to do or to continue to do whatever that is important to you. Specific treatments might include: effective self-care, physical therapies such as exercise and massage, psychological therapies that can help you to focus on what you can do, not on the pain, and anti-inflammatory medicine. We also have evidence of what does not work. For instance, manual therapies such as traction or some electrotherapies such as ultrasound, using electric current, lumbar braces, and some medicines that do not work, such as anti-depressants and muscle relaxants. Once one does have low back pain, does that mean you just have to live with it? Could you share some tips to manage this pain? Even if you have chronic low back pain it is entirely possible for you to keep doing things that you love. Some key tips are: First, be confident in your spine and its ability to support your activities. Pain does not necessarily mean your spine is damaged. In fact, the spine is one of the strongest structures in our body. If you’re unsure or need guidance see your health workers for advice. Secondly, learn how to manage flare-ups and pace yourself. Flare-ups can happen from time to time, they don’t necessarily mean you are damaging your spine. Thirdly, continue or restart physical exercise, gradually. Start at low intensity for short time periods. Being physically active can help you to cope with chronic low back pain. Finally, discuss your chronic low back pain openly with your healthcare workers, including your mental well-being and social context, so that they can help you to identify your suitable treatment options that you can agree on and that will work best for you. Thank you Yuka. That was Science in 5 today, until next time then.