Access is important for me because I have seen the difference that exists for people with disability, specifically the way in which they are treated. Before I could do everything easily, but after my road accident my life changed completely. We became poor and I ended up living in this house, in one room with eight people. The hardest obstacle for my independence has been the attitude of the people. They think that we can’t do many things. Also, the steps and architectural barriers. I had an experience in the Casa de la Cultura  with the director. There were many steps and I couldn’t enter so I sent someone to call for help and when the director came, surprised, he said ‘what’s happened, what’s happened, why are you like this? He thought that I was there to beg for money, and had not thought that I was working, or that I was doing other things. Access is important for me in my city because I live here I am here and I want to participate in my city. Therefore, it is because of this that I have worked with people with different disabilities to achieve better access and increased participation for people with disabilities. With the campaign our biggest achievement was that they have constructed 275 ramps in Sucre and it was for the first time, therefore we were very happy We have made visible the subject of disability through the ramps. The role of the murals has played has been important because it has raised awareness amongst the people who live in Sucre, because it has shown the rights of people with disabilities, the right that we have to access education, health, sport, culture and all that you do within society. Estrella, what was your participation in the mural? I made a figure out of clay. I wanted to represent a blind person in the street, moving about easily. Well, although sometimes we need help, we can do it. Of course, thank you, and you Maria Victoria? Also blind people go to school, to various institutes, although it takes us a little time to learn. But also they can do sport. I painted this mural because I had a vision that all the people without hearing impairments could study, could enter university and could become professionals and I saw that as a deaf person I should also be in the university. So I went to study, graduate from college and now I see the necessity to go to university. In the future I think that people with disabilities, we are going to participate more. I have a strong belief in young people with disabilities and I therefore want to support the development of leaders. I want to live my life like any other woman. I want to have the same rights as other people. I want people to see me as I am, a human being, a woman, and not a person who is ill, because I am not ill. This is disability to me. What is it to you?