Good afternoon to all of you uh exe executive board members and representative of member states. Ladies and gentlemen, let me welcome you to this briefing on seeker situation. I will give you a brief history of the disease and explain why WH is so deeply concerned. The seeker virus was first isolated in 1947 from a monkey in the sika forest of Uganda. Its historical home has been in a narrow equatorial belt stretching across Africa and into equatortorial Asia. For decades, for decades, the disease transmitted by the adis genus of mosquito slumbered affecting mainly monkeys. In humans, Sika occasionally cause a mild disease of low concern. In 2007, Sika expanded its geographical range to cause the first documented outbreak in the Pacific Islands. In the Federated States of Micronia from 2013 to 2014, four additional Pacific Island nations documented seeker outbreaks. In French Polynesia, the Sika outbreak was associated with neurological complic complications at a time when the virus was co-irculating with dangi. This was a unique feature, but it was difficult to interpret. The situation today is dramatically different. Last year, the virus was detected in the Americas where it is now spreading explosively. As of today, cases have been reported in 23 countries and territories in the region. The level of alarm is extremely high. Arrival of the virus in some places has been associated with a steep increase in the birth of babies with abnormally small heads and in cases of gang beret syndrome. A cautial relationship between Sika virus infection and birth malf forations and neurological symptoms. Let me repeat this one. A casual relationship between Sika virus infection and birth malf formations and neurological syndromes has not yet been established. This is a very important point but it is strongly suspected. The possible links only recently suspected have rapidly changed the risk profile of seeker from a mild threat to one of alarming proportions. The increased incidence of microphille is particularly alarming as it places a heartbreaking burden on families and communities. WTO is deeply concerned about this rapidly evolving situation for four main reasons. First, the possible association of infection with birth malf forations and neurological syndromes. Second, the potential for further international spread given the wide geographical distribution of the mosquito vector. Third, the lack of population immunity in newly affected areas. fourth and the absence of vaccines specific treatments and the absence of rapid diagnostic tests. Moreover, conditions associated with this year's Elino weather pattern are expected to increase mosquito populations greatly in many places. The level of concern is high as is the level of uncertainty. Questions abound. We need to get some answers quickly. For all these reasons, I have decided to convene an emergency committee under the international health regulations. The committee will meet in Geneva on Monday 1st February. I am asking the committee for advice on the appropriate level of international concern and for recommended measures that should be undertaken in affected countries and elsewhere. I will also ask the committee to prioritize areas where research is most urgently needed. Decisions concerning the committee's advice to me will be made public on our website. So on that, let me thank you uh for your attention and for joining us uh in this afternoon's briefing.