All week long we've been talking about work at the World Health Assembly here in Geneva. WHO works at global level, regional level, and country level. So, what happens after this week is over? How does what was achieved here this week translate to improving your health in your community? Joining me now to talk about that is somebody that has been at every level, country level, regional level, and global level. Dr. Carissa Cararissa Etien, who is our regional director for the Americas. She's worked at national level. She's worked here in Geneva, and now she runs uh the region. Uh Cararissa, thanks for joining us. How do we move forward from here? We've been following a lot of progress here uh this week. Once the World Health Assembly ends next Tuesday, how does it go forward to make a difference at regional and national level? Thank you, Christie. I'd like to say the real work begins after after the assembly because we we need to go to the regional level to ensure that our technical cooperation meets the needs of member states but importantly we need to work with member states to ensure um that they can meet the targets and the objectives that have been set. Okay. So for instance, let's take the malaria resolution was passed and member states decided that they wanted to eliminate malaria from 35 countries. So we need to go back and see what does that mean for the region. We need to define a plan of action for 2016209. Our last plan of action will end this year. But we need to focus now on which countries we are going to eliminate malaria from. And we've already decided that in Central America and Dominican Republic and Haiti, we will move to eliminate um malaria. And importantly, we have 21 endemic countries. And we have to decide now how are we going to ensure that by 2015 the end of 2015 we will have a 75% reduction in incidents. Now this is not easy but we know that we can we know that we can achieve it. As you know the American region is a region of achievements. No we are the region that does everything first. So so so we we will be happy. So going back um next week in June we have executive committee we will begin to look at some of those targets and how we are organizing to do this but more importantly we'll then go to country level we need to work with our member states to ensure that everyone who has malaria is diagnosed and treated but more importantly that we prevent it and and so the political commitment and the political will is important and because many of our ministers have been here and because they too are really very committed to achieving universal health coverage and universal access to health. They want to themselves eliminate malaria and to reduce the incident. So the political will is going to be important. We need to make sure that we strengthen our health systems to do that. Integrated vector control. We need to get rid of the mosquitoes. No. And we have to prevent the mosquitoes from biting the people so they get infected and and um importantly as well to ensure that we have treatment. important that malaria is within the list of priority programs and that we have access to the prevention to the care and to the treatment that they need in a cost that people can afford. No. Okay. And doesn't impoverish them. Does anything that happens here in Geneva ever get adapted at all for nuances of a region? Always in our region. Yes. See we are a region we like to say has made many achievements. So for instance um polio we don't we we don't have polio eradication as one of our object objectives we have maintaining and sustaining the elimination of polio. So we do um adapt many of the resolutions and the plans of actions for the specificities of the region. So you get that kind of flexibility. Yes we do. Yes. All right. So talk about what happens at country level now. So you go back to the region, you make a strategy uh at country level, go back to your chief medical officer days. What happens when you're watching this from a country? Uh so and I will I will I will take an example. So let's say the global um global action vaccine the global vaccine plan was passed. No. And the region will pass its regional plan. So I need to go to country level as a chief medical officer and see okay there are number of new vaccines that I need to include on my vaccination schedule can my government afford it so I will seek Paho's help to help us to make the investment case to see whether the country can afford it and whether the country will include it in its budget and so I will I will be ensure and assured of the money to purchase the vaccines. I then have to look at our national um vaccine plan and make sure that I include some of those vaccines but also that I expand the coverage where necessary to meet the targets that have been set. No. And and then I must build the capacity of the healthcare workers particularly if there are new vaccines. I have to make make sure that the infrastructure from vaccines that their fridges and that the cold chain is being kept else the vaccines are not worth it and will not immunize. and and then I have to ensure good surveillance and I've ensured good good reporting and this as a chief medical officer I have done with extremely good success which is the story for all of Latin America and the Caribbean. You will know and this is a little time for advertisement but you will know that we are the first region that has eliminated polio eliminated reubella and congenital rubella syndrome. Yes, that's huge just last week. Congratulations by the way. And next year it will be measles. Yeah, that's wonderful. Wonderful. Carissa, thanks for coming by. So uh in essence, the people uh the chief medical officers at country level are watching what's happening here at the World Health Assembly this week. Yes. And some of them are here actually. So some of them travel with their ministers um because they are the the uh to give technical advice to the ministers in terms of what how do they want to change the resolutions? What are some of the issues that need to put into the plan of action? And so some of them are here as well and that also helps build the commitment to ensure um the implementation at country level. Super. Dr. Carissa Etien, thank you so much and congratulations on that progress that you've made in the America's region. It it really is quite huge. So there you go. This is going to conclude our coverage actually uh for world health plus social good at the World Health Assembly uh here in Geneva. I hope you found it useful in connecting into ways uh that we are trying to improve public health at all levels.