It was uh less than 10 years ago that I remember I was at a meeting in China in the middle part of 2005 and uh out of nowhere um someone at the sides of the meeting uh um showed me and and g gave me a a prototype of what turned out to be the appar that turned into the ecigarette which evolved into other products. Uh and uh this was the original prototype that was uh developed in China and in less than 10 years uh this product has now literally globalized. Um it is now in almost all countries of the world and uh and has grown in from a from an embryionic uh um concept in uh less than 10 years ago to now a $3 billion um and unregulated uh market more or less unregulated market in many uh many parts of the world. Ecigarettes also in this rapid globalization as well um pose certain um um promises and certain threats u in many parts of the world uh they are unregulated. A new report highlights a number of health risk of electronic cigarettes. First, nicotine is highly addictive, a key component of electronic cigarettes and affects the brain development of adolescence and fetuses of uh pregnant women. Second, uh they not they're they're not just uh water vapor as uh indicated by the marketing of these products. They contain chemicals and usually even a few uh cancer-causing agents. Underlying reasons for regulation are really to impede then uh uh the promotion of these products to uh to non-smokers and youth uh and really to minimize the uh the health risks to both users and non-users of ecigarettes and related products. um to uh absolutely pro prohibit uh unsubstantiated health claims and then absolutely to prevent the tobacco industry from undermining the great success that we've seen in tobacco control because let's face it, I mean the tobacco industry uh is now a major producer and manufacturer of ecigarettes and related products. Electronic cigarettes contain nicotine, other chemicals, and usually a few cancer-causing substances. Although a much lower level than conventional cigarette, that doesn't mean that they are not without risk. Well, I can say the the the report indicates that there's no sufficient evidence as to whether electronic cigarettes help or not smokers to quit smoking.