Uh we wanted to talk about some of the work that's going on right now in emergencies and how the organization is working on the ground there. Joining me back by popular demand, Dr. Elizabeth Hoff, our head of country office in Syria and one of our most popular people from last year, uh Dr. Dr. Michelle Gaia, who is the acting director of emergency risk management and humanitarian response, which is a very complicated way of saying she is overseeing all of our emergency work at this point in time. And Kareem Abdalab, he is a young leader from Egypt who is a medical student and is working on humanitarian action in a very important area of humanitarian action right now. Now, Michelle, let me start with you. Today, there are major emergencies going on. Now at WH we we divide emergencies by grades one two or three uh three being the highest the biggest response needed and that pulls on all aspects of the organization. So it is considered a a very major response if it's a level three. How many of those grade three emergencies would you say that WH is responding to today and what are they? Um right now we have six grade three emergencies. Uh we had seven when the Philippines typhoon happened, but right now we have obviously the major response to the Ebola outbreak in West Africa. We have the response to the Nepal earthquake which happened quite recently. And then we have four other grade three emergencies which are longterm largecale conflict situations and they are Syria, Iraq, Central African Republic and the crisis in South Sudan. Give me an overview here. How is it? How does WH work in these emergencies? What is it that that we're do? Okay, look, let's uh before we get to these emergencies, we take a step back. WHO actually works with all our countries before an emergency even starts. and we work with them to prepare them for any kind of event whether it's a natural disaster such as an earthquake or a typhoon or whether it's to deal with a conflict like uh in in the Syrian uh Arab Republic. So our role is to really help the countries to be able to prepare themselves in case something happens because if you think about Nepal, who is the first responder? That's right, not us. It's the community that is responding first. Who detects an outbreak first? not us, it's the individual that notices something wrong and then goes and seeks help and that uh person at a healthcare facility might get tweaked to an idea. So really our role is to prepare those countries to be able to get that response going first. Now what do we do when a response actually happens? There are many things but on on the whole in terms of a disease outbreak we are trying to help to put in control measures to contain the outbreak whatever they are. And for a different type of outbreak, there will be different things that were put into place. It might be water and sanitation. It might be burying bodies properly as in with Ebola. For natural disasters, uh, and humanitarian emergency that are caused by conflict, our role is really to make sure that we provide people with basic health care that they need and to help prevent any any further um disease. So for example, if you need to seek health care for injuries uh because of conflict or because of the earthquake, you need to be able to go to a hospital. Uh if the hospital is damaged, we try and support bringing in different foreign medical teams to support the delivery of those services. If you need a cesarian, it doesn't matter whether you're it's just had an earthquake or um there's conflict going on, you'll still need to deliver a baby. How do you access access that service safely? Um how do children get vaccinated? So our role is to make sure all of this is still going on. The most important things to make sure that people's lives are saved regardless of what is going on but to do it fairly so that people who are in need are able to get those services fairly. One of our biggest roles actually in that case is the coordination. Many many people come to help as you know um in in these situations. Not so many people come to help in conflict. They they certainly come to help a lot when there's a natural disaster but our role is the same. We coordinate the the partners that come in in Nepal. Right now we're coordinating over 100 partners for example um and Elizabeth will talk about the um coordination uh at the country level in Syria. Uh we need to make sure that we don't duplicate efforts. So in one area you don't want everyone to be providing primary health care. You want surgery and maternal care and reproductive health, mental health. So that package and that's where we our role is very strong. A final role really what what we you know World Health Assembly what we're a technical agency we want to make sure that the standards are correct what are we doing is it of good quality or not we're not going there to experiment these are human beings and they need to be given the quality of care that we provide to our own populations anywhere else really useful way of explaining what we as an organization do and and and I remember all even hearing about hospitals that did not collapse when an earthquake happened because we had worked with the government to help retrofit them before uh because we knew knew that they lived on a fault line and we knew this was a high risk. So really pays off uh in the in the long run. Let me ask you one last question. Some of these emergencies, for example, Central Africa Republic, uh they fall off the radar screen when the media leave and it's not such a a hot issue and it's not constantly in the media spotlight. How challenging is it for you and your teams to get the resources they need in emergencies like that when the media is gone and the work has got to continue? um I would say extremely challenging and uh you know we are um less than 20% funded for this year as for many of these chronic emergencies because the attention goes away and uh let me say that these countries um have long-term um effects on health of the population. So this is not just uh ah for a few weeks years and years and years uh of uh poor child health, poor uh maternal health means that for example in seven out of the 10 countries uh where we have emergencies there is the highest child mortality rate. In six out of the 10 countries where we're working um that have emergencies has the highest maternal mortality rate. So these are not acute emergency countries with earthquakes. These are ones with chronic long-term protected emergencies. So if if we let the attention die off these countries like Central African Republic, we're never going to reach the global goals that we want to improve the lives of people and and attain these goals in terms of under child um under five mortality and maternal mortality. Uh so it's a huge challenge and we keep working in them whilst the attention goes away. As I said, who is constant were there before, during, after emergencies and uh you know that is one thing that I think we we should really highlight to the world. Yeah, absolutely. Uh one emergency I would say that's hardly forgotten but is absolutely heartbreaking is the one you work in day in and day out. Uh Elizabeth is our head of office in Syria and you've been there for what three three and a half years now? Yes. Uh absolutely tireless uh at her work. Uh Elizabeth, kind of put an on the ground perspective here for me on what Michelle's been talking about. Uh what is your daily work uh they're working to achieve? Well, we are now in the fifth year of the crisis in Syria and uh there has been no stop to the violence. We have approximately 25,000 injured per month and uh per month. This is Yeah. per month. You say per month. Yes. And uh when we put this into perspective to the other crisis then we have to really look at the seriousness. So what we are talking about we have more than 7 million internally displaced in Syria and where do they go? They go to where they can find some safety and many of them are on the go not for the first time that they move from uh the rural Aleppo into Aleppo town but no that has also become unsafe. So they are trying to move to Hama or to Latakia. But this is the everyday life for more than seven million and on top of that we have more than four million Syrians who have left the country over these four years. So this is the struggle they are faced with and what you can see is that the population they don't really ask for the reason for the conflict and political constraints where should we go they are more like like animals they are seeking where do I find safe water where do I find care where do I find protection and shelter so this is where they are moving they are not asking you know about conflict lines the only thing they are asking for in this kind of emergency is some kind of safety for themsel and for their children. And what I would like to see is that they can find health care and also education for their children where they will settle down for some time. And when we talk about who is actually responding to this emergency, I would like to follow up on what Michelle was just saying as the UN, NOS's, communities, but really in Syria, it is like another emergency, the Syrian people who are actually taking care of the people. Most of these internally displaced are actually hosted by the Syrian families. But unfortunately after more than four years of conflict their coping me mechanisms are exhausted. So this is where we are seeing that almost all the families in Syria today are affected. They are struggling with anxiety with grief having problem of finding health care. uh more than 50% of the hospitals have been now damaged or are partly out of service and 40% of the primary health care services are no longer functioning. So what we are hearing is that many patients in acute need of care, they are traveling 160 kilometers to find primary health care services in many of the areas. And what Michelle was referring to also for for example women who are in labor, they are so afraid because how can they make sure that they can travel at night because you don't know when is the onset of the labor. So is it will it be safe for them to travel? They have to pass many checkpoints. So while before all the deliveries were in institutions, hardly any maternal mortality in Syria, they had the best health indicators in the region throughout for maternal and child mortality. Unfortunately, this is no longer the case. We have a drop in the vaccination rate from 92% before the conflict started to around 50% today. And we have had outbreak of polio and we are seeing measles. We have waterbornne diseases. You know in these shelters where the people reside between 50 and 70 uh people are sharing one toilet. So then you can understand that there is really a diseases on the rise and we have difficulties with making sure that when we are delivering uh protective preventive messages you know that how can they access water to wash their hands many of them have water three hours every three days so you can see the constraints that many of the people are facing you know I was going ask what some of the health impacts were and I think you have just summed it up beautifully. Uh it it's really hard uh to imagine that. Uh I want to ask one last question for you. How as an organization do you and your team manage uh to get the supplies, the equipment, the materials that you're moving around moved around in a place that is that difficult? Uh access is the main challenge. uh but I would like to say that WH has a very good credibility in the Middle East and also in Syria and this has helped us enormously when I came in three years ago uh to build on this credibility the trust and to keep up a very transparent and frank dialogue with the authorities whether it is at the central level or at the local level to negotiate access. But we have today more than four million people living in hardto-reach and besieged areas. And this is what we are faced facing is really to make sure and it is not enough. So I think that the UN in general had done a fantastic job with opening up for crossborder and also to strengthen crossline deliveries so that we can cater for these needs. But for WH it is also not only to think about sort of the people in the besieged areas but also all the people who are actually staying in shelters and in needs because uh as I saying every every family is affected. So we have to strengthen the services throughout the country to make sure that uh uh we have medicines that we can deliver. Uh also mental health services is very important. 50% of the population is suffering today from mental distress and psychosocial distress. So this is what we need to do and we have actually a multi-pronged uh approach as WH we have identified very clearly our in the intervention areas we are focusing on primary health care including mental health and we are also strengthening the resur referral services for secondary care. So we see that what we are doing is paying off. Uh we have gotten good donor support. We need of course more to do more. But what I would like to say is that uh uh we can say that we are delivering last year we delivered more than 14 million medical treatments. So far this year we have delivered more than 8 million treatments. And we are receiving very positive feedback from the Syrian people because we are impartial in our work. Equity and fair delivery is really what matters. Every Syrian should have access to good health care to the extent possible. I'm going to ask you a question that just came in on Twitter here and that is uh what strategies are being discussed to improve that that access to health care for the people who are depaced which you were just talking about. Yeah, I would just give an example. I was recently in Latakia govern rate which is one of the safer areas. They had received uh before the attack on Idlib more than 1 million internally displaced. They have an influx of an additional few hundred,000 and this is a population of 1 million. So of course their services which they normally had is totally overstretched. So what we are trying to set up is also with mobile teams, health teams to go to visit in the shelters in the homes to help out to make sure that we have supported with mobile clinics sort of ambulances almost like buses where we drive into the neighborhood so we can reach them and this is for the internally displaced and we are trying to do the same in hard-to-reach areas. But what we are trying to do is really to focus on the essential that we cover vaccination that we are covering antiatal delivery and postpartum care following up on children under five and making sure we reach the people where they are with the services. Elizabeth, I'm going to ask you to come back a little bit later in the show. I I have a a segment talking about mental health care in emergencies. I'd like you to to stick around if you don't mind and join us for that discussion as well. Michelle, let me come back to you for just a moment. What what would you say on a bigger picture are some of the biggest challenges uh that you and your team face working in emergencies? Um Christie, right now we you know we're dealing with emergencies on an unprecedented scale. So I mentioned the six grade three emergencies, but right now we're responding to over 30 emergencies in total as WHO, but the fact is that they are so large, they're affecting such large populations. um they're complex because there's conflict um and they're of long duration and the scale is enormous not just uh in terms of geography as well and so in terms of these challenges that we face um to be able to access as Elizabeth was saying remote areas are areas that are are fraught with insecurity uh our biggest challenge is to be able to get to the people and we have to think of all these innovative mechanisms and approaches to reach them but remember we have to protect our and staff as well. So working in these difficult operational contexts is high risk and this is one of the huge challenges of the organization to make sure that our staff are safe that our partners that we work with closely are safe to be able to go and deliver deliver the basic services to this population and it's a highly difficult environment. We're not negotiators, but sometimes we have to negotiate with people. You know, we're health health people. We're doctors. We're nurses, uh, community workers. We have to negotiate um with people to get access. And I think that's some of the biggest challenges operationally. We have to set up sub offices in very difficult locations. We have at least five in Iraq. We have three soon to be five in Central African Republic. We we're not just working from a remote basis. are actually out there trying to be right amongst the population. Uh but the final point I'd like to raise is, you know, we have never seen such a level of attack on healthcare. Uh it's unprecedented. Um it's it's as if international humanitarian law doesn't exist. Um the there is no neutrality of of the health care system. So healthcare facilities are bombed. Um healthcare workers are attacked, kidnapped, ambulances are sieged. Uh this is not normal. uh we should have a space to be able to provide aid because we are neutral and we want to be fair uh and no one is obeying this and I think this is one of our major challenges. I I think that's a perfect setup for Kareem here uh Kareem from Alexandria in Egypt and and working on a uh as a medical uh on a medical career and you're you're particularly engaged in this. You've had some experience with this. Tell me about your experience. Yes. So uh in Egypt as a medical students we have uh working in um the international federation for medical student associations. Uh in our general assemblies we had uh and in our regional meetings also we set up um in collaboration with the international committee for red cross and crescent and the Egyptian uh red crescent. We worked together on uh a project called healthcare in danger where we uh educated the medical students and uh also parts of health care providers, pharmacists and nurses and others uh on how safe access to conflict zones uh first aids and safe exit which were very important. Um what we did is that in collaboration with the ICRC and the Egypt crescent we set up this big big simulation uh in Egypt it was in Cairo. Uh there were actors uh there were people like actors for casual pretending to be victims families so that the medical students can undergo the pressure that there that is put on them from the families of the victims and the casualties and it was really successful. participants came out the they know now how to act in conflict zones they can participate whenever there's a riot whenever there is war whenever there is any uh disaster or conflict that may arise in the country and what's good is that it wasn't it was done in Egypt but there were many participants also from across the region so we had participants from Morocco we had participants from Tunisia Lebanon uh and other countries in the Gulf region you know and it's really that type of work I think that's going to have to build the the grassroots and the momentum and the the pressure for building that respect for the international humanitarian law as you said. We're going to have to stop it there. Uh I think we could probably talk for another hour or two with you three. Uh but really whenever you think you're having a rough day, think of the three people sitting at this table. Uh my goodness, uh you have to separate. Absolutely. You have quite a quite a a job to do and I thank you all for doing it. Thank you. Stay close, but you can take a break for just a moment. Uh Michelle and Kareem, thank you so much for joining us.