I'm working with KASI, Kilimanjaro Association of Spinal Cord Injury. My job is to train other people with disability how to cope with life after spinal cord injury. I want to go to school because I want to learn and I want to be educated and I want to find my life, to be independent, to be strong, and also to live my life and to be happy. I've wanted to be a nurse since I was about six. I spent a lot of time in hospital myself as a child, I was on dialysis for four years, and then I had a life-saving kidney transplant when I was seven. I think the doctors and nurses when I was younger just made such a difference for me, they were like a second family to me, and I wanted to make that same difference to someone else. Personally, I want to have a baby because I think that it is the desire of all women, and mine too, and I want to live life like any other woman. It makes me sad when you go to train somebody or to visit them, because we do also home visits and hospital visits, if you find this person needs a wheelchair and he has no wheelchair at all. That's when I feel sad…and sometimes actually, I've cried. I think the main reason I was treated differently, since I set out to become a nurse, was probably because people were scared, because they've never been faced with anyone like me before. The teacher didn’t think I had a disability. She called me a mongol. She put me out of the class. She thought that I couldn’t learn. I was very upset and my heart was down. Access is important for me in my city because I live here, I am here and I want to participate in my city. The role of the murals has played has been important because it has raised awareness of the rights of people with disabilities, the right that we have to access education, health, sport, culture and all that you do within society. But, when I train somebody and it changes their lives, I feel like I am flying, it really really makes me happy to see people changing. I think having a disability has actually made me a better nurse. I can fully empathise with the patients in my care, because I've had similar experiences myself, so I know what they're going through. I want to have the same rights as other people I want people to see me as I am, 0:02:55.500,0:02:01.100 a human being, a woman, and not a person who is ill, because I am not ill. This is disability to me. What is it to you?