Thank you, thank you very much, Mr. President of the Executive Board, Heads of Delegations, of Member States, and gentlemen, I was ready to introduce my name is Tess, and it is my pleasure to address you as my candidate for Director General of the Wells Organization. I am a candidate for the Director General of the Wells Organization. I believe in the power of this organization to make a strong and positive impact. Before I proceed to my written statement, I have in the spirit of compassion, I would like to raise some eyebrows, but I would like you to do some soul- searching work. Three issues are very important to my readers. The first one is on budgetary matters and the second one is on emergency response and the third one is on emergency response coverage on budgetary matters. You know, the US combustion in 2010 and compared to the 1970s, which was 1980. It is really, but not only that, if you compare  The value of the money that was contributed at that time during the 1970s and what member states are contributing now except the correction for inflation some experts said that the combustion is this is at may pop are take business mul business mul areless you and become at 51 ownership can you own the anti so the question we really own the od we own it is the question that coming into my mind after I discuss with you is many of you and I'll tell you another fact this is a Newark Hospital Presbyterian Hospital Newark it has a budget of 4.8 billion for one hospital and you know the budget this is the right this is me are archiving are we not having the commitment to own it really really bill tur state buy unless we a o and ament comes we resources unless we own ownership of  I don't know what we will expect as a result. This is very important and I think we need to release this search. I have been listening to you. I will continue to listen to you, but we need to discuss it in the coming days. It's very important and central ownership is important, and then I will tell you the second one on global health. Just one thing is that the Internal Health Regulation 2005 is not being implemented properly. It is implemented week and there is one thing that many members say is because of fear of punishment if we report someone, we don't do it, and I said what is the reason because we could be punished, and they are not ready to implement the International Health Regulation in full. They said if you report then travel ban is imposed. This is the right way to implement this Health Regulation. You remember?  Nabla struck three convem but the International Health Regulations say there should be no act on mobility and do not impose the International Health Regulations it says there is in the International Health Regulations but we do not impose it fully on one country and report the case travel ban the question is how do we enter into solid are we really ready for solid and do we just go for our national interest and it is in the interest of our own national interest without considering the act on others I am saying it is necessary on this land because we can only survive if there is no if there is termination to discuss now this issue listen to us with respect under the root of the burden for in front of then the serious nurses health coverage in 1947 was published and he fell in 1970 alat ration from the  Same thing and 2016 now fast forward we are covering SDGs we are covering hell for l were not keeping the promise for my sake what's happening here is the queue of many of us it is a resource problem I don't think and many don't agree big countries with limited resources have done but do I have Sri Lanka you have Sri Lanka in treatment for so it is a resource problem and lack of political commitment this also needs thinking you can learn carefully learn more about are in the spice of what is it like you are not to import and other it you and be people by I probably also works black I don't have session so less do we can go to the root cause of the problem now I would go to what people like me and I am running for the director general position they see you and I say for  One thing I have to say to them is that I have hands-on experience in leading change, both nationally and internationally. I have the technical expertise, the political leadership, and also the diploma skills. The skills we need and number four. I am from a developing world. The burden of ill health is really heavy, and I face the challenge myself with my communities. I can bring a fresh perspective to them. As an outsider, I have good knowledge of our internal working environment. I can bring a fresh perspective. I will start with the first one. My first for public health was ignited when I was growing up as a young boy in Africa. Witnessing the first incident of a malaria outbreak on my committee, after I grew up I was hired by the Ethiopian Malaria Control Program in 1986 and joined a team in 1987 to control raging malaria outbreaks in  Southern Ethiopia. I saw firsthand that most of the people in the community were bedridden and witnessed many days. That was the saddest moment for me. I remember the situation even today very vividly. We controlled outbreaks in two weeks through mass treatment, vector control, and so it wasn't long before my colleague contracted malaria, but because of the pressure at the time I contracted malaria infection, that was what fueled my anger on malaria and on any outbreak and emergency, and the paper, public health, and the second has on experience in change leadership. I started my role as a health minister in 2005, dealing with an emergency response to a mass malaria outbreak in the country. As a minister, it was good opportunity for me to write because my insider was speaking. We revamped our malaria control program, prepaid ambulance plans, and immediately mobilized 20.4 million people.  Insecticide- impregnated bed nets in just two years; the largest bed net distribution in Africa at a time; we expand indoor respiratory spraying coverage; expand level control as a result; Ethiopia has not experienced major malaria outbreaks for the last 11 years; in my ministry as a minister, I will focus on fighting epidemics; we started an ambitious reform program of the health sector; the reform covers all the building blocks of the health system: service delivery, workforce support, financing support, management information system, pharmaceutical supply system, emergency response system, which includes disease services, detection, early response and recovery system; in the service delivery reform, primary health care has become the center of gravity, with the primary focus being on health promotion and is prevalent. Six years later, we had built almost primary health care. One of the things we targeted to achieve is this: many things we were crazy about, but we did it at the same time, we looked  It is to the broader public that we address this in a comprehensive way and seek efficiency and focus on how to impact service delivery and community engagement. We have not only developed our own innovative solutions that are responsive to our local contexts and challenges, but also look to the best practices of other countries and taken the lessons to revitalize our health system. This intervention resulted in increasing life expectancy at birth from 64.7 years in 1990 to 64 years in 2013. There are many other indicators which I don't want to go into, but if I put just one under-five mortality decline, it is still years ahead of the 2015 deadline. The decline in HIV infection, malaria mortality, and TB mortality was very significant at the global level. I consider the role of the role back. Malaria and malaria are among the most challenging. Chairing the Global Fund Board from 2009 to 2011, the Global Fund was fully committed to the lack of effective accountability and support for its reform agenda. It was established as an independent panel to assess and provide research and this reform guided the Global Fund. It was instrumental in bringing in the political and technical expertise, political leadership and lot skills through building blocks of systems, strengthening technical expertise and under my leadership the health sector has expanded and from just 600 health centres we have reached 3500 health centres from less than 1000 health posts to 16000. What I said near entire primary health care in just six years, we achieved through training of 38000 health extension workers, all of them in the country.  By design to increase the localization of services by women in Ethiopia and the community driven system is one of the core and we have 3 million strong health development army which is composed of women alone and not only that we increase the workforce from 16500 to 11000 and the shortage of doctors was a problem and we are innovative way of converting teaching hospitals into teaching hospitals because of less investment and increase our enrollment from 300 to 3000 because brain drain is not the root cause we believe there is a mismatch between supply and demand which is the root cause meaning the problem is as one we admitted the solution comes is for the first batch now will be graduating this year and its 20000 from graduate only 150 years in the past 10 years I've worked tirelessly to help  Country Ownership So Affected Countries Are Able to Guide and Affirm Global Disorders The Affect Health of Their People The need for a backbone from our community at leader levels Partners mobilizing them Our goals vary on anti- resistance, but we are able to mobilize to achieve our goals As Minister of Foreign Affairs I successfully helped bring together 194 UN Member States to agree to the Action Agenda A historic milestone forging a global partnership to achieve and advance the Sustainable Development Goals I am committed to being associated with the SDGs This way as Chair of the Negotiations of the Framework for Development and Agreed to serve and see the outcome He will be one of the SDGs I played a key leadership role in our response to the epidemic Facilitate greater country ownership Proactively mobilizing 200 Epidemic Healers Work The African Union Team Arguing Country uar the o Guidelines Number for the Region I a sider sider with good knowledge of oar internal working environment and l as one from developing wad I can bring fresh perspective someone grown up and face the challenges first hand can have AI said a ir not take the passion but under to bring fresh perspective and with I go to my w and the first of l I would like to thank you my member st I ad n al commi meeting l of them I 182 country out of berly and the fi p I ll tell yall crises from that discussion and I thank you for that I feel like I am reporting back to you and ma I have a vision a wad in which everyone can lead a healthy and productive life regardless of who they are where they live. This vision and the Sustainable Development Goals require a strong revitalize o that  Effectively manage, adequately resource, results-driven, and lead our political agenda. As we know, we are facing questions over our very identity and purpose. Yet, it is an organization that exercises the power to change, save lives, and make an impact on our lives. I am studying as a candidate to become the Director General of the Organization because I know what it takes to care for those in the world who need it most and who have it the least. And I know how to achieve it. I feel it on the ground in daily life. I believe in my power, and I believe I will be able to help it get there. The challenges are so productive and multifaceted. No single organization can manage them on their own. It can address effectively and meet our fellow citizens. We must act together. And my first priority is to transform, reform, and create a new and challenging healthcare landscape. Can only be achieved?  By responsive adapting. Building into a more effective, transparent, and accountable agency that is independent, science- and innovation-based. Results-focused and responsive will be my first leadership priority. This transformation will require striking a balance between bold reform and stability of the organization to achieve results. Reform and stability are very important to get things done. We should be empowered by having access to more asset contributions and broad funding to use it based on its priorities. We will be more productive. We will ensure that our full and human resources are focused on areas where we can make the greatest difference. I will also create good relationships with management and I will give special attention to I concerns and address internal good governance problems. I will motivate and inspire I because change comes from inside. I will work to enhance practice and  Flexible financing by positioning health as the second economic and development priority through political leadership. I will establish an Interministerial Advisory Commission composed of Ministers of Health, Finance, and International Development to solicit and address the budget issues that we have at the moment. I believe a decentralized and empowered system with appropriate liability measures brings better results. I don't believe that the current structure is a problem, but we need to continue to strengthen the Global Policy Group. We need to have a mechanism for accountability, and we have to formalize it. If we can do this, actually an empowered and decentralized system is more productive because not only the labor at the grassroots and at the regional level. We will use the mind because it is an empowered people and initiative that can give more. The second priority is Health for all today there are 400 million people one out of every 17 of the world who need access to one and more of the central health services so one I say health for all we need to break all the barriers and I said it already I don't want to repeat what is important here is the political commitment otherwise resources is not an issue particularly if we use health we put health coverage at the centre it addresses almost all issues even it's with stronger systems health coverage that we can fight emergencies more effectively by strengthening the capacity of national authorities and local communities to detect, prevent and manage health emergencies including antimicrobial resistance and promote global health services will be my chief leadership priority on this the key issue is to implement the international health regulations in full without cherry picking and the  The second is implementing the new emergency response that was notified in 2016 in full force, but we need to have the commitment to fully implement it. Yesterday I attended the FANS dialogue, and it was not funded, but we wanted to have the emergency response. So, this has to be addressed, and we should ensure country ownership and all country rights, and the global health safety agenda will also be very important to address the global safety issues and in this, I will go ahead and form whole parks, along with these and for a change, all of which are part of the global health agenda. We are also implementing the global health agenda to put in place harmful cultural and social practices, gender roles, and gender roles that are necessarily equal to the dignity and rights of one girl and one girl to grow up and have stronger knowledge. One girl and one girl are healthy and all of them.  I need to understand that we don't lose our ownership but I can also focus on people, in turn, and have to reach out to other countries. I advocate for equitable investment. I am in this field. I have a focus on climate change. I have a goal to achieve. I have no hesitation in taking action against climate change ... Candid and the financial support for my campaign. I am also grateful for many countries around the world who have provided the support I have received. My work touches hundreds of millions of lives around the world. Every program, every initiative, every allocation of funding is so much more than a stick and a line in a budget. It's a life protected. It's a child who gets to adulthood. It's a partner who watches their child survive and thrive. It's a committee living disease-free and an entire country and region that is better prepared to handle emergencies and disasters. This is the difference we can make. Working hand in hand with member states and global partners, we can help. I hope you will join me in working together for health. I am ready to serve. I have the hands-on experience, technical expertise, political leadership, and diploma skills to lead for the 21st century. I will continue to. Listen and I will make sure that our relationship will be based on our wishes, we can't have a good relationship and we can't change it, and yet we thank you so much, but thank you so much, Ak