If you can get universal health coverage, then you can raise the bar on all of the health issues. Uh you get that cross benefit uh going. You actually can make your health system more resilient should an emergency come up. You can actually catch a disease outbreak early if it happens or uh perhaps keep it from spreading. You're going to see another example in just a minute on how this can help. Uh and that's going to be with non-communicable diseases or at least that's what the public health world calls them. Uh people like you and me would call them chronic diseases or lifestyle related diseases. But we're basically talking about things like cancer, heart disease, uh stroke, diabetes, chronic lung disease. These are the things that uh really are lifestyle related uh and habit related and they are the leading cause of death all over the world and also in this region. In fact in this region uh each year 1.7 million people die from these types of diseases. Uh they can be prevented, they can be managed better and we're going to talk to two guests uh about how that can be done. Joining me now Dr. Ali bin Talib Alhini, the under secretary for planning affairs at the ministry of health in Oman and also Judith Mai, senior policy adviser to WH and an international tobacco advocate. Uh Dr. Al-Hai, let me start with you if you would. Uh many people say that Oman was on the front end uh of addressing non-communicable diseases. Uh what was it that caused your country to recognize the problem so early? It was use your microphone if you would. Sorry. Oman started to become a modern country in 1970 and since then we have had a five-year development plan including for health and and the government focused really on building a robust health system uh with emphasis on primary health care in collaboration and partnership uh with WH. And the second thing also we started very early to have uh good information, health information and uh statistics which help us really to discover the prevalence the incidence of many diseases including diabetes and hypertension and therefore we have uh the opportunity to put our plans for the future. So tell us a little bit about the primary health care system there and how is it set uh to reduce the risk of non-communicable? uh primary healthcare considered to be the first point of entry to our healthcare in Oman and uh we have our own criteria that each health center serves around 10,000 population although we have some centers health centers providing services to less than 1,000 and that's due to social demands and so forth. uh the number of visits really per person per citizen in Oman right now is around in the average around 6.25 visits per year. Four of these are into our health centers and uh our primary health facilities. Uh based on that uh we our health centers provide services to mothers, children, elderly uh as well as it provides services to for non-communicable disease like hypertension and diabetes. uh so that's why we have uh this kind of primary health care which we think it covers almost all uh regions in Oman especially the remote areas and those areas which we think it is very difficult to get uh some health health services there to to what degree can uh you say how much it has helped reduce the problem of non-communicable diseases for example like diabetes diabetes we have diabetic center in the capital but the criteria the standards and the action plans really it is implemented in the health center and we can we usually we uh monitor the the for example the percentage of control of diabetes and also percentage of recruitment of diabetic patients per year and there is some kind of improvement on that although still we are we have long way really to achieve what we want to achieve in that if another country was interested in modeling after this setup, how would you advise them? What advice would you give them uh to set something like this up? The first thing that they have to have the primary health system in their country which really springs from their culture, from their economic and social needs and they do not need to copy and paste the the others. That's number one. The second thing they have to be to to start taking care of providing services to children and to mothers. That's the most important thing for them. And then we expand the whole uh services to the for elderly as well as for example our health centers in some health centers which is usually in the in the cities we provide home visits to those p patients who cannot come to the health facility. So this is for us it is new but it is uh I think very productive. I think that's a very interesting point that you brought up there that it's not a one-sizefitsall model. Exactly. that each country needs to look at what they need and what they can bring to the table uh to set up a similar thing. Dr. Alhaney, thank you for your time on that. Just stay with us for a moment if you would. Uh when it comes to non-communicable diseases, one of the biggest risk factors is tobacco use. Uh and this is your specialty. Uh Judith, um talk a little bit about tobacco use in this region. How great is the problem? Well, at this very moment, it's a very big problem in the region and it is set to get much worse. I mean, that really is one of the take-home messages that we've been discussing at this meeting. At the moment, about 20% of adults in this region smoke, and in another couple of decades, it'll be 25%. And we only have to look at youth smoking to realize that the region is set for quite an explosive expansion in terms of smoking. And and what is driving that? Why is that? Because it seems like smoking is going down in other parts of the world. Seems like it's going up here. Smoking is going down in most parts of the world, but in the African region and in the this region, it is distined to go up. And there's a combination of factors. It's that young women are becoming more independent and they're beginning to smoke, particularly shisha. And um there is greater um economic ability of teenagers to buy tobacco. The tobacco industry have certainly moved in with a lot of promotion in many different ways. Advertising, sponsorship, and promotion, encouraging young people to start smoking. Even though they say they don't promote to children, they do. So, so talk about what countries uh need to do in order to reduce this problem. Well, the interesting message is that what needs to be done is almost the same in almost all countries. The main thing that drives smoking rates down is higher taxation and it's simply because it puts tobacco out of the hands of young teenagers. It's an affordability issue. So many people would say if you want to reduce smoking, the message is tax, tax, and tax. But of course, there needs to be legislation as well. There needs to be smoke-free areas and that needs to be enforced. There needs to be complete bans on tobacco advertising and promotion and sponsorship and the behavior of the tobacco industry. Um there needs to be very robust health warnings, pictorial health warnings and in fact plain packaging where almost everything is taken off the pack that makes it attractive to children. So WHO knows very well through the framework convention on tobacco control the best buys and these apply to in fact all countries and they really make a difference. They really make a difference. If every country in this region were to implement the framework convention on tobacco control, the rates would in fact come down. Terrific. Thank you both for coming by. I appreciate your time talking about ways that we can manage and prevent non-communicable diseases. Uh thank you both very much. One of the things that Judith was mentioning there uh was the increase in young people who are smoking. uh study after study after study shows us uh that people who start smoking before they are in their early 20s will continue smoking into their adult years. If you can keep people from smoking uh before they turn to their mid20s then you can probably uh prevent them from ever picking up uh the habit and it is one of the habits that really is linked uh to so many of these non-communicable diseases. It's one of the habits that actually kills about half of the people uh that pick it up. Uh so well worth avoiding if you can.