Dear Dr. Margaret Chan, Director- General of the World Health Organization, distinguished Ministers, Ambassadors, Regional Directors, Deputy Directors, Delegates, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my government, I convey my deepest gratitude to the Member States here, to the Pan American Health Organization, and to all those who contributed to bestowing upon Cuba the great honor of being selected to lead the sessions of the 67th World Health Assembly. We take this as recognition of the results achieved by the National Health System, which is characterized as unique, free, accessible, and with universal coverage based on primary health care. It is distinguished by broad community and intersectoral participation and a profound internationalist approach. An example of these results is the infant mortality rate achieved in 2013 of 4.2 per 1,000 live births, an indicator that has remained below five for more than five consecutive years, as well as Cuba's contribution to health in more than 120 countries of the world with the presence of 135,000 collaborators since 1960. And currently  With over 50,000 people in 65 countries, the World Health Organization, as the leading authority in the health field, has identified the need to seek new strategies to address the increasingly complex and growing health problems of populations in the 21st century. Therefore, a comprehensive reform has been proposed to improve the organization and guide its work in the coming years, while reinforcing its intergovernmental character. Achieving true sustainable development is an aspiration of all, and it has been widely recognized that population health is both a means to achieve it and an end in itself. To meet the Millennium Development Goals related to health, it is necessary to confront the problems arising from multiple crises and the existence of great inequalities. Added to this is the use of enormous resources to wage modern wars of conquest that cause thousands of deaths, while tens of millions of human beings die silently, victims of poverty and preventable and curable diseases. To cite just one example, the cost of a supersonic jet is equivalent to the expense of setting up 4,000 medical clinics.  In the area of health, it is necessary to create closer links between economic, social, and environmental policies as pillars for sustainable development. In this sense, the second summit of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States ( SELAC), which Cuba was honored to host and preside over last January, had as its central theme the fight against poverty, hunger, and inequality. We agreed then that our region, to achieve more just societies, requires a better distribution of wealth and income, quality education and health for all, the eradication of illiteracy, and the establishment of true food security, among other issues of vital importance to human life. Cuba will continue to defend, also from this important group, actions of cooperation and regional political coordination that contribute to improving the quality of health care in our countries. The agenda of this assembly includes priority issues for global health, and the general debate will address the relationship between climate change and health, where we will share the most successful experiences in mitigating and adapting to the effects of climate change on the health of the population. I would like to highlight what was stated by the historical leader of the Cuban Revolution...  Fidel Castro, speaking at the Rio Summit in 1992, stated, and I quote, "An important biological species is at risk of disappearing due to the rapid and progressive destruction of its natural living conditions. We humans only become aware of this problem when it is almost too late to prevent it. Consumer societies are primarily responsible for the atrocious destruction of the environment. If we want to save humanity from this self-destruction, we must better distribute the wealth and technologies available on the planet. Less luxury and less waste in a few countries so that there is less poverty and less hunger in much of the world. Pay the ecological debt, not the external debt. Let hunger disappear, not humanity." (End of quote.) This statement remains fully relevant. Another aspect of great importance for health is the follow-up to United Nations General Assembly's political declaration on the plan of action for the prevention and control of non-communicable diseases, which represent a threat to the well-being of our people due to their increasing burden of illness, disability, and death. Maternal and child health, especially maternal mortality, remains an unresolved issue, and this conference must thoroughly analyze all of these aspects.  Its dimensions, as well as the global action plan on the recommendations of the United Nations Commission on Basic Survival Commodities for Women and Children, and the multisectoral action for healthy aging based on the life cycle, will be a focus of this assembly as a major challenge for health systems and government agendas. Distinguished colleagues, it is a great challenge to cover the broad agenda proposed for this 67th World Health Assembly in the search for improved solutions and alternatives for the health of our people, but I am convinced that, based on the quality of the debates and the strength of the documents adopted, we will be able to contribute to fulfilling the commitment to guarantee health for all. Thank you very much.