Zika virus is a virus that is spread to humans through the bite of the infected mosquito Aedes aegypti mosquito which is also the primary vector that transmits dengue chikungunya and yellow fever.This mosquito is found throughout different regions in the world, through the Americas, in Africa, in Asia and also the Pacific Islands. In the beginning, when we first knew about this disease in 1940s throughout 2007, it's very mild fever, rash, conjunctivitis, which is the reddening of the eyes. You could have muscle and joint pain. So basically self limiting. Now with this virus, what we're seeing is that there's a question whether there are severe complications to Zika virus and that can include a neurological type of complications like Guillain-Barré syndrome which is the weakening of muscles. Also there is a question whether there is any association with the Zika virus and congenital malformations like microcephaly. Right now in Brazil they are reporting increases of microcephaly cases which is the small heads of newborn babies and so we're questioning whether there's any relationship between Zika and microcephaly. There's no specific treatment for Zika virus disease and there is no vaccine. However we have seen that most of the cases are mild or some of them don't even show any symptoms. However if you do have symptoms, you can take supportive therapy medicines to cure your headache or your muscle or joint pain. All travelers should follow the guidelines from their respective own countries. As with all vector-borne diseases, we do advise all travelers, all people living in areas of sub-tropical and tropical areas to wear protective clothing. For pregnant women, we advise pregnant women to seek consultation with their physician. The best way to prevent yourself from getting bit by a mosquito is to use either mosquito repellent or protective clothing during the peak hours of when the mosquitoes will bite, which is usually early in the morning and late in the afternoon. Also for children or elderly, or people that may be resting during the day, they can use bed nets to also create another barrier between themselves and the mosquito.