There are many ways to hurt oneself. For you, was it more about self-harm? Was there other things? It was like me, it was more about self-harm and just that. Yes, what did hurting yourself mean at that time? It was basically when I wasn't feeling well at night, when I was alone in bed, when I was thinking about everything. I needed to release the tension, so I did it. It was the only way to forget everything, to talk it out and release some of the pressure. And ultimately, what was the most helpful thing for you, the most effective way to feel better? It was talking about it, talking to someone, because I needed to tell someone everything because I couldn't explain everything to you. I was unhappy and I really didn't feel well, and I also had all the anger inside me. And when I did it, it was my anger that came out, my sadness. But I was always doing it, unfortunately. Maybe your mom...  She'd seen scars, that kind of thing. My best friend had seen a scar because I always wore long-sleeved t-shirts, but one day I had to roll up the sleeves because I'm visually impaired, and she saw a small one, and then we both immediately had the same thing happen. But what was the hardest part, ultimately? I think that period was all alone, and I couldn't talk to my father about it because I would have preferred to talk to him because I needed him. I realize that now because he was there a lot when I was a child, but as soon as my parents divorced, they weren't there anymore, and I would have really liked things to be like they were before. And my mother, I was afraid of hurting her, so that's why I prefer to talk about it. Admit it, find a place for yourself, a bit more neutral than the family, of course. Are there other adults who were resources for you, people you trusted, with whom you could talk a little about all those things you were going through that were difficult? Yes, and my social worker at my school... I used to go see them regularly, about every week. They were checking on me to see how I was doing. One day, he came to get me from class and asked me to show him my arms and legs; they were all infected. So he took me to the infirmary, disinfected me, put bandages on me, and saw that I was unhappy. At one point, he decided to call my mother because the programs left it like that, and you could call her. That's how it is, though. A bit of a soft touch with the pediatrician. Then I made an appointment with my pediatrician. He told me about your center and suggested making an appointment with you, so I came. How old were you at that time? I was 12. And emotions now, how do you deal with all of this? Because you 're a teenager, it's a new game, saying that regardless of hurting yourself, it's a period of life full of upheaval and change. It's not necessarily all smooth sailing. How do you manage one of your emotions? Well...  I learned to control myself because I get angry very easily, but I learned to work on myself. As soon as I feel sad, flushed, and anger rising, I immediately call my best friend or my friends, and they help me right away, and then I feel better. Or I go out for a little while to get some fresh air, and then she follows me to the prevention center. Did you continue seeing a therapist outside of therapy? I stopped seeing someone to see if I could recover on my own, if I could move forward on my own. Well, in the end, I succeeded, and today I'm doing well. And how old are you in today's world? I'm 15 years old, Jeanne. I'll be 15 in February, and I found an apprenticeship. I'm going to start in September, and so, well, things are going pretty well. It's going well today.