When I was 6 years old and I started getting this attack, even when I'm walking, it's calm. If I'm doing anything, it come. Then it was tough for me. So at times I sit down and talk to myself who will get married to me with this problem. Franciscoca and how are two people living with epilepsy, a medical condition which affects more than 50 million people worldwide. Epilepsy is a chronic brain disorder characterized by recurrent seizures which are brief disturbances in the electrical functions of the brain. More than 3/4 of people with epilepsy live in low and middle inome countries where up to 75% go untreated. This is what is called the epilepsy treatment gap. A lot of people still think epilepsy is contagious, epilepsy is not treatable, and there's very poor access to medications and access to health personnel. We have a very high treatment gap and we have lots of problems with managing our patients with epilepsy. Epilepsy is a disorder that can be easily treated with daily medication that costs as little as 5 US per year. 70% of people who take medication can be seized free within two years. Initiated in 2012, the WH program for reducing the epilepsy treatment gap combined several innovative strategies to mobilize healthare workers and communities to better support people with epilepsy. The program has led to successful demonstration projects in four countries including Ghana and Vietnam. For the World Health Organization, epilepsy is a public health priority. The epilepsy resolution endorsed by World Health Assembly in 2015 gives an additional mandate to WHO to work actively in this area and to support countries to develop policies and plans capacity building for health workforce and strengthen the systems. WHO has developed evidence-based guidance, the MHGAP guidelines, tools, and care packages to strengthen epilepsy management within the primary healthcare system and by training non-speist healthcare providers such as doctors, nurses, midwives, and many others. WH's mental health gap methodology and training tools are adapted to specific language and cultural contexts, allowing the program to be replicated in any country's health care system. Vietnam's Ministry of Health together with WH initially piloted the program in two provinces with the aim of strengthening existing resources at the district and community levels. It now integrates epilepsy care with other services for non-communicable diseases, ensuring long-term sustainability. The epilepsy project in Vietnam was carried out in 82 communes covering 500,000 people and over 200 community level healthcare workers were trained to diagnose and manage epilepsy at the level of commune station. This has led to a reduction in epilepsy treatment gap by 20%. in partnership with WH. The Ghana Ministry of Health initially piloted the program over a larger scale and incorporated traditional and faith healers in their community outreach strategy. One of our biggest problems in Ghana is how do we reduce stigma? The only way we can do that is education of our own health professionals. Education in the community, education in our churches, education in schools and education in lots of places. I managed eight patients in the community of Awam. I didn't have any knowledge about epilepsy at that time until the WH members from Macra came to the district to train the community nurses. Then I moved into the community to find out those who have the epilepsy and I met their family then trained them. In Ghana, over 700 non-speist healthcare providers have been trained to diagnose and manage epilepsy. This means that over 4,000 people have been able to access treatment leading to a reduction in the treatment gap by one/ird. So right now I have two girls. They know what is wrong with me. If I get attacked, they help me and sometimes too they remember me to take my medicine. Despite the gains, much more needs to be done. All WHO member states need to commit and invest resources to improve access to medication, to reduce stigma and discrimination, and to strengthen health systems. WHO is here to support countries to treat and defeat epilepsy. All over the world, collaboration is the key because treating epilepsy can change lives. The sky is the limit.