We all remember Ebola. Obviously, it was a very vivid and very real uh issue. Uh but it was outside the region and there are disease outbreaks inside this region that are also very real and the countries here are working to prepare uh two of those MS corona virus and aven influenza H5N1. My next two guests are going to talk to us about these and other health threats uh in the region. First, we're going to have Dr. Abdullah bin Mufar Assiri, assistant under secretary of preventive medicine in the Ministry of Health for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Thank you, sir. And Dr. Mahur Malik, our medical officer here at the regional office, who is our specialist in disease outbreak. Uh Dr. Malik, let me start with you if you will. What about disease uh spread in this region? How concerned are you? What are the risk? Thank you very much. I think you know that diseases do not occur in random. There must be some reasons for that. But what we are seeing in particularly in our region that diseases propagate very quickly, very fast and very sweply. uh whenever there is a favorable condition for the disease to propagate. The main risk and the reasons in our region for particularly for the disease to propagate first is the crisis that what we are seeing in our region which is the protracted crisis humanitarian emergencies and what happens in this situation is the health systems remain fragile and when your health system is fragile your surveillance system doesn't work if as effectively as you wish to. So that your system remains dysfunctional. It's not able to pick up the cases early. And in this type of situation, we all also see that the access of the people to essential life services remain limited or compromised like access to water, access to safe sanitation and also the routine public health services get disrupted like the vector control program and also the routine immunization program. And these are the reasons or the risk factors why we see that the outbreaks propagate rapidly and fast in our region. The other reason could be that we are increasingly seeing that because of the transboundary movement of the people and animals, we are increasingly seeing emerging infectious disease which are originating from animal sources because people are intermixing with the animals going to the search of the livelihood or going to the search of the food. So these are other reason why we are seeing increasingly the new viruses are coming emerging from the animal sources. So these are the some of the risk factors that what we are seeing in our region particularly for the disease to become explosive in nature and also the outbreaks that what we are seeing so frequently. We were just talking about the number of emergencies underway in this region right now and you've just added to how that can be a driver for disease spread. What can be done in a situation where you've got that fragile of a situation to try to prevent the spread of disease? I think this is a reality that what we have to live with. The best thing for the countries would be to establish some sort of early warning mechanism at least for early detection of any disease pathogen that can turn into an outbreak and of course we cannot leave with the situation that the lab capacity will be not adequate. However, we need to deal with this situation. So, we need to come out with some innovative ideas. And one of the things is that we are increasingly asking the countries to establish an early warning system. We have the mechanisms, we have the means, we have the resources. It is just an establishing a system that can already detect this dangerous pathogens quickly. Thank you very much for that. That's I was going to ask you what are the one or two things that countries can do, but you took care of it right there. Dr. Asseri, let me come to you if you would. uh Mars Corona virus has been raising its head repeatedly uh in recent years in your country. How concerned are you about global spread of that disease? Well, thank you very much. Um the disease has first started in 2012 and the first case has been identified in Saudi Arabia and since then we have been seeing cases uh for example in 2015 we are seeing cases every single week. We didn't have a week without a new case. Uh most of these cases um not most but at least half of them were related to u transmission within healthcare facilities. Uh but we still have the community cases that are persistently seen throughout the year. Uh we think that the um the main source of of these infections are uh animals mainly camels and we know that uh the majority of camels in the Arabian Peninsula and the Middle East in general have been exposed to the virus and the significant proportion of these camels are having the live virus in their uh respiratory system and are capable of transmitting it to humans. Uh so the um whether it's um a disease of international public health international concern or not this has been discussed at multiple levels and there has been joint committee of experts at the uh who that has discussed this issue at least 10 times up until now and they come up to the conclusion repeatedly that it's not a public health emergency of international concern but this does not mean that the virus will not change. we um now it's unable to transmit well between humans did not adapt well to its uh human host. Uh but this can change. It's a virus at the end. It's an RNA virus and we know that these viruses can change, can reassort and uh can jump between species. So we are uh worried uh but up until now there is no evidence that this virus can sustain it transmission in the communities. One of the things you just touched on there that I want to follow up on uh was the idea that in several situations I guess we saw it in the Republic of Korea as well and we saw it a couple of times in your country and that is the amplification within a health facility. Uh why does that happen and what can be done about it? Well, this is a striking feature about uh this virus in particular. It does not transmit well in communities and among healthy people in households. For example, the attack rate or the ability of virus to infect people around uh a patient uh is less than 4%. But the it's the totally the opposite when we come to healthcare and this uh we think uh has something to do with the kind of people that are um inside health care system. The their immune system is very weak. Uh their environment is very crowded and there are lots of procedures going around them. lots of interactions between healthare workers and patients, patients and equipments and environment. So this uh allto together increased significantly the risk of infection uh and u its transmission within healthcare and it has been the the only source in fact of uh having the outbreak in Korea. Everything started with the one patient and then it has been amplified in uh multiple hospitals because of transmission within hospitals. Uh we have seen this repeatedly in Saudi Arabia and we think that the um the two main front that uh we should be working hard hard on them are the infection control practices within hospitals, decongestion of emergency rooms, triaging of patients uh that have respiratory symptoms, keeping them in a separate uh uh triage uh pathways and and the other front is to work on the human animal interface trying to come up with preventive solutions to interrupt the transmission from uh animals mainly camels to humans. All right. Thank you very much. Dr. Malik, if I may ask you one more question that we just received from Twitter and I can give you about a minute to uh to answer it and that is how are new technologies and innovations uh being used to help uh reduce the spread of disease. I think I think one of the new technology or innovation that what we are using is the using the mobile phones like in some of the situations where access is limited security is compromised however the mobile phones are working so we're using increasingly the mobile applications to send us the information that there is a suspected case of a disease for example or there is a public health event that needs to be investigated. This is one of the technology that we're increasingly using even through SMS alert is being sent out to the countries or to a functional disease surveillance unit that in in an area where people cannot go but somebody is leaving there at least. So there is a somebody who is sending out this alert to the functional disease surveillance unit that there is a suspected case of a particular disease. This is one of the technology that you're increasingly using. The other is remote sensing. In some of the diseases like the vectorbone diseases through the remote sensing, you can actually predict the occurrence of cholera. Even if although kolera is not a vectorbone disease, but through the climatic changing and through satellite imaging, you can see that the cola can be predicted. But for particularly for some animal disease like reed valley fever and even deni fever using the satellite imagery, you can really predict the occurrence of these diseases. So these are some of the technology that we should increasingly use to predict the occurrence of a particular disease. Thank you both very much for coming by. I appreciate your time and see there you go. That's the benefit of having questions from Twitter. I never would have come up with that question and it was fascinating, wasn't it?