We are moving on to item three of the agenda. I am giving the floor to the director general of the World Health Organization, Dr. Margaret Chin. Madame President, excellencies, honorable ministers, ambassadors, distinguished delegates, friends and colleagues in UN and in public health, ladies and gentlemen. I thank member states for the trust shown when you appointed me as your director general more than 10 years ago. I promised to work tirelessly and have done so but never got tired of the job in the best and worst of times. When I took office, I also promised that I would hold myself accountable for the organization's performance. This month, I have issued a report tracking how public health evolved during the 10 years of my administration. The report sets out the facts and assesses the trends but makes no effort to promote my administration. The report goes some way towards dispelling criticism that WTO has lost its relevance. The facts tell a different story. The report covers setbacks as well as successes and some landmark events. Above all, above all, it is a tribute a tribute to the power of partnerships and the capacity of public health to take solutions found for one problem and apply them to others. As just one example, it took nearly a decade, 10 years to get the prices for anti-retroviral treatments for HIV down. In contrast, because of our teamwork, because of our collective efforts, prices for the new drugs that cure hepatitis C plummeted within two years. This is the culture of evidence-based learning that improves efficiency, gives public health efforts, their remarkable resilience, and keeps us very optimistic. Yes, we falter sometimes, but we never give up. Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, as I speak to you, the political and economic outlook is much less optimistic than it was when I took office in 2007. That was before the 2008 financial crisis changed the economic outlook from prosperity to austerity almost overnight with effects on economies and health budgets that are still being felt. That was before acts of international terrorism and violent extremists became commonplace. Before the word and let me quote mega disaster enter the humanitarian vocabulary. Before seemingly Anna's armed conflicts caused the largest population displacements and flights of refugees seen since the end of the Second World War. That was before the alarming frequency of attacks on health facilities and aid convoys make a mockery of the international humanitarian law. We condemn all these attacks on health care facilities and health care workers and aid workers. According to reports consolidated by David Cho, more than 300 attacks on healthc care facilities occur in 2016 in 20 countries with the majority documented in the Syrian Arab Republic. We are also seeing how a world full of threats can toss out deadly combinations like the dual threats from drought and armed conflict that have brought famine to parts of Africa and the Middle East on a scale never experienced since the United Nations was founded in 1945. The world was fortunate that the 2009 influenza influenza was so mild. The world is fortunate that the new viruses that emerged to cause Merse in 2012 and human cases of X7N9 aen influenza in 2013 are not yet spreading easily from person to person. But we have to be vigilant. We cannot let our guard down because they have the potential to do so. The world was less fortunate with seeker an outbreak the continues to monitor closely. The world was not at all fortunate with the 2014 Ebola outbreak that utterly devastated the populations of Guinea, Liberia, and Srirail Leone. This was West Africa's first experience with Ebola. And the outbreak took everyone including DTO by surprise. WTO was too slow to recognize that the virus during its first appearance in West Africa would behave very differently than during past outbreaks in Central Africa where the virus was rare but familiar and containment measures were well rehearsed. But debit make quick cause corrections, brought the three outbreaks under control through teamwork and partnerships and gave the world its first Ebola vaccine that confers substantial protection. This happened on my watch and I am personally accountable. I saw it as my duty as your director general to do everything possible to ensure that a tragedy on this scale will not happen again. History will judge whether with the new emergencies program has given the world a stronger level of protection. Ultimately, health systems with international health regulation core capacities must be strengthened in your countries to protect unexplained deaths much earlier. This is critical for improving global health security to protect our common vulnerability. Last week, ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Republic of Congo confirmed a new Ebola outbreak near the border with the Central African Republic. This is the country's number eight Ebola outbreak. In his last outbreak which coincide with the West African outbreak, DRC interrupted transmission within six weeks. Despite enormous logistical challenges, discussions is ongoing with the LC about possible use of the new vaccine to augment the response. The Ebola outbreak in West Africa had a number of spillover effects which can be judged more immediately. During the outbreak, WHO acquired extensive experience in facilitating R&D for new medical products. But poor coordination lost too much time. To speed things up, DTO and its partners finalized an R&D blueprint in 2016 by setting up collaborative models, standardized protocols for clinical trials, and pathways for accelerated regulatory approval in advance. The blueprint cut the time needed to develop and manufacture candidate products from years to months. The expert consultations that designed the blueprint led to the establishment of SEPI, which is the coalition for epidemic preparedness innovations, announced in January 2017 with initial funding of nearly $500 million. The coalition is building a new system to develop affordable vaccines for priority pathogens identified by WH as a head start for responding to the next inevitable outbreak. The world is better prepared but not nearly well enough. Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, the relevance of DTO's work is demonstrated in many ways, some more visible than others. The chronology of the HIV, tuberculosis, and malaria epidemics, shows direct links between WH changes in technical strategies and turning points in the disease situation. WHO also makes scientific breakthroughs more democratic by translating findings into a public health approach that works everywhere, even in extremely resource constrained settings. Relevance. Relevance is readily apparent when endorses a new medical product and partners find ways to fund it or when issues a position paper on a new vaccine. Many national immunization programs will not introduce a new vaccine until WTO has issued its formal seal of approval. Such approval triggers action by GVI, the the vaccine alliance to scale up access dramatically. The pre-qualification program is now firmly established as a mechanism for ensuring that the safety, quality, and efficacy of lowcost generic products match those of originator products. For example, by the end of 2016, WH has prequalified more than 250 Finnish pharmaceutical products for treating HIV related conditions. This stretches the impact of funding agencies like the global fund in significant ways. The relevance of debto was most dramatically demonstrated during last month's global partners meeting on the neglected tropical diseases. Participants assessed and celebrated 10 years of record-breaking progress that promises to eliminate many of these ancient diseases in the very near future. This is one of the most effective global partnerships. also with industry in the modern history of public health. The fact that in 2015 nearly 1 billion people receive free treatments that protect them from diseases that blind, ma, deform, and debilitate has very little impact dare I say on the world's geopolitical situation. These people being protected with the generosity of all of you and with the efforts of partnership are among the poorest in the world. But judging from the massive amount of media coverage which included entry into the Guiney's world records for the most medication donated. This was a success story that the world was hungry to hear. Less visible relevance comes from the way WH has built a safety net. A safety net that encircles the world, the globe in the form of thousands of laboratories specialized in the surveillance and diagnosis of priority pathogens. hundreds of collaborating centers and a vast network of scientific boards and strategic advisory groups. I want to thank you, thank your scientific institutions for their valuable work and for their contribution to the cho. No other health agency has this degree of technical expertise ready to hand. Excellencies, the resolutions you adopt also shape the health situation, especially by raising the profile of neglected problems. For example, the comprehensive mental health action plan adopted in 2013 definitively took mental health out of the shadows and into the spotlight. Likewise, beginning in 2010, viral hepatitis appear as a standalone agenda item at three sessions of the World Health Assembly, contributing greatly to the international priority now given to this disease. But the strongest call for action comes from the high level political commitment. This happened in 2011 when the United Nation General Assembly adopted a political declaration on neglected, you know, truly neglected chronic non-communicable diseases. And again in 2016 when a political declaration gave full attention to antimicrobial resistance. Both political decorations responded to a crisis in ways that trigger broad-based urgent action to find solutions. Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I regard the 2010 World Health Report on Health Systems Financing, the path to universal coverage as the most influential publication issued during my administration. It launched what is now a movement towards universal health coverage and inspire the 2012 UN UN General Assembly resolution that paved the way for inclusion of UHC in the sustainable development goals. Talking about SDG 20330 development agenda, our actions must be guided by the five Ps. People, planet, peace, prosperity, and partnership. Ladies and gentlemen, the recommendations that I most want to see implemented are those made by the Commission on Ending Childhood Obesity. Childhood Obesity is the most visible and arguably the most tragic expression of the forces that are driving the rise of non-communicable diseases. It is the warning signal that bad trouble in the form of more heart disease, cancer and diabetes is on its way. The initiatives we all most want to succeed are those for the eradication of polio and guineaorm disease for both. The world has never been so close. We must keep up our efforts and bring eradication of both of these diseases to become a reality. The trend that most profoundly reshaped the mindset of public health was of course the rise of chronic non-communicable diseases. This shift in the disease burden called for a move away from the biomed model of health and its emphasis on curing diseases to a much broader approach based on prevention. I regard every woman every child as a most gamechanging strategy during my administration. Its adoption by the UN in 2010 captured financial support in the billions of dollars and launched a number of initiatives aimed at implementing its recommendations. Maternal and child deaths dropped dramatically. The related WTO Commission on Information and Accountability for Woman and Children's Health added greatly to the culture of measurement and accountability. as set out this year's in this year's World Health Statistics report and nearly half half of all deaths worldwide now have a recorded cost of death. This is huge progress and I thank all the countries that make a special effort in this front. Ladies and gentlemen, the most contentious issue was access to medicines, especially when intellectual property and the patent system were perceived as barriers to both affordable prices and the development of new products for diseases of the poor. The negotiations that led to the establishment of the pandemic influenza preparedness framework were tense to say the least but ultimately successful as were those that led to the global strategy and plan of action on public health innovation and intellectual property. Fortunately, several new initiative and public private partnerships are contributing to both objectives. One example is a new global antibiotic research and development partnership launched last year by WH and the drugs for neglected diseases initiative in short DNDI. This is a needsdriven R&D initiative initially focused on the development of new antibiotics for treating sepsis and sexually transmitted infections, most notably gonorrhea. The partnership aims to promote access and to ensure prices are affordable. Earlier this month, WH launched a very important pilot project for pre-qualifying bioimilar medicines, a step towards making expensive cancer treatments more widely available. WTO is also working with partners on a model for the fair pricing of pharmaceuticals. The rationale is obvious. Universal health coverage depends on affordable medicines. No countries on this planet can treat their way out of all the diseases that are affecting your people. Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude with some brief advice that you may wish to consider. As you continue to shape the future of this organization, WTO stands for fairness. Continue to make reductions in inequalities a guiding ethical principle. What gets measure gets done. Continue to strengthen health systems for civil registration and vital statistics. and continue to make accountability frameworks an integral part of global health strategies. Scientific evidence is the bedrock of policy protected. No one knows whether evidence will retain its persuasive power in what many now describe as a posttruth world. Vaccine refusals are at least one reason why the tremendous potential of vaccines is not yet fully realized. The current misos outbreaks in Europe and North America should never have happened and it has spread to many other countries. Another advice, push for innovation. Meeting the ambitious health targets in the sustainable development goals depends on innovation. Innovation that uses country experiences can be frugal and transformative. For example, the R&D partnership that gave Africa its menitis A vaccine has transformed the lives of millions of people. Safeguard WTO's inequ safeguard debto's integrity in all stakeholder engagements. The framework for engagement with non-state actors is a prime instrument for doing so. And I was told many other UN agencies are following WTO's example to find ways to engage non-state actors. Yes, ministers of health are our principal partners and we value that. But the multiple determinants of health demand engagement with non-health sectors, with communities, with partners, with businesses, with civil society organizations. Last but not the least, maybe two more points. Listen to civil society. Civil society organizations are society's conscience. They are best placed to hold governments and businesses like the tobacco, food and alcohol industries accountable. They are the ones who can give the people who suffer the most a face and a voice. Above all, the most important advice coming from an outgoing DG is remember the people. Behind every number is a person who defines our common humanity and deserves our compassion. especially when suffering or premature death can be prevented. Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, this is the last time I will address the World Health Assembly. I thank you member states, all your institutions in your country for the privilege and the honor of serving this organization. I have done so with humility but also with great pride. I thank my regional directors for their wise council and their support for the deput reform among others and my wonderful staff at headquarters in the regional offices and in countries where the impact of our work matters most. Last but not least, I thank my husband and my family for their love and support. I finish by saying David, thank you for listening. David is my husband. Once again, thank you for giving me the privilege and the honor to serve you and your people. Thank you. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat.