I think I talked about it with my mother, but I didn't want to worry her. I didn't want to tell her, " Well, you know, suicide, I think about it," or "G20, it scares me. I'm afraid I'll hear it coming." I remember seeing the long knives in the kitchen; it scared me. I thought, "In a second, it could all happen, and it's a process like that. Someone wouldn't want it against us, and I would lose my way. I wanted to control that." I think I was 14. I was a little lost because I think I knew. It was around that time that I had to make the first decisions about the future. Everything seemed sadder. I always had this heavy weight in my stomach, really stuck, and I couldn't forget that it was always there. I wanted to... but actually, could I have been born depressed like this? And even though I've always been a cheerful and easygoing person, these were just unanswered questions. But it had to come out, I had to talk to someone. It's a given, but sometimes PayPal added that I was with my sister, and I cried. It was too much, and so she asked me what was going on. I 'll explain, and then I really saw that she was shocked because I said it. And so, the tablecloth was down with my mom, and you're interfering. I thought, well, actually, you can explain it to her clearly, and Jean, don't kill her. You had to talk to her. And regarding school, was there any concern? I don't know, did your teachers or social workers see that you might have been having a harder time there? No, because I really didn't want it to leave the house, and so I really put up a shell a bit, and I didn't feel comfortable talking to my friends about it. So I did talk to a few of them, but without going into details. It's a courageous step; it's not easy to talk about something so intimate when you're suffering. Suicidal thoughts... how did you experience this meeting with me, specifically my hunger, with a psychologist to talk about these complicated things? I had a good feeling about you by chance, but since I 'm someone who talks quite easily by nature, having just someone who could listen to me, even if sometimes I didn't particularly want to talk or just wanted to cry, actually, it made me feel better quite quickly. The first time was hard, and then I realized that even if I didn't particularly want to talk, in the end, I knew it was good for me. And today, if you have any advice or a message to give to young people who are going through similar things, what would it be? Because you shouldn't stay alone. In any case, I advise those who feel like I did at that time to never stop talking about it and to tell themselves that it's not necessarily permanent. I thought I was going to stay like that all my life...  I was going to be miserable my whole life, and when you realize it's kind of a vicious cycle and you can't get out of these questions, you have a knot in your stomach, and you're different from other idiots, you don't feel like laughing anymore, well, I think that's when you have to say it. But actually, it's not really normal because you might have a day when you don't need it, but when it becomes too hard for months on end, I think you shouldn't hesitate too much before talking about it.