Good afternoon and welcome to World Health Plus social goods coverage of the 68th World Health Assembly. The show is brought to you by the United Nations Foundation and WH in order to ensure that you have a voice important discussions that are going on here with the major health issues of today. Now, today is the first of nine hectic days. Well, before we dive into all the details of it, let you take a look behind the scenes so you can see how the World Health Assembly comes together here at the United Nations in Geneva, Switzerland. We're getting ready for the World Health Assembly, which starts tomorrow morning right here in this hall. We could have up to 3,000 people walking these halls and running between meetings. And that's why we came in on a Sunday to show you around. So we're in the assembly hall here now at the United Nations. This is where it all begins. Gens, what's going to happen here tomorrow? WHO has 194 member states and each of them is coming with a delegation often led by the minister of health and then it's the minister or one of the delegate or somebody from the mission here in Geneva is sitting in in here uh to follow the debate in the general assembly and it should be said that for about nine years Gaens was sitting behind the name Switzerland uh as the Swiss delegate for health and as also as the ambassador for global health. There are several layers of balconies here. Media will be up here. Uh NOS's will be up here. Public can come to some of these. Some WHO staff will be sitting here. So this is now where a lot of the work happens. We're a couple of buildings over from where we started. Uh what's going on over here during the week? Actually in the health assembly in the plenary hall where we have just been it's the formalities the real work starts when delegation split into committee A over here and committee B over here committee A deals with all the technical matters all the health matters who is dealing with committee B deals with the financial and administrative matters if they realize that the discussion in the committee would be too cumbersome and too complex text. They often create a drafting group. That means an informal group. No observers, no ENGO, no press where member states amongst each other can hammer out the compromise. All right, Gins. This is about the emptiest I think I have ever seen a serpentine bar. How about you? See, this is the fun part about coming on a Sunday. When you are at 4 in the morning, you find it empty again. When you get out of the drafting group over there, you find it empty. But otherwise, but do they still serve you coffee? No. And people trying to find chairs to uh have discussions and make work. No, it's not only finding chairs. It's also you see somebody you want to speak with, but they are speaking with somebody. So, you don't want to crash in, but you are close enough that they see you want to speak with them. You can tell where the policy is moving to by who is sitting with whom, right? You see who is sitting with whom. Uh who is happy, who is tired. observe people which is also important in the room. Teaching health diplomacy, I sometimes speak of reading the room. So every country and the secretariat has a name plate. It's more than just saying who you are, right? How does it work? How does the flag work? First, it says who you are. And it's always funny to find the countries because they are in alphabetic order. When you want to speak, you simply take the name plate and put it up. But then you have to watch of who it's never that easy. Then you have to watch who is going first because sometimes you want to intervene very first. Sometimes you want others to speak before you because you can answer. Usually you get only one go. There is one exception. If you make like this you ask for what is called the point of order. A point of order means only procedural issues. You can bring something immediately to a vote by a point of order. You can ask the legal council to clarify a legal question, but you can't make your policy point with a point of order. There you have to wait. And sometimes there are 50 70 flags up. You have in front the traffic light. Now, they don't turn off the microphone when it goes to red. This is just good behavior, right? Uh depending on the chair. Is there good peer pressure? Yes, it's peer pressure. But many of the chairs have actually really intervened and said please come to a close and when the chair tells you now you really have to come to a close it starts to get embarrassing. Actually it's a back and forth during the whole week of the assembly because the work is done in the committees but only the plenary can give the final approval to any decision. So the president of the assembly has to often only chair over formalities but sometimes getting into the real political issues and be ready for it. All right, Gins, I'm going to let you go because I know you have to run across town and do some more meetings. Uh that is the scene the day before the World Health Assembly. The work has already started in Geneva. Thanks so much for coming by. Really, it was great to see you and thanks for giving us a tour of everything that's going on here. And you know, it was a lot of fun running through the hallways of the Pala on a Sunday afternoon with Gens, but now we've got to get down to some real work here. Uh, joining me now is the senior communications director from the UN Foundation, and that's Eric Porterfield. Eric, thanks for coming by. He and his team were really the mastermind behind the plus social good concept. Wasn't that long ago that if you came to uh if you wanted to be a part of the World Health Assembly, you had to come to Geneva in May. And last year, Eric Porterfield and his team changed that uh and brought us plus social good. So we did the first world health plus social good. Then now we get to do it again. But you do this for a lot of topics, not just health, right? That's right. It it stems from our social good summit that's an annual event in uh New York alongside the UN General Assembly. And it was created more than five years ago to um really break down the walls of some of these big um convenings to give everyone a a voice and a chance to hear what's going on and and impact some of the decisions being made. How how much contribution do you get from people during these sessions and who's engaging? So we have um about we've done 350 events um in in the last couple years from uh places like Davos which is only a few miles away to the base camp of Everest um where where people were talking about the importance of water and sanitation. Um we've had last year at the World Health we had more than 10,000 viewers um with more than a thousand comments and questions and those uh questions came from you know around the world. Um yeah, great. Why do you think these types of engagements are so important? Why is it important that people get an opportunity to have a voice in the global conversation? So I think it's because you know the the experts here making u policy decisions and and having discussions those those decisions impact everyone everywhere. So it's important for a level of transparency for people to really have their say to know what their leaders are saying and to have a voice and and to really hold their governments and their their leaders accountable. Eric, thanks for coming by and joining us and and thanks for bringing the team out to uh help us bring the World Health Assembly to more people. We appreciate it. All right. Thank you. So, the first day is well underway here at the World Health Assembly. Arriving this morning, we saw uh German Chancellor Angela Merkel. She gave the keynote address this morning and she spoke to the importance of health uh into the sustainable development idea. uh she touched on things that she said were really the important health focus of the G7. Germany has the presidency right now and she talked specifically about neglected tropical diseases, antimicrobial resistance and the importance of a global plan being worked on here to preserve the existing antibiotics that we do have. Uh she spoke also to the importance of WH reforming quickly so that we can respond to largecale emergencies better in the future. Here she is arriving in this video. I'll let you watch this for a moment. That's Dr. Chan, the director general of the World Health Organization that's with her there. It was uh Angela Merkel that kicked off the World Health Assembly this morning. She had the keynote address that started uh us first thing. Here you see them walking to the plenary room and that's where she is now. She's up on the stage and she's taking the stage to make her comments. The plenary hall that you see there holds several thousand people. As you heard in the clip just a moment ago. It is the reason that we come down the hill for the World Health Assembly. We don't have any space up at the World Health Organization that could hold a crowd of this size. You can't tell it there, but there you can. Uh the level of balconies uh in this assembly hall. That's the president of the World Health Assembly there. No. And there you get a nice shot of the room. Here you see Dr. Margaret Chan, the director general, giving her opening comments in the speech. She committed to building an organization to lead the response of outbreaks and other health emergencies. And she spoke to some of the specific changes uh that she was planning to do uh such as creating a single unit that cuts across the organization for health emergencies uh uniting all of those resources that we have. She also mentioned the development of global health workforce and a contingency fund that could cover the immediate costs in those initial first days of a response. She mentioned too, just like the German chancellor, uh the concern of antimicrobial resistance and what that means to public health. Now, in the plenary room behind me, uh this is still going on and the member states are actually now responding to her speech and to the comment she made, uh the topic of their conversation is building resilient health systems. uh and this is something that's really the root of the safety net uh in countries in order to make sure that countries can catch disease outbreaks early that they have the capacity to respond and that we can also help them uh with their response. But now I want to start with a very quick round table just to wet your appetite a little bit uh with some of the topics that we have coming up here. I promise you we will go deeper with all of these folks later uh but really I'm just trying to get you interested in this. I have four people joining me here. Here in the beautiful green suit is Dr. Flavia Bro. She is the assistant director general uh of our work on maternal and child health. I have Dr. Charles Penn who is leading our work on antimicrobial resistance. And this is where the antibiotic resistance falls in. I've got Dr. Rick Brennan here who has been the director in charge of our Ebola response and Dr. Maria Nara who is the director of our work on climate and health. All of you very busy right now. I am going to not even let you get comfortable in your chair. I'm going to ask each of you one question and get you to just tick through it. Flavia, let me start with you. What is the big work you have coming up this week? What are people going to be hearing about? So we begin this evening with a very special event on the new global strategy for women, children and adolescent health which the secretary general of the United Nation have begun the development of and we have a number of minister from India from South Africa with us discussing that and across the week we have a number of items that we'll discuss women health status adolescent health status the very important aspects of immunization and the progress on the global vaccine. action plan. So stay tuned. This week will be very strong on women, children, and also on the link that and the impact that the environment has on their health. Super. Charles, just pass the microphone over to Charles there. What's your week look like? What are the the hot topics there? We've already heard both of the uh big speeches this morning uh mention antimicrobial resistance. So tell everybody what's coming up this week. Okay. So this week uh all the member states here uh will be considering and asked to adopt a global action plan for addressing antimicrobial resistance. And the importance the significance of this right now is antibiotics and other anti-infective medicines have been one of the most important advances in medicine of the last century. helping us to treat infectious diseases, making other medical advances such as surgery and cancer treatments safer and and more possible. But we're losing the effect of these medicines. The more we use them, the more the microbes adapt to overcome them. So, uh people are spending longer in hospital. Diseases are becoming untreatable. Uh other medical practices put at risk. And if we don't do something about it, it will get worse. And that's what's being discussed this week. Terrific. It's going to be a busy week for both of you. Rick, how about you? Well, as you might imagine, Ebola is a big topic this week, uh, but not in isolation. We're going to link all the discussions around Ebola about what we need to do moving forward to improve our emergency operations generally. And we kick off tomorrow with a a technical briefing uh at 12:30 at which we'll have representatives from the three most affected countries, Syria, Liberia, and Guinea. We'll have representatives from their ministries of health as well as other experts talking about what it's going to take us to get to zero Ebola cases in West Africa and what we need to do to stay there. Then we'll have two big sessions both on Tuesday afternoon and Wednesday afternoon. And what they'll be addressing is um some directives given to the organization by our executive board back in January. Uh you may know that we had a special session on Ebola in January. Uh the executive board requested several reports uh and those reports will be presented uh over Tuesday afternoon and Wednesday afternoon and again they'll address the current status of the uh Ebola outbreak, what we need to do uh to extinguish the outbreak and then what the world needs from who moving forward to ensure that we have strengthened emergency resp prep preparedness and response capacities not only within the organization but also globally moving forward. Maria. Well, 2015 is a very busy year for the environment. As you know, in Paris in December, we will have the the climate change summit. Hopefully, the countries will take decisions that are the right ones because then we will have a great opportunity to tackle and to climate change, but at the same time to produce a lot of benefits for human health. We will have a technical briefing on Wednesday where the countries will be discussing again how climate change is affecting our health. Climate change is a major threat for us for our health but it can be transformed on a good opportunity if we move in a more sustainable development, better transport system, more sustainable reducing air pollutants and we hope that this will be the the the very strong arguments that the ministers of health will take back with them to capitals and then influencing a little bit the discussions that will take care uh take place in in Paris. And then on Friday uh the countries will start to discuss uh a resolution on air pollution and health and as you know we have more than 7 million deaths every year caused by exposure to air pollution. So for us this is a major major public health challenge and again we are looking for ways of transforming this on on opportunities for public health. Thank you Maria. Thanks all of you. And in addition to this fantastic summary, you do what we also would like to welcome people to follow us on Twitter and on the social media so they can be up to date with the statement and the comments that all the distinguished delegates are making. So follow us now. You know, Flavia could not have given us a better segue at that point because thank you all for coming by. I will let you get back to work even though questions are arriving from our viewers, but they will ask you questions in depth a little bit later. uh in the in the show this week whenever we have you back to go really in depth. Flavia's segue was perfect uh because this is a digital platform and the idea is that you engage in these conversations and you get access to our experts uh as we're going along. We're set up here in the the big hallway so that we can snag some of the best experts as they come by. Uh what we'll let you do is Hold that, Madison. Thank you. What we'll let you do is ask questions on Twitter. There's two different ways you can do that. Hashtagsgood and WHA68. The idea is you send in your question, we ask the experts and that way you get to participate in the conversation as well. Now because this is a digital platform uh we will uh be bringing you every day uh our digital team and sorry Sati you're too far from the table come on up. Sar Satyogi is the manager of our social media team and she will be leading our coverage there. And we also have this year a group of journalists, five journalists that have come to the World Health Assembly. I think it's all of their first time. Uh and they are attending the entire sessions and because they are here and because it was the UN Foundation that brought them here, we're bringing one of them on the set every day to talk to us also about what the buzz is in the media circles. So I've got Sar Setogi here first. Sari, let me start with you. What kind of interest do have you seen in the World Health Assembly online on social media this year? Yeah, I think it's been very fascinating because um as of this morning uh around 9:30, we actually see the hashtag WH68 was trending in Switzerland already. Um, and we're seeing also uh for uh speech Merkel and also DG address was also very popular on Twitter so far and now that the United States is awake, we're expecting the United States to catch up with Switzerland and and start trending #WHA68 there. Uh, let me also ask you, what do you think is the uh reason that we're having an increase in activity this year? Yeah. Um so far in the last 24 hours we are seeing uh around 11,000 tweets with #WHA68 uh and about 8,000 in um in the last uh day and uh I think it's probably because uh the live webcast that we did for the very first time uh this year and also the uh WHA68 app. So we're webcasting for the first time and we have a new app for the first time. That's correct. Very good. Sorry. Stay close for just a second. I'm going to turn now to Madison Park from CNN.com. This is your first World Health Assembly, isn't it? Yes. What do you think? It's been great. I've seen such a great diverse bunch of experts as well as so many interesting health topics to discuss that it's almost overwhelming and you just kind of wish there was more time to get to talk to people and learn more about different topics. And and what do you hear uh in the media circles are the most interesting topics for today? What are people filing on? You know, I think definitely Ebola is the big news of the day and especially it's been going on for such a long time and people want to see how the WHO will reform and what lessons we can learn from it. So, I definitely see Ebola and a lot of attention being paid to that. And as Flavia was just mentioning a moment ago, uh we do have uh our resolutions covered on our Twitter account. Sorry, tell everybody how they can keep up with the latest uh news as it's happening here at the assembly. Yeah. Um, on Twitter you can follow uh WH and the hashtag isWHA68. On Facebook is facebook.com uhw and on Instagram it's worldhealth organization. All right, we'll see you tomorrow and we'll have another journalist from the fellows tomorrow. Thank you both for coming by. Thank you. Now, we've we've told you a bit about the assembly, how it's set up with committee A and committee B. Uh we showed you about the drafting groups. What we didn't tell you about in that video earlier was the technical briefings. Now, the technical briefings occur at lunchtime every day, Monday through Friday and next Monday. They are a bit different from the hundreds of side events that are happening uh throughout the assembly. The technical briefings are are really a bit special. uh they focus on specific topics that are of interest and I think everybody that was sitting around this table uh a little bit ago for the opening segment the rapid round table uh is going to have a technical briefing. So it is the major focuses uh today we already had one and it was about the post 2015 sustainable development goals. Now there are two pieces to this. Our first guests are sitting down but I get to talk a little bit longer. There are two pieces to this. Uh first there was the Millennium Development Goals. So they were started in 2000 and they were to carry us through 15 years of progress so that countries were working together toward common goals uh to help guide global efforts to end poverty. Joining me now to talk about this piece of it uh is Dr. Tema who is the director of the department of measurement and health information systems here at WH. You noticed I had to read that right? All it means is he's very smart. Okay. We also have Dr. Ariel Pablo Mendes. He's the assistant administrator for global health at USAID. Tease, let me start with you. The MDGs have been good for public health by all accounts and recently the director general said, and I quote, "They have focused political attention and generated badly needed funds for many important public health challenges." Talk about that for me. Okay, so maybe it's good to take stock now. We're in 2015 of the MDGs. Where did it bring us in the past few decades? So in 2000 targets were set for 2015 for a few health goals, child mortality, maternal mortality, and infectious diseases. We're not quite at the end of 2015, but we got a pretty good picture of where we are, and we've just published the World Health Statistics 2015 to take stock. So just a few highlights because first of all I think we should keep in mind that the progress has been spectacular. We did not meet all the targets but it's been spectacular. Child mortality was cut by half since 1990 from 90 to 46 per thousand. That's an enormous reduction. Has never ever happened in history. Pneumonia, diarrhea, measles, malaria, dramatic reductions. It didn't meet the target. The target was twothirds reduction. Maternal mortality also cut in half. Dramatic uh reductions in the numbers, but still 300,000 women dying every year from complications at delivery and and and after delivery. The target was three quarters reduction. So we didn't meet the target but an unprecedented decline. Then the infectious diseases HIV, TB and malaria. The goal was to turn around the epidemic by 2015, meaning that the new cases should have gone down from what it was in the past. It did for all three diseases. For instance, for HIV, the peak was around 2001. Now we're much lower to but still 2.1 million new infections every year. So in terms of the MDGs, they've generated enormous momentum around these goals and everybody has been following progress towards his goals in countries regionally and globally. So in that sense the MDGs were a big success. If you have any questions for TE's or for Ariel Ari aerial while they're sitting here, go ahead and send them in through Twitter. It's social good or 668 and we'll go ahead and ask those questions for you. Let me ask one follow-up question on that. You said in in some cases the targets weren't met. Was this a case where the targets were overly ambitious to try to make progress or were there other challenges? Well, the targets were ambitious definitely and I think that's been good because they really drove the international community first and then also countries to do the maximum possible. Many countries met the targets for many indicators and uh that that's great. Other countries had other situations like fragile states or lack of economic progress or poor decisions on health policies that didn't lead to the to the success that we we were anticipating. I think there's one other thing that I I must highlight. The MDG agendas did not have equity very clear in it. So focus on the poorest. It was a very much focus on national progress. I think if we look forward, we really need to address that issue that equity needs to be very central and we focus on those that are suffering most. Ariel, let me come to you now. You'll need to pass him your microphone. Uh, give me some examples now. Let's go to more of a global picture here. Give me some examples of what the global community has been able to achieve because of the MDG accomplishments. Well, thank you very much. And I join this in the assessment that the gains in the last 20 years have been spectacular. Whether is the number one MDG of cutting poverty in half has happened already before ahead of time and half the worlds that were low income in the year 2000 have now moved up to middle income and that is a marker for the whole of the development success of the last 20 years which is important for health as well and you attribute that to the MDG work well clearly what the MDGs is it's the first time we had in history, a consensus, a soft consensus because it was technically grounded, but it was not directed, right? It was an aspiration, an ambition that it's almost like a an open-source music, right? Nobody was truly dictating or holding your hand. It was this is the music we want to see in the world and uh and the world, NOS's, private sector, governments, foundations, bilateral donors, agencies, everybody moved in their direction without anybody controlling it. It's quite a impressive thing. But indeed, it brought the world with a single consciousness. I I remember that when when uh the men went to the moon and they took the first photos of the of planet Earth and they appear in the magazine, the Almanac in the United States, it gave you a sense that we were all in it together and I think the MDGs gave us that in development. So because of that we have made many of the points that that uh this has made we have cut in half maternal mortality cut in half HIV infection cut in half pretty much uh a child mortality and it's an area that because of the success and the speed you will imagine it gets harder right if you the lowest hanging fruit it gets harder and harder well the rate of decline in child mortality is accelerating compared to about 2% per year annually decline. We now have almost 4% per year in in the world. This is quite an impressive story. I believe that family planning has been very very important as well. Family planning not only helps save lives of mothers and children, it empowers women and it does a lot of good things for health and development and then it brings a demographic dividend as well that has contributed to the economic improvement. So the economic improvement has come from many many forces but clearly the demographic dividend thanks to family planning has been also quite crucial. I want to ask both of you did did the accomplishments made through the Millennium Development Goals exceed your expectations at the beginning. Ariel since you have the microphone you can start. No doubt when when USAD was established just over 50 years ago there were nearly 20 million children dying every year. 20 million right or thereabouts. The world has double or triple in size and the number of kids dying by 1990 came down to 12 million now around 6 million. The success that we have seen in our generation in our lifetime has now emboldened us to see what we see as a grand convergence that the levels of mortality in the world will now approximate those enjoyed in the richer world. That will mean that although there will still be some debts because we have debts even in rich countries the debt should be less than 2% in a world that gives about 130 births million of births a year. That would still mean two million deaths, not zero. But that is our goal. The goal of to end preventable child and maternal debt by 2030 means this grand convergence of the levels of mortality with the richer world. And it's already happening. We're almost 80% of the way there or 90% of the way. We will end preventable shall material debt in our generation. It's hard to believe, isn't it? TE. What about you? Well, I take it from the numbers perspective because that's that's my my job and passion. So, every time a country does a national survey, a demographic health survey or I open the report and the first page I look at is the child mortality decline. And every time I was surprised whether it was Dr. Congo or Ethiopia or any other country about the enormous declines in child mortality, it was just so striking. So in that sense I have to admit I was really surprised. I think we've also seen quite a large growth in funding that went into key health interventions for child maternal and the infectious diseases in countries. And so what it tells us also is that more money can make a difference. And I think that's this can do lesson I think we have to take forward. So it it it's in 2000 I would not have thought that we would be in this place now. Yeah. Ariel, let me ask another question to you. Where does the focus need to be now? Finishing what finishing this in 2015 plus also looking forward where where does the focus need to go? Well obviously you like the idea of ending preventable shallow maternal debt. So we're going to do that and we also have to continue to contain infectious diseases both the classical and also emerging uh pathogens. The world is looking at non-communicable diseases and injuries which is one of the few causes of dead age adjusted that is growing in the world. Um but importantly as we see the end of preventable channel material data a grand convergence that would be if you think of it in terms of inequality between countries that will mean the end of those between countries inequalities but within countries there will be a lot of inequalities both on the income part and in many of the health indicators. So we see also a within country revolution in the future both to address the inequalities in health and as well as mobilizing domestic resources rather than dependence on international assistance to get this done. So one of the aspirations in the post 2015 era is universal health coverage. make sure that the bottom half of the population have access to uh essential services and that people do not have to go broke because they had to pay for health in the world. That's an aspiration that we can deliver and given what we have done so far, we feel very confident because the economics of countries are improving in in many of the countries. We also see the need to reorganize the financing in a better way and to bring in new ideas as to how we're going to finance health in the future in in the countries that still need for that grand convergence to occur. Ideas like the global financing facility for every woman, every child will be important and part of the new post 2015 era. You know, I'm going to have T stay with me in just a moment. He'll be here for two blocks from now, but I'm going to lose you. So, I want to ask you one more question. And you just mentioned the idea of financing uh these types of investments. H how do you do that? How do you ensure that you've got the investment that you need uh in these types in the in the work that brings us to these types of goals? Well, clearly results is a good thing, right? In a way, we are moving from an era of debt to an era of life. We were before just painting picture of the dying kids and now we're showing you we can end preventable child material debt. that's possible and it's going to be about thriving and surviving. Now to do so also the economies will change. While uh the international community remains quite generous and the American people has been one of the leaders in in investment really in in many of these areas. Uh we expect countries to do more and so we are looking at the economics of countries their GDP's growth their taxation their uh total expenditure what public private and how we can bring together resources locally to address these needs. Domestic resource mobilization and transparency will become fundamental to financing health and development in the post 2015 era and ideas. For example, in the year 2000, many of poor countries were drowning in debt and their societies were collapsing because of AIDS in Africa. Now Africa is one of the fastest growing regions in the world. They can now see their financial growth and their economics growth. And you see hey could we not borrow from that future to save lives today and the answer is yes. So we are creating mechanism that will allow us to borrow from the future to address needs today countryowned country half owned by the countries half paid by the international community bringing private capital to all sort of innovations in financing and uh indeed uh at the end is organizing all of in a way that will be sustainable and fair. TE, let me ask you one follow-up question. We're going to get into the the financing aspect of it a little bit more in your next segment. Uh it's not right after this, it's two from here. Uh so we'll dig deeper then. But but I'm curious from your point of view, both of you have mentioned the need to focus on finishing uh the commitments that we've made here and keeping this moving forward, sustaining this. Uh what would you say of the eight current goals in the Millennium Development Goals, uh what would you say is the one that needs the biggest push still? Perhaps it's made the least amount of progress. Perhaps it has the most to gain. You can pick the reasoning why, but what is the the the one you would say we absolutely need to put a fullcourt press on? Well, if I go by the annual discussions that we have in the World Health Assembly here, it the topic that always stands out is maternal mortality, which is MDG5, where we know the interventions are there, where we know it can be done, but still 300,000 or so women die every year and and that of is unacceptable and that is a priority. Now there is some good news here and I think that the post 2015 agenda can capitalize on that. In the last few years look me opening these reports about how many women are delivering in facilities for the first time in decades more women are delivering in health facilities in almost every country that I've seen which is really a big achievement because it's stagnated for decades. Now the challenge is to deliver the quality care to those women and make sure that they are there in time. So I would pick maternal mortality reduction as my number one. All right. You like how I didn't ask you that question but you're going in. It's a great it's a great question and uh we actually have been looking in each of the priority countries in which USID supports about 24 of them and we there's a tool John Hopkins tool based on data that this and others put together called the lifesaving tool which allows you to calculate if you put a dollar where will that give you the most bank really what is the most feasible based on what other countries in your region and income status have accomplished what is possible and how How much does it cost to reach that optimal status? And when we did that across our countries, lots of things are important as this has mentioned here. Many vaccines and everything is important. But the one thing that jumps every time is investment in family planning. It jumps every time. Family planning alone could help prevent 30% of the maternal debts, 25% of the child debts, empowers women. that allows to improve health for the rest of the family and the communities and as I mentioned before it brings on a demographic dividend of two% of GDP growth compounded over 20 or 30 years. So but even just based on the life state part of those three big outcomes for planning it it comes ahead as one of the most important things we are doing and the world needs to do obviously more across everything but if you're asking one thing that will yield the most the the models are very very clear actually. All right thank you both for joining us I'm going to let you go tease I'm going to let you slip off the set but I'm going to ask you to stay close I'll take that. Thank you very much. Good to see you. Now remember I told you there were two parts to this discussion. That was a very interesting wrap of 2000 to 2015, right? We learned a lot. We've made a lot of progress. It was hugely successful by all accounts. There's your microphone. Thank you. Now remember there's two parts though. I told you the Millennium Development Goals went until 2015. Well, it's 2015. So part two of this is let's take a look at what we've achieved and then let's decide how we go forward. What are we going to do for the next 15 years? Obviously we at WHO are very interested in the health aspects of this but we all recognize that health does not exist in a silo that all development goals work together. Joining me now to talk about where we are going with the next set of development goals is Amina Muhammed. She is the secretary general's special advisor on the post205 development planning. Thank you for coming by. It's a pleasure to have you here. So we are at 2015 now and we're taking a look at going forward. Uh tell me about the process. You are literally leading this process for the secretary general. How do you decide what are going to be the development goals for the next 15 years? How does that work? Well, member states decide, but we we try to help inform that with the best possible lessons learned and evidence that's available for what we need to do to respond to the challenges that we have today. They're not the challenges of 2000 when we designed the Millennium Development Goals. There's a different set of challenges. Some are still existing because the MDGs are unfinished business. Um, but there are new ones. Um, it's a new narrative that we have to respond to where conflict is a very big issue. inequality is huge. Um young people that don't have jobs. Um the lack of access really just to basic services and rights. So we we are really looking to see um how to help member states in a universal agenda because this is so much bigger than we had before. When how do they bring their priorities in? How do we help shape those where we can agree the ambition to a response in a set of goals and targets? and and that's taken a long time and it's one that we've learned that ownership is key um from the country level within different stakeholders and their constituencies uh and how to make that a global conversation and bring that into negotiations which are pretty difficult. If you have any questions for Amina then you can send them in tow68 or social good. We have one question here. When the blue circle comes up here it means we have a question from somebody that's watching us online. So the question is how do we address health equality inequality issues? Yeah. I mean the inequality itself um has different dimensions to it. The policy environment has to be key to that. The coherence of it within what we aspire to globally but also local result. Um and then we've really got to see how we put in place the priorities of a country to for access to everyone and what are the missing pieces to allowing everyone access to basic services particularly health. But as you know with the SGS we also talk about education we talk about gender um we also speak about ending poverty and making sure that um there is social inclusion on the inequality agenda. Do you find consistencies to the barriers to access? I think across the world there have been um clearly you know women are our our one uh consistency all the way through um that we see barriers to that um but I think institutionally policies themselves are not conducive um they don't look through a gender lens often um and we also see that many vulnerable groups are left behind and some of the tools available to make that not so should be what is at the core of the agenda today. So we talk a lot about accountability, strong institutions, the data revolution. Um if we're leaving no one behind, which is key to this universal agenda. Um what are we doing about the baselines and really trying to disagregate them not just by country, within country, across countries, uh to see, you know, where are those that are missing that need to be brought to the four. I'm curious how the process to develop the next 15 years of goals has differed from the process to build the goals for the Millennium Development Goals. What have we learned from putting together the MDGs that's going to make the process even better for the SGS? I think the ownership part of this, the involvement in a process to determine your priorities as a country, as a constituency in civil society, parliamentarians, business, um, vulnerable groups that were not always captured by some of the stakeholder groups. Um, in in 2000, it really was an acknowledgement that the many different UN platforms had not met the goals they had set. So for instance on the education for all the health for all many goals were left behind and it was sort of what can we do as the minimum ask to actually put forward an agenda of of eight goals as it turned out a millennium declaration that says eight these eight goals must be achieved within 15 years. that was basically done by a lot of experts um who were committed to this and who had the experience of many decades but it was done in a closed environment and so regarded and and referred to as a prescription okay coming down to our countries and I certainly was a part of a very big country that received the MDGs took us a long time to understand and to own them and to integrate them into our own investment plans that's a big lesson learned and so in this sense the the interaction with governments and with stakeholders right from the beginning. A three-year process as wide as possible. The involvement of young people, especially women across social media who are informing this gives us ambition. Um it gives us a sense of can do because we have to do it. The implications for not are too dire. Um but but it also has broadened the need to bring in all aspects. So we don't just talk about the substance. We also talk about the means of implementation and we talk about accountability. I have one last question for you and I'll ask it briefly so we can finish on time, but that there's three major events over the next six months. Uh we've got the financing for development, we've got the report of the progress of the millennium development goals and we have the climate summit. They can look like from afar that they are completely disconnected but actually they're quite interconnected, aren't they? Very interconnected. Uh one without the other just won't give us the ambition we need to respond to these huge complexities we have in the world today. Um the first meeting which is the means of implementation really does in July in Adis Sababa does try to respond to the 17 goals that we have the substance of the SDG framework. Um and and that is very important because it opens up the resources in a much broader way brings in technologies and capacities. Uh so we're going beyond just speaking about what we've done before unlocking resources that were not otherwise available to the development agenda. these messages and what happens with the ambition have a direct impact on what we do on climate change. Um, and that we have to bend the curve to make it a better world and and I think that these are three things that we can do. They're within reach. There's certainly the wherewithal. What we need is not just the political leadership, but we need commitment. Um, and we need courage of conviction. Amina Muhammad, thank you so much. She is leading this work to develop the SGS for the Secretary General. uh really a luxury to have her here uh with us for just a segment. Thank you so much for your time. We appreciate you coming by. Now, as I was saying, the technical briefings really give us a great opportunity. You know, this is the the part of the the day where you have all of the experts on one issue coming together. Uh and when they come together, we can really have a full uh all aspects of a conversation uh together. and it gives you an opportunity to jump right in the middle here. You can ask your questions on Twitter. You can reach us at WHA68 and social good. Now, don't mind us here as we're moving chairs around. We're part-time furniture movers at the World Health Plus social good. Uh, and I think this is going to work to get everybody around the table. Like I said, the benefit of the technical briefing is that we can grab all of the experts and I certainly have some of the best here around the table. I have Dr. Tim Evans who is the senior director for health nutrition and population the global practice at the World Bank and we will give him the tough question that just came in. Uh we have Dr. Tease Vorma the director. Here we go again. The smart man uh department of measurement and health information systems at the World Health Organization. It's quite a title, isn't it? Yeah. World Health Organization. That's the easy part of his title. And then we have Faraday Luiga. Luiga. Am I saying that right? Help me out. Where's your microphone? Help me out here. Farida Luigga. Thank you very much. From the White Ribbon Alliance. So send your questions into these guys. WHA68G good. And we are going to start by asking Tim Evans a very difficult question here. And that is a blue circle means a question from Twitter. What is meant by sustainability in health? Do I use the microphone? Yes, please. Okay. Uh well, sustainability and health is um a tricky complex in the sense of the physiological dimensions of sustainability. But those are all the things that you need to keep healthy. Uh and uh if you think of those, those relate to food, those relate to shelter, those relate to access to to health care when you're sick, right? And if all of those elements are in place, then over the course of your lifespan, you're likely to be able to sustain your health. So sustainability really is a a reference to um those factors, those prerequisites, those foundations, those services that uh every person would need to access across the course of their life in order to enjoy the highest attainable standard of health. All right. Thank you. That was very helpful. Tease, let me come back to you. You were here just a moment ago and we were talking about the Millennium Development Goals. Millennium development goals. We had eight if I remember correctly. Uh nearly um half of them probably involved health. What are we looking at now for the next 15 years with the SDGs? What are we looking at for the health piece of that? So the proposal from the so-called open working group which was discussed in the UN General Assembly last year and pretty much accepted. So it it will now move into the outcome document which will be discussed in September for adoption in the UN General Assembly has 17 goals. 17 goals and one of those is a health goal and then under each goal there are targets. In total there are 169 targets and 13 of those are health. So in terms of the prominence of health, you would say it's less prominent than before. It's also important that the new agenda whereas the MDGs were very much focused on poverty, improving health, education, this new SG agenda is about all countries. So it's an all country agenda and it addresses the economic, the social and environmental issues. So that's why perhaps health is less prominent as a goal, one goal, but health is in all other goals as well uh as a contributor uh and also as a beneficiary. So in education, nutrition, poverty reduction, uh climate change, equity, water and sanitation, these are all goals and we all think that there are very critical linkages with health that need to be explored in and and and lead to intersectoral action in the next 15 years. Okay. Faraday, let me come to you here. Uh you're a strong advocate for citizen-led accountability. talk about the accountability aspect of the SDGs. What are your concerns? My concerns are that we need to involve citizens in accountability. Through our efforts as white bonans, we've learned that when citizens are engaged, they can through their voice demand and hold leaders accountable. We need to open up spaces for citizens to engage and also invest more in citizen accountability. We've seen through our citizens hearings held in over 30 countries with our partners that when citizens are engaged, they can hold their leaders accountable. Citizens have been able to raise their voice. They've given us their what they want the governments to focus on and how they should be involved in accountability processes. All these hearings have happened in over 30 countries like I told you and we've engaged over 400 organizations, individuals, citizens including adolesence and all these have been given a platform to tell their governments what they want and how they want to be involved in holding their leaders accountable. We've seen progress. We've been able to take the hearings to our health ministers and also our prime minister and all of them have welcomed citizen engagement. As you can see, there's already greater support and ownership of the new development agenda. And all we're asking for is to ensure that citizens participate and hold their leaders accountable. And we say that there should be nothing about citizens without citizens. Sounds like there's far more engagement than there was in the development of the Millennium Development Goals. All right, you have two questions from our viewers. Yes, I'm afraid so, Tim. So the first one, could you provide more detail on the global framework for impact? Faraday, pass it to one of the men. So I'm not sure what the global framework for impact is, but I think it it's it's referred to the framework for monitoring progress and accountability related to the sustainable development goals. Would that be a good guess? Um if that's the case then that is still very much under development and a lot of discussion around what are the indicators we can use to monitor it. How can we create something that really resonates with the world where policy makers, people can understand whether our planet is getting healthier, whether people's well-being is improving. Uh and then of course there is the whole issue around accountability. How are going to the stakeholders going to be involved? What about transparency? Uh so a lot of discussion going on right now around the SCG monitoring agenda and in the end I guess that refers to the global framework for for impact. So a lot of work to do between now and September. Uh Tim while I have you here can you talk about the financing aspect of this uh for the STDs STGS are we talking more about a global financing or national financing? Give me some help here. So I think the SGS really are over the next 15 years looking at a a major change in the landscape of financing for health development and for development in general. I think a lot of countries are going to move from low income to middle income status uh over that 15-year period. And in that context, traditional forms of development assistance like grants uh will uh no longer be appropriate for countries that are middle inome. Uh and so people are starting to think now in the context of the SGS how to anticipate and embrace that transition. And that means we have to put first and foremost a lot more attention on um domestic resources. domestic resources in terms of public sector, government expenditure, raising money through taxes and other forms. Um but also through the private sector um and in fact we know that in most countries now even low-income countries uh government and private sector are are usually the majority financeier of their health sector. But we know that um there's also a very concerning situation that we've seen in the context of the MDGs which is when more development assistance goes in government contributions to the sector go down. It's what we call substitution. And so I think in the moving forward in the SDG and the financing for development framework, we'll be really looking at how development assistance can become additional uh to domestic resources and that development assistance can catalyze the growth of of domestic resources such that by 2030 many countries will be able to sustain the financing of their own health systems. And that's really going to be a lot of the discussion in July and Addis, isn't it? At the It is. And in the health sector, we've got a long way to go because at the moment, um the majority way in which u we finance health systems is by asking people, citizens to pay at the point of service. And this discourages people who need services from accessing care. But if they happen to pay, it's a major source of impoverishment. and approximately 100 million people per year fall into poverty because of payments for healthcare. So if the SGS are going to be successful and we're going to eliminate extreme poverty and we're really going to ensure universal access to services, we have to change not only the level of financing but also the way in which health services are financed so that people don't pay at the point of service. You know, the MDGs seem challenging uh at the beginning and listening to this, it seems like this is going to be even harder. Faraday, let me ask you one last question. Uh what is your advice on the best way that we can hold governments accountable when it comes to the STGS? I'll still insist or emphasize citizen accountability. Without citizens, we can't achieve more. We know that citizen led accountability is the fastest and most sustainable way to bring about change. We know that most of the decisions about women and children are being made behind closed doors by men. We want citizens to be involved. When citizens are when citizens are involved, we'll be able to see results. Thank you. Thank you so much for what you do. Uh it's really uh exciting to hear about the power that that could hold uh and that the voice of the people could make uh such a difference. Uh thank you all for joining us. I have to let you go now. Uh but I do thank you for joining us and and I know that it's been a very busy day for you. Thank you so much. Steve, nice meeting you. It's very nice to meet you as well. Uh so there you go. Uh busy days here on day one of the World Health Assembly. Uh that's all we have time for. It goes by so fast when we're having fun. I know. Uh but I do want to thank you for joining us. Be sure to tune in tomorrow. Tomorrow we'll be having the technical briefing on Ebola. However, committee A will go straight into Ebola. So, we will not have those participants on our show tomorrow. We'll have them Wednesday instead. Tomorrow, we'll be diving deeper into climate and health. That was Dr. Maria Nara that was here and she'll be talking about the climate summit that's happening in December and what WH is doing to help reduce air pollution. Uh, also, we're going to be talking about responding to some severe emergencies. And backed by popular demand this year is uh Dr. Elizabeth Hoff who is the head of our country office in Syria. Uh she was one of our most popular last year and she is back at the World Health Assembly. So we'll be talking to her and some of our other experts who are leading in really some work and some amazingly difficult situations right now. Uh but that's all we have for you today. Thanks for watching. I'm Christy F from Geneva. We'll see you tomorrow.