I'm going to switch gears here to something that happened in late April. Uh something that all of us remember quite well. It was the 25th of April. Uh when a 7.8 magnitude earthquake struck Nepal near Catmandeue. Uh it wasn't unexpected. Uh we know that that area does sit on a major fault line, but the location was devastating for the people that were living in this very mountainous area. And joining me to talk now about how WH responded to that disaster is Dr. Punham Singh, WHO's regional director for the Southeast Asia region. Thank you so much for joining us, Punham. Now, I want to kind of go back to the 25th of April, if you would. Uh, I know it was a very difficult day and you have been going non-stop since that time. Uh, what did you do at the very beginning? What did your team do as soon as you heard about this earthquake? How did WHO respond? Well, it was a Sunday as you know when the earthquake struck and uh there were uh people were not really around at that time. However, they very quickly got together in the operations room which had been built by WH and the ministry of health together in Nepal. um they rang me up and I wanted to talk to the minister of health to very quickly assess what the needs of Nepal were so that our response matched their needs and he mentioned to me that there was a need for uh medicines, some equipment, they wanted emergency health kits, they wanted some staff of ours to be there to help them because they felt at that time of course they didn't know of the magnitude of the earthquake. We thought there were about 500 dead and at as days went by the figures swelled and now it's over 8,000 that we're talking about almost 8,600. So I immediately get to work. I think what was very important at that stage of time was that they needed some kind of financial support because even the national mechanisms don't get to work so quickly and we in the Southeast Asia region after the tsunami hit us in 2004 that is the 26th of January 2004 and I remember that day so vividly because that's Christmas time and everybody's on leave and that's the day tsunami That's it. And after that we had a number of lessons learned workshops just to equip our countries better to deal with disasters because Southeast Asia is a disasterprone region. We you just name a natural disaster and we have it. We have floods, we have earthquakes, we have mud floods, we have cyclones, we have volcanic eruptions. So as a region we are exposed to a lot of natural disasters and in those lessons learned workshops what came through very prominently was that preparedness was really the key and we needed you cannot avoid a natural disaster. If an earthquake is coming it's coming. That's right. You can't avoid it. That's exactly right. I'm going to get you to hold your microphone a little bit closer because your battery is dying apparently. Uh now if you want to ask questions and you've got to see these these pieces of paper coming in here, okay? Uh because it means that we have questions coming in from our viewers on Twitter and this tells me that there is so much interest in this response. So I'm going to try to work my way through them while talking about some of the things that you were just uh discussing there. One of the things is we have had a country office in Nepal for decades and we've known like like we said earlier that it is sitting on a major fault line. What was WH and the government doing uh before the earthquake struck to prepare them uh for something like this and how well did it work? We've been preparing them and we've been working together with the government for almost a decade. There's an emergency response framework that we've been working on and as I mentioned to you, we had after the tsunami identified 12 benchmarks for country preparedness and these benchmarks relate to legal and policy frameworks. They lead to capacity development, community, community empowerment. We were working on these benchmarks with Nepal too and Nepal scored very well on some almost 100 to 90% and there are still areas where they need to work more. However, what really helped was that we did stock emergency health kits there very close to Kathmandu. So as soon as the earthquake struck, we could immediately give them four emergency health kits which take care of 40,000 population for a period of 3 months. How many people? 40,000. Each kit takes care of 10,000 population for 3 months. So we gave them four which were lying there. So it we really lost no time in doing that. and within 24 hours we could release $175,000 from CRF which is the Southeast Asia Hence Health Relief Emergency Fund. I want to talk to you about that because one of the questions coming in actually is about that. Uh here at the World Health Assembly, we're hearing questions about uh WH creating a contingency fund of sorts so that it could respond quicker uh and and cover the cost of that response off the front end. Uh the question here uh is how is WHO allocating resources more efficiently in emergency situations like like Nepal? I think the situation you just mentioned uh in your region is really an example of how a contingency fund can work. Can you talk about how you use it? Certainly. This fund was set up as I said as uh one of the aftermaths of the tsunami. It was set up in 2008 and the fund is interestingly a pool of the resources of the member states. It's not a fund that WH puts up with its own resources. So 1% of the AC budget of the member states is put into this fund. And so we have a fun and the AC is the assessed contributions what they have to pay in. Yes. So it's AC we use 1% of it because it's more reliable. We know it's coming. It's there. And then this we put in our regional share also. It comes to about a million dollars for a bianium. We have a cap on this fund. We worked on business rules for the fund and we have a cap of 350,000 on one emergency. But we don't release the entire amount in one go. We split it into two. The first installment is 175,000 which we gave to Nepal immediately. And under this fund just on an email from the ministry of health to the WR after they declare a state of emergency the fund can be released by me. So it comes to me and within 24 hours we release the fund and that is what we did for Nepal. So it really allows you to amount an immediate response. Absolutely. I do feel this is what helps the most because then they can use the fund where the needs are. So when they send a proposal for the fund, they re need to very broadly identify the areas where the fund would go. We have it, we release it to them, they use it and we take the account from them later. So that's the way it works and it's worked very well in our region. Every country of ours except one or two have taken advantage of this fund and member states like it. We take it to the regional committee every year to show them the accounts. Every country has one representative on a committee we set up which monitors the fund. So countries are happy and I feel that this is something which answers the immediate needs of the country. It's a good model for for what they're talking about right now. A last question for you just very briefly. Uh the viewers on uh Twitter have asked what is currently happening uh following the earthquake in Nepal? if you can just take uh 30 seconds and talk about the response on the ground. Now you see what happened was that normally a response stage lasts for 7 days. In Nepal we had one earthquake following the other. We had one which you mentioned on the 25th of April followed by one on the 12th of May and just two days ago there was another one five on the Richter scale but they have been having aftershocks regularly. So Nepal is in a situation where they're looking after the injured as well as looking after those who need rehabilitation. There are lots of surgeries that have gone on mostly related to to um orthopedics and at the moment I think the greatest need is mental health. There are psychosocial needs of people. As far as women go the needs are there. There are women who are pregnant who need to deliver. There are women who are lactating. they need to be taken care of. So WHO has set up tents for them. We are working very closely with our partners with UNICEF on water and sanitation issues because for WH the most important thing at the moment is to avoid outbreaks. So we are seeing that there is no disease outbreak and for that we need clean water to see that there are no waterborn diseases like diarrhea and with the coming monsoons we are worried about vectorborn diseases so that's the way we are looking at our response terrific Dr. Punam saying thank you so much for your time. Uh she probably has not slept for a month. There is so much going on but uh there you have it. WHO still on the ground uh actively responding to the health needs uh after these earthquakes in Nepal. uh something and and earlier this week, you'll remember that we talked about uh the mental health guidance uh that was given just a few days after the first earthquake there uh to try to help people provide assistance uh to those who were struggling after uh the earthquake.