My daughter is the season last summer she did Chris at one point I have the plane too deplored he was in total distress at first she didn't want to tell me what happened so at his place a little bit forced the situation alas my life a moment at his that I don't want to live Easter falls makes worries I remember the 16 5 years it's true that my daughter and the hermetic ones a hermetic type but sometimes the spent a lot of time in her room but we said it's okay the teenagers around her everything was fine north with her friends the school of very beautiful Nantes always very good Nantes I was but what's going on so you have problems you only have one problem Actis friend with a boyfriend ok what's going on but no it's not that at home I'm afraid and I find that my life is aimed at his place a huge book of loves and I was told it always passes I leave Vayssade he didn't know exactly what happened and except  that they were going, they had decided black, etc., etc. We know they needed glasses, that's going well because sometimes I know it's very difficult to convince a teenager to look for help, so right away, of course, we had a very sweet little moment, it was very close, Shelly, okay, so right away I find students, I'm looking at Bel Air for information on disorders, and I remembered, I don't know how, the worst of illnesses, and call right away, I was answered, recognized right away too, I explained my daughter had decided she was suicidal because that's what she was thinking and didn't act on it, but she thought that, and we called in for the next day, after the field sciences, not the therapies, it's more to discuss what's going on, and after making a little diagnosis, and at the same time my husband and I are sad, we're also looking for another psychologist, and you know, a lot, a lot, to support her, to know what's going on, to reassure us too, because it was the  Total bomb at our place, how is my daughter doing? She's doing well and continuing therapy outside of work. It's a struggle, always with a single parent, and she's starting to feel confident in herself. It's still a long road, it's not over yet. I'm not angry. They're fragile, they're very attentive to what happened. At the real rate, if I find parents in the same situation as us, I'll tell them right away to call for help, to have someone to guide you because it's up to you. And in this situation, don't let them get away with it. We unfortunately decided to take action, but it's a different story. Without it, it will pass. Uh, no, no, she was a Romand Mappy. She was suffering, so you have to immediately address the suffering of this teenager. If you see others in the same situation as my daughter, I'll tell them to trust the person who is closest, a friend, a teacher, anyone. Sometimes things don't go very well with parents. That wasn't the case for my daughter, but sometimes it's like that. So, debacle and  to express oneself, to be afraid, delirious, and what happens there, the languages