In 2014, Mauritania, Togo, and Côte d'Ivoire each conducted meningitis campaigns using the CTC approach with the meningitis vaccine in selected districts where access issues and CTC constraints were especially pronounced. In total, over 1.5 million people between the ages of 1 and 29 were immunized using the CTC approach. The temperature-controlled chain approach is an innovative approach that can improve vaccination services in Côte d'Ivoire. This approach will essentially resolve the difficulties caused by cold chain breaks, but above all, it will allow our health workers, once well-trained, to master their vaccination practices. The workers will tire less and can also vaccinate more people. There is no more accumulation of moisture in the vaccines; everything is much better. It's much heavier, and we can take many vaccines, which was not the case with the classic cold chain. It was impractical, even with the motorcycles we had; it was difficult. Whereas with the CTC, today I can go for 3 or 4 days to vaccinate in the campaigns without...  The problem with conventional cold weather is that we are forced to return to base each time, meaning that returning to the health center saves us fuel, meaning economically we save on fatigue. Even as human beings, we have to go, we have to make the trips back and forth. We are no longer faced with this problem. The safety of vaccines during campaigns using CTCs is ensured by the principles dictated by the manufacturer itself. Because, as you know, the Maïvac vaccine was manufactured with the approval for use of this CTC. A specific system has been put in place with a coordination and supervision unit for this strategy. It mainly consisted of training health workers and supervisors so that the entire chain is respected: the vaccine is properly stored, it is used on the S, the reports are well done, and all health workers are fully involved in this strategy. Monitors provide vaccinators with the assurance that the vaccines kept in CTCs are still potent and able to provide full protection to the immunized population. Simple but effective.  steps for monitoring vis also prove successful any unused viile kept in a CtC for a day was marked with a single line these vials were then used first the following day if they weren't used again they were marked with another single line up to three at the end of each sequential day this helped keep track of the four days allowed for CTC as indicated for threat so that vaccinators knew the vaccines used were still effective and did not pose any risk to the population we did have some concern when implementing CTC for the first time we fear that health workers might get confused during subsequent campaign with vaccine not yet licensed for CTC we also fear that we will waste vaccine because health worker might not follow the CTC guideline however experience 2012 2014 bengwise m because of the high quity training and supervision the CTC approach for M FRAC cannot bring confusion so for us we would have liked that several vaccines could enter the CTC system to facilitate our work with the CTC we gain time, energy and the number of children vaccinated thanks to the  CTC we can focus our time and energy  to vaccination