Five Keys to Safer Food In our homes, near the food we eat, live mysterious tiny but very energetic creatures much smaller. These are microorganisms. Extremely small living beings. There are three different types of microorganisms. The good ones help in the production of food and drinks such as cheese and yogurt. Fermented meats and fermented vegetables. There are also other microorganisms that can be very unpleasant. These are the bad ones. They are responsible for the foul smell, bad taste and appearance of rotting food, but even these do not usually cause illness. But there are other types of microorganisms that we really need to worry about. They do not cause the food to smell bad or change its appearance. These are the dangerous ones, however, and we must be careful of them. They are known as pathogenic microorganisms, that is, those that can cause serious diseases such as abdominal pain, vomiting, diarrhea, fever, and even death. They are insidious, invisible and dangerous. These little creatures are very, very prolific. They need food, water, time and warmth to increase their numbers. They can multiply very quickly. Fortunately, no matter how strong and scary they are,  These microorganisms are vulnerable and can be prevented. Just five simple rules are enough. Five keys to how to behave to get rid of them. Protect yourself and your family from illness in the home. The rules are easy to apply. These are your five keys to safer food. Keep clean to prevent contamination. Separate raw and cooked foods to prevent cross- contamination. Cook food thoroughly to kill microorganisms. Store food at a safe temperature. Either low or high to prevent bacterial growth. Use safe water and ingredients to prevent contamination. Food producers are the ones who are primarily responsible for the safety of the food you buy. But you too can protect yourself and your family from illness in the home. By applying the five keys to safer food, use them. You also play a role. Produced by the World Health Organization. The Slovak version was prepared by the World Health Organization office in Slovakia.