Cattle are the lifeblood of the Masai tribe in northern Tanzania. Their milk is a critical source of income and nutrition. But these cattle are at risk of a serious disease that can dry up their milk permanently, and impact the community’s health. community's health.The tiny tsetse fly carries a parasite that causes sleeping sickness. It's a zoonotic disease that can affect both people and cattle. The flies thrive in the Woodlands - a place where people also take their cattle to graze because of dramatic changes in the land and water. Fields have become overgrazed, leaving them dry and dusty. "You already have grassland that's severely degraded because it's being too heavily grazed, and then you're having these longer periods of drought more often, and what that means is that you're just losing all your ground cover and it's not getting the chance to recover." Changes in climate climate variability, changes in drought, but also water scarcity, this has been forcing the Masai people to migrate even further and further, and in some cases have been encroaching into wildlife areas, and hence, exposing themselves and their cattle to diseases which have been dormant for many years in wildlife." The problem is not only sleeping sickness but rabies, bacterial infections and diseases carried by ticks. Yet these zoonotic diseases do not get much attention. "Diseases of importance are those which does not affect trade, they are actually given less priority, and one of those diseases is Tryps" These challenges in such vulnerable, remote areas without national or international support, requiring new approaches. The science of the flies, the parasites, the environment, water and climate are merging, with the community as a key link in both the research and the solutions. "We're doing the science in a very different way that's much more in partnership with the communities." Dr Jakob Akyoo is the district veterinary and one of the many partners working with the Tanzanian researchers. He's part of a large study not only here but across Africa, coordinated by the World Health Organization's tropical disease research program called TDR. "My role is to carry the researchers to the field, and interpret their research and their scientific language to the farmers, so that by using my simple language, the Masai language, they share talks with the researchers. Data collected by PhD students shows that up to 29% of the flies carry this parasite, but this varies by season and location. Blood samples from cattle that graze in these areas will show how this translates into infection rates. The Masai have always known they need to move cattle away from grazing areas for a period of time so that the grasses can recover. But with more land taken over by farms, and expanding populations and competition from wildlife, there's less healthy land available. It's a clear example of the interacting effects of climate change and disease risk. This research should help identify the safest areas to take cattle, and support new grazing systems "It's targeted science, if you will, that we're hoping changed can go more directly into the hands that might actually benefit from it." "This disease could be a re-emerging disease in humans, and there it is very timely and it is important that we are doing this research now, at a time when they are not episodes in humans, so that we can combat it very early, before it comes again as a big episode." Results from this study and four others that look at additional diseases like malaria, will be finalized at the end of 2016. By starting at the source, they offer a new model of approaching the complicated climate change issues that touch on land use, water, animal and human health. "You're not going to find sustainable solutions to these kinds of natural resource challenges and these disease burden challenges, unless you're working with the community from the get go.