Hello and welcome to Transforming WH, a series of videos where I talk to colleagues inside WH and outside about what we do in WHO and about reforming and changing the way we work. Thank you for tuning in to this episode where I'm very happy to be joined by my good colleague Alia Elasia and she's the director for gender equity, diversity and rights in health here in WHO headquarters in Geneva and welcome to you Alia and thank you for joining me here in the studio. First a little bit about your background. Um, you are Palestinian, an educational background in biology and you taught a secondary level biology in Ramla and the occupied Palestine territories. But then some maybe 30 years ago, you came into gender work. You worked in the field for 20 years in the West Bank for UNDP and UNIF as it was called back then. Uh, basically working in empowering and teaching women. Uh and then eventually you migrated into UN women that was sort of UNIFIM became UN women I think approximately 15 years ago as the specialized UN agency to basically promote gender equality and rights. You became the head of the country office in Palestine and then eventually also regional director for UN women first in Eastern Bull working for Europe Asia and then also in Bangkok for for Asia and the Pacific. So that's basically your career, 20 year career in working for gender equality and women women's rights and then you joined WHO last summer in your current position as uh director. So is that a fair sort of capture of of your long career earlier? Very fair. Good. So I will start taking you back 30 years 1995. We actually celebrate this year the 30th anniversary of the Beijing conference on gender equality. I think we have a picture here. I think we have a picture from the Beijing conference. There we go. It was a huge conference. A lot of women of course also some men from countries around the world. It was a UN conference. There was also a lot of side activities of NOS's etc. And you were there, Alia, in Beijing in 1995, weren't you, supporting the Palestinian delegation? Well, unfortunately, I wasn't actually. You didn't get to go, but I did not get to go, but my work was to support the delegation uh in in u being able to go. Uh so I it was very formative for me because I was when I started with this I had very little knowledge in terms of what this was about why this was happening. I was dealing with it more as a logistical issue. Um just getting people from A to B. So you supported the delegation but they didn't take you. They did not take me unfortunately. But this Beijing conference and also the the document the resolution that was adopted there, it was described as groundbreaking. Some will even describe it as the most progressive agenda on gender agenda on gender equality from the UN system. Why was it so groundbreaking? Well, on many for many different reasons. I think it was actually the last world conference that we've had on women. So it was been 30 years since we've had a world conference on women and what happened in Beijing was really something inspiring. There was a collective international women's movement coming together a really strong role for civil society and they were successful in advocating with member states to adopt this kind of agenda. Yeah, this platform for action with a focus on action 12 areas of concern. So very much saying okay we need to see change happen in these areas and agreement amongst member states and I would say it is the most progressive uh agenda to date and I think it it brought us this also this kind of concept of uh gender equality. So we're not just talking so it was a shift in the development paradigm actually um which I can speak to but it's really talking about not just um empowerment of women or looking at just doing things with or for women but really much more broad looking at the structures and how do we have systemic change so that we have this equality of access to resources and opportunities. So not a quick fix but really something to transform systems. It was also I mean like I very groundbreaking in addressing gender equality and equal rights and empowerment of women in all domains of society um democracy, politics, economy etc. Each of these domains in society was actually specifically addressed in the Beijing documents. I mean, how can more women get power in in countries? I mean, be elected to political positions. And even back then, 30 years ago, there was still a lot of barriers for that. So, in that sense, it was groundbreaking. Absolutely. And I think from the WHO perspective, and I think it's somehow fallen off the global agenda, but very important now opportunity for us to bring it back is women and health is one of the 12 areas of concern. And so to really look at health being an integral part of the achievement of gender equality and from who perspective how we can advance gender equality through health as well. So I think now we are at a moment where there has been a political declaration at the commission on the status of women um which is marking the 30-year anniversary of the Beijing platform for action and the Beijing declaration and basically member states have recommitted to those aspirations that are in the platform for action. Sure. and and again 30 years ago supporting this Palestinian delegation for the Beijing conference inspired also you are to basically a career shift isn't that right so then you eventually worked for for many years on the ground in the field in your home country of Palestine in in in empowering women what did what are your lessons learned from those many years in the field uh a lot um I think One of the things that really came out of the Beijing conference and in the platform for action which I would say is still up for debate in terms of have we gotten it right or not is the the establishment of institutional mechanisms to advance gender equality and women's empowerment. So that to have a dedicated part of an institution or an ecosystem that is driving the agenda. Now, I think the way that it has manifested is telling us that we haven't quite gotten it right, but there isn't really an alternative to it. But I think that and I I mean I reflect on this because I look at the department that is established in WH and it is precisely set up to drive this agenda. Um but what are the enablers? cannot be it's not a quick fix and it's not a standalone project. It's not kind of oh yeah you you go off and do your own thing um and then you know let let the main work continue. And I think that's that's really been the trickiest part. Um I've seen throughout my career gender focal point systems being set up. you know a ministry of women's affairs in a government a gender unit in a ministry but if they are not attached to decisionm and they don't have adequate resourcing and influence then you know their work will become sidelined. Yeah. And it becomes a token gesture of oh yeah yeah we're we're working on this. Yeah. Uh we have this unit, we have this department, we have this ministry. Yeah. So I think that really for me is going to be really important to get right and this is the moment where we really look at how do you bring it into the mainstream. Sure. Into every conversation. Not a separate conversation. Not a separate one. And of course another high point uh uh was probably also the adoption of the sustainable development goals in 2015. Uh there was one of the 13 SGS that SGD number five was devoted to gender equality. That is also very very ambitious in its goal which was basically complete empowerment of women and girls and gender equality by 2030. That is more or less the essence of SGT5. That's also very very powerful. Um and of course then the SGS are are a totality a holistic approach to how we can basically achieve these sustainable development goals. So how was that taken forward the SGT5? Well, I remember when the SDG we were do making the shift from the Millennium Development Goals to the sustainable development goals and I remember there was again a huge mobilization of civil society like-minded uh member states to make sure that the work on gender equality doesn't fall off the new global agenda. And that was why there is this dedicated goal, but that you also have the targets, specific targets throughout the um 17 goals to make sure that you don't kind of again this concept of it's a standalone, it's a separate thing. But again, you know, even when you put it out there, basically the numbers are telling us these assessments, we are, if you look at gender parity globally, we're about 135 years off if we maintain the current rate of progress. So, we're not going to meet the 2030 target. If we look at ending discrimination in legal frameworks, it's even worse. It's almost 300 years at the current rate of progress for us to address discriminatory laws and policies. Basically not on track to that ambitious 2030 goal for for complete gender equality and empowerment of women and girls. As we speak in New York, they have the annual commission for the status of women, which is sort of the annual big UN event focusing on women. And of course they are focusing very much on the 30th anniversary of the Beijing agenda and how to accelerate progress on that and on the SGS and we also just celebrated international women's day on the 8th of March and and there was a report issued by UN women and the secretary general which is basically speaking to exactly what you are saying we are not making progress. I think reading that report and also looking at the discussion from the commission on the status of women uh I'm actually struck of the lack of progress. I mean it's like women only have still 65% of the legal rights of men if we look at it globally we have an increase in in in basically sexual violence against women and many many data speaking to that we we are not making progress. Why is that why are we seeing that devastating lack of progress? O big big question. If again I think there has been a tendency to think of a quick technical fix to a deeply entrenched and political issue. So you need to have multiple um strategies and approaches. I mean in the end it's member states that come together and they set these targets for themselves as you know kind of like this is the standard a global standard um that is set for all member states but then you have to look at okay how are you backing up that political commitment are you putting I think resources behind it and what resources are you putting behind it um are you uh holding yourself to account on these things? Are you measuring actually your progress? I mean, I think one of the key frustrations in the SDG agenda has been to actually get the data. Yeah. To be able to measure progress. You know, this is this and if we don't do that meaningfully, then we're never going to reach our target. Well, we have the data. We're reporting we're reporting on Beijing when where it was 25 years anniversary, five years ago. Now it's 30 years anniversary. So we have the data, we're reporting on the SGTs and we see it's not going as it should. So where's the momentum to increase and accelerate the uh this agenda? Well, I think it's okay. I think there is a tension between you know maintaining a global standard but looking at also your realities and having this differentiated approach right that not all countries are at the same stage or have the same um enablers for this work. I mean that I think sometimes people are shocked that when we say that actually no single country in the world has achieved gender equality there people are surprised by that and and that really speaks to these deeply entrenched biases. Yeah. You know when I think it was in 2023 that UNDP produced AI think it's a gender social norm index and the results are shocking. I mean they looked at data across 85% of the world's population and when 90% of women and men hold bi some form of bias against women I mean our institutions are all made up of people. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So of course you're right it is deeply deeply entrenched in all countries and as you say no country on earth has complete and even I mean it happened in my lifetime. I mean basically liberation of women was my mother's generation in the 1970s that happened and it's still not complete even in the most developed countries in the world. I mean where we sit now in Switzerland which is a very developed country. I mean the last canong in Switzerland that gave women the right to vote was in 1990. So it it sort of shows how difficult and entrenched this is. But we shouldn't give up of course and make it an excuse. Um during the celebration of International Women's Day this year and also the opening of the Commission for the Status of Women in New York uh just last week, the secretary general of the UN, he spoke very very vocally and powerful to what he described as the what he sees as the empowerment or the reemergence of patriarchy, the entrenchment, institutionalization of misogyny. So he's speaking very powerful also in a sort of toxic masculinity if you will that is also systemic in the world. I mean that was very powerful and noted by people. Why do you think he's making that statement right now? Well I think this secretary general has been a self-proclaimed feminist ever since he came on board into this role which I think is really important. And if you look at the principles of feminism, it really is about speaking truth to power and challenging power dynamics. And I think that's really critical part of this conversation that you cannot look at gender in inequalities in isolation of other inequalities both within countries and between countries. So we really need to zoom out sometimes and really think through you know what are the principles with which we're approaching. I think that having a principled approach is critical. So where we have digressed from principles elsewhere it the there's a price to pay when it comes to gender equality. That's one. Yeah. Now the secretary general in the UN system is trying to uphold all of these principles and these standards. But he has made a specific focus on gender equality because that's where we see power dynamics manifest and where we see principles either being upheld or being compromised. This is the stage where you can really see the larger picture manifest in this space. So there's there's multiple layered issues. It's not just about gender equality and women's empowerment. It's a much bigger conversation. So there's this push back on rights more generally. Yeah. And you're seeing it manifest in this space and there's a discourse that has been built or like a conversation and a dialogue that is pushing buttons. Um and and so you know it's kind of like we we need to uh think about what we're saying, what we mean by this. What is patriarchy? Is it something that people understand in their day-today life? Is it something that we can point to? It's not so simple, but it is what the when the secretary general is saying this is that there are forces whether that they're visible or invisible that are creating barriers. They're using false narratives. This is this misinformation and disinformation. It's part of this larger conversation and that's basically shining light on those factors, those structural factors and that conversation that is sort of uh very much in the current situation. So let's move a little bit to global health. Uh so you worked for many years in UN women. UN women has a sort of broad mandate in not replacing other UN agencies mandate but rather improving on them so to say. But then roughly a year ago you moved inside WHO a specialized agency that has always been very focused on rights. Uh that is in our constitution of the WHO health as a right health as a basic human right and also equality health for all. Mhm. So what have you learned working inside WH? How do you perceive our work on rights and gender? Before I go into that, I I wanted to speak about what drew me into this. Uh I mean I think just not to forget although sometimes there seems to be a global amnesia about a global pandemic that we all went through not so long ago. Yeah. And how that all made us reassess our priorities. I mean as as the work with the UN women was about getting the UN system more broadly to do more on gender equality and women's empowerment. M so I was driven by that and saying okay what better organization to come into to try and do just that and especially when you know some of the lessons learned during co where you know people spoke about a shadow pandemic of violence against women and girls that became more apparent the um burden of care work that is borne by many women and girls or when we look at the um equipment that has been given to frontline workers largely women that has been built for men's bodies. So, there's many issues for us to address as we think about public health. And I was like, okay, I'm on board for this. I see that there's a hugely important mandate that has global reach and we have the opportunity to have, you know, if if WHO gets it right, imagine the impact that can be had. And it's also been very much a part of our current reform agenda. The transformation agenda, diversity, equity, inclusion was actually a a key focus of ours or is still a very strong focus of ours in transformation. But how do we do then? What I mean how do you assess our work and yeah well it's a big ask. I mean as we've been just talking it's like it's not something that's a quick fix or you know oh yeah technically this is what you do. We push that button and everything is fixed. It's messy. It's complex. Uh you can take one step forward, two steps back. The important is the intent because you can always if you have good intent, you can address this issue. And I feel there is really strong intent, there is really strong leadership, you there's a commitment, you've established structured, you set up the principles and commitment to uphold these principles. So I think that's a really solid foundation. Now the trick is you know like to really get into the nitty-gritty. So if we if we talk about more of the you know what would be delivered as results for people on the ground as part of these joint outcomes that WH advances in partnership with member states. It is really important to do this in a differentiated way and really look in a particular context how to do that. Bring everybody on board. So it's again to to bring it into the mainstream conversation not to do this as a side issue. That's one. Um but I think there's also a strong intent for WHO to walk the talk let's say. So in its own transformation as it as it is setting itself up to better deliver results for people at country level there's some changes that it has to do internally and I think that's what the transformation agenda really speaks to. So we do have to look at our workforce, you know, like who who who is WH? Yeah. The people of WHO, our most important resource, you know. Exactly. So, you know, and we still haven't achieved gender equity. If you look at sort of gender parity. Yeah. Gender parity. Yes. And that's why you need concerted action. I think you know that that this is and this is again I think because there's a whole conversation about you know merit merit-based systems and uh nobody's arguing against merit but you can there's a danger with thinking that merit is unbiased and and I think that's what we need to address because what we're saying is that that we reflect any institution reflect the biases that exist in the world. Then of course it's also about for us to perform on our deliver on our core mandate of health for all health as a basic human rights. We need also to capture the dimension of gender and other uh issues in that work otherwise we'll basically reflect the world. Yeah. But it's also a scientific it's a technical approach basically want to address various diseases. I mean they might appear differently in the two genders and and we we need to address that as well in our work to deliver. I mean I think again if we connect with what is going on and and what happened in Beijing and having women and health as a an area of focus we need to think about you know and I think that there is this danger of thinking about for example women's health through a very narrow lens whereas women's health should be a whole of who agenda exactly. So how do we promote women's health through all the work of WH and and I think that's the direction that we're moving in but we also need to address okay so um also women are over represented in the health workforce health and care workforce is it equitable in this workforce are they getting equal opportunities and you see no even though they're over represented they're still underpaid there's still a gender wage gap and they're not there possibilities are they empowered I That's what we're speaking to in terms of even as WH we need to understand that we may be carrying these biases. So when we're talking about diversity, equity and inclusion it is not that at the expense of merit. We're saying actually no merit is talking about fairness. Yeah. And diversity, equity and inclusion is talking about fairness as well. Yeah. So we need to uphold this these principles in what we do basic principles and also basically what we need to do as a normative and technical organization. But this is currently being challenged. I mean we are now in a crisis not only who but global health in a broader context a crisis of funding because of the withdrawal of the US of funding but also a general uh very constrained funding environment. But it's not only a challenge of funding. It's also a political challenge, a normative challenge to some of these core principles and values like DEI for instance. Um how can we as an organization the people inside WHO how can we respond to that challenge? I mean new ways of working I mean do we need to rethink our approach? I you always need to adapt. I mean I'm a strong believer in adaptive leadership. You know the world is changing and so the way you approach the challenges of the world needs to be adaptive. You cannot keep doing the same thing and expect a different outcome. Yeah. Um so that and that really speaks to kind of are we results based are we outcome based? You know what is the outcome that we're trying to achieve. I think if you have your outcome really uh clear then you can revisit how you're reaching that outcome. Let's not use jargon just for the sake of using jargon. It has to be meaningful and our intent needs to be clear and we need to hold ourselves to account for reaching those outcomes. We need to be clearly communicating why we're trying to reach those outcomes. what is the intent behind it? Adapt as we go along. I think that's really and this concept of really being fair and just moving away from token justice and feel feelgood measures and and saying okay yeah take that box that's not going to work and I think part of the backlash is because people feel that there's no real change uh that that's happening that is really based on these principles and you haven't really been clear about why you're doing it what's the intent behind it and the outcome that you're trying to achieve what you want to achieve and how to get there and then basically showing the data using the evidence that we know what works. Absolutely. I mean I think part of the transformation you talk about a data and digital ecosystem. I would say how do you embed these principles into these systems so that you make them enabling of these outcomes. It's not a separate thing. You have to think about it even in these kinds of issues. When you talk about a people strategy, what does that look like? what do we mean h and how do we engage how do we build coalitions around these issues invite people into the conversation continue to hold ourselves to account really good foundation here at WH but still not transformed in these areas um so I think there's still a way to go but the intent is there and to uphold principles is key really to think about fairness justice understanding you Like cuz really I find it so worrying when people because it it's touching a sore point when people sort of talk about merit. Of course, who's going to argue against merit? But are you really talking about merit or are you talking about privilege and power which is already there? No, I agree very much. I would also act that we need to also go back to the principles of science which is basically also very fundamental to this organization. Some would say there's also a broader challenge to multilateralism that has been sort of we've seen emerge in the last couple of years, a fracture of the multilateral system, a crisis of multilateralism. Um, do you agree in that and do you see a future for multilateralism? I mean the short answer is you know what I'll answer with another question. What's the alternative? I mean there's no alternative. We absolutely and again I will speak to what brought me to this organization and what makes me super committed. What would the price have been if there wasn't a WH? Yeah. In place, you know, what kind of world would we have? And that scares me as a an international citizen. And it should scare everyone, you know, and really it's not to say that it's not an eitheror. It's not a zero sum game. It's not to say that, you know, we've got everything right or that, you know, there isn't a need to transform, reform, adapt, change. Absolutely. Um, and I think, you know, as a system, we can support member states in that project. I mean, UN women was born out of a reform process. The UN system has not ever been out of a reform process. It continues. Change is the constant. But are we changing in the right way? uh how do we adjust when things are a little bit off track? I think that's the key that we're hearing that we need to do better as a UN system. Um but we're not this thing that is off by itself. You know, we are created by and for member states. The member states have a huge respond to the global crisis. I mean, you spoke to that collective amnesia of the pandemic we had some years ago. I mean we might have another crisis soon of similar nature and then we need basically a who and a multilateralism to be able to respond. So we need to complete uh constantly evolve and reform to respond to that but uh multilateralism is not going away. I certainly hope not. Okay. Thank you very much Aia for joining me and thank you very much colleagues for watching this episode of transforming WH. Do stay tuned on this channel for upcoming episodes. Yeah, but