They trust us when there's no access. Local women led organization are there. We have villages. We have [music] towns who are taken today by rebels. But local organization are there. We need that trust because we we are in the community. We are that open doors to people who are in need. But when they are [music] coming to us, we feel really bad when we don't have an assa. In context such as the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Palestine, [music] the aid sector pours in billions of dollars, all meant to protect, to rebuild, and to bring peace. But in places marked by deep vulnerability and power imbalances, that same aid [music] system can also create heightened risks of sexual misconduct. Today I'm speaking to two women who confront this reality every day. [music] Sandre Lamba, executive coordinator of Sophia Padi, the solidarity feminine develop in the DRC. [music] She leads a women's right organization supporting survivors of sexual violence. And Hala Elazra, [music] director of the psychosocial counseling center for women in Palestine. She heads efforts to provide psychosocial support to women affected by occupation, displacement, and abuse. During our conversation, we address topics of a sexual nature that may be disturbing or triggering to some listeners. [music] Listener discretion is advised. Welcome to the World Health Organization's # no [music] excuse podcast. I am your host, Gonidas. You both support survivors and victims of sexual misconduct committed by aid workers. [music] You have a very unique perspective to to help us better understand the patterns you you have observed. What can these uh women's experience experiences because you are supporting women what are their experiences uh teaching us? most uh of the international organizations that provide uh um a humanitarian aid to uh the Palestinian people especially the displaced people and the people living in refugee camp. The people now in Gaza they are around two more than 2 million who are in need for uh support and humanitarian aid. Palestine is controlled by conver conservative culture, patriarchal culture which is still abuse women and still um then used a lot of discrimination against women. Even there is a lot of progress on the women participation in public life. But in the last crisis, this crisis we found in BCCW, the psychosocial counseling center for women which I work with, there is sometimes uh yes women uh face this kind of sexual abuse um from the aid workers but uh it's really not the common thing. It's any very few cases we faced in Gaza. I think uh it's more uh because of the hard situation and uh the starvation. I think women uh are vulnerable to this kind of abuse more than West Bank. >> So the experience of um women or young girl that we receive in our organization teach us is that the aid without accountability can harm. It leads to violence because remember we are in the community which is affected by poverty. Everyone needs something. Then you will find that ineality in power puts w people mostly women in the position where they sometimes they don't have choice because when a woman is on the line to wait for the for the food distribution it's not only for herself it's for more than 10 people behind her. So sometimes they they just find themselves there without choice because they they are surviving for themsel but also for the family members for the children who are waiting. It's very important from what we hear from them that all every kind of aid it have to be to be protected or to be organized in the way that those who are bringing aid are incountable. >> How do survivors describe the challenge they face when they are seeking for help, aid or even justice? I can give you example of a case we have just received two days ago. Most of them they come later after because when they are going through that sometimes as I said they find themselves not having any power because they want to survive because they want that people who are depending on them to continue getting something to eat getting where to the roof and um over their head things like that. So when a survivor come to us it's a victory because she decide to come up to talk what she have been going through and as I said most of them have gone through sexual violence others have even got children but they find themselves at in the time that they keep silence or if in most of cases is when the person is not taking care maybe of the children. If the person is is is gone miss, they cannot find the person or sometimes with other our culture you'll hear families telling to the young girl that that man have to come and to marry you because you have gone through this and that and then in the other side the person is gone missing and she doesn't have any response and that's when trauma start. she starts you know she doesn't know where to go. We have got even cases where young girls or women have been chased from their families. This side the they are facing that stigmatization in the community and the other side the person who is supposed to be um to be held or to to to to support is not there or others are remain only with the with the with the first name they don't know even the full name of the person. So those are kind of situation where women and young girls find themselves in. I think there is a lot of simil similarities between our both communities. Many of the victims they refuse to announce and to talk about their experiences that they faced this kind of sexual abuse. You know as Sandrreen said because of the stigma they will be stigmatized and they will be um vulnerable to violence inside their families. Uh they blaming her that you are responsible about what happening to you. Um uh and in many times in cases that we uh work with very few of women talk about this um some of them they they have this kind of courage that they uh ask for uh protection and we um contact the security uh officers to uh to protect them and to put these abusers in jails. The last case was um a man who running a charitable society and uh he abuse women um if they ask for humanitarian aid and uh um we heed about him from one of women who are coming and say this man um uh threaten me and uh uh abuse me because I uh need humanitarian aid. And um of course we do the the procedures needed by contacting the security officers. But the few of women can talk. The majority refuse to talk and uh they if the family know about this uh kind of experiences the the violence will be double against them and uh they will be vulnerable to different kind of violence. But we all the time we encouraging women to seek help from the uh women organizations that uh working in the field of protection. >> And how do you support them in this? Because sometimes it's even against their own security to be able to come forward and and report that that they've um experienced uh sexual abuse. [gasps] How do you support them in overcoming these very traumatic incidents? >> Long process, you know, it's not easy. It's not a normal trauma that women exposed to uh and it affect uh self-esteem. Uh the feeling of safety, this world is not safe enough for her. She can't trust others. uh sometimes uh she become vulnerable to anxiety, depression, uh other uh psychosomatic uh uh symptoms. We use different uh approaches in dealing with this kind of uh uh of traumas or hard experiences and uh most of the cases we succeeded to help these women to pass this hard experience and begin a new life and uh to to change their views about this world and about the people and and to feel it's not your responsibility. You are not responsible about what happening to you and many times they can pass and begin a new life. >> When someone or when a woman open up it's a victory. Sometimes she can go to an organization. Then they tell maybe we we don't have that project anymore. We don't have fun to support you. That's again discourage and put u a a such person in in a very bad position. For that woman to heal very well, other aspects of her life have to be taken in consideration. So that's why we focus more on on a holistic care so that we know she'll be assisted in psychological support, medical support and we also explain uh uh what we can offer in terms of legal uh uh support and economic support and what she can do, what can help her to rebuild or to restart something that will help her to you know to regain uh uh um self the hope and to to to go ahead with her life. It's really a very long process. >> The approach that we use mainly it based on the collective solidarity. this kind of collective exchange experiences collective uh solidarity between women go bust similar experiences how they can support each other and I advise because of our experience it's a very effective tool that women feel I am not alone there is many people who bust similar experiences and they can survive and return to normal life again but as said there is a lot of needs Sometimes they need housing, they need medication to send children to schools, uh they need food, they need uh many many things. So we use this kind of holistic approach and we depend not only on external fund but also uh on the contribution of the community itself. How the people in the community can support. We didn't tell them they are sexually abused but uh she's a woman with children. She need that she needs your support. Uh some of them ready to bring uh clothes uh um medication or housing. In many times is it's not the need of one individual woman but it's a family headed by women. >> Right. You both are, you know, speaking about holistic support for these for these victims. Um, be it from materials, economic to legal support. There are some cases where some children have been born uh of through sexual exploitation or abuse. How do you support children victims [clears throat] of um sexual exploitation and abuse and born from that? What are some of the strategies that you would that are effective but also sustainable to be able to support these victims and and children? >> It's not easy because in the case of of our organization we have like 90% of our founding those are emergency funds. They are not beyond one year. They are 6 months, one year, sometimes 18 months. Now imagine case of a ch a child born of sexual abuse or or or rape. You know it it needs a longterm support. So we are now facing cases of women and children that we have supported maybe last year but they keep coming as we don't have that project anymore. That's why we always advocate for you know having access to flexible fund but also a long-term fund. We know that if we support this woman like in economics um at in economic way within 5 years she can be stable and she can take care of her child herself. But for now we are we don't have that. We just give a very shortterm support. But we are we have we have also projects where we the lines are so fixed. They tell you like you use $100 yet people are different different children different needs. You find one just need small money maybe to put her back to school maybe to buy something for food. But they you'll find another one need you know the support in different way. So I cannot say it is easy. We are still trying. We've been advocating for that to suggest that in for cases of children born of sexual abuse, we have to have to to put in place at least a 5-year program so that we know that they are supported and mothers uh after the program they will be able to take care of the children from themsel. So it's it's not easy. It's not just a one-off. And I I guess what's frustrating is that you provide that that support, but then there's no sustainability on in that. And uh they have to be able to either figure something out on their own or you have to go out there and advocate for for more funds. Hala, anything you want to add? I I think it's different a little bit uh comparing with uh centrine community because uh the children who are born as a result of sexual abuse there are um more than three shelters in Palestine that uh accept these children. They grow um in these shelters and uh mothers can uh continue uh um uh contacting them but uh the families don't know about this. Sometimes uh mother and children be in shelter but mostly um the children uh keep in in these shelters for a long time. It's a a big problem, but um at least there are shelters that can protect these women. They couldn't stay with mothers because of the culture. >> It's not acceptable to have uh children that born out of marriage. So sometimes the life of women become uh under a treat if uh she keep the children with her. >> Right. Cuz when we had our preparation call, you did mention that even for a victim to to report or even come out is um she put her her own life in danger. >> Yes. >> What is a mechanism that you have put in place to support women so that it's somewhat safe for them to to do that to report? For us in BSCW, we um we do a lot of advocacy campaigns and raising awareness campaigns first to prevent this kind of abuse against women. We tell them it is your right to have this kind of humanitarian aid. No, no one have the right to abuse you because we he give them give you food or give you medicine. Uh so we try to increase their awareness and to to inform them. uh to increase their knowledge about the uh protection system about the services allowed for them. Uh you can seek help. You can uh and we have um we we we distributed our uh uh phone numbers and the hotline numbers to let them know and we do a lot of videos, a lot of uh uh leaflets. We distribute them in all of West Bank and Gaza to let them know about this kind of dangers that it no one have the right to abuse you because you are in need for a humanitarian aid and uh to educate them how they can protect themsel and how to report and which channels they can use in reporting and to reach uh um uh protection. you mentioned also a certain level of secrecy in the reporting mechanism. Can you tell us more about that? >> So in in in my country also in in the organization what we we do is to work more on uh um data protection. We we put we don't put names as at internal level. We know how to how to make those code. We attribute to every file a code and we know who is who and our colleagues are trained. We try also to put in place different mechanism internally but also externally within the community. In the community we have put in place what we call we call a feedback mechanism where community members are trained. We really break it down in local language even using using drawing so that people will understand what abuse and exploitation means and how they can identify it, how they can report it and what are the the report channel they can use. We have put in place like uh within the organization we use u the tollfree number uh we also use the one of inter agencies within the the the country we also put in place the box where people can even write and just put in most of time also when we do a field um visit we meet people in the community we try to exchange to really understand that part of sensitizing the community it's very important we had cases where that young woman said but I think the man loved me and I was like maybe if I accept you I will be the first person on the list so we had to to gather more of those examples to show that that is his work even if you are he does he don't You don't need to accept what is coming from him for him to give you that food or that that information. You don't need to give anything. So we keep that dialogue within the community every time. When you pass also where there's medical centers, we put posters in different language and we hope that people are reading and also understanding. So I I understand that there's a lot of sensitization and this is the prevention that is required for for people to first know their rights with regards to receiving aid. But as you you know there have been debates on what are the best mechanisms for reporting mechanisms for victims uh and survivors of sexual misconduct to report. And when you think about the hotline, well you need to have a phone. So what if you don't have a phone? And if you think of a box, well, the box is that you'll have to write, you're assuming that they they can write and you when you go to that box, everyone can see you putting in that box. What have been in your experience ways that you received those cases that have been actually quite successful? >> In some marginalized villages, we established what we call it women protection committee. We begin dialogue with the most activist women in these communities and we establish uh uh uh these committees and we train them and we in we we inform them about this kind of abuse and how they can themselves in their own community do this kind of raising awareness and to know about women who are vulnerable to sexual abuse and encourage them to uh seek support from uh women organization how to contact us and uh come to our offices and ask for support. the the women protection committees was a good >> it's a strong a good tool to encourage women and to increase the responsibility in these community to continue working after we finished our work in these villages because sometimes we couldn't continue but we established focal points that they can uh continue working >> right and son do you have any other mechanisms that that supported that you seen that they are particularly successful at giving an environment where victims and survivors feel safe to to come and report. >> As you say in the communities people don't have phone, others there's not even electricity. What works also very well for us those community based mechanism that we have put in place most of those community based mechanism those are women within the community those are community leaders because we try as much as possible to work also with men are in the community they are religious leaders they're traditional leaders they have to to get that information they have to be trained so that in case they have that information. They know how to orient, how to show the person where to to go and to ask for the service. >> What I would like to cover a bit more uh Sri is when you rally men around getting men involved so that we sensitize them on this subject. How challenging is that uh to get them involved? Because I guess that when you speak about religious leaders, they might be against or they might even be hesitant to even be part of these conversations and they they might say, "Well, you're the one who's bringing this problem." So, how do you navigate these conversations and how do you rally them to to be part of this reporting mechanism? >> So, first of all, we we we first have to understand our own community very well. I know like in in my mother village I cannot stand up in front of men and talk in that village I cannot go with that message. What we do we first identify main colleague internally who knows how to first how to approach them and how to start talking to them. We can gather like 20 men or 20 traditional leaders. Among them five or six will understand what we say and we will work with them as a champions. We will work with them as a champions [clears throat] and they will be the one going you know because pastor to pastor if there is a pastor who is talking to another pastor he will understand it better. If it is a um a traditional chief who is talking to his colleague who is also a traditional chief, he will understand it better. So we have also that strategy of having champions within the community, >> right? So it's a really um a lot of groundwork and exposing it to as much as possible. So hopefully there's one that sticks and and continues the work and continues um spreading this information. >> Can I add something on this level? >> Please. Um one of initiatives that we did uh to uh do a lot of training for the university students who who are studying uh a midwife or nursing and uh medicine doctor doctors uh because in the health sector there is also a lot of abuse against women and we try to increase their awareness regarding this and now we are struggling with the university uh to have a course that be part of the curriculum in the universities to be studied by students about sexual abuse and harassment against women and how to deal with it, how to prevent this kind of uh of abuse. >> Great. And Sen, I know that you've been involved in quite a few research. Um, can you tell me more about them? What are some of the key datas I think you would want the aid sector or um yeah you would want the aid sector to know about? >> Yeah. uh I've been involved in a in a research with different universities and on those research like the data collection started in 2018 where we wanted to understand the problem and what kind of help or what kind of services are available and to really touch base within the community. How does it uh h how do victims are affected or how the story started? That's why we start having stories of women who are selling those who had like promise or you know people who approach them to tell them that I'll pay school fees, I'll do this. When she find herself in the poverty place, you know, she open up and she go ahead with the relationship. then at until she just see that the person has gone. So we gathered different stories all that was you know to help to understand the problem and also to see the limitation of the the the accessibility of the services >> from the research and from your work. Is there a story that really touched your heart to to this day and that you carry with you when you do this work? Yes, I have a story myself. I I I was the the entry so that the the young girl talk to me directly. You know in community different entry message different people different offices can can be the first entry to for the for the victims. I remember being a place I stop a young girl she was selling bananas. So you know in the east of of the of the of the DLC there are places where you'll see different agencies different UN offices you know so on those road on those uh uh road so there was a a woman and a young girl selling fruit so I stopped there I wanted to buy fruit for my young girl after buying she saw me wearing a t-shirt of my organization so she asked me do you work there. I was like yes I work there. She asked another question like what are you giving there as a support for woman? I tell I tell her but you see when you are talking with someone you feel like she want to tell you something. Then I notice she starts talking to me in French yet I can also speak her the local language. I shifted from French to Kisi. I I saw her being comfortable talking to me. I remember her telling me that as you know as you as you are seeing me here my mother doesn't know that there is a my she pointed that compound there's a there's a group of men always coming in at this time from that compound that office they used to buy fruit for me but that man is a white he told me he's going to marry me he's going to he invited me in his house but then I'm not seeing him I try to ask to others but they they telling me they don't know him. I asked do you know the name of the person? He told me just one name you know like those it's just an example he told me Mitchell like now how are we going to know which Mitchell is that I told her can you come to our office tomorrow because I'm not a psychologist you know I wanted her to to be to get more yeah she accepted I left to her small money for transport then when she came I put her comfortable with our psychologist that when she told us the whole story We understood that in her position selling fruits there is a man who promises to marry her to take her in her country in his country. She having a good house there. She will help the families from all those promises. The person took her in the took the the girl in the house and abused the girl then disappear when I don't know if she he went back to his country what happened. So we start now assisting that girl. We sent you know uh the the form we follow the process where how we do with the with the national coordination uh PCA uh uh within the country and we tried to follow up just find out that in that office many three people had that name. She was telling us that the person is a white yet the three people that they show in the process in the investigation process they were also white. So that office didn't accept us to show the photos of the girl of the people to that girl. They told us they going to take the case. They will proceed with the case up to the end. We took we give back the case and we know that it will proceed up to the end. In our surprise, many months later, the girl came again. Like since then, I've never found the person. They told me they're going to do the aden test to know because >> DNA test. Yeah, >> DNA test because after after then she was pregnant. She's going to they are going to do the DNA test but good enough my mother knew about it. She took me to a clinic. They they they did abortion but I'm sick. Since they did that clandistine abortion and she was sick then we we start again taking care of her. You know that story touched me a lot and put me give me again strength to continue to try to understand the system and to try to understand the need of those women or those young girl and how we can help and how the system in in in a humanitarian setting or or in a the humanitarian level in the country can work better to assist and to respond when they when cases occurs. >> Yeah, it's heartbreaking. Um how do you can you resonate with the with these type of stories? >> I I can share one story but uh reflect uh how much women can be strong to b this kind of experiences. She's a woman in 13th and uh she vulnerable to abuse uh because she was need to work and uh she become pregnant with twins not one baby but uh and we work with her and uh we support her until she has these two babies and uh what we do because uh when you have babies out of marriage they're couldn't names them. Uh so we called this man we know him and uh he came to the office and we do this uh paper that uh he's uh to marry her to give his name to to these two two uh two babies but she was she has her own plan that she want the two babies and in a legal way and uh then after he gave them the need she divorced them. She she she tell him, "I don't need you. Just I need the to have to have these two babies and I have the uh the um the power to continue my lap." Of course, we continue working with her and she become a very strong woman and independent one and she can take care of the of her two children. Even the family of course they uh neglect her and they didn't uh uh recognize uh uh these uh two babies but she was very strong. What I want to say that women can pass these kind of uh hard experiences if they find uh enough support and uh enough motivation. >> Yeah. >> Fantastic. Thank you. Thank you for sharing. Um, and I want to end our conversation with a message to donors and international partners. What is one thing that you would want them to know beyond just funding >> about the work that you're doing so that there there could be a change >> for us here just to follow their principles when they are when they providing aid for a nation like Palestinian people they are talking about dignity about the privacy about the human rights just follow these principles and not uh put the necessary procedures and policies that protect the people who are in need for your aid, not to give them aid and then to abuse them. >> Yeah. Basically do your job. >> Yeah. Yeah. [laughter] >> As you say, just to ask them to do that job with humanity. Um because we need that head that help. People really need it. But it have to really answer to the real need. But also beyond money as a as a woman led or local organization or national organization, we also need that trust because the the the founding comes with a lot of control, a lot of you know yet we are in the community. We have that access. We have built that that access to the community and the community trust and they like what we are doing. They trust us. When there's no access, local women led organization are there. We have villages, we have towns who are taken today by rebels, but local organization are there. We need that trust because we we are in the community. We are that open doors to people who are in need. But when they are coming to us, we feel really bad when we don't have an answer to them. It has happened to me to at some point tell my colleagues we can can't do anything. What should we do? Yet people are there in front of us. Thank you Son and and Hala for doing the work that you're doing because I think that you need to you need to have you need to your brain needs to be set up differently to be able to continue doing the work that you're doing and um and thankfully we have you when we had the preparation meeting with how I asked how do you cope and she told me we don't cope we resist >> yes >> and that quote has stuck with me. Thank you so much for your work. Really, [music] thank you. >> Thank you to you too. Yeah. >> Thank you to give us this uh nice [music] opportunity and to know more. >> Thank you for listening. If you have any feedback or questions, feel free to reach out to us to [music] pr.int. Until the [music] next time, goodbye.