Yes, yes, it's the series of alerts. His arms, how old is he? Hockey, could you tell me the signs he's showing? Okay, okay, there you go, Yakassé Spearman GP, ​​then called the little guy, masthead, the sword that we can ruin, hamdullah, swing wii, is Dr. Eric here. This is the only alert. First of all, an extract of disease at the health area level. We first have the community-based thing. Time, there are rumors when there is a community death. He feeds there. They really told us that by calling the alert service. Once the alert services are notified, the investigation team will go down to further investigate. It's a student who was given to him by the mass and a communication. So it's a breath of the community that sees things badly. The Catholic Church started yesterday. There's a house where the CP CE1 students passed away who were counting on shaping. Not the investigator. Going into the field to do an investigation, he takes a communication officer and a psychologist.  Vaccination is also a form of infection prevention, which they do in a multidisciplinary team to carry out the investigation. To arrive at this site, it's first the psychologists who try to boost the patient's morale, then the communicators who explain the risks they run if, possibly, it was a case of... well, there... so they try to convince him to accept that the investigator will ask questions to learn more about his background and his illness. He therefore tries to deepen the investigation to possibly see if there is an epidemiological link. The woman indicated it; he had gone far away, greedy... there was one from Helaba, so he was in my cage and the void erected... complicated... they are young, they are families, and so the assets... but logically, it must be at the web level, at best at the kidney level, Goma, his family... the psychologist really takes the time to prepare the patient, the communicator communicates about the risk, then the investigator... how is his investigation going? It becomes a complementarity, given that they were already in contact with their parents, who are starting... and if... sir that we will list and the reason why we insist on 21-day follow-up, we will list them and we will follow it. There will be a team that will remain, which was worth 21 days, two of them will start signing it. We will directly take public health measures. The neighborhood chief participates, and after the contact listing, we even come to the recruitment phase of community relays who live in the locality who will then be supposed to do the follow-up for 21 days, coming to see the contacts to reassure themselves of their state of health. Which team, like the DEL, that does the follow-up, they must not limit themselves to just coming to see them. If someone, the community relay, does beyond that, if they want to raise awareness, they must also do social mobilization. That is to say, when there is vaccination, it is they who must help, saying, "Here is the vaccination, you must go there to get vaccinated." And that's how we can insert the virus, so vaccinate the contacts and the contacts of contacts in order to vaccinate the entire community. So that's why they are obligated  Everyone working together, Professor, at the beginning there were many rumors around the vaccination. Today everyone will get the vaccination. Unfortunately, the vaccination is not a mass vaccination; it's a vaccination that fights for contact. It was confirmed here that the party will be in five different health areas, and in each hour of the oral health fate, investigators, an investigator who will be accompanied by a mixed team, as you so rightly said, we will exchange on how you will organize this investigation. It's a different concept. When we start to develop a concern, we really try to prepare it in order to direct it to the transit center because the results are positive. The investigation team comes back down to earth to make a contact list for those who had come into contact with the patient in order to send these people back to the treatment center for reasons to prevent these people from contaminating their loved ones and then to have a better chance of curing this person. Passion, the seven people who have long been in the navy spread the same to spread the same Georges, and this at the dikes, the rapid contamination returns the person, and this person who remains for days increases with the virus in their camp. But they risk more than the least defense of the body currently. The biggest common challenge, I would say, is first and foremost the deep commitment of the community because the contacts, and so far not all of them, agree to stay where they are for their follow-up. For the twenty-fifteen days, it is necessary to detect diseases very early because the disease started in Mangini. Trials of contacts who refused the vaccine led to Beni Abbés, but also that of contacts who refused the vaccines led to Butembo. In Butembo, in Agathois, they all did the ball went. The resistance was enormous; they even burned the CPEs and they refused the vaccines. So it is those who refused the vaccine who can still bring the disease here. There is a lot of population movement. We feed high-risk contacts for 21 days so that those who do not move to seek to live in other environments. Something that circulates. Many players to understand the interest. Seeing a positive case declared cured and recent cases falsely claiming to be alive. The fact that we detected it, and then of course, they take it without treatment, they emerge from the...  [Laughter] because the community, whatever it may be, is death when things get complicated, and when it's truly death, sometimes it's like all the efforts we've made were in vain. Okay, toughen up, Naters Bombay, we'll go with him to the city level, sometimes even with Tamboura Lavaud, my agent, and make him understand that no, you see, there are people who came out alive. It's a kind of awareness-raising. As soon as you come early, things can be different than when you come very late. It's when we're misunderstood, when we throw stones, when we do our job. It's when there's death, when we're threatened and killed, no, that's not right.