Dear colleagues and friends, on this World Day of Remembrance for road traffic victims and every day we stand with you, the families and survivors with deep respect for your courage. You inspire us by transforming trauma into action. Your stories bring more people to our cause. Your advocacy changes hearts, minds, and decisions. and you are leaders in our work to build safe streets for people all over the world. Thank you very much for all you do to make our roads safer and avoid further tragedies. It's been 20 years already since the UN endorsed this special day and it's more important now than ever. As you know, world leaders have committed to having road deaths by 2030. At the midpoint in this decade of action for road safety 2021 2030 this can still be done. At the recent Ford Global Ministerial Conference on road safety in February this year ministers from a 100 countries endorsed the Marrakesh declaration on road safety. It calls very clearly on governments to make road safety a political priority to ensure sustained funding and to advance action to achieve the goal of having road debts by 2030. Leaders from more than 30 countries also made crucial new commitments for the first time at these conferences. Bangladesh, for example, pledged to enact the country's first national road safety law. Colombia will ensure more cities will have speed limits of 50 kilometers per hour and even sometimes 30 kilometers per hour. Code Divoir aims to increase helmet use among motorcyclists to over 90% by 2027. In May, the 8th global UN road safety week saw hundreds of events on all continents. Landmarks were lit up, streets were reclaimed, and people demanded safe walking and cycling. The World Health Organization also launched a new policy guide to help governments promote safe walking and cycling. We must build on this momentum and we all have a role to play in prioritizing safety and calling for urgent action. Road safety is a crisis that has gone on for far too long and no road deaths can ever be acceptable. Victims and their loved ones deserve nothing less than our best. And today our thoughts are with them more than ever. In their honor, let's work together for a safer and better future. Thank you.