Primary health care is about caring for people, not treating specific diseases or conditions. Here at Schalke, good primary health care is based on three elements. The first is empowering people and communities to take charge of their health and promote it. Mike, I love them. It's in, by, in a pipe, says this place, I'm already tired. Meet the paper. Costa Rican field approaches. The activist in the country. The second is ensuring multi-sectoral policies and actions to systematically address the social, economic, environmental, and commercial determinants of health. In a big way, they say it's just as important. Pringles and generally placed the eve. WordPress in transborder. Ying innovation. We know it is true. Combat itself. We have and coming inside contacts in crystal. This attempt. Implementation of successes and of football convention and tobacco control is very cold. PP expressed warning and fire of work and our doodle extra term intervention side by the euro. Indians city. The suite in Vegueta. Business consulting. The city of the population in the EFE City squad. The third element is situating primary care and health functions. Public at the center of integrated health services, primary care is the first point of contact for citizens with the health system. It offers comprehensive and accessible care in the community that responds to the health needs of all throughout life. World Water then inhabited medicine. Dr. Arturo explained. The shelter was Dr. Brown. That region in the debut at the Rangel level in Lalín with monthly walking or project information from the English side of the team in the Light of Christ with ence of detour through the front with 100 choose for talent from half of the boss of bad situation has a solution. Activate the green tapes. He is the luck of area experiment film before we find out. Thanks, although a lot of banks of fools can carry beings. If we collaborate to achieve a solid primary health care system, we can all together achieve health for all.