Everyone needs access to healthcare, but just because a patient has been seen doesn't mean their condition will improve. In fact, when care hasn't been of sufficient quality, treatments may not work or could even cause harm. Worldwide, more deaths are due to poor-quality healthcare than to a lack of access to medical services. Fifteen percent of deaths in low- and middle-income countries are due to poor-quality healthcare, and in high-income countries, one in ten patients suffers harm while receiving hospital care. Clearly, action is needed to ensure that medical services provide quality care that improves people's health. Care must be effective so that you are accurately diagnosed and receive effective treatment; safe so that the healthcare you receive doesn't harm you; people-centered so that decisions about your health are tailored to your needs and handled compassionately; and timely so that you receive care when you need it. It must also be equitable so that everyone receives the healthcare they need and integrated so that  The different health workers and health facilities are working together to improve care and efficiency so that available resources are used more effectively to improve your health and avoid waste. MS is calling on countries to take action regarding health care and is working with them to develop policies and plans so that all patients are treated in settings with adequate infrastructure and that health workers are well-trained and given the time, resources, and support to provide quality care. We are encouraging governments and health organizations to work closely with the people and communities they serve, find new ways to relate and work together, and learn from successes and failures. MS is also supporting countries to take early action in critical areas such as maternal and child health, infection prevention and control, and water sanitation and hygiene. While action is needed regarding quality worldwide, we also have a particular focus on fragile and conflict-affected settings where there is almost always an urgent need for improved health care. We are working  with partners to achieve the sustainable development goals that emphasize quality as a key element of universal health coverage, quoting the MS Director-General: "Quality is not a given; it requires vision, planning, investment, meticulous execution, and rigorous review from the national level down to the smallest and most remote clinical level."