Dear Madam Director General, Your Excellency, Dear Ministers and Heads of Delegations, Dear Directors of Regional Offices, Dear Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen, First of all, Let me thank all the distinguished members of this august assembly for the trust they have placed in me and for electing me to the post of President of the Seventieth Session of the World Health Assembly. Let me also express my special gratitude to the Member States of the European Region and to the Regional Director, Dr. Zsuzsana Jakob, for nominating my candidacy for this high post. We consider this decision as a recognition of Russia's achievements in the development of the health care system, ensuring universal coverage of health care, increasing the effectiveness of government measures to strengthen public health, well-thought-out plans for the lives of Russians, in the last decades alone, by 6 to 100%, a multiple reduction in maternal and infant mortality to a historic minimum, and a reduction in the burden of communicable and non-communicable diseases. The Russian Federation is presiding over the World Health Assembly for the first time. Moreover, we are preparing for an elective session that should determine the fate and development vectors of our organization at the next historical stage. This imposes a special responsibility. I  I will do everything in my power to ensure that this session is as organized and productive as possible. Dear colleagues, Our joint work at the global level is aimed at achieving the main goal of ensuring throughout his life, which was enshrined in the sustainable development goals adopted at the highest political level in 2015. The achievement of this main goal requires the creation of a single health-preserving environment uniting all national, regional, global, public and state mechanisms, medical patients and business communities, limiting risk factors, forming spiritual, moral and physical foundations of health, developing prevention in the broadest sense, this is the main condition for the maximum possible preservation of health starting from early childhood, and even from the mother's pregnancy and throughout life. We live in an era of accelerated innovative development of biomedicine, an era of revealing the secrets of individual genetic codes, their interaction with the microbiome and other environmental factors, which should allow us to predict personalized health risks and take them into account when developing medical support programs for each person. It should be noted that in recent years much has already been done to solve these ambitious tasks. Let me express my gratitude and appreciation for this to the deeply respected Madam Director-General of WHO, Margaret  Chen Margaret Thank you very much, who for 10 years has been the initiator and inspiration for the global health movement, so thanks to the measures taken by WHO and governments to combat infectious and non-communicable diseases, it was possible to achieve a reduction in global mortality on the planet. We are proud that Russia was entrusted in 2011 to host the first global ministerial conference on healthy lifestyles and the fight against non-communicable diseases, the Moscow Declaration adopted there became the starting point of the global process of mobilization and unification of efforts to combat NCDCs to counter unhealthy habits and irresponsible behavior of people in relation to their health and the health of their families. The Moscow Declaration formed the basis of the political declaration on the fight against NCDCs adopted at a special session of the UN General Assembly. Currently, more countries are implementing uniform principles and strategies for this policy through global mechanisms created by the United Nations Inter-Day Task Force on the Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases. In recent years, the world has faced outbreaks of dangerous infectious diseases such as pandemic influenza, fever, and infections under the flag of WHO, work was initiated. Large-scale assistance has been provided to the population of the affected countries in the development of new effective vaccines and therapeutic drugs. At the same time, this work has revealed the need to further enhance the world's preparedness for large-scale outbreaks. Lessons learned from epidemics served as the basis for launching a reform of the organization's emergency response cluster and creating a special program whose purpose is to strengthen the capacity of countries to ensure their own and collective security. There is no doubt that acceptable conditions must be created for strict compliance with international health regulations based on commitments voluntarily accepted by member states. The problem of antimicrobial resistance, which is becoming one of the leading threats to the modern world, has acquired particular importance in recent years. A lot has also been done in this area. The Ministerial Conference in The Hague in 2014 defined a comprehensive and intersectoral approach. Their political weight was enshrined in the declaration of the high-level meeting of the UN General Assembly in 2015. Our common task is to effectively implement the developed global mechanisms at the national and regional levels. Visible progress has been achieved in the fight against tuberculosis on a global scale. The Millennium Development Goal to stop the epidemic has been achieved. Tuberculosis has begun a trend towards  reducing the incidence by 2015, now within the framework of the global agenda of sustainable development goals, an even more ambitious target has been set to eliminate tuberculosis by 2010. The Russian Federation is still considered a country with a high burden of tuberculosis. However, over the past 8 years, thanks to the comprehensive effective measures taken, we have reduced the incidence by more than 35% and the mortality rate by more than 65%. We see positive dynamics every month with full understanding of the need to continue moving towards achieving the sustainable development goals. Russia has put forward an initiative to hold the first WHO global ministerial conference on tuberculosis in the context of the sustainable development goals in Moscow in 2017. Dear colleagues, We invite all of you to take part in the First Ministerial Conference dedicated to the problems of tuberculosis on November 16-17, 2017 in Moscow. I would like to emphasize once again that all of the listed achievements in the field of global health could not have happened without the professionalism and personal commitment of the WHO Director-General, Dr. Margaret Chan, as well as her highly professional team, especially during your leadership. Dear Ms. Chen has launched a global reform, the organization's budget has been increased several times, and many positive changes have occurred that cannot go unnoticed. I would like to sincerely thank Ms. Chen for her dedicated ten years of work in this most responsible position in the world. I am sure that words of gratitude addressed to you will be heard many more times. Dear delegates, as you know, at this session we will have to elect a new CEO. For my part, I would like to assure you that I will do everything in my power to ensure that the elections are held fairly, transparently, and in strict accordance with the requirements of the procedure. In concluding my speech, I would like to note that many of the issues mentioned are included in the agenda of our session. One of the most intensely discussed issues in the entire history of the organization, this requires special efficiency and ergonomics from us. I promise to use my experience so that in dialogue we find the best solution. My scientific clinical specialization is building an effective system of medical care for strokes when a doctor has only a few hours to take the right actions within the therapeutic window. During meetings, you and I will sometimes have only a few minutes to express and  I will try to justify my position, however, I am confident that time constraints will not prevent us from finding worthy solutions to all significant issues. I would like to express my gratitude in advance to all WHO employees who will be supporting our work throughout these days, as well as to the translators who help us understand each other. I wish you, dear delegates, effective and constructive work, as well as the opportunity for a short but constructive break after the meetings. In order to have time to pay attention to healthcare, using your personal health as an example. Thank you for your attention.