I study public health and specialize in influenza. Influenza is often not perceived as a deadly disease, but its consequences can be tragic. In 1918, towards the end of World War I, a deadly wave of the influenza pandemic swept across the world, known as the Spanish flu because it was believed that it began in Spain and spread to the rest of the world, with an estimated 40 to 50 million human lives. Influenza is a highly contagious disease that spreads quickly among people when people with the flu cough or sneeze. Microdroplets containing the virus settle on surfaces upon contact, which can infect other people. From 1918 to 1920, humanity was forced to fight this pandemic with only the capabilities of the early 10th century. Other pandemics have occurred. There is a serious threat of a new pandemic. In April 2009, a new influenza virus emerged in Mexico. Although experts predicted that the next influenza pandemic would begin in Asia, despite progress in the scientific understanding of influenza viruses, they constantly emerge and mutate we do not know where and when a new pandemic will begin and what virus will cause it [music] the Mexican virus turned out to be a strain of influenza type A subtype H1 N1, the same subtype as the Spanish flu virus 90 years ago Most likely, it was transmitted to humans from pigs and then spread throughout the world as a result of transmission between people a year and a half later the World Health Organization declared this pandemic of the H11 virus However, this event suggests that a flu pandemic can begin at any time and anywhere from this H1 N1 virus died about 200,000 people many at a young age and people who previously did not belong to risk groups influenza is a serious public health problem that affects millions of people annually and causes a heavy burden of disease hospitalizations and deaths in addition to the risk of a pandemic seasonal influenza epidemics are a year-round threat especially in winter in the northern and southern hemispheres and all year round in the tropics it is estimated that seasonal epidemics annually cause from TX to 5 million cases of severe illness and approximately  Between 250 and half a million deaths at the peak of the epidemic There are days when we are often asked about flu symptoms, usually every third patient, depending on the year, this can be at the beginning of the season in November or December Or sometimes in February or March To limit the spread of the virus, everyone should cover their mouth and nose when coughing or sneezing and practice proper hand hygiene Influenza is spread mainly by air, which is the fastest Every time a person infected with the virus coughs or sneezes, thousands of microdroplets are released into the environment Even a tiny microdroplet can release hundreds of viruses These microdroplets can enter the body of healthy people through the mouth and nose by coming into contact with the mucous membrane of the respiratory tract [music] A protein on the surface of the virus can attach to a receptor molecule on the surface of a healthy cell Having attached itself to the cell, the virus penetrates inside in a few seconds It subjugates the cell like a knife in copies The exhausted cell weakens and dies New viruses are released to infect neighboring cells or return to the respiratory tract  The destruction of cells in the patient causes inflammation and weakening of the mucous membrane, which facilitates the penetration of other pathogens into the body, causing such blizzard infections as pneumonia. Due to tissue inflammation, an infected person coughs or sneezes, thus a huge number of viruses re-enter the environment, creating a risk of infection and contributing to the spread [music] of the disease. The symptoms of the flu are high fever, cough, headache, muscle and joint pain, severe malaise, sore throat, and in people in good health, these symptoms usually disappear within 1-2 weeks without medical care. Scientists have not yet established why this disease occurs in some people in a mild form, while in others it is severe or even causes death. There are three types of influenza viruses, AB and C, which are constantly changing in nature. I organize my research taking into account these categories. Forms A and B annually cause epidemics of the so-called seasonal flu. Type C causes flu in a milder form and does not cause epidemics. Influenza type A viruses are divided into subtypes such as H11, H3N2, and H3N2.  h51 or h79 letters and phrases used in the names of subtypes are determined by proteins and 2009 were caused by viruses of the same subtype H1 N1 they are very different from each other if influenza viruses type B infect only humans then the virus type A circulates among humans and many animals this type A has been identified in waterfowl or poultry horses pigs or what is less common in wild aquatic mammals for example seals and whales the prevalence of influenza viruses is especially high among waterfowl and when they infect domestic chickens and turkeys the mortality rate from influenza can exceed 50% of the infected livestock influenza viruses type A can overcome the interspecies barrier transmitting for example from birds pigs this ability allows them to infect humans and thus a pandemic can begin which fortunately happens extremely rarely currently only two subtypes of category A circulate among humans and cause seasonal influenza epidemics transmission of influenza to humans from animal reservoirs can be direct or indirect with indirect transmission  First, there is a direct transmission from one reservoir to another (for example, among pigs, during this transmission the virus adapts before infecting humans). The third mode of transmission is associated with genetic recombination. The kinetic information of influenza viruses is recorded on eight separate gene segments. Kinetic recombination occurs when two subtypes simultaneously enter the body. A simultaneously replicating virus. In 1957, recombination between the human influenza virus and the avian influenza virus caused a pandemic that claimed approximately 2 million human lives worldwide. No other virus or pathogen changes as quickly as influenza. For this reason, and also because of its ability to overcome the interspecies barrier, it is extremely difficult to predict where the next pandemic will come from, how it will spread, and what its severity will be. Since new influenza viruses usually differ from the viruses of the previous year, it is possible that people who had the flu or were vaccinated against it a year ago may be exposed to circulating viruses. Influenza can be severe and even cause death in the elderly and pregnant women.  Children under 5 years of age and people with certain chronic diseases need to be vaccinated annually. I wanted to get a flu shot. It's important to me because I have diabetes. The World Health Organization conducts global influenza surveillance year-round, involving thousands of scientists from around the world. They regularly share discoveries and meet at least twice a year to determine which viruses will become the main threat in the next flu season. This global network of pedagogical surveillance for influenza has two important goals. The first goal is to monitor changes in influenza viruses from year to year to determine the composition of vaccines. The second goal is to detect the emergence of new viruses as early as possible, since some of them can cause a pandemic. At the time I met these scientists, they were working on a new virus called H79, the avian influenza virus. People become infected with this virus from poultry. In most cases, the disease has been extremely severe in people, although it does not affect poultry. To date, stable transmission of the H79 virus between people has not been detected. In rare cases, when an animal virus acquires the ability to become resistant to transmission to people, a pandemic can potentially begin.  The devastating impact of influenza on animal and human health requires the attention of veterinarians and public health professionals. As past experience shows, influenza pandemics can have severe medical, social, and economic consequences worldwide. One of the important functions of the World Health Organization is to work with countries and strengthen their capacity to improve epidemiological surveillance if it is insufficient. More than 110 countries have an epidemiological surveillance system that allows them to obtain samples of influenza viruses for detailed analysis and epidemiological work. For example, in 2009, over the course of 10 months, laboratories around the world conducted an analysis of one in every million samples. Some countries have antiviral drugs to counter severe complications of influenza. However, vaccination remains the most effective measure to reduce mortality and morbidity from influenza. It is the best means of protecting humanity from this ongoing and unpredictable threat. To be prepared to counter this threat, a concerted effort by all public health professionals is needed.