My wife is very involved too, she wants to know everything, to inform us of everything, it's very, very funny that she even talks to my little son, imagine he's a month and a week old, she says, "Oh, let's give Daddy insulin today!" And when I received the diagnosis, it was absolutely difficult to deal with this situation, and now, what about me? Despite seeing other people, people who weren't that age, people who were much older, who had diabetes, I didn't know anyone my age who had diabetes, so I preferred to initially seek alternative paths in the hope that my reality would be different from those I had already observed in my family members. And of course, that didn't work, so I ended up being hospitalized, feeling very ill, it was a very long road of not feeling well and not being able to do the activities I did as a child anymore, so I went through this very bad experience, and I see that there is another way, how am I going to do my activities like a child and live life? Today, as an advocate for the Brazilian Diabetes Association, I participate in working groups with the Ministry of Health and with Many other entities are working to improve diabetes care and access to the different insulins and medications that people with diabetes need. I was fascinated by the young leaders' training from the first meeting. Seeing people who also have the same condition as me living well and being successful in various professional areas is very rewarding and has helped me a lot. And it's especially Mário, who I now see as a great mentor, both in the area of ​​diabetes and also in public health policies. We've been working together for a while now, and for me, besides being a great friend, he's a mentor because I was part of the NR Camp and he was my first monitor. So it was a very pleasant friendship and a great learning experience for me too, because he already shared a great and significant amount of knowledge about diabetes and his studies. I don't know if " I inspire people" is the best term, but certainly what I do is intentionally try to identify potential and give them opportunities, so they can see where they can see it, and of course, invest in that and really encourage them to go further, not just stay at "I went," I think that's very important.  What has been fundamental for me is to provoke, facilitate, or encourage the development of each individual. So, like getting to know the DJ (presumably referring to a specific organization or organization) is that, for me, and I tell everyone, that diabetes is the best thing that ever happened in my life. It's a very strong phrase, but it really was because diabetes allowed me to meet the friends I have today, my best friends, whom I met here. And I'm going to draw attention to two things here. One of them is the costs. Brazil is the country in South America that spends the most per person with diabetes, and even so, it doesn't have good results. Two studies came out, one quite recent, showing that thirty percent of young people aged 13 to 19 already have some complication of diabetes. So it's a very sad reality that we can't accept and that we have to change. How many people with diabetes are not invited to participate in the development of diabetes policies and programs in their countries? Because of so many problems, they often end up lacking this perspective. Having a fundamental perspective has been perhaps the most important thing for me, that people, in reality, think about, and that organizations understand the importance of collaboration and partnerships so that we can move forward.  effectively reducing premature deaths from chronic non-communicable diseases and And then And then