Biomedical research is developing at a tremendous pace, not only bringing enormous benefits but also creating potential risks. Let's imagine a group of researchers modifying the genome of a mosquito so that it cannot carry the malaria parasite, the causative agent of a deadly disease that annually affects 200 million people. Another example is the achievement of neuroscience, which helps us understand how the brain works in order to prevent and treat disorders such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, depression, and other neurological diseases. At the same time, breakthrough innovations also create problems and risks, in particular, the risks of accidental or intentional contact with dangerous biological materials. The technology of genetically modifying mosquitoes can also be used, intentionally or accidentally, to impart undesirable properties to populations of living organisms. The achievement of neuroscience can be used by attackers to manipulate our thinking, physical abilities, or behavior. Both of these examples raise important technical, ethical, legal, economic, and environmental questions. Many of these problems inevitably arise during research, especially when working with pathogens and toxins. Such risks can be controlled by targeted individual and collective efforts.  Through the efforts of all stakeholders, researchers and their organizations, funding agencies, publishers, regulators, the private sector and security services, and all other relevant individuals and organizations, it is the responsibility of all stakeholders to understand and prevent untoward incidents and, where possible, mitigate risks, including the risk of misuse, to understand potential risks, weigh the pros and cons, to know relevant regulations and practices, and to apply safe and secure practices. WHO is a global leader in public health. It collaborates with a range of stakeholders to raise awareness and identify options to reduce the risks associated with scientific advances and technologies, including the risk of their misuse. It also seeks to establish new and leverage existing mechanisms for change in practice to ensure the responsible conduct of biomedical research. Ultimately, sound oversight of biomedical research. It is our shared responsibility to work together to ensure that biomedical research is carried out responsibly and effectively to build a better future.