My friends, we live in very difficult times. We are facing a new threat of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the threat has not gone away. They are still the leading cause of death in the world. Many die from these diseases before the age of 70, mainly in low- and middle-income countries. Prevention and treatment of COVID-19 is not particularly important. People with diseases such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and cancer are especially vulnerable to this virus. More than 2.3 million people die from it. Half of these deaths are related to cardiovascular diseases. This tragedy could not have happened and will not happen. It can be prevented through an appropriate diet, physical activity, and the ban on tobacco and alcohol abuse. Industrially produced trans fats cause heart disease and lead to death. However, in many countries they are used in fried and baked food products. The path for you is away from breast formula. The elimination of industrially produced trans fats from the food chain is a priority for  That's why for three reasons: firstly, it will save lives; secondly, it can be implemented. Yes, of course, some sectors of industry will have to adapt, but other sectors of industry will gain new markets, and this costs governments and consumers practically nothing, and we can only benefit from a decrease in the growth of health care costs; this will reduce the pressure on health care facilities at a time when coffee 19 is already overloading our medical infrastructure. WHO launched a program of action, or placa, or place. It was launched in 2018. This was followed by detailed operational guidelines and then the first report, which was supposed to provide assistance and leadership on the elimination of trans fats. WHO is leading the global effort to eliminate smallpox and polio. We are also leading this global effort to eliminate trans fats and plan to complete it in 2023. In addition to the publication of the second report, today I am pleased to announce that the import plan plans to certify and recognize countries and their leaders for the elimination of industrially produced trans fats from food chains. And now I would like to give the floor to my  friend friend friend doctor about frit frieds well to the president and CEO of the organization resort to say like for which is our partner and helps Nanamo in our global efforts thank you thank you thank you for certain news with flare guns spendthrifts this toxic substance which kills hundreds of thousands of people every year and leads to a large number of hospitalizations two years ago and the World Health Organization for the first time called for the complete elimination of this factor is not close to reducing and eliminating trans fats from global supplies to the needles of global food chains, although great progress has been made working great is ahead if we accelerate this progress and we can meet the allotted deadlines the elimination of trans fats is feasible political and economic and technical it will cost practically nothing neither the government nor consumers it for providing then recommendations for moving forward and in order to eliminate both this taxi and on and with food in two years we have achieved significant progress the number of people who are protected from them has increased from 2 million to 3 billion by the end  In 2020, this is thanks to effective regional initiatives, and Dr. You Fight has already emphasized the importance of regional initiatives. Last year, the European Union approved advanced regulations, and all countries approved an action plan to eliminate trans fats. In the United States, this could lead to the fact that we can protect 1 billion people in 50 countries. In addition, this relies on the model of the Euro and the Asian Economic Council and a number of other organizations in order to achieve this goal by 2023. Regional initiatives are critically important, and we hope for greater progress in Africa, the Pacific, and other regions. This is especially important in places and areas where there is no consumer protection, and what we are doing today shows that great progress has been achieved. There is research. The strategy is aimed at accelerating this progress. WHO plans to publish such reports annually and disseminate best practices among the public. Strangely, we urge everyone to strengthen their work to promote these. Germans, father, by the next report it will already be 21 years old, and in fact, we will already be close to 2023, but in many countries, there is still not enough protection from trans fats for the population. It is necessary to strengthen and strengthen actions. Of course, we have slowed down our work in the village of Kolyada on 19, but prevention is more important here than ever. Today, we are saving lives by reducing the use of trans fats. We support the boss and work with them mutually to work on action plans and strategies. Dr. Pedrosa announced the certification process. I am doing this because this is the first such program to eliminate trans fats, the first in the history of Voso, but now it should receive a global format like other global programs, and this will serve as an indicator that together we can achieve a world that will be free of giraffe wounds by 2023. Now I give the floor to Dr. Nishida. Thank you today for hydroflow courts. 1000 UAH. The floor is given to Dr. Beggar, so that he can introduce us to the main results of this report. We are already receiving comments and considerations. Your questions. We have a separate chat. And we see that there are, for example, questions about the elimination of trans fats, which naturally exist in meat and dairy products. The following questions are about the strategy of involving politicians in the development of regulations for the elimination of trans fats. What incentives are available to the industry to Eliminate industrially produced trans fats, and how much and how much should industry be involved in this process of developing appropriate regulations, rules, and laws, and now we'll probably listen to a presentation called "poor, strange, this is the main challenge," and how do you plan to support these countries in countering this challenge? Guidelines, for example, on the use of oils that are also used for cooking fried foods, that is, for frying. Doctor poverty, then perhaps, or how do you want to answer the questions? Thank you, Francesco, Doctor Branco. We're waiting for the presentation, but I can start now. Industrially produced trans fats have no beneficial effect on human health. The boss called for the global elimination of industrially produced trans fats in 2023, and we've been monitoring progress in countries since that call, and we're monitoring policies that highlight strange things at the national level, and we've developed an appropriate metric that allows us to evaluate the results achieved, which is reflected in the report that's at your disposal, and in addition, we're helping countries achieve this goal by 2023, and we're doing this.  Encouraging countries to implement best practices in the area of ​​trans fats, the first option is to limit trans fats to 2.5 grams per 100 grams of total food in food products, and the second option is to completely ban partially solid vegetable fats. We have developed corresponding global maps, which are also published in the report and on the website of the import database called Gina. Over the past year, we have made significant progress, especially in two countries, Brazil and Turkey. We will listen to presentations from these countries, and these countries have shared best practices with other countries in recent years. There are other countries where such policies have not only been approved but are already being implemented. Here is one of the graphs that you see here in the report. This graph allows you to see the trend in the implementation of policies to eliminate trans fats. As you can see, this policy is now being implemented in 14 countries, and it covers approximately 600 million people, and in the next two years, an additional 26 countries will be condemned.  this policy up to 40 in total and it will cover 815 million people there are some trends well firstly an increase in the number of districts that are developing action plans at the regional level and this is here and an example of the trend that we see in this regard the second trend we see that more and more countries are moving away from the strict restrictive policies to the implementation of best practices and best policies in this area these are just some examples that you see on the screen in addition the restrictions that we face today they do not allow unfortunately to implement these best policies and practices in countries with low and middle income per capita therefore we call on as many countries as possible to join in implementing best practices and policies in this area and now the appendix to this report the statistical data that we included this data analytical and analysis of this data could be implemented thanks to the support of the organization headed by Dr. A. Shkheram and here you see here the countries are ranked in this table in accordance with the time of the mass burden of mortality as a result of trans fats use of trans fats and working 1.5 strange but and then you can see 15 such countries which account for two  a third of this mortality burden and of these 15, only 5 are implementing such policies. 11 countries have not yet done so. Therefore, we recommend that countries develop such policies and implement them in practice, as well as strengthen national regulations and regulations and conduct thorough detailed monitoring of the progress achieved and, for example, on the content of trans fats in food, as well as improve the efficiency of laboratory capacities and cooperate at the regional and with regional levels. WHO will continue to provide technical support to these countries to build laboratory capacity, technical and important capabilities, as well as facilitating the exchange of best practices and best experiences. It is strange how we do this in the form of publishing this report. We also assume that the food industry will fulfill the obligations they assumed in May to eliminate such veins from food products that do not produce from 2023. We also hope that the largest suppliers of fats and oils will also work with us to eliminate the presence of trans fats in food products. So, in conclusion, we would like to thank these countries without whose help we could not  I would like to prepare this report, well, first of all, and the regional representative office of the WHO, national drones, and those cripples who are listed here, thanks to whose efforts we can publish this report, and also thank the organization of forests to say like for the employees listed here, and also rain for Dr. Oshkin and his employees for providing the data, and who climbed into our report, however, I would like to especially note 2a [ __ ], who is a doctor, she is not a mod, but a den, represents wax, and Dr. lenses steel from the organization of releases, and they actually made it possible thanks to them, in fact, we can we were able to publish, prepare and publish this report, and well, thank you, this is a success story. We receive comments, comments, and questions from 300 participants who connected to our platform, and we will try to answer these questions, but we nevertheless celebrate our success. And in order to celebrate this success, we would like to provide the words of Turkey and Brazil, who have achieved particular success in implementing these plans. Dr. Kiricha from Turkey, who works for the Turkish Ministry of Health and is currently time is Deputy Director General Derek Directorate of Public Health We hope that you doctors are in touch and we can give the floor to you so that you can share your experience with us I hope that you can hear me I have some technical problems I can't send and I can't turn on the camera Try to be brief in your presentation Without a doubt not for this is stupid the main problem in the field of health and the latest pandemic has changed people's worldview in this regard in my country two out of three people have problems with obesity Turkey is no exception and compared to other countries we also have a lot not for diabetes heart disease and so on this is alarming and by the way this is the cause of high mortality not for also responsible for 89 percent of deaths in my country of which 36 percent are due to cardiovascular diseases deaths along 70 years are due to cardiovascular diseases these are data for 2019 the economic burden on the health care system ponies for this is just the tip of the iceberg additional costs are much higher than these investments that In 2016, approximately 70 billion billion were spent on the healthcare system. Turkish tourist killers, that is, approximately 3.60 times the gross domestic product. We know that wasteful fats are potentially dangerous chemicals that can be found in fried foods. This is why we need policies and a strategy to eradicate industrial and trans fats. Thus, this strategy should become a real salvation element that can save many lives. The elimination of industrial and trans fats is our body and in 2018, we declared this a priority of our nutrition policy. We discussed this issue with all stakeholders, used various platforms, conducted laboratory studies to assess the content of trans fats in food products, we worked together with the Ministry of Health and with WHO. All this is aimed at eliminating industrial wasteful fats and for food products, we were able to involve all stakeholders, including the food industry. In May of this year, we introduced appropriate regulations that limit industrial trans fats in food products in accordance with the recommendations given by the regulation, which implies that food products for the end user must contain no more than  2 grams of trans fats per 100 grams of product. These measures are an important step towards eliminating trans fats in food products, which in turn can save thousands of lives a year. We are currently implementing this best practice. We also joined this strategy after it was launched in the European Union in the Eurasian Economic Union. This moves and keeps moving our country in the right direction. I would like to thank the WHO initiative and the task force for technical support in this process. We are working very closely with countries. My WHO office is developing a process for sincerely giraffe food products and appropriate labeling of packages so that consumers can make an informed decision. I hope that this will have an effective result. I also hope that we can prevent early mortality and reduce the impact of trans fats on our population. Thank you to Dr. Friede for your assistance in controlling and reducing harm from non-communicable diseases. We thank the leaders of the report on trans fats and their sincerely  In 2020, thank you very much for sharing the secrets of your stack with us. We see that this kind of advocacy regarding why we need to reduce trans fat consumption and what their impact on health and the economy is. This discussion with all stakeholders based on the guidance received by WHO and the development of strong and clear guidance will help make the European region free of trans fats. This will be the first and most important step towards eliminating trans fats at the global level. Our next speaker is Dr. Eduardo Nelson from Brazil. Dr. Neko is a biologist and expert in monitoring and evaluating food policy with 20 years of experience in law enforcement and Brazil. He is currently the coordinator of the Department of Food in Brazil. Please give the floor to you. Thank you very much, Chairman. I welcome all our friends and colleagues to the audience. First, let me congratulate the WHO regional office for preparing this report. I also want to thank you for the support provided to our country, especially the American region. I will spend time downloading the presentation, but I'm not sure if I can do it. I will talk about it now.  Reducing trans fats. Spending on trans fats is currently Brazil's priority food policy. We've been working on this for the past 10 years. This is a curve of deaths caused by spending and related and non-communicable diseases. We are gradually, slowly but surely, reducing the number of deaths caused by cardiovascular diseases due to the high content of trans fats. More than 70 percent of deaths in Brazil are somehow related to this food product, and that's why it's so important for us to continue what we've started. We need a healthier diet, reduce the amount of sugar in foods, trans fats, and fat in general. It's very important to focus on healthy eating. Fruits and vegetables, fiber, and dietary fiber are what we need to focus on. Unfortunately, at the moment, the consumption of industrial foods with a very high percentage of trans fats still causes serious concern. I'll talk about this in more detail in the next slide. In Brazil, we are faced with the fact that the traditional diet is being replaced by a processed industrial diet. That's why it's so important to promote a healthy diet. We are also trying to comply with the guidelines for a diet, reduce the consumption of unhealthy foods, and look at our international partners. We have already formulated the steps that need to be taken to reduce the content of trans fats in food products. We constantly emphasize the importance of replacing trans fats with polyunsaturated fats. We constantly talk about how effective this strategy will be in reducing the number of premature deaths caused by other diseases. As for the national steps being taken, they are fully consistent with the international steps being taken at the global level. Firstly, mandatory labeling indicating the number of grams of trans fats in a particular product. We have also taken various steps to stimulate the food industry and give it additional initiative. We began to reduce and completely eliminate saturated trans fats from their products. From 2016 to 2018, there was significant demand for the complete elimination of trans fats in food products. In 2019, a law was passed to eliminate giraffe from the food supply. This initiative  in the American region free from  ran fats and was also launched on the American continent and this, by the way, opened many doors for us. We have now begun to fight the same with products high in sugar. We have been trying for two years. In 2008, we launched a new initiative to reduce trans fats and achieve healthier nutrition for our population. In 2010, we assessed the content of trans fats in food products and as a result of this initiative, we were able to reduce the amount of trans fats in industrial food products by 230 tons in just one year and we intend to further improve these indicators in the future. We see that many food categories have now begun to get rid of ran fats and this is gratifying because this once again emphasizes the importance of this role played by civil society, which plays informational and educational activities. It is very important to inform the population about the dangers that trans fats pose, about the diseases they contribute to and about why it is so important to make healthy choices in everything related to diet and food products. Our introductory food guide, as I already noted, contains a very important message for the consumer: firstly, to reduce processed foods. We know that all countries have their own diet, a traditional diet that is much healthier than processed industrial foods. In 2015, a movement against trans fats began at the global level. The US Food and Drug Administration recognized the fact that trans fats are not a safe additive to food products. Therefore, this regular regulatory process is a regulatory process. This regulatory body took the first important step in the eradication of trans fats in food products. In 2016-2019, people took important technical measures. Meetings were held with experts and stakeholders. We began collecting international and scientific experience. We also began a dialogue with the food industry, since it was very important to enlist their support to move in the same direction. We prepared an important report that contains an analysis and regulatory impact of our steps. We prepared three corresponding proposals: first, to reduce trans fats in industrial foods by 2 percent and by 5 percent in butter and margarine. The second proposal was uploaded in that To reduce trans fats in all food products by 2 percent and to ban them in all food products, we also included aspects such as health and economics. I can say that we were able to achieve absolute consensus among civil society, as well as government and industry representatives. We held public consultations, as part of which the final resolution on the ban on fats in food products was approved. Thus, we are going to reduce industrial trans fats by 2 percent in all food products. In addition to industrial food products, we will also work with bakeries to reduce trans fats in bakery products. Another important point for us is the importance of preventing premature mortality, reducing risks, and promoting a healthy diet in order to achieve the global and regional goal of a healthy population. Thank you very much, Eduardo. So, we see that the steps being taken in your country are indeed very effective. In particular, here we can name voluntary, then mandatory, product labeling to inform the buyer about the content of trans fats in products.  file hall prince night we are in touch let's turn on the sound for him so he can ask his question and I also see that we receive some questions through the chart here is one question is the following what is the difference between industrial trans fats and natural trans fats is it possible what is the difference between them and another question, what can replace those trans fats really is a very difficult question a real challenge the last thing we want to do is increase the amount of saturated fats in food products our document contains a number of steps that can be taken doctor Faizan let's hear his question director of the food department of Saudi Arabia good afternoon thank you very much for allowing me to ask my question greetings to all of you and the World Health Organization, as you know, has taken a lot of action to eliminate trans fats in our food products in 2015 we introduced mandatory labeling of food products in order to inform buyers and also set a ceiling on the content of trans fats in food products as regards the eradication of detailed oil here we are also carrying out a number of actions conducted an assessment of the food market We found out that almost 80 percent of Saudi Arabia's food products are free from 400 hydrazine oil, which is certainly very encouraging, but it is not enough to completely eradicate and eliminate chkim from our food products, since this substance accounts for a very large share of non-communicable diseases, and that is why it is so important to continue working on this. Thank you very much for deciding to organize the data. There is an e-minor. We thank the WHO regional office for their continued support. Thank you, Dr. Ben Summa. We also congratulate Saudi Arabia once again on taking such important steps. Another question in the chat: how did countries manage to reach the goal of progress? What is the role of civil society in this regard? Dr. Ralph Rosenkranz, because of the global food incubator, what can you tell us about the grant? Good afternoon, thank you very much. I work in the global food incubator. We are pursuing various strategies to completely eliminate trans fats from food products. We also work with adolescents and children in order to Protect them from smoking. Thank you very much for your leadership and commitment to eliminating trans fats in food. We also thank the entire Volos team for their contribution and the important role they play in eliminating trans fats from food, thus reducing non-communicable diseases and premature mortality of our population. I can say that civil society plays an extremely important role, and first of all, this is about Franz. He is talking about Sitsky's activities. It is very important to shape the population about the dangers that trans fats pose. It is very important to enlist the support of the general public in this way. Inform people. Secondly, civil society can achieve consensus on everything that concerns policy, consolidate political will. This is where you are lacking. Civil society can help fill the gap. In many countries, civil society has the opportunity to support the government, from policy development to monitoring the effectiveness of these policies. We use a human rights-based approach, conduct an assessment, and we look forward to our future work in cooperation with the WHO. We hope that together we can achieve a significant reduction in premature mortality. Thank you very much, Dr. Rosa MK Rantsa, for Some of our participants shared their experiences with us, saying that industry is not receiving adequate support in terms of legislative development. Representatives of the International Alliance of Food and Beverage Products ( Zhulyan) are in touch with us from Ulyanov. Perhaps you could talk to us about the role of industry. Thank you very much, Francesco. First, let me highlight the crucial role played by the WHO 30 initiative. This is a real milestone. We express our gratitude to the leadership of Dr. Ti Trassa and the entire WHO, and thanks to the spirit of cooperation, today I would like to once again emphasize our support for these initiatives. Our company is now implementing the commitments we announced last year, and we intend to fulfill those set before us.  2023 and I hope in this way we will contribute to the global goal. We are currently developing depositories of technical experience that will help us replace industrial waste and focus on low- and middle- income countries. We are ready to continue to support you in this important initiative and achieve the 2023 goals together. Thank you very much. I would like to hope that this also means greater support for the implementation of new legislation in countries. We fully support legislative actions aimed at improving public health. Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your efforts. Ms. Mary Grace, we are in touch with us. She works. OPA country. You are Maduro. Woz. And in the Philippines, Mrs. Unclenched, please give the floor to you. Olya came on foot. A bag of spinning. Please, Mrs. Unclenched, we hear you. We welcome you from the Philippines and thank you. Woz. And I will present an initiative. It is gratifying to share our progress in terms of eliminating trans fats from food products thanks to the leadership of the Department of Health, the legislator, as well as technical support to the world on the verge of the country's health system.  I'm taking in the Philippines at the moment the elimination of trans fats is being considered by the national food committee. We are also discussing mandatory labeling of food products and this is just the beginning. I want to say we know that with the support of the country, Vova Pero, as well as regional regional take here I am in the region, we can slowly but surely move towards a future in which there will be no place for trans fats thank you very much we have a question about drinks here is 3-in-1 coffee, can you tell me something about this product? This is very popular and coffee in the Philippines what do you say yes thank you very much for the question indeed this is true drik is already three in one in the Philippines is very popular it is a well-known source of industrial trans fats this is unfortunately a product that is very popular here in the Philippines we also know that this kind of cream is not dairy and cream is used in many other drinks now we are sending the question to our legislators an initiative was presented in Congress national policy was developed by the Ministry of Health and thanks to this you want to put on and we can oop reduce the consumption of trans fats and either through a complete ban or h ga.ma or through regulation of trans fat content in food products, thank you very much. We receive a lot of questions from countries that fall under the category of low- and middle-income countries. They ask, "What about us?" and "When will we receive special support from?" Here we see Nigeria, a problem that wants to receive additional assistance from the WHO. But before we give the floor to the Deputy Director General, I would like to answer one more question regarding certification schemes. Are you working on certification schemes? Such a scheme already exists. We use it in our other programs, in particular, in the fight against tuberculosis and polio. These expert groups will help us certify strange things that were able to achieve bi food products for trans fats. As for support for low- and middle- income countries, this support can be provided through regional bodies. You are probably aware of the experience of the European Union and other bodies. We see interest in the African continent. Now let me introduce Dr. Sci. Yamamoto, Assistant Director General of the Department of General Health. Such anti-100 bending, thank you, Francesco, and so ours.  The event is coming to an end. I would like to express my deep gratitude to the Director General, Dr. Terras, to the representatives of Brazil, Turkey, Dr. Freilin, and colleagues from Izvoz. I would also like to thank all the speakers who contributed to our discussion. As Dr. Zedra noted, WHO is committed to eliminating industrially produced trans fats and trans fats from global food chains by 2023. This is the WHO target and 13 General Programmes of Work. 8. Policy in this area has been adopted by 7 low- and middle- income countries. 3030 in this area by high-income countries. Taking appropriate action in this area will lead to enormous savings in funds allocated for health needs. As Francesco said, I am committed to providing technical support to these countries for the exchange of best practices and experiences so that all countries can benefit from providing people with protection from trans fats. You are also committed to the fight against the global pandemic. However, we must not forget that the work against trans fats and the elimination of trans fats is feasible. It is an effective practice and it saves lives. I invite all countries to join our program to eliminate trans fats. By 2023, many have already joined, and this inspires us. Thank you very much to everyone who took part in this event. We will continue to work together in the future to achieve this goal. Thank you.