The health care system should be accessible to everyone, but just because a patient has received treatment does not mean that their condition will improve. In fact, if the care is not of good quality, treatment may not work or even cause harm. Globally, the number of deaths from poor-quality health care is greater than this. Lack of access to health services. 15 percent of deaths in low- and middle-income countries are caused by poor quality health care, and in high- income countries, hospital treatment harms one in 10 patients. It is clear that action is needed to ensure that health care facilities provide quality care that improves people's health. Health services must be effective, meaning that you are accurately diagnosed and receive effective treatment. Safe. The care you receive must not cause harm. Individually focused. Decisions regarding your treatment must be made taking into account your needs and you must be treated in a participatory and timely manner. You must receive care when you need it, and they must be equitable. Everyone, without exception, must receive the health care they need. Integrated, through the collaboration of different health professionals across institutions, to improve your care. Available resources must be used.  more effectively to improve your health and avoid waste, WHO calls on all countries to take action to improve the quality of health care and supports them in developing policies and plans to ensure that all patients receive health care with adequate infrastructure and that health workers are well trained and have the time, resources and support to deliver quality care. We call on governments and health institutions to work closely with the people and communities they serve, to find new ways of communicating and working together, and to learn from both failures and successes. WHO also supports countries in taking timely action in critical areas such as maternal and child health, patient safety, infectious disease prevention and control, and adequate water, sanitation, and hygiene. While action to improve the quality of services is needed worldwide, we also pay special attention to fragile and conflict-affected situations where there is often a pressing need to improve health care. Together with partners, we are working to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals, which emphasize that quality is a key element of universal health coverage. According to the Director-General, quality is not a given; it requires vision, planning, and investing. compassion, meticulous execution and strict control from the national level to the smallest and most remote clinic