Did you know that high-income countries have, on average, 50 times more researchers working in health than low- income countries? The figures vary by country from 1,209 medical researchers per million population to just 0.2? Did you know that low- income countries receive zero point two percent of the grants from the ten largest donors to biomedical research and that only one percent of all grants go to your priority neglected tropical diseases? Given this inequality of investment in health research and development, the question arises: how can we ensure that the hundreds of billions of dollars spent annually on health research and development are allocated in accordance with the real needs of global public health? The World Health Organization has created the first-ever global observatory for health research and development, which provides data collection and analysis of ongoing research and development worldwide to help governments, donors, and researchers make better decisions about new investments, taking into account the identified capacity gaps. The global observatory for health research and development is a single interactive platform that allows  You can find the information you need about who is conducting research, where, and with what resources, comparing it with WHO strategic directions for the development of R&D in the field of health. The observatory allows you to access a growing collection of valuable materials, including publication databases and methodological documents related to health research and development, and facilitates the exchange of information. 25 interactive visualizations compiled on the basis of regularly updated data allow you to easily tailor search results to your specific questions or interests. With the observatory, you can track R&D spending, receive information on ongoing clinical trials, and identify current trends and gaps for developing new solutions. More relevant needs of the population. The future of global health research and development starts here