[Music] I work as a public health researcher, and influenza is my area of ​​expertise. Although we don't usually consider it a fatal disease, it can be catastrophic. In 1918, at the end of World War I, a deadly global pandemic emerged, claiming the lives of an estimated 40 to 50 million people. This was the global influenza pandemic, also known as the Spanish flu, because it was believed to have originated in Spain and then spread throughout the world. The world had to confront this pandemic between and 1920 with the limited public health resources available at the time. There have been other global influenza pandemics throughout the 20th and early 21st centuries, and the threat of another pandemic looms large. In April 2009, a new influenza virus emerged in Mexico, although experts had predicted that if an influenza pandemic were to occur, it would likely originate in Asia. Despite all the scientific progress in understanding influenza viruses, they continue to evolve and mutate. It is unknown where and when the next pandemic will strike, and what virus will be responsible. The virus that appeared in Mexico was identified as an influenza A1 subtype, the same subtype as the Spanish flu virus from 90 years ago. It is likely that this virus initially jumped from pigs to humans and then spread from person to person around the world. A year and a half later, the World Health Organization declared the end of the H1N1 pandemic. However, its reappearance demonstrated that influenza pandemics can occur at any time and in any place in the world. The aforementioned virus claimed the lives of approximately 200,000 people, many of whom were young and belonged to previously unknown high-risk groups. Influenza represents a significant public health problem, affecting millions of people annually and causing a large number of illnesses, hospitalizations, and deaths worldwide. Beyond the threat of pandemics, seasonal influenza constitutes a year-round health burden, particularly during the colder months in both the Northern and Southern Hemispheres. In tropical regions, it is estimated that it causes three to five million cases of severe illness and approximately a quarter to half a million deaths each year. In the midst of a pandemic, we have to answer frequently asked questions about flu symptoms every few days. These symptoms are sometimes reported by one in three patients who come here. This may occur at the very beginning of the season, such as November or December, and sometimes in February or March. It varies from year to year. To limit the spread of this virus, everyone should cover their mouth and nose when coughing or sneezing and wash their hands properly. Flu is primarily spread through airborne transmission, which is the fastest way for any disease to spread. Whenever an infected person coughs or sneezes, tens of thousands of tiny droplets are released into the environment. Even the smallest of these droplets can contain viruses. The droplets can enter another person's body through the mouth or nose, or by contact with the respiratory mucous membranes. The protein on the surface of this virus can bind to a receptor molecule on the surface of a healthy cell.  Once the virus attaches to a cell, it enters within seconds and proceeds to take control of the cell, producing thousands of copies of itself. The cell, weakened by this invasion, becomes very weak and eventually dies. It then releases new viruses to infect neighboring cells or to return to the patient's airways. With the destruction of cells, inflammation occurs, and the mucous membranes weaken. This opens the door for other pathogens, such as bacteria, to enter the body and cause other diseases, including potentially fatal pneumonia. Inflamed tissues trigger coughing or sneezing, which releases enormous numbers of viruses back into the environment, potentially infecting nearby people and thus increasing the spread of the virus. The main symptoms of influenza are high fever, cough, headache, muscle and joint pain, severe malaise, sore throat, and runny nose. These symptoms usually disappear within one to two weeks without the need for medical attention. Scientists are still trying to understand why some people experience only a mild illness while others...  Others suffer from severe and sometimes fatal illness. There are three types of influenza viruses: A, B, and C. These types are constantly evolving in nature, and I must organize my research accordingly. Types A and B cause annual epidemics, called seasonal influenza. Type C causes a milder form of influenza that does not cause any epidemics. Influenza viruses are classified into subtypes such as H1N1, H3N2, A5N1, or A7N9. The letters and numbers that make up the names of the subtypes are based on the hematopoietic H and N nomenclature proteins, which look like trees. The numbers listed after the letters H and N indicate the order in which these proteins were discovered. There are continuous changes in the H and N proteins, and any change leads to the emergence of a new virus. For example, although the and 2009 pandemics were caused by two viruses belonging to the same H1N subtype, these two viruses are different.  While influenza B viruses affect only humans, influenza E viruses circulate in both humans and animals. The E virus has been found in many animals, such as waterfowl, domestic birds, horses, pigs, and sometimes aquatic mammals like seals and whales. Influenza viruses spread at high rates among waterfowl, but their mortality rates when they infect poultry like chickens and turkeys can exceed 50%. Influenza E viruses can be transmitted between different species, for example, from birds to pigs. This ability allows them to infect humans, and this is how pandemics occur, which fortunately happens very rarely. Currently, only two subtypes of influenza E viruses circulate and cause seasonal influenza epidemics. Transmission from animal reservoirs to humans can be direct or indirect. In the latter case, an initial direct infection occurs between one animal reservoir and another, such as among pigs, and the virus adapts in the second reservoir before infection.  Humans are infected, and there is a third way of transmission, which is through genetic recombination. The genetic information of influenza viruses is written on eight separate genetic segments. Genetic recombination can occur when two different subtypes enter the body at the same time and may combine to infect a single cell. This can lead to the emergence of a new virus containing the genetic segments of both parent viruses. In 1957, genetic recombination between a human influenza virus and an avian influenza virus resulted in a pandemic that killed two million people worldwide. No other type of virus or pathogen is capable of evolving as rapidly as the influenza virus. This, along with the virus's ability to jump between species, demonstrates how difficult it is to predict when, how, and how severe the next pandemic will be. Because new influenza viruses often differ from those that circulated in previous years, those who had influenza or were vaccinated a year ago may not be protected from infection by the viruses circulating that year.  The current influenza virus can cause severe illness or death among high-risk individuals, including the elderly, pregnant women, children under five, and those with chronic health conditions. These vulnerable groups should receive annual vaccinations. I would like to receive the flu vaccine due to my health condition; I have diabetes. I learned that the World Health Organization (WHO) conducts year-round influenza surveillance, employing thousands of scientists. These scientists regularly share their findings, and delegates meet annually to determine which viruses pose the greatest threat during the following flu season. The Global Influenza Surveillance Network (GINS) has two main objectives: first, to monitor changes in influenza viruses from year to year in relation to vaccine formulations; and second, to detect as early as possible any emerging viruses that may have appeared in a community, some of which may have the potential to trigger a pandemic. When I met these scientists in 2015, they were focusing on a specific emerging H7 subtype virus.  9. Avian influenza: People contract this virus through exposure to poultry, and most infected individuals experience severe illness. However, this virus does not cause disease in poultry, and the ability of this subtype to transmit continuously from person to person has not yet been established. In the rare cases where an animal virus acquires the ability to transmit continuously from person to person, this could be the beginning of a pandemic. Given the potentially devastating effects of influenza on animal and human health, it requires the attention of veterinary and human health experts. As past events have shown, an influenza pandemic has enormous health, social, and economic consequences worldwide. Working with countries and building capacity to improve influenza surveillance in those lacking sufficient information is among the most important functions of the World Health Organization. Surveillance systems exist in more than 110 countries that collect influenza viruses from clinical samples for detailed analysis and epidemiological analysis. For example, in 2009, within  Ten months of analysis of approximately 1.7 million samples worldwide. Antiviral drugs for influenza are available in some countries to treat patients and reduce severe complications. However, vaccination is the most effective intervention to reduce mortality and illness rates from influenza. It is also the best way to protect people from the ongoing and unpredictable threat of this disease. To ensure this, the efforts of all healthcare workers remain crucial in addressing the dimensions of this global public health threat.