Increasing tobacco taxes is the focus of this year's World No Tobacco Day. Taxing tobacco brings revenue to governments and the economy, and it reduces tobacco use. In fact, higher tobacco taxes mean healthier societies and a stronger economy. It's a sound policy with a powerful impact. The Eastern Mediterranean region has the second lowest average cigarette prices, with a pack of cigarettes available for less than one US dollar in some countries. It's time to change this. Increasing tobacco taxes is an international legal obligation, clearly stipulated in both the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control and the UN Political Declaration on the Prevention and Control of Noncommunicable Diseases. It's a means to help countries reduce the burden of tobacco-related noncommunicable diseases such as cardiovascular diseases, cancer, and diabetes. Evidence clearly shows that higher taxes pay off. By increasing taxes on tobacco, we can reduce tobacco use and prevent young people from starting to smoke. However, we face a difficult challenge in implementing these policies in our region. Taxing tobacco requires effective taxation and anti-smuggling systems. This will increase tobacco smuggling, and tobacco companies will argue that it will undermine government efforts to reduce tobacco use and increase revenue. They will also demand that the status quo be maintained. In this regard, we must strongly counter these attempts with our facts and global experience. The scientific evidence supporting increased taxes is conclusive, and this gives governments the confidence to stand firm in their position. This can be controlled through firm management and administration, and through monitoring and enforcing tobacco control laws. On this World No Tobacco Day, the World Health Organization calls on member states to tax all tobacco products and increase existing taxes on all tobacco products. These steps are an integral part of combating tobacco use and improving public health.  So let us use this year's World No Tobacco Day to renew our commitment to saving lives before tobacco takes them.