Each year, the World Health Organization (WHO) selects a health theme to highlight during its World Health Day celebrations. This year, we have chosen the theme of food safety and adopted the slogan "From Farm to Fork: Keep Food Safe." Food safety is a fundamental pillar of each individual's health and the cornerstone of sustainable life. Thanks to it, we all enjoy good health. Unsafe food leads to a large number of diseases and hinders economic and social development, as it strains healthcare systems and harms the tourism and trade sectors. It is well known that unsafe food is linked to more than two hundred different diseases, ranging from communicable diseases such as cholera and other diarrheal diseases to a range of non- communicable diseases, including various types of cancer. It is estimated that foodborne and waterborne diseases claim the lives of two million people annually, a large number of whom are children. For these reasons, the WHO has dedicated this year to addressing food safety.  The World Health Organization (WHO) dedicated World Health Day 2015 to highlighting food safety. The WHO sought to promote public health measures that contribute to improving and enhancing food safety. Addressing food safety is not limited to the health sector; public health measures must be a focus for governments in member states of the region and involve joint actions among various stakeholders in civil society and the business community. Farmers, food manufacturers, food retailers, and consumers must work together with the health sector and governments to understand the importance of their respective roles. This requires strong coordination among them. Everyone wants safe food, yet one study indicates that only 28% of individuals in one part of the region wash their hands with soap and water after using the toilet. Furthermore, many people do not consult a doctor when suffering from diarrhea, and doctors often do not request laboratory tests to identify the cause. Even when a pathogen is identified through laboratory analysis, the results may not be reported to the national surveillance system. We must all acknowledge that personal hygiene in all situations, including food handling and preparation, is a critical issue, whether at home, at school, at work, or anywhere else. We want safe food. Under the International Health Regulations, governments have agreed to establish the necessary national capacities to respond to internationally significant food safety events. In other words, governments have committed to establishing, operating, and maintaining well-functioning food safety systems. These systems should encompass the responsibilities of all relevant ministries and sectors within the farm-to-fork food chain. However, we see fragmentation, underfunding, and a lack of human resources plaguing food safety systems in other countries. Of the 22 member states in the region, only five have reported meeting these requirements.  I am fully committed to meeting the basic capacity requirements of the International Health Regulations concerning food safety. I am absolutely certain that reforming food safety systems and revising and updating food regulations should be at the forefront of the public health agenda in all Member States. Therefore, I urge the Ministers of Health, Ministers of Agriculture, and their colleagues in other relevant ministries to convene and discuss the state of food safety in their countries and to take action where necessary. I am aware that this is not an easy task; indeed, some see food safety as a test of a government's credibility in its ability to foster intersectoral dialogue and inter- ministerial coordination, particularly between the health, agriculture, and trade sectors. However, I emphasize here that the health sector alone is capable of taking the lead in this particular endeavor. Therefore, we at the World Health Organization hope that Member States will fully meet the basic requirements for food safety as stipulated by the International Health Regulations and then move forward.  In its efforts to protect the health of its population, the World Health Organization is always ready to work with member states that may need support to participate in these initiatives. In our region, the Eastern Mediterranean Region, we have countries that rely almost entirely on imported food to meet the needs of their populations. There are also other countries whose economies depend heavily on their ability to meet international standards and thus access foreign markets to export their food products. In both cases, food safety can only be guaranteed through cooperation between countries of origin and countries where the food is consumed. Consumers expect their food to be safe, no matter what, and we all need safe food to maintain our health. In conclusion, let us raise the slogan for this World Health Day: From the farm to the food supply chain: Keep food safe. Thank you.