Pandemic viruses know no borders. A simple illness could be the start of a global influenza pandemic. We all have a role to play in preparing for the next pandemic so that all countries can protect their people. As part of these efforts, the World Health Organization (WHO) coordinates a network of specialized public health laboratories that work together to study influenza viruses, assess the level of threat they pose, and prepare important materials and information about them. Industry uses this information to manufacture life-saving vaccines, antivirals, and other products needed during a pandemic. Under the WHO Pandemic Influenza Preparedness Framework, manufacturers who obtain the materials mentioned above must provide the WHO with some of the products they manufacture. Then, if the next pandemic occurs, the WHO can provide these products to countries that cannot obtain them through other means. The Uniform Materials Transfer Agreement (UMTA) or Uniform Agreement II is a contract that the WHO enters into.  The World Health Organization (WHO) works closely with each manufacturer to establish clear obligations that ensure the organization has immediate and predictable access to specific life-saving products at the start of the next pandemic. The WHO works closely with each manufacturer to reach a fair and appropriate agreement, whether through the manufacturer donating a percentage of the vaccine, allocating antiviral drugs and diagnostic kits at reasonable prices, or granting the manufacturer a license to use the technology for those who need it. The organization will negotiate with each manufacturer to ensure they understand all the requirements they must meet, including regulatory matters, prequalification testing, labeling, and packaging. In this way, should the next pandemic begin, the WHO will be able to quickly communicate with its manufacturing partners, who will be aware in advance of the organization's expectations. The result will be a shorter timeframe for a global response and greater equity in access to life-saving vaccines.  This includes strengthening solidarity between nations, and ultimately, we are all in the same boat and all affected if a public health emergency such as an influenza pandemic occurs. For more information, please visit who.int