Among us, in our homes and near the food we eat, are some mysterious, tiny, and very active creatures. They are much smaller [Music]; they are microscopic organisms, meaning extremely small living things. There are three different types of these organisms. The good ones help in the production of foods and drinks such as cheese, yogurt, fermented meats, and fermented vegetables. Some other microorganisms are troublesome; they are the harmful type. They cause the unpleasant smells, bad taste, and repulsive appearance of spoiled food. However, they do not usually cause illness. But there is another type of microorganism that we should fear. It does not spoil the smell of food or change its appearance. It is the dangerous type, and we must be extremely careful with it. This type is known as pathogenic microorganisms because it is capable of causing serious illness such as stomach aches, vomiting, diarrhea, and fever. It can even cause death. They are deceptive, hidden, and dangerous creatures. These microscopic organisms reproduce very rapidly and need food, water, time, and warmth to multiply.  They are numerous, but they multiply very quickly. Fortunately, no matter how strong these microorganisms are and how much panic they cause, they are easily preventable. [Music] It only takes five simple rules or five behavioral commandments to ensure their elimination. [ Music] Protect yourselves and your families from illnesses at home. These rules are easy to apply. They are the five commandments for ensuring food safety. Maintain cleanliness to prevent contamination. [Music] Separate raw food from cooked food to avoid the transfer of contaminants. Cook food thoroughly to kill microorganisms. Keep food at a safe temperature, either cold or hot, to prevent bacteria from growing. Use safe water and safe raw materials to avoid contamination. The safety of the food you buy is primarily the responsibility of food producers, but you can protect yourselves and your families from illnesses at home by applying the five commandments for ensuring food safety. Apply them; you too have a role to play.