! cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool at 10 minutes, three times a week, jump training. So this isn't your landing softly in our knees. This is like impact in the skeletal system. A colleague and friend of mine, Tracy Klissel, did a PhD and post, not a postdoc, but post research on this and is developing an app on it to show women how to jump to improve bone mineral density. Over the course of four months of this type of training, people have gone from being osteopenic to normal bone density. So it's a different type of stress. So if your concern is that, which a lot of women do have a concern because they lose about one third of their bone mass at the onset of menopause. Wow. Yeah. Significant amount. One third? Yeah. Goodness gracious. If you don't do something as an intervention. So we see a lot of women are like, oh, I'm going to go on menopause hormone therapy to stop bone loss. Yeah. It can be a treatment, but I always look at an external stress that we can put on the body that's going to invoke a change without pharmaceuticals. So jump training, heavy resistance training and sprint interval training. Those are the three key things. And from a training standpoint, and then from a nutrition standpoint, getting protein. Protein is so important. When you start telling women, they need to look at around one to 1.1 grams per pound, which is around that two to 2.3 grams per kilo per day. They're like, whoa, that's a lot of protein. It is because we haven't been conditioned to eat it. But reality- It's a few scrambled eggs. Yeah. It's a chicken rest at lunch. It's a small steak at dinner. Yeah. Plus other things. Right. Exactly. And it doesn't all have to be animal products. I mean, you're looking at all the different beans and things that you can put together. And that's the other big thing that in order to build the muscle and to keep the body composition in a state that we want it to keep going for longevity, those are the big rocks. The sprint interval training, the heavy resistance training, the jump training, and the protein. I'm thinking about this and I'm thinking about my mother who's 79 years old. She'll be 80 at the end of June and is in good health, walks a lot, gardens, does some yoga, but does none of the things that you're describing. So mom, please, I'm going to send her to listen to this. In the same vein, what about the women out there age 20 to, maybe we make it the 20 to 40 bracket. And if we need to divide that more finely, we can. What is the most efficient way for them to train for health, vigor, and longevity? Making things fun for the most part. I don't want people to think that it's a chore. So if you're someone who's been told you need to run and you hate running, then don't run. That's common sense. And I say that because I see little kids in non-U.S. countries that have to run across country. And you see these kids when they're six years old and they're all running around the field and they're the kids that hate running, that aren't natural runners, and then they hate physical activity for the rest of their life. So I put that in, like when you are exercising, you want to find something that you find fun. When you're in your 20s to 40s, you have more room to get away with things that might not be optimal for you when you start to get older. Big rock, again, is resistance training. It doesn't have to be heavy resistance training, like I said earlier, to failure, you're periodizing. If you want to do a block of Olympic lifting, go for it. If you're like, I'm not comfortable doing that kind of lifting, I want to do more machine stuff, great. But we want to make sure that you're changing it up all the time to keep things moving and shaking with regards to strength and hypertrophy. And then it becomes more of, are you training for something that's endurance? Are you looking for just longevity for brain health? We need to have some lactate production. Because women, as I said at the beginning of the podcast, are more oxidative. We don't have as many of those glycolytic fibers. So what we're finding in older research is that there's a misstep in brain lactate metabolism. Because the brain hasn't been exposed to it, especially if we're looking at women who are being studied now, it hasn't been in a societal context to do that kind of work. The younger we are and the more that we can keep our glycolytic fibers going by doing high intensity work, the more we're exposing our brain to lactate, the better we see fast forward to attenuating cognitive decline and reducing the plaque development of Alzheimer's. This is why women who are in their forties plus, I want them to do the sprint and high intensity work for that lactate production. Start early because then you can take some of those type 2 B fibers that could either go more aerobic or anaerobic and make them more anaerobic. So those are the two big things for women who are younger. And then you can play around with the other things if you want to be an ultra endurance athlete. Yeah, not really ideal, but yeah, you can do that. That's fine. You'll recover well.