 I know you're a big fan of creatine, and I feel like creatine actually has come to the fore, and in the hybrid space, is actually everyone's quite positive around the benefits of taking creatine, and especially females. Is there any creatine in itself, the benefits of it for female athletes, and females in general, but also, is there any other supplements you would recommend for females to take? We look from more of a foundational standpoint, what are we trying to support? We're trying to support cellular integrity and anti-inflammatory properties, so we want to look at a really good omega-3, because it just kind of boosts all the anti-inflammatory properties that your body naturally does, and helps with our cell and cell walls. We think about vitamin D3, even though you guys are up in Northern Hemisphere, hitting hot 35 degrees, you've had a long period of darkness over winter, the same, and we see vitamin D3 is so important for every system of the body, especially for muscle and bone. So those two with creatine are the main three I really try to push on women, and it doesn't matter how old you are, these are three really good ones, it's kind of foundational. Then we can also look at iron and calcium, depending on your needs. Are you someone who is more ectomorphic, so thinner bones not able to put on as much muscle mass? You're probably going to be going through a lot more calcium stores, so let's boost the calcium intake. If we're looking at iron, we see that with running, you have a higher incidence of iron deficiency, not necessarily anemia, but iron deficiency or low ferritin stores, and unfortunately now, when you go get your iron tested, you're being compared against the whole population, and we know that the general population has gotten sicker. So three or four years ago, you would go in and get your ferritin tested, and it would be below 50, and they're like, whoa, you need to supplement or we need to do an infusion. Now it's 20. And if you are a hybrid athlete or a runner or anybody else who's sitting with a ferritin at 20, you're going to feel like shit. So you need to really look at how am I supplementing my iron if I need to. But if you don't need to supplement iron, don't do it because over absorption of iron presents just the same as iron deficiency, where you feel really flat and tired. So it is something that you need to get tested for to see when and if you really need it. And if somebody was taking an iron supplement, would you say like liquid or tablet form? What form is the best? We look at iron by glycanate or carbonyl iron, and these are the two most bio available, and you want to take it every other day. Preferably first thing in the morning if you're training, because that's when the enzyme that inhibits iron absorption is lowest, and you haven't been training yet. Once you start training, you come back, you have greater inflammation from training, and that stays elevated for quite a few hours post training. And if any kind of inflammation occurs, and it increases the amount of hep seedin, which is the enzyme hormone that reduces iron absorption. So take it first thing in the morning. So that you're insured to absorb it every other day. And with vitamin C, is it better to take it with vitamin C? Yeah, not a vitamin C tablet, but taking it with a fruit source. Yeah, kiwi fruit, strawberries, all of those things. Yeah. Okay, cool. And then, so just to touch on creatine, because it's such a, I feel like it's such a controversial topic sometimes. The benefits for females, and especially like as females get older, creatine? Yeah, we have around 70% of the stores that men do, primarily because women tend to eat less and not as much creatine containing foods, if we're thinking about all the animal products. But we see that it's involved in all the fast energetics. So it's brain health, heart health, muscle health, muscle contraction, part of the muscle health, bone, intestines, everything in your body requires creatine. For thinking about the zero to 20 seconds of energetics that occur. We also are looking at using creatine for mood, and under times of immense fatigue, if you're looking at using creatine 5 grams twice a day, it improves mood. And you're able to function under fatigue states. So it's really important for brain and brain energetics. So when we're looking for women, we really try to emphasize it's not just about muscle performance. In the sports space, that's great. That's what we're after. But for looking at creatine as a general supplement, not the high doses, we're looking at the 4 times a day, 5 grams with carbohydrate, which is the old bodybuilding idea. If we're just looking at a low consistent dose, it boosts all the tissues in our body to be able to be more stress resilient, which is really important when we're thinking about today's whole global climate. Yeah, yeah, totally. And that's the point, isn't it? Like the consistency of taking it every, like you have to be consistent with taking creatine. Yeah, it doesn't matter what time of day you take it or how you take it, it's just being consistent that you do take it. It takes about three weeks for your body to be fully saturated. So if you're looking at 5 grams once a day, it takes about three weeks to get full saturation. You'll feel the benefits within a week or so, a week to 10 days, but optimal is up to three weeks of consistent taking. Ideally, you just hold status quo from there, but you can start looking at doing some different loading patterns if you have a heavy training block coming up just to support muscle performance and recovery. If you're doing a lot of transmitting and travel, which you guys did over the Christmas period, right? And jet lag really hits and you're tired and trying to function. Boosting creatine intake at those times really does help with cognition and reaction.