 עלTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTT so that's your ankles, your knees, your hips all working together to get into the depth of a squat without compromising how you're moving. And people will go and they won't warm up properly. They don't do mobility and their form is off. And that's how we get injured. So if you spend five minutes really making sure that you can get into all those corners of those joints and be able to move properly in that pattern that you're going into work, then you are definitely reducing injury. You're also improving the technique that you're working and you start to see better gains and feel better. What would you say are maybe three or four of your favorite mobility exercises that are pretty simple for people to do that if they want to start to implement these at the gym, they can do so before going into a lifting session? Yeah, banded hamstring stretch. So it's a thicker band that's wrapped around the rig and it distracts your hip as you step forward to do a hamstring stretch. You do banded pigeon. Also taking a kettlebell and sitting into a deep goblet squat and getting into each corner. So you're moving in each corner. Those tend to open up the hips and the lower back and the hamstrings to get into really good posterior and squat movements. When I asked you what people's workout routines should look like in the gym, you asked me what age are we talking about. Why did you ask me that? And how should people's workout programs change as they get older? Yeah. So if we're looking at women who are 35 and younger, well, I should preface that like after you go through puberty, so you're 20 to 35. Your body's really resilient and very adaptable. So you can play around with sets, reps, periodization, types of training that you're doing. If you have 40 minutes in the gym, maybe you are doing super sets and compound movements and then finishing with some sprint work. But if you're younger than 20 and going in through puberty, we have to look at functional movement because motor patterns and everything need to be redeveloped with the biomechanical changes that occur in puberty. And then when we get into peri and postmenopause, we have to be very specific because of the ratio of estrogen and progesterone changing. We need to find an external stress that's going to create adaptive responses in the body the way those hormones used to support. So this is why we look at the power-based stuff because that becomes a central nervous system drive rather than a peripheral or localized drive. I think that's called the power-based testing that I have to form your neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors neighbors