 I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I guess I I find it really interesting being an expat where I live most of my time out of the country, and then I do a lot of traveling stuff within the U.S. You go into a general store, a grocery store, and there's rows and rows and rows and rows and rows and rows of supposed food, but there's nothing to eat. So I try to explain that. I was like, yes, you might be hitting macro goals if you're looking at getting one gram of protein per pound of body weight, but what is that quality of protein? So there's two things. If you're really trying to dial in and build lean mass, we have to make sure that you have the abundance of calories and nutrition density around your training and to support you throughout the day because you don't want a big hole of time where you don't have food. So if you're bookending your calories beginning and end of the day and you have a big hole in the middle of the day, your brain is perceiving you as being in a breakdown state, so you're not going to build lean mass. So we also want to make sure that you are eating regularly throughout the day, getting good protein hits throughout the day so that you encourage lean mass accrual and immunity. It helps with your immune system too if you don't have big holes where your body's a bit stressed from no food and then what kind of food you're having. Because if you're reaching for protein fortified Pop-Tarts or you're looking for impossible burger or something like that, those are all ultra processed foods, but they're not necessarily like you think a protein Pop-Tart. Yes, we see that's ultra processed, but the impossible burger being promoted as the meat alternative, it's super processed as well. So we just have to really look at the types and quality because we want maximum nutrient density to really achieve our lean mass gain and our gut microbiome goals. Yeah, so eat real food and get hits, especially around your training, but don't forget those big gaps. Like say, if I'm getting you right, you know, say someone's training in the morning and they get a little bit of maybe carbon protein before they go in. Maybe they lift heavy, have a great session, really stress their system. Maybe they have a little bit of fuel following. Maybe they have their full breakfast, but then they get stressed at work or, you know, they become super mom throughout the day and they forget to feed themselves or all these real life, you know, examples that we probably both know too well. And then you kind of defeat all the stress you may have put your body through. Like you probably won't adapt to that stress appropriately and really build muscle. Am I getting you? Absolutely. And then we also see that that scenario plays. There are so many people when you get home and you're starving, so you're trying to snack while you're making dinner and being conscious of what you're eating, but then you end up having so many calories and pretty full before bed. And you don't necessarily have the time to digest, even if it's two to three hours before bed. So your sleep is interrupted. And we see that there's a lot of awakenings when you're having a big load of food before bed bed with hypoglycemia and you're not going to get that quality of sleep. If you're not getting quality sleep, then you aren't going to get the adaptations that you want because during sleep is when your body is consolidating memories and physical activity and repairing and all of the things that you want to then wake up the next day, stress resilient, ready to go. So it's really important to look at how you are getting food in throughout the day. And like I said earlier, protein and fiber at every eating opportunity, especially if you're trying to budge body composition and put on lean mass.