 s So if I go and I do some resistance training, some heavy lifting, I want to create a stress on my body that's going to then have a signaling cascade to repair the muscle in a stronger way than when I first went. Lifting the muscle damages the muscle? Yes. And it creates a series of feedback mechanisms that make it repair stronger than when you first went in. So that's an adaptive stress. And we're looking at what levels of stress we can put. So it's a training stress or what levels of stress we can use through exercise to really, really create an environment that improves our health. So if we talk about sprint interval training, the 30 seconds on and the two to three minute recovery, the reason why we want that super high end stress of our heart rate is it then creates eventual epigenetic change. So it's that environment that's going to create a change within the muscle that's going to allow that GLUT4 protein that I mentioned earlier to open up and have glucose come in, reducing insulin resistance. Also, with that really high, high heart rate, we're having a lot of stress on the muscle that's going to release some myokines, which are little hormone signals that then will go to the liver and say, wait a second, we don't need to store visceral fat. We need to create non-esterified fatty acids, which can then go into our skeletal muscle to be used in the mitochondria as fuel. So we want to have the stress that's strong enough to create these cascades of feedback mechanisms to improve our overall health. If we stay in that moderate intensity zone, we aren't creating a strong enough stress to create that signaling. What are we doing? We are exacerbating inflammation or exacerbating cortisol. Now, cortisol isn't the demon, but when we have an elevation of it, and especially in perimenopause, when we're sympathetically driven, and we already have a higher level of baseline cortisol, if we are continuously in this modern intensity zone, we never get a signal to allow that to drop. So if we're looking at polarizing, which is top, top end and low recovery end, then with the top end, we get the signal cascade of improving body comp, improving insulin sensitivity, as well as getting growth hormone and testosterone responses, which then feed back to drop cortisol. So am I right in thinking the solution, if I'm perimenopausal, is to do high intensity interval training for short periods of time? Dr. So we look at the quality of the training, not the volume of the training. So if we're in our reproductive years, then yes, you can do the modern intensity stuff because you have estrogen and some of our other hormone feedback signals that are going to drop cortisol. It's going to allow your body to recover and repair. Dr. And what makes quality training? What is quality training? Dr. So this is your polar. So you have a very specific session that you're going to do. Dr. So for Vonda, it's your 30 seconds on as hard as possible, two to three minutes recovery, do that four times at your session. Dr. Okay, I'm going to try and summarize this. Dr. Mm-hmm. Dr. See if this is a test. See if I understood all of this stuff. So if I do a lot of volume, but I play in that sort of medium intensity range, I'm basically just like stressing out my body in all the worst ways. Dr. Exactly. Dr. Like the inflammation, it's just not good for my body necessarily. If I don't do vigorous enough exercise, then that's also bad because nothing's going to break and therefore build. It's nothing's going to adapt. Nothing's going to grow. If I do it for long periods of time, really anything for long periods of time, that's also stress. But the key thing to do is to do shorter, higher intensity exercise that will cause my body to adapt, but won't put it into that inflamed, stressful state. Dr. And you also have to pepper in some lower intensity work. So this is your... Dr. Flexibility. Dr. Mm-hmm. Dr. So that you have recovery, you're getting blood flow circulating, you're tapping into some mitochondrial work so that you are still getting benefit of exercise, but it's not in that modern intensity. So that's what we mean by polarizing. So if we were to talk in like the zones talk that everyone talks is out there, right? We're looking at zones. So if we're talking about heart rate and the way that your body works, we have zone one, which is just sitting around, you know, like you're Yeah. Dr. We're in zone one. Dr. We're in zone one. Zone two is the bro science kind of thing where you're like, let's, let's work in this zone two area where we're working. Dr. I was in zone two when you're talking about menstrual cycle. Dr. Okay, there you go. Dr. That's it. Dr. A little elevated. Dr. Your heart rate's elevated. You still a little bit have a conversation. For women, it's good for recovery, stress release. For men, it's good to improve metabolic flexibility. When we're looking at zone three, four, that's the area you want to stay out of, unless you're specifically training for something that requires you to be there. So that would be your half marathons, your endurance races, that kind of stuff. Dr. Everyone wants to stay out of zone three, four. During training. Dr. Oh, okay. Dr. Fine. Because that's the medium range, right? Dr. Yeah, that's medium range. Dr. So you want to jump into zone five, hang around for it? Dr. Five, six. Dr. Okay, a couple of minutes and then get out of there. Dr. Yeah. Dr. But in a week, this is, yeah, it's just being clear. Dr. So two to four days a week, you should be lifting progressively to lift heavy, heavy, meaning heavier weights, fewer reps, right? Dr. Yeah. Dr. One compound lift a day, plus the augmentative lifts that go behind it, right? Dr. So you're warming up first, then you're going to do one lift, and then you're going to do your jumping or your balance work. Dr. The other days of the week, you will do, preferably, low intensity doing anything. Walking briskly down the New York street could count as that. Dr. It's continuous motion. Dr. And then a couple days a week, add in your sprint intervals, your really high, zone five, six, high intensity. Dr. And then when you've got that, you can add in your four by four VO2 max on one of the other days, because it sounds like a lot. Dr. But when I work with non-pro athletes, I layer on behaviors. Dr. Absolutely. Dr. Because if I say all of this at once, nobody's going to do anything. Dr. I always describe it as we have these pillars, right? First, we have to nail sleep. It doesn't matter who you are. Dr. Same. Dr. Because you cannot- Dr. Sleep is non-negotiable. Dr. Yeah. You cannot invoke any kind of metabolic or body composition change without adequate sleep. Also improves stress resilience. Then we look at nutrition and physical activity. The behaviors that go with both of those are somewhat independent. You have some people that are more motivated to do physical activity, and some people are more motivated to change nutritional habits. Most of the time, they're two different personalities. So we have to look at what comes next. And then we also have, which isn't lesser importance, but often neglected, is the mindfulness and community. So this is being out in nature. It's connecting with friends. It might be going to a group exercise class. It might be just having coffee. But that is really, really important for parasympathetic and whole being life. An underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying underlying