! ROMNANAD-SOMERNAD, our relationship with carbohydrates. Because that is a, you know, I love the one gram of protein per, you know, pound of body weight. I actually think it should be the same for carbs. And I think, you know, Abby Smith Ryan, she was actually like, I think it needs to actually be two to one. But I don't know if the world is ready for that yet. They're not ready for that yet. Yeah. So what do you say about that? What are your thoughts? I bring it down to the gut microbiome, because we see what is the essential food for our gut. And it's getting like the gut microbiome is getting more and more press through research as well as popular press. And we see a distinctive change in the diversity as we hit perimenopause, where there's a significant decrease in the diversity. So when I talk about helping our gut microbiome, I'm like, we need to eat lots of colorful fruits and veg. And we have to look at a lot of sprouted grains and other ancient grains, which yes, is carbohydrate, but it doesn't have the same impact on your blood sugar and all of our hormone responses as if we're looking at the ultra processed carbohydrates. I find it really interesting being expat living in a different country where we don't have a wide variety and really cheap food, where more of the seasonal growing and New Zealand's very small. And so when I get to the States, and I go into a grocery store, I'm like, no wonder people are confused what it is, because there's rows and rows and rows of things that supposedly is food, but I wouldn't eat any of it, because I can't identify what that is, it's so ultra processed. So when we start bringing it back down to we want to take care of the gut microbiome, and we need carbohydrate for that, from the stance of fiber in the carb, as well as looking at as we're fueling, we need to have a really good control of our blood sugar. If we are not having a good control of our blood sugar, we actually can't fuel our exercise. So we start to get over the carb food by first introducing more veggies. And then I feel like I have a big win when someone will actually eat a piece of toast. I'm like, Oh, look at that. You're eating some toast. That's fantastic. Yeah, yeah. I actually just put a post up today as of this recording on my recipe for sourdough bread. Like this was one thing that I picked up in the pandemic. I was like, I'm going to start my own starter bread, you know, starting my own sourdough starter and learning how to make it. And this is my treat to my family. And we do it once a week. And you know, we make that sort of ball that big sourdough ball once a week. And it's, you know, it's gone in a day or two. But it's it's a delight. I love to have it in my with my morning, you know, avocados and omelet and whatever I'm having for the morning. So great. So veggies first. So veggies and then fruit. Okay, yeah, definitely. Definitely fruit. Okay. So I'm glad. Yes, we are very, very much on the same page. There are there are people that think that fruit is not it's high sugar. Yes, the fructose and the and it's just I can't it's like, you know, people don't eat enough vegetables and fruit as it is, you know, so now we have these guys that don't have shirts on in the grocery store telling us look kale is trying to kill you, you know, and like now and now your blueberries are causing your fatty liver disease. Oh, my God, what are you talking about? No, no, no. I ascribe to the 30 plants a week. Like I try to get people to look at 30 different plants a week. And that can be herbs and spices, but also all the other things. If you can have a variety of plants during the week, you're pretty good. And fruit is definitely part of those plants. And supplements, my last I know that we're I'm looking I'm watching our times like we've already flown by but and I have not gotten to four different categories of things that I wanted to ask you. But let's talk about supplements for women menstrual years, perimenopausal years, menopausal years, does it change over over that arc of time? It does. The one mainstay, of course, is creatine. I'm so excited that creatine is getting the big push that it is at the moment for health, especially when we start talking about brain health, heart health, gut health, and all of the perturbations that people have, especially women with heart and brain and gut. So creatine monohydrate for the win. When we're looking at the reproductive years, a lot of women have issues with iron and iron absorption, and their ferritin is often on the low end of normal. When you're an active woman, and you compare to the normal ranges, I get a little bit antsy because the general population is getting sicker. So the general ranges are changing because when we're looking at the recommendations and the norms, they're based on the general population. So when women are in their reproductive years, and their ferritin sits below 50, like we need to look at supplementing, because we need to look at how iron is essential for so many different functions rather than just red blood cells. The other one is vitamin D3, because we spend a lot of time inside. And if we're outside in the summer, sunscreen and hats and covering up is a big thing. And a lot of women are deficient in vitamin D3. So if we're looking at, let's increase that, then we also see how D3 is so essential for so many different functions in the body. The one change I would make for peri and postmenopause is omega-3 fatty acids. Because when we start seeing omega-3 and how it works on a cellular level to help with oxidative and inflammatory properties, peri and postmenopausal women need that boost in omega-3s. We see it's not as dire when we're in our reproductive years as it is when we start getting older. And do you have a recommendation? So for vitamin D, are you looking at 4,000, 5,000 international units? Or what is the range? Do you have a range that you typically like to see women supplementing with? So I look at where they are in the world, like down in the southern hemisphere, because summertime, we have the big ozone hole. I'll tell people, you know, bring your vitamin D intake down a little because you are getting sun exposure. So instead of sitting at 4,000, we'll go down to 2,000. And in the wintertime, you know what, if you're not using creatine for mood, we also need vitamin D for mood. So we're looking at the 5,000. And in the States, it's a little bit different depending on how close you are to southern versus northern and what. So it does vary between 2,000 and 5,000 depending on where the woman is, color of skin, sun advantageous exposure or not. So it is a little bit of a tricky point. Yeah. And creatine, would you say 5 milligrams as a minimum, 10 milligrams, what would be your, sorry, 5 grams. Sorry, grams. 5 grams as a minimum for muscle health. And would you go up to 10 when you're thinking about brain and heart and, or 5? So the newer, I like 5. I have women phase in if they've never used any kind of supplement where we start with a one and a half for the first week, then we move up to 3 the second week, and then we move up to 5. Because by the end of the third week, your body's fully saturated. So that's a good way of really staging the saturation. When we get into times of depression and low sleep, high fatigue, that's when I'm 2 times 5 grams a day. So morning and evening. And then for women who are highly stressed, traveling a lot, really busy and perimenopausal, I'm like, let's just stay with the 2 by 5s. Because it supports brain and stress resilient and immune system. Love that. And then for the omega-3s, is it 2 to 3 grams daily you're looking at? Yes. Great. Yeah, yeah. Wonderful.