 I know, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ronioidio, ron as carbs, not what I'm talking about right now. I couldn't agree more with you that eating real foods, you want carbs that your body has to break down and recognizes as food, right? And probably contains a little bit of fiber and all those good things. But do you see that in terms of the undercutting the carbs? And how important is that for building muscle and repairing from exercise and adapting to stress? Yeah, we see low carbohydrate intake, which leads to low carbohydrate availability plays out as a symptomology of low energy availability. So that means that even though you might technically be eating enough calories, you don't have enough carbohydrate, then your endocrine system suffers, your immune system suffers, and you need carbohydrate to help build lean mass and bone. So if you're too low on carbohydrate, we see women end up tired but wired and in able to sleep well and not getting any kind of performance gain. It's often seeing an increase in belly fat, even though, you know, they're like, oh, it's perimenopause related. It's not necessarily. So we start looking at boosting carbohydrate intake, then things start to fall into place. And a couple of weeks later, they're like, wow, I feel so much better. And my body comp has changed. And I haven't really done anything except increase the amount of carbohydrate that I'm eating, which is a huge mind shift for so many people. Because like you said, carbs, it's such a negative connotation. But women need more carbs than men, full stop. And when we're looking at the carbohydrate intake, most women don't eat enough when they're active, let alone getting enough carbohydrate. So that's, you know, we talk about protein. And like you, I'm really happy to see the protein conversation coming into play. But we can't forget the importance of carbohydrate either. Yeah, I think people sometimes feel really good too. When they're in ketosis, people will come to me and they get this brain boost and they feel good. And and, you know, I see in the lab work very clearly when women are in low energy availability, you know, I don't deal as much with red ass athletes that are truly getting like endocrine disruption, losing their cycle, stress fractures, like the sequelae that can come from really severe discordants between the amount of energy you're getting and the amount of strain you're putting on your body, right, is what we're talking about here. But this low grade version of that of just everyday life for women, I see in probably 70 or more percent of the of the patients that come to me. Oftentimes, it's I have I have, you know, low energy levels, my periods are irregular, I'm putting on belly fat, like, and they do think it's perimenopause, especially if they're in their 30s, right, when you start to sometimes see some of this. But oftentimes, I'm like, well, you haven't slept very well for a few years, because you have, you know, a one, a three and a five year old. So I'm just reading between the lines. And, you know, you're forgetting to feed yourself that you're doing boot camp classes all day. And I think really, maybe that's more what we're what we're looking at here. It's, I mean, it is the most common thing I think I see is that those broad strokes, and I see it so clearly in the labs, their their TSH is a little high, and their DHEA is a little low, the sex hormone binding globulin goes up, like, their cortisol is probably dysfunctional. Sometimes their insulin is really, really low, and their blood sugar is really, really high. And I just, it feels so obvious when I look at at blood work, and it's so, I think counterculture, and feels so scary for women to eat more in an effort to, like, optimize their body composition. You know, they, they're terrified to do that. I get it. Yeah, I do too. Because we've been fed the rhetoric so much through societal messages since we were little that as a woman, you need to eat less and move more to lose weight. But when we really start getting and digging down into it, it's such an awful message, because now women are afraid to eat. They hear all these things. And we see a lot of diet trends as more of an excuse to eliminate foods and be okay with it, and look like they're appropriate, when in fact, it's just another means of cutting out calories. And I really hate the diet culture. I like have a real staunchness against it in our household and my daughter's friends, where we talk about being strong and powerful and fueling for what we're doing. And if someone comes in and is like, oh, look how skinny, someone is. I'm like, nope, they're not healthy. We don't want skinny in this conversation. Which is, you know, how we are here, because we try to really emphasize the positive language about it because of that rhetoric of eat less, move more, or eat less just to lose weight. And we see it also in DEXs. I don't know if you've looked in DEXs of women who are late 30s, early 40s. Regularly. Yeah. So a high incidence of visceral fat, even though on the outside, they don't necessarily look that way. And it's low energy availability. Start eating more, that dissipates. We see better lipid profile. We see better T8. The TSH, we see overall energy levels improve. So yeah, I'm with you. It's hard. And the body's just trying to protect them, right, to hold on to this fat tissue because it thinks it's starving, you know? So it's trying its best. So in real life, when you get someone like this, how do you approach it? Like, is this a slow increase? I mean, obviously, they have to have their own emotional buy-in for something to stick, you know, and their willingness. But if you have that buy-in, you know, medically or scientifically, what do you see work best? Like a really slow uptick of calories to recalibrate that system? Or do you dive right in with them? Like, how do you usually approach that? I work within their day. And most of the time, people are not fueling adequately before and after training. So I use those as eating opportunities that just kind of become a nuance where they're not thinking about it as a meal. It's like, oh yeah, I'm going to go to the gym. I need some fuel for that session. Oh, I went to the gym, had a really hard session. I need to recover from that session. So I put it into more of the performance metrics. And then all of a sudden, we can increase 500 calories a day without having someone balk at the fact that there's an extra 500 calories. I've worked with quite a few women at a higher activity level where they need an extra 1200 calories a day. And if I were to say, you need an extra almost day and a half worth of meal in your perception, then they freak out and there's no buy-in. So we look at a way just slowly implemented over the course of three to four weeks, which then doesn't freak them out from extra glycogen storage weight on the scale. And we see better energy levels for training, which then feeds forward to more motivation and better adaptation. So it's a way of looking at the day and how are we going to implement some extra fueling without having a negative impact on mental status and the way a woman feels about herself. That's gold. I'm going to use that advice regularly, probably. So thank you for that. How about when you have a scenario? We'll dive into fasting later because I think this is a whole black box we could dive into. But if someone is truly insulin resistant, whether they're type 2 diabetic or there is some degree of carbohydrate resistance or insulin resistance that this can be problematic, I'm assuming this is a very nuanced approach by you. But do you just balance those things and maybe they have a little bit of a shorter feeding window or maybe they have a little bit lower carbohydrates and lower simple carbohydrates? Or do you find that those things tend to just improve as you build muscle and the muscle still requires carbohydrate, you know, to do so? Yeah, it's a kind of a combination. It's like as you're building muscle becomes more of a glucose sink, which is what we're after. But the process to get there can be a bit difficult. So first, a 10 minute walk after every meal to really help instigate glucose uptake. And then we're looking at the type of training they're doing. So we try to really implement some sprint intervals because we want that epigenetic change to increase the geeky explanation of translocation of our GLUT4 protein. So that means opening up the cell without having to have the key to bring insulin in to improve the overall structure and responsiveness of our muscle cells. So first we start with, you know, that walk after every meal, making sure that the carbs that are coming in are bound with fiber because that's nature's way of reducing the impact of the carbohydrate and blood glucose. And then as we're building muscle, we also see our insulin sensitivity improve.