! Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak Ak compound movements. What are your thoughts on compound movements? Oh, I'm all about compound movements, primarily because we get that whole functional strength and the bracing that comes with the compound movements. Yeah, that's so important, because people think that doing ab work means sit ups or leg lifts or, you know, some hollow arches or something like that. But when we're looking at compound movements, your body learns how to brace against that load, as well as work the whole body in your squat, or your hinge motion in your deadlift, because we have to brace and use all of the muscles. And that's something that's not explained, especially to women who are just getting into it, because I'll always get the questions of, well, I did deadlifts, but now what do I do about my triceps? Should I do some tricep kickbacks and make were you not like pulling and bracing and using your lats and trying to bend the bar? Your arms are dead after. Yeah, your arms are dead. Yeah, right. Yeah. I was like, it's the fastest, most effective means of getting total body strength. And it's not like you go in and do squats every day. I'm like compound movement. One might be a knee focus, lower body, which be your whole squat focus on a Monday. And then maybe on Wednesday, we're doing upper body push pull overhead. So you're doing your bench, you're doing your bent over row, you're doing your push press. So you're doing all of the upper body planer push pull motion. And then on a Thursday or Friday, you're doing posterior hinge motion, which might be your deadlifts or your hip thrust or your single leg RDLs or something to that effect. But yes, start with the heavy lift first. And then you can go into the higher rep more. I guess it's more singularly focused movement towards the end of your workout. Yeah. Yeah. I love to do that. Because I first, my, my, my focus is the best at the beginning of the workout, my freshness, if you will, is the best at the beginning of the workout. So my, my execution of those more technical lifts, I find deadlifts and squats to be the most difficult technically in the I mean, maybe a pull up comes after that. But I find most people do both of those two moves moves wrong. And certainly there's lots of variations of squats, lots of variations of deads as well. But I find that technique is so key. And I like to be fresher when I'm doing them. I was just doing, I was doing back just the other day and for the pull up, you know, the bar at the top where the cables are, someone was using the cable, so I couldn't do my pull ups. And so I went and I did some other lat, you know, exercise while I was waiting for it to clear up. And then I went and I went, did my pull ups, which are usually my first, this, the first thing that I do when I do back is I do like four, three or four sets of pull ups. And it was so different. Like I could not heard. It was after my lap, I had sort of pre fatigued my last. I'm like, all right, now I'll go and do six pull ups. And I punched out four. I couldn't get I couldn't do it. It was it was it was it was keeps me humble, keeps me. Yeah, absolutely. But also, I was already fatigued after doing that. So those that technique tends to suffer the more tired you are like that, you know, even though you know, you can probably you can talk about like you've talked about like priming the nervous system and you have the catecholamines and the cortisols, but you're still tired. Like, you know, for me, my abs are usually sore. After I do pull ups, and they're actually also sore after doing deads as well, like that bracing, that expansion, that intra abdominal pressure that you need to sort of keep you upright as you're as you're coming down in that hinge, which actually, if I can just say this is one thing that social media I do get very upset at is this idea that are for women in particular, and I would love your opinion on this, if you've noticed this. And maybe I'm just maybe I'm just sensitive to it. I don't know. But sometimes you'll see sort of fitness influencer types who are doing, let's say a squat or a deadlift, and their stomachs are like sucked right in. It's like, you, you, you have to increase your intra abdominal pressure, like your stomach has to expand. It's never going to be flat through the entire movement. And I don't know why that irks me. There's probably something that I need to heal with that. But I it's like, you need your stomach cannot always be sucked all the way in all the time. Like you need to be able to breathe, like your, your diaphragm needs to be able to depress, you know? Yeah. When I look at that, I'm like, you're not lifting heavy enough. If you can keep your stomach, right? Like sucked in, and you're not using and engaging your whole core for that lift, then you're not lifting heavy enough. Yeah, yeah. Good. Great. Okay. So let's talk a little bit more about techniques. Some couple things I love to talk about online is tempo, playing around with tempo, again, something that's not done well, but it's a way I feel this is a way to progressively overload. If you are used to doing one count down on the squat, and then one count up, if you all of a sudden take that descent, and you extend the eccentric phase of it, that becomes a much harder squat. There's a lot more mechanical tension there. Talk to me a little bit about how you feel about eccentric loading, maybe even pausing or the stretch position, long length partials nerd out with me. What do you think? Yeah, so I'm very much in that right now, because I am trying to rehab from a massive knee injury. So I'm like, okay, I really want to, I really need to get posterior chain super strong, because it occurred in a sled pull into a run. So I have a distal hamstring tear and a very messed up meniscus. So I've been playing around with eccentric, and I've been playing around with isometrics. When you do the combination of those two, you get super strong, but you don't get so swole, which is okay, I don't mind. So when we're looking at the eccentric, I try to tell people, it's like, if you're climbing a ladder, and someone grabs your feet and pulls you down, right? And you're like, ah, so if we are able to hold on to the top of the ladder for a longer period of time, then the essential jerk down isn't as damaging. So when we start doing a longer, slower drop in a squat, or we're doing a very slow pull up in the deadlift and a pause, then we are able to tax those muscle fibers at a longer time in tension without essentially damaging. We will get damaged, of course, because the eccentric is very painful, but it's not a severe rip. And when we're looking at what we're doing, if we're always doing a one down and a one up, we're not really maximizing the full extent of how we can really get those muscle fibers to get strong and really stress resilient. So I love the tempo. I love lots of eccentric sets. And I've been doing eccentric right into a single leg hamstring isometric. And that is something that is very painful, but effective. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you.