! ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ago looking at low energy availability in women on combined oral contraceptive pill versus those who are naturally cycling. And when you're on a combined oral contraceptive pill, you just have a withdrawal bleed. So you have a bleed, but it's not a true bleed. So it's not really indicative of what's happening from an endocrine function. But what this paper did find was that there's a change in luteinizing hormone and FSH in both the naturally cycling and the hormone contraceptive using individual in low energy availability and they mimic each other. So if we're trying to keep track of robustness, if someone's on a hormone contraception or birth control and they are not responding to training, they're having poor sleep, they're having soft tissue injuries, then this is where we want to get tests to see what's FSH and LH doing. Because if it's following the pattern of a woman who is naturally cycling in low energy availability, then we know we have to look at how you're fueling. From a performance standpoint, it depends on the progestin generation. I mean, we can get into the nuances from a high performance standpoint of we want to look at this kind of progestin to increase our fast reactive and response time at certain points. But that's really getting into the weeds. On an overall basis from hormonal contraception, we know that you can be consistent in your training and you can get the gains. But if we're looking at that top end anaerobic capacity, it is a little bit muted with women who are on the OC. We also see a greater total body inflammatory and oxidative response for women who are on the OCs. But being conscious and aware of that, then we can do dietary intervention to dampen it. It's not enough for it to be a factor that people would consider? If you are really driving for high performance, then yes. So this is where we're looking at like our Olympians and our professional athletes, then it's something to consider. Because in years gone by, a lot of athletes were just on birth control so that they didn't have the implications or the inconvenience, depending on how, I guess, what their periods were like, to shut that off. Even school camp, it's recommended still that girls use birth control whilst on school camp so that they don't have a period. Like that happens here. Oh my gosh. So I get frustrated because people pass out OCs like it's Skittles, right? You know, it's like here. And I'm like, that's hormonal, exogenous hormones that you are giving young developing bodies. And I bring this up in quite a few talks. It's like when we look at brain development, and we have key brain structural development in our teenage years, when you're introducing an exogenous hormone, the research is showing that it's not reversible the way that it changes brain structure development. But as we get to our twenties, it is reversible because we've already had that development. So when you're telling me that they're telling girls to get on OCs for camp, I'm like, wait, what about an IUD? Or maybe we look at some other way of controlling it, or just embrace it and use period undies or something like that. Well, there's all of that. I mean, absolutely. And it is, it's frightening. I think that the consequences, that's not been spoken about enough. Like we're talking about it now in terms of if we can delay girls using birth control until their twenties, the implications are lessened. The fact that there's long-term issues that are not reversible, we need to talk about that more. And one of the things that's come up quite a bit is the depot. Like the depot injection, the progestin only, every three months, you're not supposed to be on it for more than a year because it has such significant impact on bone density. But no one tells athletes that. I don't even think most of the GPs who are saying, yeah, come in for your depot injection are aware of that. But there's significant implications if you're on it for more than a year. So there's so much about the different contraceptions that aren't being discussed unless you actually ask questions to the right person. This is so true. Speaking of, let's talk about HRT and because, you know, every woman wants this to be their holy grail. Yes, okay, we're told that it's important for bone health, for brain health, for cardiovascular health, for all of these, you know, long-term. I want to understand what is the evidence and are we actually skipping over the fundamentals by going straight to HRT in your opinion? Yes, because we've seen the pendulum swing from WHI saying, let's not use it at all and a whole generation of women have missed out to now all the women saying, yes, we all want it for as long as possible. But we don't have the long-term data. What we do have specifically is if you are 60 and younger, then there can be some cardiovascular benefit. We see that it does definitely help with bone. We see that it can slow the rate of change of body comp, doesn't stop it. But the thing that's not in that conversation is what's the stronger impetus for all that is lifestyle, is exercise and nutrition. We can see that when you are doing the right kind of training, resistance training, heavy resistance training, some sprint work, both that is muscle, bone and brain. And we see that we're having lots of fiber and protein. All of that helps with all the immune function and changing body comp and keeping gut microbiome diverse. That has a stronger impact on our longitudinal and health span than MHT. That said, MHT is a tool in the toolbox. And people shouldn't suffer all of the menopausal therapy or symptoms without knowing that MHT is definitely beneficial for some of that. But it isn't the golden goose that people think it is. You do have to put in lifestyle modifications. Even if you're on it, you have to put on lifestyle modifications so that you can have a long and healthy quality life. the PREOC PREOC