 But there's also the other lesser known ones that were really dear to my heart, like the Ages podcast. And of course, Sarah Greenberg and the Life of Greatness podcast. And then, of course, when I sit around and talk with my friend Haley Babcock for a few hours, what could be wrong? So I just wanted to highlight a few. Have a look, have a read, and hope you enjoy. What's the best and healthiest way for a woman to lose weight? Lift weights. Lift weights. And eat. And eat. Yes, absolutely. And you could have a very slight calorie deficit towards the end of the evening. Running? As a way of burning calories. The problem is people think that they can out-exercise a bad diet, and you can't. Composition of your diet matters immensely. And I hate calling it lose weight. I now call it recomposition. But let me put it in context. Yeah, go run. You're going to burn 100 calories a mile. Three Girl Scout cookies. Three Thin Mints. U.S. Favorites. It's 180 calories. That's my favorite. So you have to run two miles to eat three cookies. Most of us, if you're going to eat cookies, don't eat three Thin Mints. You eat the whole sleeve, right? To your point, it is impossible to out-exercise food unless you're a high-level athlete who's burning 1,000 calories. And even then, no. Because if we look at diet composition, and we see that endurance athletes who use a lot of high-sugary type of carbohydrate, like the gels and the sports stuff, they've interrupted their gut microbiome so much that they have- Sugar alcohols. Yeah. Well, it's not even that. It's the phyla change. We're seeing a decrease in the diversity. Even though they're exercising, and we see that exercise increases the diversity of the gut microbiome, it's what they're eating during the training with the heat and hypoxic stress that is creating the growth of the firmacudis phyla that's associated with obese outcomes. So that's a- It changes the gut. The gut microbiome. Yeah. Yeah. If they are- So we have this misconception that if you're an elite athlete and you're burning all these calories, then you're just eating to fuel, right? But it's not. It's the quality of the diet. If we want to perform well, whatever performance means, if you're an Olympic athlete down to recreational person who just wants to accomplish a 5K, the composition of your diet is immensely important. What about Zenpec? Everybody seems to be on a Zenpec GLP-1s. I prescribe it. And our clinic is all perimenopause and menopause. And so we always start with, let's see how you do with lifestyle changes first. So we give that three to six months. When they come back, every time they come back, we're doing another body composition change. For probably 50% of the patients, lifestyle plus or minus HRT, their body composition changes. They're happy. They're much healthier. Everything's moving in the right direction. So now we're left with the people who are doing all the things. This isn't the typical story of people that start at Zenpec. They see it on Instagram. And then a week after, I'll be at their house and I'll be like, we, we, and they'll tell me, oh, yeah, I'm on a Zenpec. And it's really, it's usually just someone sees it online, they hear it on a podcast and they're on it within a couple of days. The access is getting easier. The price is coming down. And there is, for any medication, there are risks, there are benefits. And there's ways that will promote health. And with any medication, you can not promote health if you give. I mean, GLP-1s can be revolutionary for certain people. A lot of people are not training for a 5K, let alone anything else. And we know if we go very simply, fat cells, right, they make a different type of estrogen. They're inflammatory. You have insulin resistance. And all of this sets you up at a deficit to say, I want to get healthier. For women, we'll say you have PCOS who already have a predisposition for insulin resistance. They have a harder time losing weight because now they're also storing visceral fat. We know they get on this cycle with hormonal change. You know, being on Ozimbic allows them to lose weight and combat insulin resistance in a faster way than they've ever been able to do before. And especially when it comes to fertility and you're on a timeline, that can be really revolutionary. When you lose weight because that estrone decreases, many women with PCOS, if they were overweight, will start ovulating again because that suppression from the additional estrogen is gone. And their inflammation markers go down, their insulin resistance decreases. So there's a subset of people who have found their life changed by them. And we never want to discredit that. Many people have a difficulty losing weight. Chronic medical conditions have been able to reverse them. And this has been a tool in the toolbox. Because about 70% of Americans would fit in that category of chronic health conditions, difficulty losing weight. 73% right now are overweight or obese. So should 73% of Americans be on GLP once? And it's higher in women. Well, we always, one common thing is having tools in the toolbox and being able to know when to use them, when to offer them. Just like when we have the HRT discussion. We don't want to see people, say women for this discussion, not being offered a therapeutic option or not choosing it out of fear. Well, when I hear that it's going to help me lose weight and I've got two options. I can go out and lift all these weights, Stacey. And I can, which, you know, one day I don't, you know, it's hard, isn't it? Go to the gym, I have to put my shoes on, all these, all these things. Or I can take this injection. And lose all your muscle and lose your bone. And end up like the little floating figure in Wally movie that I've talked about before. Right. And that's, that's my fear of just blanket people use. You're also, whether you mean to or not, giving the illusion that, you know, willpower is all you need to lose weight. Right. By what you said, right. I can either do these hard things or I can choose this medication, which appears to be the easier way out. And two things can be true at once. People can work extremely hard. Maybe they don't understand exactly what they should be doing. And that's part of what we're trying to change the discussion on. But reversing some metabolic change, even initially, can make a big difference in their game plan. But you will lose body weight on these medications. And so you have to have somebody, you know, guiding the ship. I think what we all don't love is the access without oversight, meaning nobody's helping you say, how are you not losing muscle? How are you doing this in a safe fashion? You can just text somebody on an app and suddenly get medication shipped to your house. You know, in our clinic, it is an hour long. Now they're coming in to discuss the GLP-1 option. It is an hour long visit of risks, benefits, side effects, protein intake, resistance training, mandatory. We will follow your bone density. We will follow your bone mass. I mean, your muscle mass. You know, we have these scanners. These are great. These are great available. And we're not going to get to a number on the scale and sacrifice your long-term health. And my patients are drinking the Kool-Aid. They're coming in. They've found, you know, they're coming to you for a reason. Yeah. And so I'm a little bit unique in my clinic in that I have a social media following and people kind of watch a few things before they come see me. So they know my, they're not shocked by me giving this advice because I give it all day on social media. So if you give them the, it's MPEG, but they still don't go to the gym. They still don't do anything else. Then we'll stop giving it to you. They won't be healthy. And they know that. We've talked to them about that. We've explained it on the front end. That there's a tool in your toolkit because we can see their muscle mass. We won't renew the prescription if they've lost the muscle mass. So if you are losing weight and not lifting and eating enough protein on ozempic or any way else, and you do a body composition, you may see total weight lost. You will see pounds of muscle loss. You may see body fat percentage loss. But if you do this correctly with enough protein in your diet and lifting weights, the amount of muscle loss will be very small versus amount of fat loss. So we know we're going to lose a little muscle, but you can't lose eight pounds of muscle. Right. So we can tell. And I give them the hard numbers, like 10% is acceptable. We're going over that. We're getting into the danger zone. We're going to cut back on your dose. We're going to, you know, but they commit to the work on the front end. I think that's the important point is that these GLP-1 antagonists don't burn your fat. They burn, they stop you eating as much. They stop, they're satiety. Which is going to mess up, which is going to reduce everything. Because I was thinking about myself. I was thinking, well, I go to the gym every day. I'm going to keep going. So maybe if I had a little bit of a Zenpec or whatever it's called, then it would burn my fat. But actually, that's not what it's called. It's not. No. It's just going to stop me eating, which is going to reduce my muscle, my bone. Right. Goodbye, biceps. Yeah. That's the thing. It's like. I'll lose my subscribers. Yeah. That's why they're easier. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah. Okay. That makes sense. So to this person asking, what's the best and healthiest way to lose weight? The response is stop eating the cookies and start lifting some weights. The 80-20 rule. Right. So 80% of the time you're on it, right? You're paying attention to a high quality diet. You are eating according to circadian rhythm. You are doing the strength training, getting the good sleep. And then 20% is life where I'm going to stay up late. I'm going to have some wine or whiskey. I'm going to go out. I'm going to be on vacation. So you're not excluding all the fun things in life. If it comes to a point where you're like, I'm still not budging the needle, then maybe it's a 90-10 rule or 90% of the time you're on it. And 10% is the life factor. There's these hard and fast rules I've been accused of giving. I don't give rules. I give optimization ideas. So it's not following strict 80-20 or 90-10. It's what fits in your life. And if you're really motivated on losing weight, the first thing I tell people to do is ditch alcohol. Everyone wants to lose the part on the belly. Yeah. Sure. Is there not like an exercise I can do just to burn the part on the belly? There's no exercise. So visceral fat's a little bit different. It's like a whole different organ. So, you know, when we talk about visceral fat, it has different drivers. You know, we drive fat to the intra-abdominal cavity. It creates a different cytokine. And subcutaneous fat is a storage facility. It is when we overeat calories, we will drive fat under the skin. And it's kind of genetically determined. Females tend to gain about their hips and thighs. Okay. And actually, that hip and thigh fat is protective for cardiovascular disease in a premenopausal woman. Not in men, but in women. And so it is. So but when that fat shifts to the intra-abdominal cavity, it starts. That fat is much more metabolically active than the fat under our skin. And it creates these pro-inflammatory cytokines. And then you end up in this negative feedback cycle. You know, your liver starts becoming dysfunctional. insulin resistance increases. That drives more fat to the visceral cavity, increases inflammation, and it just goes on and on and on. So I'll get liposuction. No, no, no. You can't lipo the viscera. They're inside. That fat that's really inside the abdominal cavity is what we're talking about, that visceral fat, which is the worst kind. But what about liposuction? Can't I just suck it out? People are doing all kinds with that. Under the skin. Under the skin you can. That's an aesthetic decision. But with the stuff under the skin. Oh, sh- Liposuction it out. Is that a good idea or a bad idea? No, it'll come back. All these things we're talking about, it sounds like a lot of instructions, and it is actually. But when you layer them on, it becomes your lifestyle. Yes. It's not a diet. It's not an exercise program. It's just how I live. Right. So if you had to bottom line what a woman should be doing in her 20s versus her 30s versus her 40s versus 50s and up, what would it be? So strength training across the board. Okay. The type of strength training you do is different. So when we're in our 20s and our early 30s, we can do some of the protocol stuff that is out there for men. Like you're doing your 10 to 12 reps, or you're going to failure, or you're going in and you're doing a full body workout. You're going to get results. As we start to get into our mid-30s and onward, we start to have changes in our estrogen progesterone, and it doesn't quite work for us. Okay. Because now we need to find an external stress that's going to create the same responses that those hormones used to support. So now we want to look at more of a power-based type training. What does that mean? Yeah. So 30 and up, your hormones change, and now the 10 to 12 reps that we've all been socialized to do does not work, which is why we all start bitching about the fact that our bodies are not responding to what we always used to do. This makes a lot of sense, Dr. Sims. So when you're doing the higher reps, it's more of what we call metabolic stress. So that's more like muscle contraction using fuel. Yeah. But it's not an impetus to build lean mass or to become stronger. So this is where I say the power-based. So when we're talking about the spectrum of weights and the reps and sets and stuff, power-based is zero to six to eight reps. Oh, I love that. I can do less? Yes, but it has to be heavy. Okay. It has to be heavy. I like that, but okay. Yeah. So that means that you go and you pick up, say we pick up this 20, right? Uh-huh. And you're like, oh yeah, I can do 10 overhead, no problem. Maybe I could do two more. Great. So we call that 10 with two reps in reserve. Okay. We want you to be at a six with two reps in reserve. So that means I would have you put the 20 down and pick up those 30s and see, can you do six? Really good. Wow. Not failing form. And then could you eke out two more? Great. That's the weight that we want you to use. Gotcha. Gotcha. So I'm definitely lifting way too light and I am lifting far too much of it. Like the little tiny two pound weights with the- Oh, put those down. Put those down. Like those aren't doing anything for my chicken wing arms? No. No, not at all. Okay. Not at all. Well, that explains it because I'm like, why does this hurt so much? And I'm getting zero result here. Yeah. Because- But my daughters literally look like they're cut. Yeah. Wow. Because they respond well to metabolic stress. As our bodies get older, we need more of a central nervous system. Gotcha. So the general takeaway here is that when we hit that sort of late 30s to 40s mark and our estrogen is dropping and our bodies are changing and we're not getting the same results, you've got to really focus on these sprint trainings and also doing weight training where the load is heavier, but the reps are shorter. Yeah. But I don't want women who are listening to go, oh, I heard Mel's podcast and I have to go lift these heavy weights and do sprint training. It takes time to learn how to do things well without getting injured. Because I mean, when we get older, we're more susceptible to soft tissue injury, joint injuries. So I always want women to learn how to move first. So if you've never done any kind of strength training, don't be put off by, oh, I heard I have to lift heavy weights. I better not do it at all. No, any kind of resistance is good. Maybe it's just body weight at the start. Maybe you're doing a body weight circuit and then maybe you're putting a backpack with some stuff in there to make it a little bit heavier. Maybe you're following somebody online that's teaching you how to move properly first. And over the course of time, you can add load because your body is learning how to move and it's becoming stress resilient. So you add load to increase that stress. And then over the course of six to eight months, you're going to be in lifting heavy weights and doing the sprints without injury. So it's not a training block. Like we've all been conditioned to what do I do every day in and out in and out so I can get X results. We want to think about what am I doing to improve my overall health, my strength, my bones, my brain so that when I'm 80, I'm self-sufficient. When I'm 90, I'm self-sufficient. It's not a training block. It's a lifestyle that we want in. So it takes time to build into that lifestyle. So I have another question from a listener named Erin. Is it better to use machines or free weights? With machines, I want people to realize that it's hard for a woman to actually get the machines to fit well because they are designed for a 5'8 to 6'0 guy who's 160 to 190 pounds. So if you are outside of that norm, it's really hard to get the right fit, which can predispose you to injury. If you are just getting started, it can be a way because you're not going to put a lot of load on. You're not going to get as injured. Like I'm not, for me personally, I'm not a huge fan of something like Planet Fitness, but I do appreciate the fact that they've opened the doors to so many people to make lifting accessible. So a woman can go in and use their machine circuit and get some resistance and some load to start to get them self-resilient. So then they can move away from those machines and get into dumbbells. I like more of the free weights where you have a barbell or a dumbbell because you have to use more of your stabilizing muscles, which is how we move anyway, because you're not going to go pick up a bag of groceries just with your arm, right? So if you're looking at bicep curls or tricep dips on a machine, that's not functional per se. Yes, you're adding load, but I like it when people are, okay, I've got to lift the groceries or I've got to lift this overhead. So I'm going to do a full squat using my abs and I'm going to go from ground to overhead. It could be with a plate, could be with a dumbbell. It could just be that motion at start because we have to think about how we move in the day. If I do what you're describing, like a sprint workout and a couple hit workouts along with the weight training, what are your strategies for taking somebody out of sympathetic drive, getting them into parasympathetic so that they can recover? Because that's the fail, right? That's absolutely the fail. The recover. Right. So reteaching women how to train is one of the biggest things. So when we're talking about heavy lifting, we're not talking about an hour and a half in the gym. Like I did a heavy lifting session this morning of front squats and hip thrusts and I was in and out in 25 minutes. So we're looking at that kind of like short, really focused. Every two minutes you're doing five reps of a heavier load and you're doing that, you know, maybe you're doing five to six sets of that with adequate recovery. So you're not super setting, you're not doing anything else. You're just fully recovering. And then you can finish that 25 or 30 minute session with a sprint interval session. So that sprint interval might be another 15 minutes if you're talking about 36 seconds or less with really adequate recovery between. So then you're hitting two of your sessions in one less than one hour session in the gym, right? So if we're looking at it, we periodize the strength training where maybe we're going to do it three days a week. So Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, Monday is a squat focus. Wednesday is a push pull focus. Thursday is your posterior chain, deadlift, hip thrust, whatever it is, right? And then one or two of those days we're finishing with battle ropes or explosive kettlebell swings to hit the sprint interval. And then one other day of the week, you might go do a true hit session. But your hit session could be with your friends. Say you're walking up a hill or your stairs. Then you can say, okay, well, I'm going to push harder for this one minute and I'm going to run up the stairs. I'll meet you there and we'll keep going. Or not. Like you can make it work for you, however it is. And it doesn't have to be an hour and a half session. It's all about retraining and reframing, getting women out of the mindset that calories in, calories out. We have to spend lots of time in the fat burning, all the stuff that was pushed on us in the 90s. Like we have to really unpack that and say the longer duration that you have, the more chance you have of increasing sympathetic drive by driving cortisol up. Now cortisol isn't a bad thing, but there's this rhetoric around increased baseline of cortisol. You're having elevated cortisol. You shouldn't do high intensity because of cortisol. If you do true high intensity and you do really good heavy lifting, you have a post-exercise response that increases growth hormone and testosterone, which leads for parasympathetic response. So this is the reteaching of let's reduce the volume, make sure that we're compounding our workouts appropriately so that we have adequate recovery between the sessions. So we might do a Monday morning and a Wednesday evening so that you end up with 36 hours or more between your sessions. And you're still going to get a lot of benefit from that. And then we're talking about the parasympathetic activity. I always tell people, look, you need to find a point in your day. For me, it's first thing in the morning before anyone else gets up because I want to have that absolute silence where it's just 10 minutes of maybe some mobilization or stretching or drinking a tea or a coffee outside, just being aware of the environment, just with no noise and learning how to breathe and center yourself to bring yourself back to that point at any time during the day. So there is a lot of that mind body connection that comes with it. So we look at kind of the, well, actually four things to invoke change. First is sleep. If we don't have really good sleep, we can't invoke any kind of change. There's no body composition change. There's no mental status change at all without really good adequate sleep. Then we work on the physical for the most part because women can start to see really good definitive change with heavy lifting with strength within a few weeks. And then because nutrition is so polarizing, we work on nutrition kind of after we do the first two, because most of the time if you ask someone about nutrition, they go, oh, I'm keto or I'm IF or I'm vegan or I'm plant-based. Like it's an identification, right? So there's a lot to unpack there. And across those three, we're working on the mind body, right? We're learning how to invoke parasympathetic. So after 20 some odd years of working with people, I found that those are the three that you can really manipulate, sleep first, mind body throughout the other ones. Sometimes it changes the physical and the nutrition because some people want to work on nutrition because of the physical first. But for the most part, I find retraining people how to train is so much more effective than just giving them a training program and saying go. All right. So let's move on to jump training because that's getting a lot of popularity right now. And I know people will ask us, is there jump training in your programs? How does that contribute to our bone mass and our bone health? And what is your recommendation around jump training? So there's two ways of thinking about jump training. We can think about our ballistic plyometric type movements where we're taught to land to absorb impact in our muscle, right? With soft knees or really trying to absorb it through our posture and not having a hard landing. That can have some benefit for bone. But when we're talking about jump training for bone, we need to relearn how that jump is. We're landing hard. We're absorbing the impact through our skeletal system. So it's not a high jump. It's not a ballistic type movement. And the reason for that is we want multi-directional stress through the bone. And remembering that the body will morph with the movement. The ground doesn't. So we have ground reaction forces. We want a low jump, but a high ground reaction force to create multi-directional stress within the bone to improve bone density. So when we're looking at jump training, yeah, any kind of jumping is great. If you're skipping rope, you're doing box jumps, that is going to contribute to bone health. If you're someone who's on the low end of bone density, so you're not osteoporitic, you might be just on the cusp of the old word osteopenic, but just low normal bone density. You want to look at how am I going to increase that ground reactive force? So, I mean, I've talked about Tracy Klissel's app, and it's now available, Osteo Gains. And it's 10 minutes, three times a week of the proper kind of jump for improving bone density. For women out there like, well, I thought just any kind of jumping was good. Yes, keep doing it. Any kind of jumping is good for the bones, just like resistance training is good for the bones. But if you are in the category where you really, really need to focus on building bone density, we have to look at what kind of landing that we're doing to improve that ground reaction and multi-directional stress in the bone. Okay, final question here. I know we had talked about this in our power program last month on one of our calls, where we brought up a female that had asked, you know, I see these lean women in the gym, and they're all doing cardio. And so can we talk about, I know we don't like, no one likes calling it skinny fat. I think the proper term is normal weight obesity. But that's what it means. Most women will know it as skinny fat. Can you describe, if that's new to someone listening, can you describe what that is and how we go about fixing that? Yeah. So sarcopenia is the highly technical word for it, which skinny fat, normal weight, obesity, all those. It's when we're looking at the quality of the muscle. We're seeing a lot of extra fat where the muscles should be. So we look lean, but we have a really high percent body fat because we don't have as much lean mass, muscle mass, and we have lower density in our bones. Mm-hmm. And when we are looking at women who are so cardio driven, because that's from the 1980s and 90s mentality that's been so thrown at us, we're looking at a high stress catabolic state when we're doing all of the cardio. Catabolism means we're breaking down our lean mass. So when I see women who are really lean and they're just doing cardio, I think about, okay, low bone density, bones like chalk, and really low muscle quality. How do we change that? Of course, strength training. Yeah. Right? That's the be all, end all for all women. It doesn't matter what age you are, but it becomes more important as you age. We need strength training across the board. So I'm really happy that that conversation is changing. Mm-hmm. The other is protein intake. Yeah. So like Bill Campbell posted that study a few years ago where they took an experimental group and a control group of normal weight obese women who were all sedentary, did not put them on any kind of exercise, just changed the amount of protein that they were taking. Yep. So, you know, we have the control group that maintain their usual protein intake. I think it ended up being 0.5 grams per pound of body weight. And for the experimental group, they boosted up to that 1 to 1.1 grams per pound of body weight. Over the course of 12 weeks, the people with a higher protein intake completely recomp their body. Unbelievable. No exercise. Yeah. So protein is really, really important. And that's the other conversation that's been left out of the nutrition conversation until recently, which I think is why women find putting protein in is so difficult. So we've had all these conversations about high fat, low fat, high carb, low carb. And what do we do with those macronutrients? And no one's really talked about protein. Yeah. So now when we're looking at the recommended daily allowance for protein, it's way too low because people don't realize that that is the bare minimum to avoid malnutrition. So if you're an active woman and you're an active older woman trying to build and or maintain your lean mass, you have to boost that protein intake up to, we like that one gram per pound of body weight, ideally higher, but starting with that one gram per pound. I want to talk about supplements. And again, something that you inspired me with was the talk about creatine. And I started taking creatine, but I got, not saying this is not right, but someone was like, oh, you know, take two teaspoons. So I was taking two teaspoons, which was about 10 grams. I have never felt so ill in my life where the nausea was beyond. And I, silly, I didn't put two and two together. And for three days straight, I took it, felt like I was going to vomit for about three hours of each of those days till it really like, I was like, it must be the creatine. And then I was scared to take it for a couple of weeks, but then I just, again, heard you say five grams or less. So I think I'd take, you know, four to five grams now, completely fine. So talk to us about why I would have had that effect and what the right dose is, why creatine is good for you. Yeah. So creatine is used in all the fast energetics of our body. So if we're thinking about the initial ATP, CP, which is your first zero to 20 seconds of energy, the C of the CP is creatine. So it's creatine phosphate. So if we are taking in creatine monohydrate, then we have a greater availability of that creatine to be there for our fast energetics. So if we're thinking about all of the things that we do in a day, we are using so much creatine in all the processes. If we're looking even at brain function, gut function, heart health, all of that requires creatine. So if we are ingesting more creatine, then we have more available. Our liver does produce between two and three grams a day, but we see that by the nature of being women and having less muscle mass, we have less stores than men. And women tend to not eat as much animal protein as men do. So that's another caveat there where we're not ingesting as much as men. So if we're supplementing with it, it takes about three weeks to fully saturate all the tissues in the body. So if we're starting at a lower dose of one and a half to five grams over the course of three weeks, you'll get a muscle boost, a brain boost. People have got issues that's going to start to dissipate. And we see more people have talked about getting better focus and that has to do with better brain metabolism as well. And there is a website now, creatine for health, that's publishing all the more health oriented creatine research that's out there from pregnancy to mental health. We see there's a new study that just came out where two, five gram doses a day, morning and evening help people who have really severe fatigue from low sleep and people who have depressive episodes where their, their actual pharmaceutical isn't working as well. They can top it up with creatine and it helps get them out of depressive episodes. So it is something that has been kind of pushed into the bodybuilding set for so long, but we see that it's so essential for so many different other conditions than just building muscle and having muscle function. So it's an illusion that people should only take creatine if they're working out or on days that they're working out. Exactly. And part of it also is the fear factor of, of how much you have to take. Because if we look at a typical bodybuilding for muscle function type protocol, which is where it all started, we're looking at 20 grams a day and five gram doses with carbohydrate. And when we're looking at that, that's when you get the bloating, the discomfort, you really start to put on weight from water retention. And we're like, wait, now that's when we're looking at, at really swole and getting really fantastic muscle performance. And that's a subset. What we want is for health. We want brain function. We want gut function. We want to be able to have better muscle function as well, but we don't have to go the high doses. We know that a very small amount is very beneficial, especially for women. So would you say between like three and five grams for women? Yeah. Yeah. I tell women they should start with maybe one and a half if they're afraid of supplementing because some women don't supplement and they're not sure how they're going to react. So if we go one and a half grams for one week, then work up to three grams the next week. And then on the third week, you're starting to get that five gram dose in. Then you're slowly accumulating and saturating the body, but you're not overwhelming any one particular system. Not like what I did. Don't do what I did. Don't start off doing 10 grams. Yeah. Yeah. It's interesting. The weight thing. I was going to ask you about that. You've explained it well, because I did hear like some talk about holding weight or more so like, as you said, it's more water retention. But if you're having below five grams, you shouldn't have that effect. No. And part of it also is the protocol of having carbohydrate with it because creatine and carbohydrate will both hold water. But if you're just having creatine at a lower dose, you don't have that transient water retention. Wow. That's so interesting. I wanted to ask you as well, is there any other supplements, again, especially for women in middle age that you really recommend that we take? There are two others, especially when we're down here in the Southern Hemisphere and winter is coming. We look at vitamin D, specifically vitamin D3. Also, we're in the culture in the summer of slip, slap, slap, or we use a lot of sunscreen. We cover up with clothes and hats and stuff. So we're not actually getting enough vitamin D from the sun. We can have small times of exposure. But when I say that all the dermatologists and people in Durham yell at me, what? No, sunburned cancer. It's like a small amount, a little bit of moderate amount is going to help in the summer. But we see how vitamin D is so essential for so many other different functions from building bone, maintaining bone, maintaining muscle, muscle function, brain health, a better lipid profile, iron absorption, keeping our ferritin elevated. Like almost all the small molecular things that we get concerned about from a clinical scope can be helped with vitamin D3. And then the other one for perimenopause or women in midlife would be omega-3 fatty acids. Because we see that when we are having that perturbation in our estrogen, progesterone, that we also have a little bit of disconnect in the inflammatory and anti-inflammatory responses in our cells. So for having more omega-3 fatty acids, it helps with that. It helps with all the breakdown effects in our cells. So we don't have as much oxidative stress that's not being taken care of. And we don't have as much inflammatory responses. So if we can dampen the systemic inflammatory responses, it feeds forward to better lipid profile, less visceral fat, better brain health, better muscle function and muscle accumulation, and reduction in body fat accrual when we're starting to go through perimenopause. That's so interesting. I wanted to talk to you on that about skin changes and more to do with like skin elasticity. A lot of women have said to me kind of around midlife, especially maybe after menopause for them, in their 50s, they find like the saggy under the arms, saggy knees. If someone has that and it's upsetting them, is there anything you can do to reverse it or also to prevent it? Collagen decreases as we get older. And part of what we're seeing in skin is a decrease in the elastic profile and properties of skin and tendons. And it's exasperated by the lack of estrogen because estrogen, again, it works on every system of the body. How do we counter it? There isn't anything really. We know that doing strength training to really develop the muscle and increase blood flow to all parts of the body really does help with that. You can look at using collagen supplementation. It works on an individual basis. So some women will find it's very effective and other women won't. You have to be particular in the type of collagen that you're looking for as well. If we're looking for skin in particular, we want type 1 and 3. But if we start having lots of joint issues and joint pain and soft tissue problems, then we want to look for a type 2. So you want to be very specific in what you're looking for. Because we'll see women who have issues around the knees with skin sagging and feeling like, oh, what's going on? They also have inflammatory problems happening within the joint of the knee. So if we can take care of both of those with appropriate strength training as well as type 2 and type 3 collagen supplementation, it can work really well for some women. At nighttime now, I take a combination of collagen and magnesium, the powder. It's kind of started because the collagen was so, it's disgusting. Like it stinks like fish, so you can't take it on its own. And I take like a collagen powder as well, which, you know, I don't have problems sleeping, but it's great for that too. And obviously for your muscles and all that kind of stuff. Do you take magnesium? What do you think of it? I don't use magnesium. If I were, I would look for a magnesium threonate because that's the only one that crosses blood-brain barrier. It can actually help with parasympathetic activation, which is what you're wanting for sleep. I use theanine, L-theanine. And sometimes I add in some ashagandha when I'm traveling or rhodiola when I'm traveling. I really prefer theanine over magnesium because it is a non-protein amino acid that is directly related and influenced by part of the GABA system in our brain. So that's the parasympathetic activation, the processes for that. Some people find it gives them focus. So you'll see people taking it during the day, but a lot of people will find that it gives them enough of the ability to shut the brain from being busy to be able to fall asleep and stay asleep. So that's something that I would kind of preferentially use or recommend if we can't get magnesium threonate. Wow. That is good to know. Thank you.