 nariqtra.com. Obviously we want to meet people where they are at different life stages and what they enjoy or what they're comfortable doing. A lot of women have never stepped foot around barbells or even around weight machines or even around dumbbells. Like this is so new to a lot of women. I do think it's changing, but again, I have a biased lens for sure. And I love string training. So, you know, um, but for, for, for performance, gals that are more comfortable with this. What's your biggest, like, are there big changes in life stages? Like, I know postmenopausally, it gets much harder to recruit new strength cells or recruit new muscle cells, right? Like, I have my thoughts on this, but you're the expert here. Like, what do you, you know, I think that's probably the most common question I get. But, you know, there's major differences in a woman when she's in her 20s and early 30s. And then, you know, especially like post 40 or, and then especially postmenopausally and how we adapt to training. So, especially in that postmenopausal range, how do you, or even before that perimenopausally, like, how do you recommend women that are comfortable with these different methods of training? Like, what are the big shifts you tend to make in them to see the best results, both, you know, for their quality of life goals, but, but also for longevity, right? Yeah. So, regardless of age, I always tell women it's the quality over quantity. So, we want to look and make sure that you can actually do the quality sessions and have adequate recovery day to day, week to week. So, it's like really modifying what you're doing to make sure that you're getting the maximum out of the effort that you're putting in. As we get older and become less anabolically responsive to strength training and protein, then we have to look at what's going on in the body. And yes, we know estrogen is part of the conversation and estrogen receptors also part of the conversation, but it's the loading too. So, if we are more resistant to building muscle, we have to look at the kind of a load that we're putting on and how the central nervous system responds to that load. Women are born with less of our fast twitch or type 2 fibers. So, we need to encourage keeping that component as we age. So, part of it of looking at keeping that component, as well as being able to stimulate strength and, and mass development, is creating that external heavy load to stimulate central nervous system response instead of being more reliant on hormonal response for building tissue. And we also have to look at explosiveness. So, a lot of women who are 40 plus are not really that knowledgeable or don't have a lot of experience in explosive movements, plyometric type movements. And it's not necessarily about that. It's about, okay, if we are comfortable with a barbell, let's work on tempo. Let's work on a slow descent and an explosive power out. Or maybe we do some contrast, French contrast training where we're doing a heavy load and then some banded squat jumps. So, we're getting some of the explosiveness, but we are reducing the fear and barrier to entry into that. So, it's more about, as we age, we have to look at how the body's responding to exercise and it's becoming more and more resistant to the type of training we used to. So, we have to find another kind of external stress that's going to create adaptation. So, it is the high intensity work. It is the super low recovery stuff. We have to look at the loading that we're doing and the type of periodization that we're doing within the loading to keep building that lean mass and keep building the ability to produce power. In terms of loading, in just the amount of actual physical load that someone's putting on their muscle when they're straight training, I'm assuming that's a moving target depending on the, you know, how our strength is growing. So, do you tend to go by rep count or just feel in terms of, you know, I like to tell people, must they have a really good spotter? They probably need to leave one or two in the chamber there. But what is your typical advice for people in terms of what this looks like in the real world? Yeah, there's two ways of going around it. For people who are really well-trained and very comfortable, then we use reps in reserve. People are familiar with reps in reserve. And if someone is first starting their strength training journey or trying to phase them in into lifting heavier, we go with rating and perceived exertion. Starting with what is your mental on a scale of one to ten versus your physical on a scale of one to ten when you come into training. So, if you mentally are a two and physically you feel like you're a six, well, let's do a couple of heavy loads that are not cardiovascularly taxing but more central nervous system and see if that brings the mental up. If it doesn't, then we're just going to go on rating perceived exertion, trying to keep you around a four or five as you're lifting and keeping the reps around that eight rep range. So, we're not worried about how much you have left in the tank. We just want you to move with good form and technique. As you start getting more trained and more familiar with your body, we still use the mental and physical, but we try to push those heavier loads to having two reps in reserve. So, that could be you are loading and maybe you're doing ten with two left in reserve, but really we want you down around the six, six, seven range. So, it is a moving target and it is a journey. So, we don't want someone to go, oh, here's a six-week program and this is what I'm doing. We're like, okay, here you are. Let's work on movement first. Let's work on functionality of movement. Let's see how you're feeling, how you're understanding the loading process. And it might take you a year to be able to lift a heavy three with two in reserve. And that's fine because it's a journey and you're going to be accumulating strength and lean mass as you go.