 jamesitَte, никтоَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَatoَato Creatine helps maintain the integrity of our intestinal cells. So there's so many benefits for it. Talk to us about what the right dose is for women. The dose is... What is your honest opinion on creatine? Risks, benefits, what are your thoughts there? Oh my God, it's great. And I say that like I have played with creatine off and on throughout my athletic career, but it wasn't until I was having lots of depressive episodes with some family loss. And I was living in New Zealand and my dad was dying of cancer on the east coast of the U.S. You get calls in the middle of the night, so interrupted sleep and that kind of stuff. And I didn't want to go on a serotonin reuptake inhibitor because I was doing my PhD and I didn't know how it was going to affect me. So I started looking at creatine. And because your brain is a very energetic organ and needs a lot of glucose and fast energetics. And it was very compelling to read how creatine, when it is available through all the body, that all the tissues benefit. And now we're starting to see the evidence is coming out for creatine for health, where we're seeing that there are randomized controlled trials looking at mood disorder, depression, anxiety, and that it's less lessened when you're using creatine. We also see the reset of our circadian rhythm under fatigue duress. If you're having, I think it's 0.3 grams per kilogram. I think people were saying 20 grams per day, but it ends up being 0.38 grams per kilo. In times of real sleep deprivation fatigue, that it helps the brain focus and helps maintain body composition. We see people who have gut issues using creatine helps with the mucosal lining and helps maintain gut integrity. So it reduces symptoms of IBS. And then of course, you see all the muscle performance aspects that we've already known about from bodybuilding days, right? But then if we're bringing it down to a lower dose, we're still seeing muscle improvement because we're improving the fueling capacity of the muscle, then we're going to get performance benefit. I would say the biggest concern that people that asked us about this was for things like hair loss. Does it contribute to things like hair loss in males? And also one of the things that I'm assuming, obviously, with all the things that you suggested there, that there would also likely be benefits cognitively, work in memory, thinking abilities. So I just wondered perhaps what your thoughts were on those two things. So there is no evidence to show that it promotes hair loss. I get that question all the time. If we are doing smaller doses, so it's a three to five grams, there's no bloating or water weight gain, which is a concern a lot for women. Cognitive benefits. Absolutely. And that's what the research is coming out with under fatigue and duress. Even lower benefits improve cognitive focus. So that's your five-ish grams per day. So the International Journal of Sports Nutrition, the ISSN, has written a position stand on creatine to go through all the myths and things about it in the sports performance world with regards to what kind, the dosage, how it benefits. And then Crea Vitalis and creatine for health website has all the research that's based on things like cognitive focus, pregnancy. It's good for pregnancy as well because that's one of the most energetically hungry states a woman could be in for muscle performance and sarcopenia, for fatigue. So you have a whole health scope and then you have a performance scope. Are there any other supplements that you recommend to, I guess, women or perhaps more broadly to, I guess, anyone that's listening now? Vitamin D, for sure. You need to start dosing on some vitamin D because winter is coming your way. It is. It is. And I'm pale. Or come down to New Zealand under the ozone hole and then you just get your dose that way. No, vitamin D is important across the board. We spend too much time inside for the most part. And derms always rail me when I'm like, well, when you go outside, don't use sunscreen. But even then you don't get enough. So we want to look at vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acids because omega-3s all help with cellular components to reduce inflammation. So those would be the big three, creatine, omega-3s, and our vitamin D. Everything else is kind of nuanced depending on the individual and what their needs are. And while you just brought up creatine, I would love for you to dive down that because creatine is getting a lot of attention right now in very positive ways. And I would just love your take on it. Yeah. So if we think about supplementation, it's like the icing on the cake, right? And we see that it is highly unregulated. And people are thinking, oh, I need to take this and that and this and that. I need my multivitamin. I need my greens. But it's like, let's look at the diet first. Like we can really get what we need from our diet. And then it's a supplement for a reason. It's to supplement the whole foods. It's not to take the place of what we're eating, but to supplement. So if you know that you are low in magnesium, then you take it. But for the most part, we know most women will really benefit from omega-3s, vitamin D, especially in post-menopause, and creatine, creatine monohydrate. So those are the big three. So we think about why. We want omega-3 fatty acids because they're really good at anti-oxidative properties. So this is when we're looking at our cells and they're under a lot of stress and we get free radicals. Omega-3s come in and help with mitigating some cellular damage. And when we're thinking about peri and post-menopause and our body's under a lot of stress and our cells are going through a lot of changes and relying on different signaling, we want to support it with omega-3s. Also for our brain, it's really important for brain health as well. When we think about our creatine monohydrate, this is again, one that is getting a lot of press. And we see it's the most studied supplement in all of the research across years. And it's super beneficial for health and performance. It used to have the big bodybuilding idea of you want to load creatine for increasing the bulk and the ability for your muscles to do muscle work. But we're not talking about those high doses. We're looking at three to five grams a day. Over the course of three weeks, your body will fully saturate. And what does it do, right? This is the big question. I should take it, but what does it do? Creatine is really important for every fast energetic in the body. So we think about the brain and how fast we have neural connections. All of that relies on our ATP, CP fueling system. And creatine is part of that. We think about our gut. We think about our heart. We think about also muscle performance. All of those require creatine. Women have about 70 to 80% of the stores that men do by the nature of having less muscle mass. And unfortunately, women don't eat enough to really supply what they need. So when we start looking at the research and understanding how important it is, as we get older, we also store less. So it's important to get that creatine in. We see more and more studies coming out that when you're under fatigue and you're under high stress, if you are dosing with creatine five grams twice a day, it improves the capacity to be more stress resilient. We see people who have IBS or gut issues, and we see a lot of uptick in gut issues in perimenopause because of a disconnect of our estrogen receptors. Creatine helps maintain the integrity of our intestinal cells because we now have the creatine that's there to kind of keep the mucosa lining intact, even under stress. So there's so many benefits for it. And we see that it's beneficial in pregnancy as well. Because again, pregnancy is a fast, energetic, and highly calorie. I guess you have a lot of calorie requirement when you're trying to build something. And so you have all these energetics that are happening. Creatine is very beneficial. And then that brings us to vitamin D, right? Vitamin D3, a lot of us don't spend enough time outside. And even the time we spend outside isn't enough to bring our levels up to where they are needed. And it's really important for things like osteoporosis prevention. We see it's important for muscle and immunity, also really important for brain health. And the research on vitamin D is still growing. So those are the big three for women. And back to the creatine breakdown really quick. One question that I have for you is how about taking it on like rest days? Can you sure you take it every single day? Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. One of the conversations I had with my partner last year at New Year's Eve was about creatine. Yeah. I had some with me on the counter in our home. And we were away from home. And I said to her, I said, oh, you should take some. And her response was, no, that's not for women. And she went on to explain that she felt it was for effectively like bodybuilders. Yeah. And that it would like put on weight. And I was like, I don't think that's true. I said, some people on my podcast have told me that everyone should be taking it. Yeah. And so we sat there and Googled it. And after Googling it for a couple of minutes, she was like scooping it into her drink as far as she possibly could. But there is a prevailing narrative here. Actually, before you came, I asked AI a couple of questions about women's perceptions on creatine. And the number one thing was women thought that it would gain muscle and gain weight. And they thought it was for bodybuilders. Yep. That is the prevailing myths around creatine. And what's the expression people use? The dose or the poisons in the dose. Right. So that's part of the creatine. So if we're looking at the bodybuilding set and how it increases muscle capacity and training status. So if we're using a lot of creatine, the dosing for bodybuilding is five grams, four times a day with one gram of carbohydrate. And we see that creatine helps store water within the muscle with glycogen. And we want that for muscle performance because the idea of being able to train harder with creatine is to enhance the amount of enzymes that are available for muscle contraction. And creatine is part of the buffering system of that. If we're looking at creatine for health and for women, the dose is three to five grams only once a day without carbohydrate. And the reason for that is women have around 70% of the stores that men have. By the nature, for the most part, don't eat as much creatine filled food as men. And we see that we use it for a lot of our fast energetics. So like for our gut health, for our brain health. And then also for muscle performance. So if we're having women take three to five grams once a day, it does not have the same side effects as the bodybuilding set of taking five grams four times a day. Yeah, because on the label, it tells me to take it a few times a day. You don't have to. And it says about loading. So this is all the bodybuilding stuff, right? So if you want to load, we see a loading protocols over the course of two weeks, and you're starting to really saturate the body with those five grams four times a day. But for women, we see that three to five grams will fully saturate the body over the course of three weeks. So that means that all of our fast energetics, like I said, our gut, the intestines, and we're looking at the integrity of the intestinal cells and the mucosal lining. And we see that there is a greater incidence of GI distress in women. I think it's something like a five to one ratio of women to men having GI distress running. And it has to do with estrogen, but also has to do with what we call the mucosal lining of the intestines. So we want to maintain the integrity of the mucosal lining, and creatine is really important for that. So if we're looking at saturating the body over three weeks with three to five grams, we improve that integrity. So we have less GI distress. We also see that there have been randomized control trials looking at mood and specifically with regards to depression and anxiety. And women who are taking three to five grams of creatine will come out of a depressive episode more so than women who are just using an SSRI. So it's really important for brain metabolism. And when we're looking at that whole loading strategy for men, that's all about muscle performance. It's not about gut health. It's not about brain health. It's about muscle performance. It's just looking at some studies. Creatine supplementation for both men and women enhances muscle strength, increased lean muscle mass, improves high intensity exercise performance, improves recovery, has potential cognitive benefits, and supports in neurodegenerative diseases. Yes. So Abby Smith-Ryan is a colleague at of UNC, and she's done a lot of work in creatine for women. And yes, we see that there is an improvement in muscle capacity because you're increasing the amount of buffer that's available for muscle contractions. But it doesn't have to be the same loading dose as men. If you are looking for performance enhancement because you want to improve a training block or you're in physique building or you're going to do something like high rocks, and you need to have greater muscle capacity, you might want to try the loading strategy. Yes, you will gain water weight because you're also storing more within the muscle. But for the general woman who's looking for health and performance benefits, you don't have to do a loading strategy. You just have to do that three to five grams a day. And something that you inspired me with was the talk about creatine. And I started taking creatine, but I got, not saying this is not right, but someone was like, oh, you know, take two teaspoons. So I was taking two teaspoons, which was about 10 grams. I have never felt so ill in my life where the nausea was beyond. And I, silly, I didn't put two and two together. And for three days straight, I took it. It felt like I was going to vomit for about three hours of each of those days. Oh, gosh. Until it really, like, I was like, it must be the creatine. And then I was scared to take it for a couple of weeks. But then I just, again, heard you say five grams or less. So I think I'd take, you know, four to five grams now, completely fine. So talk to us about why I would have had that effect and what the right dose is, why creatine is good for you. Yeah, so creatine is used in all the fast energetics of our body. So if we're thinking about the initial ATP, CP, which is your first zero to 20 seconds of energy, the C of the CP is creatine. So it's creatine phosphate. So if we are taking in creatine monohydrate, then we have a greater availability of that creatine to be there for our fast energetics. So if we're thinking about all the things that we do in a day, we are using so much creatine in all the processes. If we're looking even at brain function, gut function, heart health, all of that requires creatine. So if we are ingesting more creatine, then we have more available. Our liver does produce between two and three grams a day. But we see that by the nature of being women and having less muscle mass, we have less stores than men. And women tend to not eat as much animal protein as men do. So that's another caveat there where we're not ingesting as much as men. So if we're supplementing with it, it takes about three weeks to fully saturate all the tissues in the body. So if we're starting at a lower dose of one and a half to five grams over the course of three weeks, you'll get a muscle boost, a brain boost. People have gut issues that's going to start to dissipate. And we see more people have talked about getting better focus and that has to do with better brain metabolism as well. And there is a website now, Creatine for Health, that's publishing all the more health-oriented creatine research that's out there from pregnancy to mental health. We see there's a new study that just came out where two, five gram doses a day, morning and evening, help people who have really severe fatigue from low sleep and people who have depressive episodes where their actual pharmaceutical isn't working as well. They can top it up with creatine and it helps get them out of depressive episodes. So it is something that has been kind of pushed into the bodybuilding set for so long, but we see that it's so essential for so many different other conditions than just building muscle and having muscle function. So it's an illusion that people should only take creatine if they're working out or on days that they're working out. Exactly. And part of it also is the fear factor of how much you have to take. Because if we look at a typical bodybuilding for muscle function type protocol, which is where it all started, we're looking at 20 grams a day and five gram doses with carbohydrate. And when we're looking at that, that's when you get the bloating, the discomfort, you really start to put on weight from water retention. And we're like, wait, no, that's when we're looking at really swole and getting really fantastic muscle performance. And that's a subset. What we want is for health. We want brain function. We want gut function. We want to be able to have better muscle function as well. But we don't have to go the high doses. We know that a very small amount is very beneficial, especially for women. So would you say between like three and five grams for women? Yeah. Yeah. I tell women they should start with maybe one and a half if they're afraid of supplementing because some women don't supplement and they're not sure how they're going to react. So if we go one and a half grams for one week, then work up to three grams the next week. And then on the third week, you're starting to get that five gram dose in. Then you're slowly accumulating and saturating the body, but you're not overwhelming any one particular system. Not like what I did. Don't do what I did. Don't start off doing 10 grams. Yeah. Yeah. It's interesting, the weight thing. I was going to ask you about that. You've explained it well, because I did hear like some talk about holding weight or more so like, as you said, it's more water retention. But if you're having below five grams, you shouldn't have that effect. No. And part of it also is the protocol of having carbohydrate with it because creatine and carbohydrate will both hold water. But if you're just having creatine at a lower dose, you don't have that transient water retention. Creatine. It's the best thing out there. I knew you'd say that. Okay. How should people be looking at creatine and how much should they be taking? Yeah. So your body naturally produces around two grams a day. If you have a diet that is meat oriented, then you're also ingesting a lot of creatine that way. Most women don't eat enough to actually provide as much as the body actually goes through. We see there's a change across the menstrual cycle of how your body uses and regulates creatine. So we see that there's an increase in creatine kinase, which is your breakdown in the high hormone phase. Because again, progesterone is trying to provide all the building blocks. So really having the availability of more creatine helps with that too. If we're looking at supplementing with creatine, we want creatine monohydrate. And I don't get any kind of kickback from this company, but the company that produces Crea Pure, this is a German B2B, meaning business to business. Crea Pure is patented. And so it uses a water wash. There's no real side effects from using it. It's pure and it's in almost every high quality creatine monohydrate product that's out there. So if you're looking at something that has Crea Pure on it, you want to start with one to three grams and work your way up to five grams over the course of about three to four weeks. And that's going to attenuate any possible side effect. Okay. If you're looking at a cheaper version of creatine monohydrate, it comes as an acid wash because it's cheaper to produce it through acid evaporative and other things in the lab than it is to use a water wash, which is really specific. And this is why we start to see a lot of bloating and stomach discomfort and some of the other side effects that we see. Okay. So again, being consumer, be aware. Be aware. Yeah. And a lot of people talk about creatine with DOMS. Yeah. Should people be having it a specific time after they exercise? When should we be consuming it? No. No, because it doesn't have an acute effect. It takes about three weeks for the body to be saturated. Okay. So you need to... That's why you're building it up. Yes. Yes. And once it's saturated and has enough, that's when you start to see the performance effects. We see that over the course of three to four weeks of consistently using three to five grams every day, you get that full saturation. Muscle works better. Brain works better. Guts better. Because anything that has a fast energetic requires creatine. So we see that the brain fog starts to be attenuated with creatine use. We start to see gut issues with women who... I go for a run. I had to find a bathroom every time I go for a run. Using the three to five grams over the course of a month, then that starts to dissipate as well. Wow. Because it maintains the gut integrity of the intestinal cells. You don't have as much of that separation because now you have creatine that's going to work in those energetics to hold it together. And then also we see for mood and mood health, creatine is really beneficial for that too. So actually most women are perimenopausal, maybe all women, but I'm just really thinking about the things, side effects that we were talking about or the physical sides that we might see in oneself when we're perimenopausal. This could be an amazing supplement. Absolutely. Absolutely. Gosh, it's interesting how it's not spoken about more. It's very much spoken in the sports domain, I think, but just general health for women, it's just not spoken about. Yeah. So Crea Vitalis and Creatine for Life. Okay. Creatine for Life website has all the stuff that creatine does for health. And there are a lot of my colleagues in the sports science and supplement world that also are doing research on creatine for health. And so all the peer reviewed studies that you can find are on creatine for health website. Crea Vitalis is a offshoot of Crea Pure that is designed specifically for health and not bodybuilding. So it's a lower dose and it's a very high quality protein or high quality creatine supplementation. So there's definitely stuff that's coming out and it's a push to get into the health space for both men and women. But yeah, it's slow coming. Supplements. Let's talk a little bit about supplements. I get asked all the time what I use. I can't really tell people what to use in whatever country they're in because there are different regulations. What I can say is you want to look for something that you trust and it's really clean. And I say that standing here with lots of products by one company in front of me, Momentus. I really like their products not necessarily because they are third party tested, they're really clean, and I really appreciate the ethos that goes into making them. But I partner with them and I agree with them because of their advocacy behind the scenes. We got in front of Congress to talk about women's health and how there has been different policy changes for collegiate athletes in their health. So yes, I'm going to show Momentus because I love the people behind the company. I love the advocacy behind the company and they're really good clean product. I love their creatine. So I always talk about creatine and looking for CreaPure. So we look at creatine and why we want to use it. So creatine is a natural thing that occurs in the body. So we go through creatine whenever we have fast energetics. So you think about the first zero to 20 seconds of any kind of energy system within the body, brain, heart, muscle, gut. And we see that creatine monohydrate is so important for health, especially brain health. And we hear about it from a bodybuilding background where we have to use five grams twice a day with carbohydrate to really boost the amount of creatine that's in the muscle. But that's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about three to five grams daily. You can take a teaspoon and stir in your coffee because it's just a very easy powder that's really mixable. It doesn't taste like anything. It takes about three weeks to fully saturate. But we see from RCTs or randomized control trials for women that using creatine can help bring women out of an anxiety or a depressive state much faster than just using something like a serotonin reuptake inhibitor. We can look at Crea Vitalis website, Creatine for Health website. They're both one and the same. And it has a list of all the most recent publications on creatine for the health aspects, not just muscle performance. What are some of your favorite supplements in any of those categories, specifically for women and perhaps even specifically during certain phases of the menstrual cycle and or perimenopause, menopause? I just threw about nine questions at you. Okay. The number one is creatine. Creatine for women, doesn't matter what age. It's really important. We're seeing a lot for brain mood and actually gut health. So five grams of creatine monohydrate per day, sort of typical? Three to five. Three to five? Yep. Preferably, of course, CreaPure because of the way it's produced. So if you're looking at CreaPure, it's the German company that produces it. It uses a water-based wash to produce the creatine. Interesting. Whereas others use an acid-based wash. And we see a lot of side effects with the acid-based wash. Like gastric distress? Yeah. So people are like, oh, I'm really bloated and I have nausea and stuff from taking creatine. I'm like, is it CreaPure? Actually, no. It's like switch to CreaPure. And so they switch and they're like, oh my gosh, I feel so much better. Noted. Yeah. And then vitamin D3, really important, especially when we're looking at all the information that's coming out from cardiovascular, muscle, brain, everything that goes with vitamin D, also with iron. So vitamin D is really important for absorbing and maintaining iron stores. So those are the two big ones. Sorry, I just want to stop you for a moment. As it relates to creatine, I hear two general lines of concern. One I hear more often from women. My understanding is that because creatine brings water into the muscle, as well as supporting the phosphocreatine system of the brain, the water into the muscle component means, yes, people who take creatine, three to five grams per day, will gain a few pounds of body weight. That's solid body weight in the form of water within the muscle. So solid in air quotes. Yeah. It's water, but it's within the muscle. Yeah. So they should know that. It's not a given though. Interesting. It's not a given. There are some women on the lower dose of three that don't experience the water gain. Okay. And this is not bloat like water, subcutaneous water. This is water within the muscles. Correct. So it will be stored within lean tissue. Correct. And then I do hear concerns about creatine causing hair loss. My understanding is there is zero evidence for that. No evidence. There is a smidgen of evidence that it might increase dihydrotestosterone levels, but it's like one study, marginal increase, and then people linked dihydrotestosterone to hair loss. And so then the conclusion people drew was that somehow creatine increases hair loss. But you're saying zero evidence. No evidence. We see that women who start taking it midlife are complaining about it, but it's actually a progesterone driven thing. We see progesterone and fluctuation. Progesterone can exacerbate any hair loss. So if women are experiencing that and they're saying, oh, it's creatine. I've read all this stuff on creatine. No, it's not.