! P3, rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator rhinator type A woman in midlife who doesn't want to rest, who doesn't want to, at some point in her life, someone told her the messaging that she internalized was, you're only enough when you're producing something. So how can we talk to her about eating enough? Because she's probably on some type of 1200, it's like, I see like 1200 calories, 1300 calories for 10 years. Talk to us about the impact that that's going to have on performance, body composition, bone density, again, puberty, sleep, puberty and perimenopause, like these two are almost like mirrors of each other. So talk to us a little bit about REDS. So it starts with what we call low energy availabilities. If we think about how much total calories your body needs in a day, and we're thinking about just lying on the couch watching Netflix, your body needs a more aquarium of around 1200 to 1400 calories just to exist. And this is to keep your brain going, your heart going, your gut microbiome happy, your muscles working, everything just being there to exist and do what it needs to do. As soon as you get up to start doing some chores, you need some more calories because you're activating more muscle, you're having muscle contraction, your heart rate's going up, you're producing more hormones to bring that heart rate up and down. And people forget this. They forget that their body isn't inert and it needs fuel. So when we start looking at women are doing fasted training, and they're delaying their meals because they have an appetite disruption, and they're actually not physically eating enough, the body responds by downturning all of the unessential mechanisms. So that is building lean mass, including your bone, keeping your tendon and ligaments healthy, keeping brain and cognition going. We see a lot of dead end, like brain foggy kind of fatigue in midlife women who are in low energy availability. Reaction time is slower. We see disruption in sleep. There's a lot of sleep awakenings because the body becomes hypoglycemic while we're sleeping. And if it's hypoglycemic, you wake up because the body's like, I need some, I need some food. I need some food. I need to forage. Yeah. Right. Exactly. Right. And the longer this goes on, the more you become entrenched in this low energy state. And that leads to relative energy deficiency in sport. So that's where every system of the body is affected. We see psychological issues with more anxiety and depression. We see more PPMD. We see more severe PMS. We see the low levels of vitamin D that come with poor nutrition, which further exacerbates things like PMS and PPMD. We see gut microbiome changes where there's a decrease in diversity. If you have a decrease in your diversity, then your body is stimulating more body fat storage. We see a decrease in BDNF production when you're exercising, which is, you know, the fertilizer for your brain. We see a decrease in bone turnover. So there's an increase in stress responses and stress reactions. Also a total decrease in bone density, which is really significant, especially we're talking about our young puberty girls, right? When we're talking about peak bone development. The other thing about the girls in puberty who are in low energy availability is when we're thinking about brain and brain development, we have things like your structural changes and the neuroplasticity of the brain. It's being muted because it doesn't have enough energy or carbohydrate to do what it needs to do. So we see a decrease in the amygdala. So we have more fear components and women and young girls who are in low energy availability. So it's really a syndrome that you can't just take a blood test for, but we see it appearing in so many different symptomologies. Somebody might go in and say, I'm having really poor sleep and I'm really fatigued. Those then would be a red flag to start looking at, okay, what's menstrual cycle function like? What is your blood lipid? Where are you storing your body fat? What's your DEXA? So there are all of these things that come up because I'll see a midlife woman who is in a low energy state and on the outside, she looks pretty fit. But on the inside, her DEXA tells a completely different story. It's like she's in late perimenopause with increased visceral fat, low bone density, poor muscle quality. And these are things that on the inside are more important than what the aesthetics are. And it is a significant drain on your own healthcare system and budget. Because if you're in a subclinical low energy state where you're just kind of wandering along and just barely eating enough, so you don't fully feel the effects, but yet you're walking around really tired, you have a short fuse, you don't have a filter, you're not sleeping well, you feel highly stressed, you're not responding at all to training when you're going through the motions, body composition isn't changing. All of these things are really significant beacons of saying you're in low energy and low energy availability. And the easiest fix is to eat. That's the thing, right? Those are so common. So many women are like, I'm training, but nothing's happening. I'm not seeing any changes in my body composition. Sleep is in the trash. And it's so, yeah, it's like, yeah, you, and I have, I've had so many women that I've counseled where I've developed enough rapport with them for them to trust me just a little bit, to eat just a little bit more than like, I can't believe it. Like I'm, I'm like, it's so amazing. The gym, you know, all these PRs, all these PBs, and then they also lose more weight. They're like, I don't understand. I'm eating more and I'm losing weight. How is this? It's backwards land. I know because we've been so indoctrinated at calories in calories out, eat less to become smaller. And that's absolutely not true. We're not fair to eat. Thank you.