 So protein, pyrrotein, So protein, we keep getting asked, what is the best, whey versus plant, but now, in our comments section, we're getting thrown in the mix, beef protein. Can we unpack the protein? Protein conversation, so first and foremost, food first. A lot of people will gravitate to supplements because it's easy, but we want food first. So if we're looking at beef powder, why are we using that? Whey powder, why are we using that? So we have to be specific on why we're using it. We're looking at the baseline amino acid availability, so that means how quickly do the amino acids become available and are they usable? So all protein is measured against the egg white. Egg white is 100. Number one. And we see soy sits about 85 compared to the egg white with amino acid profile and bioavailability. Whey protein isolate is 110. It has a better amino acid profile and more bioavailable than egg white. I don't know where beef sits because it hasn't been rated yet. If we're looking at all of our other plant proteins versus whey isolate, they sit a little bit lower than the egg white. But that doesn't mean that they're not good. It means that we have to look at the amino acid composition and the amount to get the same. So if we look at a 30 gram scoop or two tablespoons of pea protein isolate, that's the same as one scoop or our 20 gram dose of whey isolate. Yeah. So it's a volume thing. You'd still get the same amino acids, but we're looking at the volume thing. Yeah. And it's a personal choice too. It's like, I will use whey isolate when I'm traveling because it's easy to pack. It packs down really easily and I know what I'm getting and I can use it anywhere. Pea protein isolate for the most part when I'm at home, when I can mix it up so that it's not so grainy. It is a personal choice of what you want to use, when you want to use it. But again, we want to try to do food first. And I think a big thing is the serving sizes that the brand is telling you, you need to check the back. Because as Stacey said, you need 30 grams of the pea protein isolate. But some of the packaging to make you feel like you're getting more value for money is saying that a serving size is 18 grams. That does not have enough protein for muscle protein synthesis after your workout. We always get asked is about best tasting protein powder. So to loop back to the start that you were talking about, protein powder is a supplement. It's not meant to be yummy. It's meant to supplement what is already in your diet. And this is the thing that I get frustrated with in the sport nutrition world is people freak out about sugar. There's so much sugar in this. It's like if there's any time and a place to have sugar in a supplement, it's in and around training. If you're using it as a meal replacement, then why don't you look at getting an unflavored, high quality protein that doesn't have any fillers, flow agents, artificial colors or anything like that. And you can make your own meal replacement. You can look at berries with coconut or Greek yogurt, protein powder. You can add in freeze dried fruit, which I found is really, really flavorful. And it doesn't have any sugar added. You can do something like mix protein with eggs. People are like, what? Because it increases the amount of protein that's in your egg serving. So there's ways to use it strategically as a meal replacement to increase your protein. But really going for the unflavored, high quality, trying to eliminate anything else that's in it. And if you're wanting to eat something yummy, just put some cottage cheese in your eggs. It's way nicer than putting protein powder in them. It's very true. Very true. Fair. Fair. Thank you.