 llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar llegar conceptually of energy in, energy out, that works in something like an automobile where you know exactly what process needs X amount of gasoline. But in the human body, we have cellular processes that are the smallest all the way to whole body systems that require energy. So when we start looking at energy in, energy out, we have to think about when you're not getting enough, your body starts downturning some of these cellular processes just to keep really vibrant ones alive, like the brain. So when people start talking about calories in, calories out, and then you and I probably both say you need to eat more to lose weight. People freak out. They're like, what do you mean I need to eat more to lose weight? But we want an abundance to change body composition because we're working on building lean mass. I want people to focus on not what you are trying to lose, but what you stand to gain. And I think your message is very similar to that too. When you're thinking about, let's build lean mass, let's build muscle. It's a complete glucose sink. It helps with some of our other aspects of lipid metabolism. We see it helps with bone mineral density. So if we think about all the things that building lean mass has to do to help us, then if we shift that narrative, like you said, body composition follows, weight loss happens because the body is finally going great. I don't have to be inflamed. I'm getting enough nutrient dense foods and I can build the tissue that I want to and need to, and I can get rid of this extra fat that I don't necessarily need. Yeah. And I think the reality is for a lot of people, it happens really slowly and people have this expectation that it's going to be like, Oh, one to two pounds. It like when I was in my twenties and now it's a much slower process. And the problem with that is people can't see it so clearly. And then they think, Oh, this isn't working. I'm going to give up. Yeah. And they'll do like a weigh in every other day or hopefully just once a week if they're really focused on it. But that isn't really true representation either, because we know muscle weighs more than fat fluid comes with some muscle. So then people will say, wait, I'm starting to gain weight. What's going on? I'm not losing weight. So there's a big disconnect and what body composition is and what weight on the scale is. And it's really hard to tease it out if we're constantly bombarded by social media messaging from influencers or from mass media that's saying it's calories in calories out, or maybe we try a GLP one. So then that adds even more complexity into this narrative that women have of, I want to look a certain way, but my body's in a different state in my life. And how am I going to get back to what I look like there and what I'm seeing and like at the Grammys and that kind of stuff. And so it's this constant rhetoric and we have to take a step back and really explain what it means to lose weight versus what it means to gain lean mass. Yeah. I think when I did your program, so I did your program on menopause and that was really eye opening for me. I trained as a pediatrician, so like none of this was really included, but I think you highlighted all of those pathways that happen. So our insulin goes up, inflammation goes up, changes in ghrelin and lectin and all of these things happen and particularly how we gain muscle. And actually the way I think about it is we need to reverse some of those. If you've got a story of, I'm just going along doing the same things and suddenly menopause happens, but I was doing the same thing and I've put on abdominal weight. It's a sure sign that some of those pathways are a little bit out of line. And in order to lose the weight, you actually have to reverse those pathways first. Exactly. Exactly. Perfect. I do recommend your menopause program for people who want to understand more of that. As I say, it was really eye opening and like I didn't understand those mechanisms before. So thank you. You're welcome. I'd like to get onto heavy lifting. And I know that you talk about heavy lifting. And personally, I have been following your advice now for over a year. And I find that number one, it's much more enjoyable in terms of, I don't know, when I did the eight to 12 reps that everybody taught me by the end of it, I was like, Oh my goodness, this really hurts. Whereas now when I do the three to five, I get to the stage where my arms or whatever it is I'm doing, go, I can't move anymore. And I'm just like, okay, so I have to stop now because I physically can't do this. Can you explain why it's so important that we do heavy lifting? And also my other question about heavy lifting is, are you saying that this is the only way that we can get stronger or the most efficient way? Because I've heard controversial things about this. I've heard other people say, if you get to fatigue, it doesn't matter what weight you're lifting. And I know it's difficult when we have conflicting advice, like what do we believe? So it's really teasing apart strength versus muscle mass. So if we're looking at optimizing the woman's body, especially as we age, it's not necessarily about the lean mass accumulation, because it's really hard to build lean mass. What it is about is maintaining those type two fibers, the power base, the strength, because we see with longitudinal data that as you lose power and strength, mortality increases. So if we're looking at lifting heavy and really pushing the strength parameters and the type two fibers, it inherently helps the brain health. We see that with the heavier lifting and the neuroplasticity that occurs, it helps reduce some of the early signs of Alzheimer's and dementia. We also see that lactate production from being able to produce that from our type two fibers also becomes a preferred fuel in the brain. And we see that there is a change in brain metabolism, late perimenopause into postmenopause, because there's a disconnect in estrogen going down and how the brain is looking to fuel itself. So if we can provide lactate, it helps with that brain metabolism and reduces the occurrence of some of the dysregulation of the neurons and the development of talplex. So that's a long kind of, are we optimizing with lifting? Yeah, we are optimizing, but how, what are we trying to do? If we're looking to optimize longevity, optimize brain health, we want to be down on the power end of things, because this is how we are able to live independently for a very long period of time. If we're looking at doing the hypertrophy type work to failure, yes, you'll build muscle, but you won't necessarily get the accumulative strength and power. You have to train specifically for power. You have to train specifically in that neural pathway, the heavier loads to get those neural developments. If you have never strengthened strength training before, then yes, you want to start with the lighter loads and the more reps and going to failure, but it's a diminishing return because the longer you do that, the less impact it's going to have on total body. So it is a strength training journey. And when I first started talking about heavy lifting, all of it was new to so many women in our age group. They're like, what do you mean heavy lifting? I remember presenting in an endurance conference saying, not long, slow distance, but LHS meaning lift heavy shit. And as people started tuning into that, they're like, but I don't want to get injured. I'm like, I'm not telling you that if you have never, ever done any kind of strength training, or the only thing you've been doing is body weight or light dumbbells to drop that and go immediately into heavy lifting. It's a right to lift heavy and it's a journey to lift heavy. But as you start thinking about periodizing your program, we want to not so much look at going to eight to 15 reps or to failure, because that's not going to impact where women really need to impact to preserve our muscle quality, to preserve our strength and our power together and our type two fibers. Perfect. So what would be your ideal regime for somebody who is active doing other things, but also wants to include weightlifting in their life? Oh gosh, that's a really hard one because it depends on what kinds of other things that they're doing and what kind of training history they have. If they've done any kind of strength training or not, if they don't mind going to the gym or they hate the gym. So there's so many different variables that we need to talk about. Ideally, as we start getting into peri and post menopause, we start really downturning the long, slow volume type work and really focus on the quality of work. So that is the quality of cardio work. So we're doing more high intensity work. We're doing some sprint work and we're devoting more time in the gym for mobility and strength development. Because if we want to move well, we also have to be able to support the strength that we're building with really robust range of motion in our joints that are now inflamed and sore. It's like one of the first things that people come to me and they're like, I can't do this because my hips hurt, my knees hurt, and I can't move the way I used to. So let's use some distraction and let's use some, a little bit of blood flow restriction to get getting into that, that joint capsule, open that up. And then we have better range of motion. Then we can tax the tissue with some lifting.