 Barn Barn Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, Barnum, worked in my 30s. And then when I started to try to lift heavier weights, I was like, oh, this is not working to go in in a fasted state. So can you talk about proper nutrition going into a workout? And then what's our recovery meal look like as well? Yeah. So as you know, when we have our hormones working for us, we can get away with a lot. That's why we look at all these trends and people are like, I don't really have an issue. What are you talking about? But as we get older, our bodies become more sensitive to things. So eating beforehand is really important. I'm not saying a full meal. We look at the research and we see that 30 grams of carbohydrate with 15 to 20 grams of protein before a session that has cardio and strength is optimal. Because what we're doing is we are now telling the hypothalamus, which is really where our energy systems are, that there's some nutrition coming in so that we can raise our blood sugar. We have enough nutrition coming in so that we can hit intensities. And the hypothalamus doesn't go, oh, shit, we got to start conserving because here's this big stress coming in. We don't have any fuel. So let's start turning the thyroid and everything down. So we need that. And as we get older, it becomes really important because, again, the first thing that goes as we get older, exercising fasted is lean mass. And we know that it's so incredibly hard to build and maintain lean mass. Not only that, since we are losing our hormone pulses, our estrogen, progesterone pulses, because we're flatlining, the hypothalamus is in a little bit of a dysfunctional state because it's like, hey, wait, I don't have to create this pulse every day, but I still have that stimulus for it. So you bring food in to also let the hypothalamus work a bit better. So if we are having that little bit of nutrition before we go to the gym, brain is on fire, central nervous system is working, we can get more out of that workout. And then within 30 to 40 minutes afterwards, we want to have a good hit of protein with a bit of carbohydrate. Protein more important. So after strength training, we need about 40 grams as women who are peripostmenopause because we're more what we call anabolic consistent to exercise and food. So we don't get the same signaling with that 20 to 25 grams. We need more protein. And the protein is important because not only does it allow the muscle to be flooded with leucine, which increases the triggering for building lean mass, but we also have an increased amount of amino acids circulating, which helps with metabolism, helps with the brain to recover, and to really help with that testosterone and growth hormone response because it needs amino acids to actually function. So when we're looking at it from that whole recovery standpoint, we need some fuel. We want to go into hypothalamus so we can fuel our workouts properly. And then we need to refuel afterwards to get adaptation going to help with brain function to keep those signalings going. And then we can move on with the rest of our day. Okay. So how long before, just so I can recap, like 40 grams of carbohydrates and 15 to 20 grams of protein beforehand? Was that right? 30 grams before 15-ish. Yeah. And I mean, within the hour, but if you're someone who gets up and goes to the gym at 5.30 in the morning, I don't want you getting up to have food at 4.30. You could have it on your drive to the gym, right? Just as long as you have something in. Yeah. Okay. And then afterwards, the key really is bumping up to this 40 grams of protein. And what did you said? 30 grams of carbohydrates? It depends on what you did. If you're just doing strength training, then you could have your 40 grams within that 30 to 40 minutes, and then your real meal up to two hours later, and that takes care of the carbohydrate aspect. If you've done like a high-intensity session and you've done a lot of fuel-depleting type work, then you do need to look at getting the 40 grams and probably around 40 to 50 grams of carbohydrate. So it's almost a one-to-one ratio of this exercise. And I mean, some people split their breakfasts as well. So they'll have some before and then the rest after. So it's not increasing total calorie content, which people get worried about. It's just really manipulating your food intake.