 Inlip tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes tastes of gravity changes, we become more quad dominant, and we don't tend to use our posterior chain as much. So if we're looking about running as well, women tend to hinge from their hips and not really hinge from the ankle so much. So we're looking at the landing and the running mechanics. And if we're not conscious that we have to really develop posterior chain, then we tend to be too far forward and put more stress in the knees and in the hips. So we'll see a lot of soft tissue injuries and joint inflammation, especially as we start getting closer and closer to an event. We see about three or four weeks out, people are really starting to talk about soft tissue injuries and maybe some joint pain and wondering what's going on. So we have to take a step back and look at the mechanics. And part of that is strength training. What are we doing to really specifically work the posterior chain so that we can then get into these different motions of lunging, of wall balls, of farmer's carry running with the weights, those kinds of things. So spending a significant amount of time developing posterior chain. So that's, you know, your single leg RDLs, it's your hip thrusts, it's hex bar deadlifts. Just really looking at how are we going to develop that into a motion? Because we can spend all the time we want developing the strength of a hip thrust or single leg hip thrust or hex bar deadlifts, all of these things. But if we don't transfer it into the motion that we want, then we're still going to be weak in that motion. So an example for that would be, I could do a deadlift and hip thrust heavy sets, and then you go right into a sled pull or into a sled push so that you are really having to work in that motion so that when you're under load and tired, by the time you get to the sled pull or push, even though it's really close to the first part of the race itself, you're already under stress and fatigue because you are stressed from the start of the race. You have a run, you have a ski, you have a run, and then you get into the sled work. So you're under that fatigue. You want to be able to be strong in that fatigue and then carry it forward to the rest of the event. So, and we have lots of different sets that we've designed to be short and concise, where a lot of people think with high rocks, you have to have long hour or plus sessions, especially if you're doing a sim, but it's better to be short and specific as you're building up and have specific movements that you want to work through the strength. So one is, like I just said, the hip thrusts and deadlifts into the sled work. Another one would be Bulgarian split squats into your weighted lunges, or we look at doing heavy squats into our wall balls. So there's, you're always taking one of the motions of the event and putting it as a finisher or in combination of the specific strength work that you're doing. It's very time efficient and very specific to the event that you're training up for. Yeah, that makes so much sense. And I completely agree with the posterior chain thing. I mean, I know myself that I'm so quad dominant and I really need to work on it. Would you do any activation like as well? Would you ever, yeah. And before you run, like you just like, obviously just talked about females and they're running and obviously maybe like activation for the posterior chain before you went for a run or something to try and switch it on to, to utilize it. Yeah. Um, one of the, like my daughter plays soccer and she just turned 13 and I'm working with one of the, um, injury prevention guys. And part of it is this whole posterior chain thing. So we've developed a partner hip, a single leg hip thrust where you have the single leg hip thrust and then the alternate leg is pushing against the foot of the other person. So you're pretty much kind of hovering there. So you're really activating and then you flip and get into a run. So you can do partner workout that way. So you're really activating core to hold yourself up plus the glutes and the hamstrings. So you get into a position like that. You can do it against the rig too. Like you're pushing one foot against the rig in a single leg. And then all of that's activated and ready to go in that extended position. So then when you go to run, you're already in that extended position and boom, out the door you go. Wow. Yeah, that's cool. I think, um, a lot of now, I mean, looking at the progression of like high rocks training, a lot of training has gone to, I mean, people talk a lot about volume. Um, I know what you've just said about, and sometimes maybe not so specific on the high rocks movements and like building strength, building your running and then closer to the race, um, starting to look at the competition movements and starting to add them in. Would you say you would build strength with the movements like early, early on, or would this be like, you could have a strength block and then start to add that specific move, like strength into the movement? Well, most people coming into it have some more aquarium of either aerobic fitness or strength. So if we're thinking about making it, um, as seamless as possible, that's 12 weeks out. This is where we start the combination of the strength and the movements. And I mean, high rocks themselves have put out some training programs. And I look at it and like, if somebody follows this program as a woman, they're going to be so over-trained and burnt out within four weeks, they're not going to make it because they're not really focusing on, they're focusing on all the energy systems, which is great, but they're not blocking it where we're like, let's work on strength with a movement or let's work on movement and getting into the full range of movements with lighter weight. So we want to block it. Maybe we start, if we're really strength oriented, we start with strength with the movement right after, like I was describing earlier, so that we get used to getting into a quicker activation and movement. But if we are more run oriented, then we want to work on the full range in the, in the motion, the full range of depth and this wall ball or the lunge, and then start adding weight onto that. Because the whole idea is about injury prevention, especially at the start. In addition to it, it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes like it tastes tastes like it tastes like it tastes tastes like it tastes tastes like it tastes tastes like it tastes