! NACC-sumptin, p I started taking it because I was working with a women's rugby team and it was always recommended to all the male athletes and all the boys yet it was never suggested for the woman to take it. I found out now that it's actually because the women's team didn't have a budget but it got my brain thinking and I was like well I will try and see if it's worth taking how I feel and then if I feel like I'm getting benefits from it I'm going to start recommending it to my female athletes. So that was around probably seven or eight years ago and safe to say now that I recommend it to absolutely everyone regardless of their age or their sex. Yeah I think part of the complications that we see is how much what kind when do we take it what is the dosage because there's so much fear factor around it. To put it bluntly creatine monohydrate is the most studied and recommended supplement across everything and there's not a lot of regulation in the supplement industry so research is where you really have to look for the efficacy. So if we're looking at creatine monohydrate which is the one that's the most researched you have a whole body of sport research and now we have this emerging body of health research. In the sport research we've seen all the way back and when it was first being studied in the early 80s and looking at the bodybuilding idea of how we can make the muscles swole and we see that creatine is part of the energetic system. Right. So we see that every fast energetic in the body from the brain the heart the gut the muscle all require creatine as part of the fueling process. So the idea is if we load in creatine then we have more capacity for muscle contraction and that fast muscle fiber action. So the bodybuilding idea was taking five grams four times a day with 20 grams of carbohydrate and that's what enhanced muscle performance but it also created this water retention. Because with carbohydrate you can retain water and with creatine you can retain water and the combination of the two is what caused the bloating. So that's where that first myth came from. And when we're talking about water retention from both carbohydrate and creatine a lot of people are thinking that it's like a slushy under the muscle water retention. It's not. It's actually like intra. So it's what's giving both of us our nice muscle definition in our arms is the intra water in the muscles. So it's not a squishy fluid on top or in our tummies. No. It's part of the muscle structure itself. It's how we call it interstitial fluid and there's stuff within the muscle cells that requires water and that's the water retention. So when we hear people talking about oh my stomach hurts or I have bloating or I'm afraid of using it because of different side effects. This is where we have to look at what kind are you using. Are you using creatine monohydrate or the HCL version? And we have to see where it comes from and the dose relationship. And when we start looking really closely at that we can eliminate all of those side effects that people are talking about. When you say where it comes from what do you mean where it comes from? So I mean I always talk about Crea Pure. And this is a B2B or business to business product. So this is where I say any creatine supplement that you find that has Crea Pure on the side you know that it's super clean. What do I mean by that? So Crea Pure is a German company and it uses a water wash to create the creatine monohydrate. If we look at some of the other products that is not Crea Pure because that is patented. If we're looking at the cheaper versions that might come from China or some other countries. It's primarily the idea of taking formaldehyde and converting it to creatine monohydrate. So it's more of an acid wash and we have the residuals of that that can create the side effects that a lot of people are finding. Some people might be over responders to creatine supplementation. And this is where we see people who are taking the one gram dose is like oh I'm having really bad side effects. Are they an over responder to the supplementation or are they somehow responding as a placebo? So those are things that we'd have to tease out. But in general we talk about the purity of the supplement. That is one of the first things that we see that removes that kind of bloating and stomach discomfort. And then we have to look at the dose relationship. We're looking at why are we using creatine? Are we using it for muscle performance? Or are we using it for health? Or are we using it for shift work, jet lag, severe times of sleep deprivation? Those are three use cases. If we're looking for muscle performance then we can bring ourselves back to the bodybuilding idea of we want to have five grams four times a day. You're loading it specifically. Specifically then you're having a little bit of a washout and then you're loading it again knowing that it takes about three weeks for the body to become fully saturated to achieve the best performance. If we are looking at a health aspect where we're wanting to support all the systems of our body including muscle then we can look at that one to five gram dose. For people who are super sensitive and they're like I'm not sure I want a supplement then I recommend start with one and work your way up to five. Don't necessarily start with a five gram dose. If we're looking at what's optimal for health right now we're seeing at the most five grams a day. When do you take it? Any time of day. Just mix it in with anything. One thing that I want to preface is we are talking about it is a supplement. Something that we do get asked about a lot is what's its effect on my kidneys because of people that potentially do have a health risk or a health issue. And I would 100% go see your medical doctor, go get bloods done, get your kidney function tested and that's for any supplement that you're going to take. Because if you are taking a lot of supplements or a lot of medications that kidney function is going to be affected. So it's something that we have to look at before you start layering on a whole lot of supplements. Yes, specifically with creatine one of the markers for kidney function is creatine or creatinine and kinase so CK and creatinine. And one of the metabolites of creatine supplementation is creatinine. That doesn't mean you have poor kidney function. It's just okay it's a metabolite that then comes out in the blood in a blood test or in the urine in a urine test. So if you are someone who has been regularly using creatine and then all of a sudden you go get your bloods or urine tests and your doctor is like whoa kidney function. Before you get your test say I'm also using creatine. That's why they say what supplements are you taking. This is one you definitely have to write down. So that the interpretation of your results is through the lens of someone who's using a supplement that might skew the results. If you get the results and your doctor is like whoa what's going on you say I'm using creatine and you need to figure out your kidney function. If it is a true effect or if it's a side effect of the metabolite of the creatine you taper off it. Get your test done and then see what's happening. I did that. I just had to stop taking it for a couple of weeks and redo my blood test and it came back. Normal. Yeah. It's happened to quite a few people. Yeah. So Haley Babcock has also had that same thing. So we see it does happen a lot and when people are not informed they freak out. So it came back like extremely high in the red. Yeah. Yeah. Like oh what's going on. So that leads us into the next dose scenario where people are now I need 20 grams a day. Or the 10 gram which is the sleep one that's going around at the moment if you've had the poor sleep. Yeah. So it's between 10 and 20 grams. The research that came out there is saying that it has the most effect on a brain that is tired. And what do we mean by tired? It means that metabolically it feels fatigued so it's going through glucose a lot faster. Because your brain is like I need to keep going but I'm tired. I haven't had enough sleep. I haven't been able to cleanse. I haven't had all that downtime. Its metabolism is elevated. And one of the things again like I said that creatine supplementation helps with is metabolism and those fast energetics. So it is taken. So that's why they're looking at it now in the health scenario of how we can look at using creatine supplementation not only for the sleep deprivation and the shift work but also things like traumatic brain injury and other cognitive issues that we're seeing that are coming more and more prevalent in the health and disease states. So if we're looking at that 10 to 20 gram dose you do want to take it across the day not one big massive dose. Yeah. And also note that it's not necessarily an acute dose that you're taking. So if you're under severe stress and sleep deprivation and fatigue one acute hit of 20 grams of creatine isn't really going to do much. Okay. Because again it has to get into the brain. You have to saturate all the tissues so there is a transient time. So is it more like if I know that I'm going to have a period of poor sleep that I would start doing a loading phase for that? No one's really looked at that. Okay. I think like I said Darren Kandow is really into it and his review that he came out was talking about cart before the horse. What are we doing for a dose dependent relationship? And that's one of the questions that came up. Can we use it prophylactically? Yeah. And that research hasn't been done but is probably in ongoing. It just hasn't been published yet. From a logical standpoint it seems like if you're preloading then that's going to help. But I can't say definitively. So one other thing that gets asked quite a lot is obviously creatine comes from animal products from a diet standpoint. When we are it's an amino acid by the way it's actually made up of three amino acids. And when we are looking at it from a supplement standpoint it's actually made in a lab. So it is vegan and vegetarian friendly. Yeah. Which is really cool. Which is why I can use it. Yeah. It's just a fact that a lot of people don't know because they hear that it comes from is derived from animals. True. And your liver makes three grams a day anyway. A little weeny bit. Yeah. But not enough. Not enough now. That was a deep dive on creatine. That's great. Good friend. There we go. Good friend.