origorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorig that structure? It's all of them. Yeah. So mine really is the active woman. And so most of the people that I work with are very in tune to how training has affected them, how they feel about good sleep or not good sleep. So we start to see changes in training responses first. So women will say, you know what? Two years ago, I could do X, Y, Z and I give you ready for this marathon or the 70.3 or high rocks or CrossFit comp, whatever it is, but it's not working for me now. I've lost my power. I'm putting on some belly fat. I can't recover. What am I doing wrong? So most of the time people are blaming their training and blaming themselves for their fueling. So a lot of times it's like, oh, I better cut back on my food or, you know, I better start following this trendy diet. Maybe I need to lift heavier. I don't know what it is, but it's actually our hormones because when we're seeing things like estrogen, how it's tightly tied to power production and strength of our muscle contraction, if we're not paying attention and estrogen is starting to change so much, then our loads that we put on our body aren't going to be as beneficial. We're not going to get the same response. We also see an uptick in things like plantar fascia and frozen shoulder because of the hormones response to the capsule and how collagen and the ligaments and the tendons reduce their ability to be very plastic. So we're seeing greater inflammation, stiffening of the tissues, and that is also driven by hormonal shifts. So what do we do, right? Work with women and it's like, okay, so what do we do? We know all this stuff is coming. So we have to pull right back. We have to work on mobility. So I really love Kelly and Juliet's mobility ready state stuff. Really fantastic for extending, getting into the joint capsules and really working with range of motion using voodoo floss to warm up, which is a little bit of blood flow restriction. Then we have to really emphasize on women and we need to drop volume and increase quality. So when we're looking at the women who are coming through or in their forties and fifties and onwards, coming from that whole mentality of cardio is queen. We need to do more calories in, calories out. We have to like really try to reduce that mindset and say, you know what? It's about polarizing, doing true high intensity work and the bedrock is strength training. Because the first thing we need to do is we need to be able to generate that power because we see that's the first thing that we start to lose before we see change in body composition. And it's really important to maintain power in order to be strong in our sport, but also to prevent Alzheimer's and dementia as we get older. So let's work on power production. So there's some plyo moves, putting some French contrast training, which is great because then you're working heavy lifting and plyo moves. So you're working power and strength. And then we're putting in some sprint work and maybe some true high intensity stuff. So we're really focusing on quality because if we're doing that, then we're improving our brain capacity with more brain drive neurotrophic factor, BDNF, as well as increasing the load on neuroplasticity. So that means that we're getting better brain metabolism. We're getting better neural constructs and connections. And then we're also increasing the diversity of our gut microbiome through different exercise, which we see has a significant decrease in diversity as we go through perimenopause, which is a contributor to increased body fat gain. So if we're really focusing on changing up the training, and then I tell women protein and fiber at every eating opportunity, those are the two bedrocks to get us through perimenopause. And then every woman's, I guess, transition journey is different. So some might need to reach for menopause hormone therapy. Some might need to reach for adaptogens. Some might need to reach for a serotonin reuptake inhibitor. So those are the other things on top of the basic bedrocks that we need to change.origorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorigorig