! RIP-alitine, RIP-alitine, slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow some other really heavy lifts that you're trying to accomplish. As opposed to looking at, say, percentage of one repetition maximum. Yeah. Saying you're going to move 70% of your one repetition maximum for six repetitions. Seems like that's a great thing as well, but it's a little bit more complicated because you need to know your one repetition maximum. Doing one repetition maximums can be dangerous if you're not skilled in that, especially with compound movements like squats and deadlifts. Yep. Okay. So is there an across-the-board recommendation for most people that they should generally train their sets in good form to failure, to leave a couple reps in reserve? What do you suggest for, let's say women, but this could also pertain to men? And then that also depends on the age of the woman. So if we're looking at the reproductive years, so 20 to 40, then it doesn't matter so much. You can periodize pretty much how normal periodization works with your mesocycles and your microcycles. So you're looking at what you're doing across a few months. What are you doing in the week? Are you lifting heavy power-based training? But when we start to get to perimenopause and we're losing all the flux of estrogen, and estrogen is the woman's testosterone, the key driver for strength and power, we have to look at lifting heavy. So this is where we really turn women on to, we want you to do something that is two reps in reserve, three reps in reserve, because your one rep max also changes depending on what kind of training block you're doing. So we're finding that when you're talking about reps in reserve, then it allows people to lift more on the day. So we can get women to get into that strength and power-based type training, rather than going, let's lift to fatigue, because then it might be 20 reps. And that 20 reps doesn't invoke a big central nervous system response, which is what we want. It's more of that hypertrophy and muscle tearing. You will gain some lean mass, but not as much strength as if you were to invoke that central nervous system response. And that becomes really critical as women get older, because we need to find that external response that's going to cause the same kind of strength and power adaptation that estrogen used to support. slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow