 s Thank you, Dr. Stacey Sims, thank you, Dr. Stacey Sims, but some only do low-rep, high-weight work. What's your take on cycling heavy strength sessions with lighter, higher-rep work plus balance and stability training? Absolutely. Is that a way to say it? Yes, please. Yeah. So, when I first started coming out talking about women need to lift heavy, it is because we had this big idea that strength training was high-reps like the pink dumbbells, let's go do a boot camp, let's go do some weights and core power yoga, all those kinds of things. But really opening up and kind of banking on what CrossFit was opening up to with Olympic lifts and heavy lifting, and then talking about the physiology of let's get central nervous system and all this, it's great. But the examples were always 5x5 or 3x5, and that's just a short period in time. So we have to look at the bigger picture, like how do we phase into that for one? Two, how are we periodizing that to get progressive overload? And three, we need to have deload in order to really solidify the work that we put into the heavy lifting. And then other things is like for cyclists or runners or other people who have more power-based stuff within their endurance, we have to look at things like French contrast training, where you're doing heavy and then into a plyo, into a lighter weight, so that you can really encompass all the things you're getting from central nervous system with heavy lifting into a plyo. And that's periodized in. So if we're talking about how are we getting balance and stability, you can do balance and stability as a warm-up into a heavier work. And then we also look over the course of four weeks, what are we doing in that four-week block? And then do we bring it down? And then the next four-week block is going to be more contrast-type work. We're working on power with the strength. So it's definitely something that people don't talk enough about. The periodization, progressive overload, how do we incorporate that with heavy lifting? So yes, we have to do some phase-in of lighter weight into heavier weight, some plyo work, some explosive work with heavier weight. So yeah, it's a whole thing where we're like, let's talk about periodization over the course of a year and how we get stronger and more powerful and incorporate that into our everyday life and our sport too. Because if we talk about endurance athletes, like I don't want to do heavy lifting because it interferes with my cycling legs. It's, well, maybe we do some heavy lifting and mobility and then go right up some hills and something like that. So yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's always, you know, as a former coach and trainer, having that communication, being upfront and consistent about this is why we're doing it. This is the long run. Just do what I, let's just go through the plan, execute the plan. Right. Because everyone wants to like, no, no, but I just read this blog by XYZ and I was, I follow this influencer and this person said this. And you're like, no, that's not the plan. This is the plan we agreed upon. The years, the expectations, let's execute. It's a good thing. It's a good thing. French contrast training. Is that right? Yeah. Tell me about that. That's new to me. You're going to have to try it because it's amazing. If we talk about the actual aspect of our strength and our eccentric, concentric muscle activation, if we're always doing that concentric work of heavy lifting, we're never really maximizing the stretch and power cycle. So this came from the idea of athletes who need to be strong, but get into like a cutting motion or some other plyo type, really fast, powerful motion. So it's doing three to four really heavy lifts right into a plyo move. And so you're capturing that central nervous system activation from that really heavy, heavy lift to bring it right into a power move. So it could be, you know, five really heavy, heavy squats right into pogos or into some broad jumps or box jumps. So you're taking it and putting it into explosive movement. And then right after that, you get into some more endurance, like higher rep stuff. So you kind of go through the entire range within one set of activity, but it's maximizing and polarizing the ends of the muscle activity. So I use it a lot for my cyclists and my mountain runners or my ultra runners, because they have to have that power within some of the fatigue. And so if you're really working on that contrast work, then when they get halfway through a race and they need to find some power, they're able to generate it. And is that a, would you say that's a gen pop? Like, is that more of an intermediate and up trainee that you would work with? Like it's not, it's definitely not beginner because you have to have strength and power. Yeah, exactly. It's just like if you start implementing plyometric moves, you have to have really low jump and maybe assisted pogos and things first before you get into full plyo. It's the same thing. It's definitely more advanced. Yeah.