 nertruruol, rucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucolucol And we know that having like a certain amount of protein is really good for building muscle and we need protein for bone as well. But when we take a step back and go, what's the optimal thing for health span and body composition? It's really taking care of our gut microbiome. It's having a wide variety of colorful fruit and veg, high fiber. You know, we talk about 30 plants a week, like really taking care of the gut microbiome, especially if you're perimenopausal. We see this incredible drop in the diversity of the gut microbiome, especially in late perimenopause, which is attributed to the lack of the second pass of our sex hormones. So the less our gut is exposed to sex hormones, the less diversity it has. And we see that with that drop in diversity, unfortunately, it's the growth of the obesogenic phyla that occurs. So we're seeing more predisposition for body fat with a loss of muscle, which also will impacts the way we move, which then furthers into how our bones, right. As well as brain connection and immunity. So if we're looking at all the things, right, the very first thing we can start with is our gut microbiome. How do we take care of that? Because if that feeds forward to feeling better, having better body composition, if we feel better and have better body composition, we want to move more. If we move more, then we're putting more load on our muscle and our bone. So it's like the one thing I tell everyone now, it's like whatever macro thing you want to follow. I'm not huge on calories or macros. I care about women for their gut microbiome. I care about women being strong, having strong bones and taking up space. And if you have the confidence to move and take up that space and you have the confidence to build that muscle and have the strong bones and you naturally set up stronger, you naturally set up taller. I love that. And yeah, and I mean, that's something that I want to pass down to our younger generation now, especially as we start to see the Ozimpec phase come into play, which is really scary if we think about the first thing that goes and someone starts using Ozimpec as muscle and bone. Yeah. I want to layer on your comments about gut health, but also the aspect of fiber in your diet. Fiber is definitely an important aspect of an anti-inflammatory diet. And there is a lot of information on both perimenopausal and menopausal women who have a more anti-inflammatory diet. So basically a better score on the dietary inflammatory index, having diminished risk for fracture as compared to people with a more inflammatory diet. And dietary fiber is an important part of that because when we get adequate fiber, basically our gut micro bacteria generate something called short chain fatty acids. And there's a distinct mechanism that affects both your joint health, so inflammation in your joints, and your bone health. So there are pathways that short chain fatty acids diminish, which contribute to breaking down of bone. And then interestingly with the GLP-1 medications, the issue is of course sarcopenia. When you see these medications used for diabetes, not at the doses for weight loss, without the more significant loss of muscle mass, they actually are beneficial for bones and joints, interfering with some of the inflammatory processes that lead to joint pain, interfering with some of the inflammatory cascades that lead to bone breakdown, to the point that people can actually see reduced fracture risks. But if you're looking at the doses for weight loss in the setting of not doing combined strength training and resistance training to maintain the muscle mass, you can see loss of bone density. If you're combining these medications with intentional dietary modifications, getting adequate protein plus the strength training and resistance training, it could then kind of be a neutral effect. So you could offset that. But GLP-1 in its natural form or the receptor agonist, it can actually have a mechanism that is helpful for bone, but not in the setting of loss of the muscle mass, not in the setting of absence of the strength training. So it's a very complex interaction. Balance. Yeah. Yes. But I don't think the general population is using it in that way. Right. And that's the problem. There's a magic bullet. Right. I mean, we have people wanting to microdose for the 10 vanity pounds and, you know, there's so many confounding variables around it. And I think when we talk about ultimately, what are we trying to do with this? We're trying to create a healthy human and the doses that are out there to create aesthetically what Hollywood wants is not in congruency with a healthy human. And it's about the lifespan, isn't it? Mm-hmm. Yeah. Yeah. So supplements. Yeah. What would you, I mean, there's definitely a place for, of course, getting the diet right first. Absolutely. And looking after the gut microbiome. But what about supplements? Is there some key ones that we should know about that could benefit us, our muscles, our bones, and even our quality of life, longevity? I'm always going to say creatine. Yeah. Creatine monohydrate. I mean, there's so much new research coming out of how it affects brain health in a positive manner. We know that it's also part of muscle and bone. Like it's all the fast energetics in the body. So you think about all of our cellular functions, it somehow requires creatine. And yes, our body makes some, but it's not quite enough. So creatine definitely is one of them. When we look for women who have issues with bone, maybe we're looking at vitamin D, right? So we're looking at some of the specificities of supplementation that actually go into bone development. But as a blanket statement, the only thing I can say is creatine. Yeah. And so that, I mean, creatine's been historically something that our bodybuilding male, males have used. So, you know, is it the same dosing for females? And what about our grandmothers? Should they be using creatine? Yeah. We'd like it. Yeah. So if we look at how it's evolved, right? We first see from the bodybuilding set it was five grams, four times a day with 20 grams of carbohydrate. So if we look at that, you're going to get water retention. You're going to get bloating, discomfort, gut discomfort. And it was all about muscle performance. We know that an acute dose of creatine isn't going to do much except maybe improve muscle performance because it takes time for all your tissues to be saturated. So if we're looking from a health standpoint, that includes muscle performance and improvement in bone improvement and gut health and our cardiovascular health, our brain health. It's only three to five grams a day. So it's a very small amount. It can take it any time. It takes about three weeks for the body to be fully saturated with that. And over the course of those three weeks, you're going to start to feel a little bit better. If we're looking at times of shift work, if we're looking at jet lag, severe sleep deprivation, then we look at some of the newer research that's saying 0.38 grams per kilogram of body weight, which ends up about 20 gram dose for 132 pound or 60 kilo woman. And then that really helps with brain metabolism. So we think about sleep deprivation and what's happening. And we see this with circadian shift is the brain hasn't been able to have its full cleansing capacity because it hasn't been able to have that full night's sleep. So you have these pockets during the day where you have brain fog or a lapse of attention. And this is where the brain is like, oh, I'm going to clean. So it's like flushing. And yeah. So if we look at creatine, creatine intensifies that amount of clearing out the towel plaques and allowing the brain to get back on its natural rhythm, which reduces that brain fog, which reduces the lack of attention span. So this is why we're really looking at creatine as an intervention for people who are sleep deprived or shift work or jet lag and that kind of stuff. I think this is another case where you need to emphasize though, when you look at people always asked, does creatine monohydrate help you improve bone density? It's another scenario where the answer is not in the absence of strength training. Exactly. Exactly. So there are, yes. I guess we should market it as like, when we're talking about all this, we're also talking in conjunction with jumping and strength training. Against the, you know, the creatine monohydrate may help you build muscle mass, which then helps you improve your bone density. So it's an indirect effect, but it's not like if you just take creatine monohydrate and use estradiol, you're going to be good to go. Yeah, yeah, exactly. So it's not an easy fix. You still have to do the work. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.