! I wanted to talk about hydrarineʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮʮ the intestines into the blood space. And the potassium works to rehydrate the interstitial spaces or between the cells. So you need both of those for rehydration. When we talk about electrolyte, quote, replacement, that's a marketing term. Because if we're eating food throughout the day, we're getting sodium and potassium and magnesium, we are getting adequate electrolytes. The critical thing to think about when you're hydrating is what are sodium and potassium doing for fluid transport? So we know that every solution in the body is not plain water. You have a little bit of glucose, but also with food and rehydration, you're going to have adequate glucose available to then help with fluid absorption. So you really can look at water with a little bit of sodium and a little bit of potassium for rehydration. And do we have, like, I know that there are electrolyte supplements that are anywhere from 200 milligrams up to a gram, up to a thousand, a thousand. What would be your... Ideal for rehydration? And for women specifically. Yeah. So women tend to finish exercise in a training stress with normal blood sodium or slightly low blood sodium levels. So when we're rehydrating, we want to look for around 360 to 400 milligrams of sodium per 16 ounces. And with potassium, you want half that amount. So around that 200 milligram mark of potassium. And that's your adequate rehydration. If you've done something that's really long and intensive, so two, three hours, and you're really dehydrated because you've been out on the East Coast in the humidity and the heat and you're completely tapped out, then you want to look at adding some syrup or some glucose and sucrose to that to really facilitate some rehydration. Okay. So this is, you know, the 360 to 400 megs of sodium that you're talking about, this is after a typical 60-minute, 75-minute training session? 60 to 90-minute training session. Yep. Okay. Okay. Great. And then when does the glucose... Is that like after hydrox or something where you're training for several hours or... Yeah, yeah, yeah. For sure. So if we look at an optimal hydration solution, we're looking at 2 to 4% of glucose sucrose. So when I talk about impractical turns, I'm like, okay, we want to look for between 5 and 7 grams of carbohydrate per 8 ounces of fluid because that will give you a 2 to 4% carbohydrate solution. Mm-hmm. And that's what works optimally in your small intestines where all your fluid absorption takes place. So if we think about the small intestines, it's very temperamental to what we call osmotic pressure. So if we have a solution like Gatorade, that's 6%, it increases the pressure in the small intestines too much. So then water comes from other spaces to dilute it in order for it to be absorbed. If we have plain water with no sodium, then the body has to excrete sodium and glucose into the intestines before it can be absorbed. So when we're looking at a 2 to 4% solution with the 360 to 400 milligrams of sodium and around 200 milligrams of potassium, that works with the pressure gradients in the small intestines to maximally stimulate all of our different fluid absorption gates. So our glucose and sodium transporters that will help pull fluid across. And if you get something that's too high, then you have water diuresis. So that means more water's coming into the intestines. If you have something that's... You have to pull from somewhere else, right? You have to pull that from somewhere. Okay. Yeah. So it's like an effective dehydrator. So anything that's super high in carb is going to do that. So a lot of these sports drinks are way too high in carbohydrate that it doesn't adequately hydrate you because the carbohydrate content in there is to support exercise. So rehydration is completely different than what you want to do during exercise. So rehydration, you can drop the carbohydrate intake relatively low to around that 2% with your sodium and potassium. And during longer exercise, you want to kind of boost it up to 3 to 4% so that you're not overtaxing your small intestines. You're still working with the pressure gradients. Because during exercise as well, you have blood that goes to the working tissue away from your small intestines. So you have more kind of stress on the intestines. You want to make sure that what you're drinking actually works with the physiological mechanisms of fluid absorption. Okay. So this is phenomenal because this also in part explains why electrolytes become, or at least staying hydrated, becomes more important in perimenopause. Because as we see that drop in estrogen, that will also affect our electrolyte balance, will it not? Or I should say, estrogen promotes sodium retention. So when we start to lose estrogen, that our ability to hold on to that sodium declines as well, which is why a lot of myself included, I typically work out every day in some fashion, like 60 to 75 minutes. I have a little bit more than, I'm probably having about 500 milligrams of sodium. Yeah. That's fine. Yeah. Like I'm probably having about that. But I think that that's, I think that's important for, can you explain a little bit about the role of estrogen on sodium and potassium balance? So as we're losing estrogen, now what is happening to our ability to retain these minerals? So estrogen and progesterone both affect our fluid retention hormones. So we have arginine vasopressin, vasopressin, which is AVP, which stimulates our thirst, encourages water retention. And estrogen is really tightly tied to that because we see what we call our plasma osmolality, which is a driver for our arginine vasopressin release. Estrogen really kind of moderates that. So when we start to have a decrease in our body sodium and a decrease in our plasma osmolality, there is not really a drive to drink, but more of a drive to have sodium because your body's like, I don't want any more fluid retention. I want to increase my sodium. But the caveat there is, as we get closer and closer to menopause, because we've had this dysregulation of our fluid absorption hormones, we have a muted thirst sensation. So we have to be very cognate that what we are drinking works with our physiology and we're consciously aware that we have to drink. It's just like appetite, what we were talking about last time. Yeah. Right? Women have a really funny, they're like, oh, I just worked out, I did a fasted cardio and I'm not hungry anymore. Or I did a fasted training workout and I'm not hungry. It's like, you definitely need to eat. You definitely should not push back your meal. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. So muted thirst, that is so important to know as well. Okay. Yes. Thank you.