 svinvinvin,ASSvin,ASSvin,ASSvin,ASSvin,ASSvin,ASSvin,ASSvin,ASSvin, When we look at like the existing guidelines of 150 minutes of moderate activity per week, right, this is exactly the opposite of what women who are in perimenopause should do, because if we're looking at what's changing and we're looking at the ratios of estrogen and progesterone, it's not the absolute levels, but it's a ratio of change, then we see a demise in the sensitivity, a demise in the sensitivity of our estrogen progesterone receptors. We see a change in our gut microbiome. And all of this feeds forward to body composition change, to brain fog, to vasomotor symptoms, and then acceleration of bone mineral density loss and lean mass loss. So if we're looking at, let's put in interventions that will actually stress the body and create adaptations the way these hormones used to help us. So this is where we look at the polarized training effect. So we want to do super high intensity work for metabolic control and creating some longer term epigenetic changes within the muscle so that we aren't necessarily reliant so much on insulin, especially as we start to become more insulin resistant. And then we have to look at the central nervous system effects and how that affects strength and power. So if we're looking at resistance training and we're looking at lifting heavy loads, it's all about the central nervous system effect. Because estrogen not only stimulates the basal cell, the satellite cell of the muscle itself for muscle protein synthesis, but it's also responsible for how strong the muscle contraction is. So when we start to have changes in that estrogen concentration and changes in estrogen progesterone, the first thing that goes is strength and power. And then we start losing lean mass. So if we look at lifting heavy loads, it's a central nervous system response that now the body's like, I don't care. We don't have estrogen. I have to lift this load. So I have to have a faster nerve signaling. I have to have more acetylcholine to depolarize that muscle and have a very strong muscle contraction. So that's the adaptive stress. So we don't have to worry so much about not having estrogen to create that power and that strength. We have to look at that central nervous system response. So if we go back to that 150 minutes of moderate intensity activity with a couple of days of resistance training, they're not giving the whole story from what happens with women. Because if we're in that modern intensity exercise, it's not a hard enough stress to create adaptive responses, but it is hard enough to raise cortisol. And when women are in perimenopause, we're already in that sympathetic drive and we already have an elevation of baseline cortisol. So if we do things to instigate more, then we're not going to get any kind of body composition change. And if we're looking at the resistance training, they just say, you know, 10 to 12 exercises, but they don't talk about load, reps, sets, any of that. So it gets lost in that conversation. Yeah. I think that that's really important to point out because if you look in the literature, again, most of the studies are done in male. And there was a recent paper that Brad Schoenfeld and Alan Argon had published, and it was really talking about the strength continuum. So I'm a geriatrician by training. And one of the things that we would always talk about is, is it the load or could someone get away with a lower load, higher volume? Right. And I think that there's a lot of discussion in this space is that it's really about the amount of muscular fatigue. Yeah. And I'd love to hear what kind of what your thoughts are. But what I'm hearing you say is that women, you know, and cognitively, I absolutely agree with you. Women should be lifting heavier weights to get a stimulus. But do you find that that is always true? Well, when we look at the fatigue rate, right, and we're looking at the whole aspect of muscle fatigue, that's all about muscle protein synthesis. So if we're looking at lean mass gain, then yes, you want to go to fatigue. But if we're looking at the strength and power aspect that is so essential for carrying our bodies within, you know, space and time and having proprioception and being able to prevent falls, we need that heavy load adaptive stimulus, we need that central nervous system response. So when I'm talking about lifting heavy loads, I don't want anyone who's never lifted to go into the gym be like, Oh, gosh, I got to lift 150 pound deadlift. No, it's all relative, right? So if body weight is taxing enough, and you get fatigue within that, then that's how you start. But I always want women to start with mobilization, learning how to move properly, so that then they can put load on and not get injured. So it's not about a training block, which is so much of the conversation within the sports science. So here's this training block, then we cover another training block. It's the eye to the rest of your life. So we want to look at undulating periodization, of course, where we lift loads, and we bring some down, we lift loads, but it's for the rest of your life. It's not about I'm going to build up for a particular race, or build up for a particular physique competition. It's about how am I going to maintain strength and power from the time I'm 50 all the way to the time I'm 100. And there's been some really interesting studies that have come out in the past six months looking at women who were in the 70 to 80 year bracket. And they've changed up the traditional 10 to 12 reps of lighter weight and put in the five to seven reps of heavier load heavy for them. And they increased their power, their lean mass, their strength, and had better proprioception for falls prevention. So I think the inherent thing is women just don't know what it means to push themselves for lifting heavy. Of course, those of us who are in in this world, in this fitness world, we know what it is and how to push ourselves. But for the general population, they think that 20 air squats is resistance training. And that's not what it's about. I love that. And I would love for you to give kind of an example of what someone who is just new at the gym, right? And I know it's very difficult, because ultimately, what you're looking at is, like you said, an adaptation. What does that look like for that for a very novice individual who is just entering menopause? Yeah. So the first thing I always tell people is like, you want to work with a physio or physical therapist or a kinesiologist who knows movement. So they can give you cues of how you're squatting. So you don't have a discrepancy in hips, you're actually getting full range of motion. So anyone who's novice going to the gym needs to have someone watch them so they know how to move. And I know it's intimidating. And it doesn't even have to be like in a big, massive gym set, because that's a whole nother cultural aspect where we look at, you know, the masculinity of gyms, that can be a different conversation. It could be a small personal trainer, could be a physio. So you learn how to move. And then when you go to the gym, it's not about putting lots of load on the barbell. It could be that 30 pound barbell where you're just moving, and you're feeling the muscle fatigue, and it can be five sets of five. And by the time you get to that fifth set, you might only be able to eke out three with good movement. So we're looking at proper mechanics through that load. And it doesn't have to be massive load. When you have proper mechanics, you're going to get that fatigue. And as you start to get better in the movement, that's when you start adding load. So it could be two or three months down the track, then you start lifting heavy. First three months is all about phasing in for that proper movement. And is that more of a central nervous system kind of connection at first? Yes, absolutely. So once that adaptation happens, and an individual is what, lifting three days a week, you think? So the 150 minutes we know, I mean, that's just so grossly understated, right? I mean, it's so funny, right? Everybody asks you and you want to be evidence-based. So if they ask you, okay, well, what are the current training recommendations? Well, the current training recommendations are 150 minutes of moderate to vigorous activity a week. That's, it's abysmal, right? It's just- Yeah. Whereas, yeah, but that's based on science that's about 20 years old, because coaching and guidelines take so long. But if we look at the current evidence of sprint interval training, resistance training, this is probably what you should be doing.