 Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu Pu I'd love to start with a brief introduction. It doesn't have to be too brief, but an introduction from Dr. Stacey Sims. Welcome, Stacey. Thanks. I am originally an environmental exercise physiologist, but have taken that to look more at sex differences across the age span, especially in active women, and really trying to get women to understand the power of muscle and bone and how that really feeds forward to having a really fantastic health span and overall body composition and also taking up space for that confidence. It's my short introduction. Yeah, that's awesome. And we've got Dr. Jocelyn Whitstein. I'm Dr. Jocelyn Whitstein. I'm an orthopedic surgeon. I have a subspecialty fellowship in sports medicine. I'm also not only a clinician, but an educator of med students, residents, fellows, and I'm a researcher. So my areas of research are heavily at the intersection of women's health and musculoskeletal health, things like bone health, joint health, frozen shoulder, all those things. But my clinical work is really at that same intersection. So I really enjoy taking care of female athletes throughout the health span, including adolescents, you know, people in their 20s, 30s, premenopausal, postmenopausal women, master's athletes. And I think women's health is incredibly important to our musculoskeletal health throughout that health span. Excellent. Wow. We've got lots to talk about. I think a good place to start would be why is it so important to focus on women when we're talking about bone health? Stace, do you want to start us off on that one? How much time do we have? Yeah, just go for it. I think it's not just the bone. It's just we look at the incredible gender research gap, right? So we see that there is such a small amount of research that's been done on women. I think from looking at the stats of last year, the total amount of the billions of dollars NIH spent on research, only 1% was done on all women's health research, which is so small when you think about women are over 50% of the population. And then we look at bone and bone health. We know that there is not just an aging issue that occurs with women, but we also see that there is a hormonal flux, right? We'll see younger women who have both thalamic amenorrhea who don't have their periods to end up with lower bone density. And we see that in perimenopause and right up into the two years before menopause, there's significant changes in bone and bone density. And the reason why we really want to focus on why we want to increase that bone density prior to hitting perimenopause is we also see women live longer. But that length of life is not a quality of life in the general population. So if we're looking at women who are exercising, who are putting the stress on the bone to improve the bone turnover and the bone density, they tend to have less of a fragile life and more of a robust later postmenopausal life. And so they can live the quality that they want. Perfect. Yeah. And in my practice as an orthopedic surgeon, of course, you know, the real world implication of this is that 75% of hip fractures occur in women. You know, women in their 50s are the, you know, first at-risk group to sustain distal radius fractures. You know, it's kind of like a canary in the coal mine. So you have these 50-year-old women fall and break the wrist. Those women are twice as likely to subsequently have a hip fracture. But, you know, why is this happening? It's cumulative across the lifespan. We have women who are intense athletes who had periods of amenorrhea, you know, relative energy deficiency syndrome, potentially then, you know, arriving at perimenopause where we see the first acceleration in bone loss, you know, happening the year before your last menstrual period. And then, of course, menopause, early menopause associated with accelerated bone loss. And so all these things can be really cumulative for women and just put them so much more at risk. And then, you know, a hip fracture is a real change in someone's quality of life. You can go from being able to walk to being dependent on a walker, from being on a walker to a wheelchair, wheelchair to not being able to transfer. And so there's a real loss of independence that can happen in our later years because of things that, you know, a cascade that really started, honestly, before the age of 30 with building of peak bone density. And we also see now that the, that peak bone density is even lower because of the inactivity of our kids, right? So it's becoming more of a public burden disease rather than just the specificity of women in a certain type of lifestyle. And that's why it's really important to get the messaging out to younger and younger populations. Like it's not just about, you know, how you're going to live when you get older, but the fact that if you don't start now, then your whole quality of life is going to be affected throughout the decades as you proceed. So is there such a time as it's too late to start working on your bone health? Like when is the best time to start focusing on bone health? Now. Now. Whatever now is. Yeah, whatever now is. Yeah, I totally agree. This question can be interpreted badly in so many ways. So I always like to say, yes, you do attain your peak bone density by the age of 30. And we know from studies of high impact sports like soccer, basketball, gymnastics, certainly you can arrive at age 30 with greater bone density and hold on to that in adulthood or decline from a higher peak into adulthood. But whenever I share that message that our peak bone density is attained by age 30, and yes, we need to emphasize those activities prior to that. I always want to make sure we don't send a discouraging message to older adults and women, especially postmenopausal women or even women in their 60s, that it's too late because that message can, it's really easy to misinterpret that. But there are tons of studies and a lot of research on women with low bone density, you know, osteopenia, osteoporosis who are in their 60s, who are able to make improvements. So now is the time. It's never too late to start. Although if we could go back in time, it would be great to emphasize these things in our teens and 20s. Yeah. Oh, absolutely. And I suppose that leads us on to what can be done. Like what is it that we can do to improve our bone health? Stace, you want to start? Where to start? You start. I'll start kind of like in the middle to the end. How about that? Yeah, I love that. I always bring this up as a case study that I like to demonstrate that it doesn't matter how old you are when you start building bone. So there were three women I was working with and they were all in their 60s and they all were osteopenia or had low normal bone density. One was osteoporotic and they were really afraid of going on menopause hormone therapy because of their age, their late 60s. They didn't know what to do. They felt like they were kind of doomed. You know, here I have weak bones and what do I do? And I was like, well, let's first put some body weight on there and then we're going to start getting into lifting heavy and then we're going to get into plyometrics. And like, I'm not ever going to be able to jump. What are you crazy? So over the course of six to eight months, we progressively overloaded them, got them into heavy lifting, then put them into plyo and they all got into a normal range of bone density. Wow. And that was a very short amount of time. We're thinking about eight months. So it's not impossible at whatever age and it's not, you know, based on hormone status or anything like that. It's about the mechanical kind of load that you can put on the whole skeleton. And that's what I love so much about what you're doing with the multi-directional force of jumping and how important it is because people used to say, oh, you can't jump when you're old, especially if weak bones, there's no way you can't lift heavy. You can't do any kind of, you know, mechanical stress because you're going to break your bone. But we know inherently from the research and from clinical work that that's just not true. Yeah. And I mean, it's been shown in study after study, the best combination in terms of an approach of exercise for improving bone density is a combination of resistance training and impact training ideally. And just to safely do that, these have to be a gradual exposure. So many of these studies are interventions that are eight to 12 months, you know, showing improvements in bone density, again, even in women in their 60s. And when you think about that in terms of the timeline that we study medications on, you know, medications that improve bone density, we're often looking at interventions that are, you know, two to three years. And certainly some of these medications create larger gains than exercise, but we can use exercise prophylactically to hopefully keep you away from, you know, needing medications. And if you're on medications, I mean, these are, there's a multifactorial approach to maintaining bone density. I also think about the younger spectrum, right? So coming from a professional cycling background, we see all these issues that we have from crashing, non-weight bearing, and how much bone loss is occurring over a season, not only in the young women, but also the young men. So when I was in that world and looking at the DEXs and going, oh my gosh, we go from normal bone density in young men to really low bone density in the season. And that same thing is happening with the women, but you compound that with low energy availability. And we're seeing all these stress fractures, broken clavicles, that kind of stuff. So we put in interventions throughout the season to have impact loading because yes, you want to ride your bike. You want to be as light as possible, but we also don't want you to crash and break everything. So it's that messaging of, okay, what kind of sport are you doing? What kind of energy availability do you have when you're younger? Because it's not just about, yeah, it's very complex. And we have to look at that overarching picture. I think coaches are becoming more aware that we can't just focus and be narrow on what is the pointy end of our sport, but how are we going to make our athletes as robust as possible? And that goes, yeah, exactly. And it comes from, yeah, little kids playing soccer and trying to keep them injury free all the way up to our professional Olympic athletes. And so it's across the whole spectrum that we have to be aware of this. Cycling is an interesting intersection of all the things that, all the things, yes, the energy deficiency that can happen. Not necessarily people always think of energy deficiency as disordered eating. And it's actually not that. That's why we no longer refer to the female athlete triad. We call it relative energy deficiency in sport, but certainly you can get into the overtraining, under fueling, and bicycling is essentially a non-load bearing exercise. They can have monster quads, but this gets into the difference of, do you have your huge quads and glutes from doing strength training where you are carrying the load and it's being applied across your lumbar spine and hips because you're literally carrying it as opposed to cycling where you're building up your quads and muscle mass and, you know, body composition does relate to bone health. However, that method of building up your quads isn't necessarily generating bone density. And I run into this, yes, this conversation all the time because we have so many people who have both arthritis and osteopenia. And for people who have knee pain, you know, what is one of the go-to ways you can still get your cardiovascular exercise, which is also extremely important to women. You know, cycling is a great way to get your cardio in. You can sprint, you can, you know, you can do all the things that you need for cardiovascular exercise and it can spare you from knee pain, but you're not getting that load bearing exercise. So I think it's important to recognize that there are, there is a place for some of these joint sparing forms of cardio, but we need to figure out how to supplement them with the resistance training that's more load bearing, trying to find ways that people can tolerate impact if they can. Yeah. Cycling is not going to help you with your bone density. And I suppose that brings us on to a lot of the recommendations for bone health is still quite outdated. People still think that just weight bearing is enough. So walking is enough to optimize your skeleton and running even is enough. But we know that actually from the research that we've done and people before us, that three body weights is sort of that threshold where the bone then switches on. So we actually need some targeted exercises that are, you know, that involves the right kind of landing, which is what, you know, what we provide in our osteogains bone health program. Yeah. So both of you have mentioned a little bit about, well, the hormone replacement therapy or the menopause hormone therapy. We call it different things in different countries. Yeah, depending on where you are, yeah. Yeah. Like what are your thoughts on whether this can actually be beneficial cumulatively? So we're not saying that it's going to take the place of the exercise or even getting the nutrition building blocks in place. But Jocelyn, do you want to start off with that? I mean, there's very clear evidence that for people who are able to use menopausal hormone therapy or HRT, specifically that includes estradiol, that this is, you know, going to improve your bone density in both your lumbar spine and your hip. Is it enough by itself? No, I completely think this should be coupled with strength training efforts, ideally impact exercises as well. But yeah, it is shifting the balance in favor of bone formation as compared to bone breakdown that would normally occur with withdrawal of estrogen for sure. Stace, have you got some thoughts on that? Whenever someone asks me about it, I'm like, okay, we have to look that menopause hormone therapy is a tool in the toolbox, right? Yeah. And we can't just say, I'm going to use that and everything's going to be fine, which I think is the rhetoric because, I mean, I worked on the Women's Health Initiative, so I know they out follow that. Now we're seeing the pendulum on the other side where people are like, oh, I'm going to use menopause hormone therapy. I'm going to back my 20s and nothing's going to worry. But actually it slows the rate of change. It doesn't stop it. So when someone's like, I'm on MHT, so I'm fine with my bones. It's like, well, no, actually you have to put the lifestyle changes in as well. And if someone's doing all the lifestyle things and they're still not getting to where they need to be, then I say, well, maybe we should consider MHT. So it's not all or nothing. We do have to look at where it fits in that whole schematic of how women are going through perimenopause. What are their needs? Other symptoms? Yeah. Are there symptoms? I mean, that's the main reason why people go on menopause hormone therapy is for symptomology. And we're seeing in the research that it's not protective for dementia prevention. There might be some cardiovascular benefits, but it depends on what age and when you start it. We do definitively know that it does help with bone and bone density. So when we're looking at the reasons why you prescribe MHT, it's symptomology and bone density. So if a woman is a risk factor for osteopenia or osteoporosis, then yes, for sure, that's something. But if someone isn't and has good bone density, maybe all the lifestyle things of impact and resistance training and adequate protein and following circadian rhythm, all that's going to be protective. But again, as Jocelyn was saying offline, we don't actually have enough research in that two-year period before the last menses to really understand what's going on. Right. The first acceleration in bone loss is in the year prior to your last menstrual cycle. So that's technically two years before menopause. And I think that is where lifestyle interventions like exercise are so important. Paying attention to your diet is so important. And for people who can't use hormone therapy, there are people for various reasons, you know, maybe history of, you know, a pulmonary embolism or a blood clot, or depending on different types of cancer history, to share decision-making processes, you know, they may not be a candidate for that. I think it's really important to note that some of the scale of the improvement that you can see with things like resistance training and impact combined is on par actually with the improvements that you can see very close to the amount that you can see with menopausal hormone therapy. So I don't ever want someone to hear the message that, oh, you know, estradiol does so much for your bone density. And, you know, without it, your bone density is going to decline because it can feel like there's nothing for them. And really important to note that just, again, the scale of the improvement can be nearly, you know, on par, particularly with the resistance training, impact training. If you look at the results of the Lift More trial, for example, gaining 3% bone density in your lumbar spine over an eight-month period is, you know, not dissimilar to some of the gains that we're seeing in the improvement in the lumbar spine through the Women's Health Initiative with Premarin. Right. So they're really, they need to be combined. And if you cannot use hormone therapy, there's so much that you can gain through exercise interventions and diet. Which I think is really important because of the way the pendulum is swung. There are people who are contraindicated for using MHT, but still are trying to find ways to get on it. So if we are very vocal and these are all the alternatives that are going to be on par with what you're seeing with MHT, I think it's going to help that pendulum come back in the middle and allow people to have more cohesive and educated understandings to make decisions. Mm-hmm. I actually, you've both talked a lot about bone mineral density. And I think, you know, that's one thing that, of course, is linked to hormone replacement therapy. But, you know, the change in bone geometry that can occur with exercise, you're not going to get that from hormones. You're going to get that as a remodeling process. Right. And so, you know, something like a target, you know, the targeted impact work, but also remodeling our muscles. So we know that muscle is an area that just is, Stacey's just creating so much momentum worldwide. Women are lifting heavy... Shh. I'm not going to say it. Yeah. Can I say lifting heavy stuff? Lifting heavy stuff. And I love that message because we've never really had that message for women before. And so, you know, is there a connection between our muscle and our bone? Like if we are in this area that we're talking about, this perimenopause, premenopause, menopausal, how important is muscle? Well, I mean, we have to look at muscle quality, right? We're seeing an earlier and earlier age of sarcopenia. And if we're having sarcopenia... So loss of muscle. Yeah. And the muscle quality is so low that it's not putting on the bone as it should be to invoke some of that multidirectional stress to keep the bone strong for the most part. And if we start looking at what's happening in perimenopause, we're losing a lot of the muscle quality because there's a disconnect between our contractile proteins where you can't get a strong, powerful contraction. So I see a lot of women are like, I don't understand. My running pace has slowed in the past six months. I can't lift this. I can't do... It's like we have to look at putting more load on to teach the muscle a different way of contracting powerfully and strong, which again is going to load the bone. So they kind of are very important together because you can't have strong load on muscle without strong bones and you can't have a strong muscle, you know? Yeah. Yeah. What I mean? Yeah. Yeah. Bone muscle together. You need them. We also live off of our youth for a long time. I mean, I was a collegiate gymnast and I, truthfully for years, I really didn't do a lot of heavier strength training, relied on the muscle that I had. And you do maintain it for many years. And then, you know, all of a sudden, as you start aging, you just start to become less muscular and you actually have to work for it. And it's really, really hard to put it on. You have to work hard, don't you? You have to. You can. But we know, you know, from studies of menopausal women that your, yes, your body composition, the amount of lean muscle mass you have is directly correlated to your bone density. Right. And yes, our bones respond to stress. There are so many examples of that throughout the lifetime. You know, even if you're a kid throwing a lot, you know, reshapes the shape of your proximal humerus. When you're jumping a lot, you are, you're going to get, you know, cortical increased thickness of the actual, you know, lining of the hip. If you were a gymnast growing up or you do a lot of weight bearing upper extremity activities, which I'm a big fan of because I think as we become adults, we don't, you know, we don't walk on our hands, but gymnasts have thicker cortices in their radius and forearm. Their bones are just, they have adapted to the load that was applied to them. So yeah, muscle load, load bearing impact, all these things sort of add up to the geometry of our bone and the density of the bone. And so definitely exercise plays a huge part, but nutrition plays a part as well. So, you know, what sort of aspects of nutrition do you think we should be focusing on, Stace, if we're thinking about our bone health, but also trying to actually maintain muscle and reduce that sarcopenia, losing the muscle, especially those fast-witch muscle fibers as we age, what would be some nutrition advice to add into that? Yeah. I try to direct people to the gut microbiome. Like we can all talk about how much protein you need and carbohydrate and fat and macros and get into the weeds of that. And we know that having like a certain amount of protein is really good for building muscle and we need protein for bone as well. But when we take a step back and go, what's the optimal thing for health span and body composition, it's really taking care of our gut microbiome. It's having a wide variety of colorful fruit and veg, high fiber. You know, we talk about 30 plants a week, like really taking care of the gut microbiome, especially if you're perimenopausal. See this incredible drop in the diversity of the gut microbiome, especially in late perimenopause, which is attributed to the lack of the second pass of our sex hormones. So the less our gut is exposed to sex hormones, the less diversity it has. And we see that with that drop in diversity, unfortunately it's the growth of the obesogenic phyla that occurs. So we're seeing more in predisposition for body fat with a loss of muscle, which also impacts the way we move, which then furthers into how our bones, right. As well as brain connection and immunity. So if we're looking at all the things, right, the very first thing we can start with is our gut microbiome. How do we take care of that? Because if that feeds forward to feeling better, having better body composition, if we feel better and have better body composition, we want to move more. If we move more than we're putting more load on our muscle and our bone. So it's like the one thing I tell everyone now, it's like whatever macro thing you want to follow. I'm not huge on calories or macros. I care about women for their gut microbiome. I care about women being strong, having strong bones and taking up space. And if you have the confidence to move and take up that space and you have the confidence to build that muscle and have the strong bones, then you naturally set up stronger. You naturally set up taller. I love that. And yeah. And I mean, that's something that I want to pass down to our younger generation now, especially as we start to see the Ozimpec phase come into play, which is really scary. If we think about the first thing that goes and someone starts using Ozimpec, it's muscle and bone. Yeah. I want to layer on your comments about gut health, but also the aspect of fiber in your diet. Fiber is definitely an important aspect of an anti-inflammatory diet. And there is a lot of information on both perimenopausal and menopausal women who have a more anti-inflammatory diet. So basically a better score on the dietary inflammatory index, having diminished risk for fracture. As compared to people with a more inflammatory diet and dietary fiber is an important part of that because when we get adequate fiber, basically our gut microbacteria generates something called short chain fatty acids. And there's a distinct mechanism that affects both your joint health. So inflammation and your joints and your bone health. So there are pathways that short chain fatty acids diminish, which contribute to breaking down of bone. And then interestingly with the GLP-1 medications, the issue is of course, sarcopenia. When you see these medications used for diabetes, not at the doses for weight loss, without the more significant loss of muscle mass, they actually are beneficial for bones and joints interfering with some of the inflammatory processes that lead to joint pain, interfering with some of the inflammatory cascades that lead to bone breakdown to the point that people can actually see reduced fracture risks. But if you're looking at the doses for weight loss in the setting of not doing combined strength training and resistance training to maintain the muscle mass, you can see loss of bone density. If you're combining these medications with intentional, you know, dietary modifications, getting adequate protein plus the strength training and resistance training, it could then kind of be a neutral effect. So you could offset that. But, you know, GLP-1 in its natural form or the receptor agonist, it can actually have a mechanism that is helpful for bone, but not in the setting of loss of the muscle mass, not in the setting of absence of the strength training. So it's a very complex interaction. Balance. Yeah. Yes. But I don't think the general population is using it in that way. Right. And that's the problem. There's a magic bullet. Right. I mean, we have people wanting to microdose for the 10 vanity pounds and, you know, there's so many confounding variables around it. And I think when we talk about ultimately, what are we trying to do with this? We're trying to create a healthy human and the doses that are out there to create aesthetically what Hollywood wants is not in congruency with a healthy human. And it's about the lifespan, isn't it? Mm-hmm. Yeah. Yeah. So supplements. Yeah. What would you, I mean, there's definitely a place for, of course, getting the diet right first. Absolutely. And looking after the gut microbiome. But what about supplements? Is there some key ones that we should know about that could benefit us, our muscles, our bones, and even our quality of life, longevity? I'm always going to say creatine. Yeah. I love it. Creatine monohydrate. I mean, there's so much new research coming out of how it affects brain health in a positive manner. We know that it's also part of muscle and bone. Like it's all the fast energetics in the body. So you think about all of our cellular functions, it somehow requires creatine. And yes, our body makes some, but it's not quite enough. So creatine definitely is one of them. When we look for women who have issues of bone, maybe we're looking at vitamin D, right? So we're looking at, at some of the specificities of, of supplementation that actually go into bone development. But as a blanket statement, the only thing I can say is creatine. Yeah. And so that, I mean, creatine has been historically something that our bodybuilding male, males have used. So, you know, is it the same dosing for females? And what about our grandmothers? Should they be using creatine? Yeah. I like it. Yeah. So if we look at how it's evolved, right, we first see from the bodybuilding set, it was five grams, four times a day with 20 grams of carbohydrate. So if we look at that, you're going to get water retention, you're going to get bloating, discomfort, gut discomfort. And it was all about muscle performance. We know that an acute dose of creatine isn't going to do much, except maybe improve muscle performance, because it takes time for all your tissues to be saturated. So if we're looking from a health standpoint, that includes muscle performance and improvement in bone improvement and gut health, and our cardiovascular health, our brain health, it's only three to five grams a day. So it's a very small amount. It can take it any time. It takes about three weeks for the body to be fully saturated with that. And over the course of those three weeks, you're going to start to feel a little bit better. Dr. Jennifer Lange If we're looking at times of shift work, if we're looking at jet lag, severe sleep deprivation, then we look at some of the newer research that's saying 0.38 grams per kilogram of body weight, which ends up about 20 gram dose for 132 pound or 60 kilo woman. And then that really helps with brain metabolism. So we think about sleep deprivation and what's happening. And we see this with circadian shift is the brain hasn't been able to have its full cleansing capacity because it hasn't been able to have that full night's sleep. So you have these pockets during the day where you have brain fog or a lapse of attention. And this is where the brain is like, oh, I'm going to clean. Dr. Jennifer Lange So it's like flushing and yeah. So if we look at creatine, creatine intensifies that amount of clearing out the towel plaques and allowing the brain to get back on its natural rhythm, which reduces that brain fog, which reduces that lack of attention span. So this is why we're really looking at creatine as an intervention for people who are sleep deprived or shift work or jet lag and that kind of stuff. Dr. Jennifer Lange I think this is another case where you need to emphasize though, when you look at people always ask, does creatine monohydrate help you improve bone density? It's another scenario where the answer is not in the absence of strength. Exactly. Dr. Jennifer Lange Exactly. Dr. Jennifer Lange So there are, yes. Dr. Jennifer Lange I guess we should market it as like, when we're talking about all of this, we're also talking in conjunction with jumping and strength training. Dr. Jennifer Lange Against the, you know, the creatine monohydrate may help you build muscle mass, which then helps you improve your bone density. So it's an indirect effect, but it's not like if you just take creatine monohydrate and use estradiol, you're going to be good to go. Dr. Jennifer Lange Yeah, yeah, yeah. Dr. Jennifer Lange Yeah, yeah. Dr. Jennifer Lange So that's not an easy fix. Dr. Jennifer Lange You still have to do the work. Dr. Jennifer Lange Yeah. Dr. Jennifer Lange You know, a lot of supplements are not necessarily geared towards bone health. A lot of them are also for like joint pain and inflammation. And I always tell my patients, I don't want you to go beyond 20 supplements. The ones I feel like are high yield are like, so the creatine monohydrate. I do like to tell people that vitamin D, 2000 international units a day, which is not in excess of, you know, the max daily value that we consider to be 4,000 units a day, if you're not deficient, does have some evidence for also helping with joint pain. So people with early arthritis can benefit from a dose of vitamin D that is above the daily value. And I think, you know, there's also some other benefits of vitamin D, like association with decreased risk of depression, associated with decreased risk of dementia. So not, you know, necessarily direct causation, but associated. And so I think that is a good one to consider for multiple reasons. I like anything that has some evidence with multiple health benefits. And then, you know, I have a lot of patients who have, you know, chronic joint pain and they don't want to be on NSAIDs all the time. And so I do think that there's reasonable evidence also for curcumin supplements for reducing joint pain, essentially, you know, acting as an NSAID. It's turmeric, really, isn't it? Yeah. As long as you don't have liver dysfunction. And I think if anyone is going to be on a supplement all the time for a long time, you definitely always need to talk to your doctor about it because, you know, this can have interactions with other medications and you should have regular lab work and things like that. Yeah. And because this is the most, one of the most common questions I get when I leave the patient room is, um, what should I eat? What exercise should I do? And what supplements should I take? Those are like the top three questions I get from patients. I actually put in our book, you know, these are things that have really good evidence behind them. So like worth taking, these are things that are maybe worth taking mixed evidence. And these are things that are not worth taking because there's just so people are just flooded with information about supplements and it's such an industry. And I just worry about people taking too many supplements, you know, and forgetting about the food first. Yeah. And forgetting about the food first. Yeah. Food first. And you've both talked about inflammation quite a lot. And, um, I have heard Stacy, you talk about things like fish oil and flaxseed oil as well. Omega threes. Yeah. The omega threes. I look at omega threes from not only the anti-inflammatory properties, but also again, for brain health. So for a lot of the work that we've done with TBI, we look at, uh, creatine and omega threes. So how, um, brain injury, concussion, that kind of stuff, mild concussion, mild hit, just some of the factors that come into the fatigue when you have, uh, those mild hits all the time or one big hit. So we use it prophylactically for contact sports. So it's, yeah, it has nothing to do with brain health, but I mean with bone health, but it actually can have something to do with bone health. So yeah. Yeah. Well, I don't think you can really actually separate joint health and, uh, bone health because if you're having knee pain or hip pain or whatever, and, and again, the same populations are at risk. Women are more at risk for osteoarthritis. They're more at risk for osteoporosis. Sometimes the goals and you know, the, the needle you're having to thread between not aggravating your joint pain and working to maintain your bone density is, it's just a tough needle to thread. So I, I think you always have to pay attention to joint health. So things that make your joints feel better will help you do things that maintain your, your bones. And there is some evidence, uh, for, you know, fish oil, some data actually coming from patients with rheumatoid arthritis, because they have such severe joint inflammation, actually showing benefits for reducing joint inflammation, uh, with fish oil. Not that I would ever tell a patient with rheumatoid arthritis to discontinue their rheumatoid meds, but you know, there is some evidence that comes from that population that's showing it can also reduce joint pain. Yeah. So collagen, what are your thoughts on that? Yeah. Just maybe a, a, an opinion. Yeah. Yeah. Do you want to go first? We may have slightly different opinions. There is some benefit in some people, but we know that there are responders and non-responders and also the type of collagen has a, has a huge play into what's happening. When you go buy a collagen supplement, I get frustrated with the marketing saying it's a protein. It's a structural protein. It's not a dietary protein. So people use it as if it's a muscle building. Not to add to your dietary. Right. It doesn't. And most of them are type ones and twos, which is really just skin and hair and nails. It's not about joint. You want to look for a type two that's joint. And then is it a peptide? Is it a native? Do you respond to it? Do you not? So the evidence is really equivocal. Like there is some people that really benefit from it and others who don't. So again, as a, as a blanket statement, oh yeah, you should definitely use collagen. It's kind of like with a pause, we have to look at who you are, what your activity, do you respond to it? What are your needs? So there's a lot of other things you do before you get to collagen. There are so many things you can use, but I do think there's reasonable evidence for type one collagen. There are some studies, you know, showing improvement in bone density. Yeah. Is everyone a responder? Possibly not. And I also feel like it's not harmful. Right. I just think it's a waste of money. But it could, but for some people, yeah, there's cost associated. And then for joint health, there are two forms. So there is the hydrolyze form that can include type two, which there is some basic science evidence for showing essentially reduced breakdown products of your, of your cartilage in your body. And some people having reduction of joint pain. And then there's another type called under nature type two collagen, with some studies also showing diminished joint pain. So this is what I always tell my patients. If you're going to try something, first of all, don't go try, like, don't add on four different things at the same time. Give yourself a little test, or even if you're already taking something and you're not sure if it helps, stop taking it for a month. Like glucostamine and jointin is a really common one I see people taking, which has very, I would say, mixed evidence. And one of the best done studies called the gate trials showed that it really wasn't very helpful in most people. But people are again, you're spending $30 a month. So I always tell people if you've been taking this, give yourself a holiday from it. See if you notice a difference, go back on it. See if you feel better, because these are, can be like long-term investments. People can be spending a lot of money on things. But I actually, I'm very much a fan of anti-inflammatory diet for bone and joint health. And I think food is probably ultimately more important than a lot of supplements. And we didn't really talk about, you know, some of the things you need to get out of your diet for your bone health, like adequate magnesium, calcium, you know, vitamin K. I think most people can get actually without too much difficulty. And then yeah, the fiber for sure. And I find it really interesting as an expat to go back to the States and I'll walk into a grocery store and there are rows and rows and rows and rows of stuff that's supposedly food, but it's nothing I would eat because like you put a piece of toast in the toaster, it smells like cake. So we also have to look at the availability of the kinds of foods that are there. So what's the old saying, like shop the perimeter, like your grandmother, it's holds so true, especially in the States, food sourcing and and stuff here in New Zealand is completely different. And there's so many ultra processed foods both here and in the States, but in the States, it's such a much higher level and people are just bombarded by the like, here's a protein pop tart. Oh, it's protein, right? Without really thinking, oh, it's an ultra processed food has nothing beneficial for my gut in there. So those are some of the other quantification. So we have to- The fewer the ingredients, the better. Yeah, exactly. So at this point, I would love to get a gold nugget from each of you. If we were just going to talk about, if you had to just pull out one thing that you think is a message that you'd like to provide on bone health, let's just peel it back to that. Do you want to start, Jocelyn? This is a very basic thing, but I feel like as people age, they, you start to encounter little ailments and they add up and someone will say, I can't do this and I can't do that. I can't do that. And I just tell my patients, think of aging as when you were a kid and you had a sports related injury. And while you had the injury, you had to figure out a way to work around it. Except for as you age, many of these things don't go away and they're there forever. So you just, you need to think of them as sports related injuries that you continue to work around because you have to stay mobile. You have to stay active. You know, if you can't run, you can walk. If you can't do a heavy back squat, you know, maybe you can do knee extensions to maintain your quads, but do farmer's carry instead. You know, we just, we need to constantly find workarounds for limitations. Otherwise, you know, you're going to become like less and less mobile, less and less strong. Sometimes we just need to be accepting of those limitations. And if you can't lift super heavy stuff, there is still benefit to moderate intensity strength training. It's not as much as high intensity, but I just, I think we need to remove that barrier to entry to maintaining physical fitness and strength training for people that have some of these ailments that kind of maybe keep them away from some of the really high level stuff. You know, if you can't do the eight inch drop, jump and a rebound, you can still do heel drops. And so my message to people is yes, as you age, you're inevitably going to accumulate ailments that affect what you can and can't do, but it's just, you can't let it defeat you. You need to find ways to work around your ailments and, you know, find ways to get that impact, find ways to get that load bearing, find ways to do your cardio. It's just, we're never going to be as young as we were yesterday. And it's, it's okay to accept that and find ways to navigate this. So I love it. That's my, my nugget. I love that. I think that comes on the back of, I have noticed that a lot of people are very absolutist. Like nuance. Yeah. I can't lift heavy. I'm not going to lift. I can't jump. I'm not going to jump. It's like, no, just like you're saying it's, it's your journey, right? And sometimes you get a big brick wall and you got to find a way around it or over it. And it's the same. It's a nuance. What is your journey? What are your sticking points? Nobody has a straight path. And so we have to know that we have the modifications. Again, if you can't lift heavy, bring it back. Maybe you're doing more reps. Maybe you're adding some contrast training. So you're having more tempo involved. So you're putting different types of strain on the bus and on the bone and the muscle. So again, it is a workaround and it's also reframing what it means to be fit and active at this point in our lives. It's like, if you were to look at what I was doing 10 years ago with a three-year-old versus what I'm doing now, it's like, what I'm doing now isn't because I don't have a three-year-old. It's because these are the things that are allowing me to keep moving, which is way less and different than what I was trying to do when my kid was three. So, you know, you do have a different journey and people kind of go, well, how did you go from being competitive athlete to you just really loving strength training? It's like, yeah, I went from Ironmaning to loving strength training because this is what my body needs and this is the path that I'm on. Maybe other people will find that path, but I can't dictate to you what to do. We're not absolutists. But we can never stop. No. We can never stop. No. And don't compare yourself to others. Yes, I think that's a biggie as well. You can do what you can do. There are some, you know, it's just like if you think of athletes who finally get to some stage of their career, you know, there are other people who were maybe like as talented as those people, but had some career ending injury or something like that. I mean, like we all sustain different tweaks and injuries as we age. And I am so impressed by some people who are the same age as me that can do things that I can't do because if I did them, I would actually have like a lot of pain or whatever I might be. So I just think, you know, it's, it can be really kind of self-defeating to compare yourself to other people and be like, well, that person is doing that. Why can I do that? It's just, we all have our own needle to thread as I would say, between balancing our ailments and the physical fitness that we pursue. And what's your nugget? My nugget is, it's along the lines of, of you ladies. I think it's the, that exercise and is the fountain of youth. I do think use it or lose it. I know we've heard all those before. And I totally agree. I have things that I have to do before I can actually do the things I want to do. So it's, it's managing, being able to have the lifestyle that you want. And sometimes it means I have to hop on the floor and spend 15 minutes trying to actually get my body to move with fluid, fluidly before I can actually go for a run. So, but I'm still going to go for a run. In fact, I have to invest more in the pre and post. Sometimes the pre and post seems like it's longer than the actual doing, but I think it's still worth it for, for joy. And also knowing that it's a, our body is, we want this body to see us through our whole lives. So we, it's up to us to invest in our own bodies and, and keep them working as, as well as they can. And I would love to know what you ladies are up to. So Stace, have you got a project or anything that you'd like to share with us? Something that you're working on right now? Many projects. Yeah. One I'm really excited about is called Collective Health X. And this is, you know, how we have this massive gender gap in research. And then the other problem we have is AI. And AI is written by who's in the room and primarily male data engineers. And so we're just getting the echo chamber of that bell curve. So what we're doing is we have created a platform where we are looking specifically at women's health research. And all the algorithms are written by female data scientists, looking at the nuances of ethnicity, the way that the studies were created. So right now people go to consensus AI or open AI and they write a question and they get, or chat GDP. Ours is similar from the aspect of we're going to be able to ask questions, but it's just on women's health research, written through the view of women and the lens of how we are living our lives and our social cultural aspects of all that. So that's the basis of one, but the other is the industry and the researcher gap, because we see there's lack of funding. We see there's lots of industry that have a gazillion data points that are not being researched or used in research. And we have a lot of young researchers or up and coming researchers who don't have access to funding, who have a lot of really intelligent questions. So I say we're the tender between researchers and industry. So you can propose a project and get access to different industry data, be able to answer the question. Then the companies get their data published and they can use that as a reference point for their products. And then the researchers are able to keep investigating in all these billions of data points. So that's one major project that we've soft launched and we're pushing forward. And then I'm also writing two books. That's so awesome. And so you've already written two cool books. I've written two books and now these other... What's the difference? So the other two are like the bookends of these. So we're doing next-gen, that's all about puberty and the sex differences that from how a girl experiences sport and how her body changes and how we can coach them differently and encourage them to stay in sport participation or even being active. And the other is longevity for active women. Because if we look at, you know, people talk about muscle memory. There is something like that because we see epigenetic changes that happen with exercise. So if you're a lifelong exerciser, the current information about what you need to do from an exercise and nutrition and sleep standpoint is not applicable because that's based on a sedentary population or bro science. And we look specifically at sex differences in every system. Exercise affects all of those systems. The sex differences affect all of those systems. So as lifelong exercisers, what do we need to put into play to have a really good health span? So that's what the second book's about. Prequel and a sequel. Yeah. Love it, Stace. Thanks. So excited. Can't wait for those books to be published. Thanks. So I'm looking forward to that. Me too. Because that means the work will be done. Yeah. Sounds good. And Jocelyn, what are you up to? Yeah. You have your book here today. This is my first book, but I have the bug. I want to do more. I co-authored this with one of my lifelong, actually one of my former gymnastics teammates, Sydney Niskorski, who's a registered dietitian. But this is a book for really, well, medical and non-medical people to understand their bone and joint health. So arthritis, osteoporosis, diet and exercise interventions that you can utilize for helping to prevent that, but also how to manage it if you have it. And then everything you need to know, like basically to go into your doctor, you know, visit kind of with a better knowledge base, which I think really empowers people to kind of partake in shared decision-making, you know? So this was a very fun journey for me. I learned a lot doing that. But as I alluded to, my actual main job is I'm a full-time orthopedic surgeon and educator. This is just your side. This is my night weekend. This is my night weekend fashion project. This was so, I loved doing this with a friend. It was so fun. So some of the things I'm doing now, I'm participating in the Milken Institute Women's Health group, trying to sort of, you know, help push women's health forward in a non-siloed fashion. I have some ongoing research related to frozen shoulder and menopausal women. I've submitted several new NIH grants this year with, or not I, we submitted. It's always we, there's no I in team. And I work very closely with some of our PhDs at Duke who are incredible. Lou DeFreight and Amy McNulty, who are PhDs that I collaborate with. And we're working on some studies on women's cartilage resiliency in their knees in midlife because women are more prone to arthritis than men. We are doing some ongoing research on ACL injury risk and men versus women in fatigued states also with hormone levels using some really high-tech technology. And I have an ongoing registry related to musculoskeletal symptoms and menopause with my colleague in women's health, Dr. Ann Ford, who's an incredible collaborator. So a lot of studies, yeah, at the intersection of essentially musculoskeletal conditions that disproportionately affect women and girls. And I thought I did a lot. Oh my gosh. You get one of these as well. Wow. I know. And so how can we learn more about what you ladies are up to? So how can we connect with you and follow you? Yeah. Social media, I guess, is the best way, right? I think that's the way we go. Yeah. I feel like a baby social media person, thanks to my, at the time, 19-year-old daughter who helped me establish an Instagram account. But I have to say that also is a learning experience for me. And I have learned so much from people who have messaged me and asked me questions. It's really been one of these experiences where if I share a piece of information and then you get these questions back, it really has helped me understand the population as a whole, but also my patients. What is the hunger for knowledge? What is it that they don't understand? I share something and the questions that come back just really have given me a better understanding for what information is missing for people. So I have actually learned so much from interactions with people on Instagram. It's been like a really interesting learning experience for me. Positive, I hope. Positive, yeah, that I did not expect. Yeah. And same with you, Stace, just Instagram, YouTube. Yeah, all of those. Yep. She'll be boosted because we'll be collaborating. We'll be collaborating. I love it. I have an official website through my, you know, through Duke, but it's, that's, you know, unless you're in North Carolina, you're probably not going to come see me as a patient. But I, that's where I work. So, well, I'm just thrilled to have had you two wonderful women chat to us about your huge and extensive knowledge in this area of bone joint muscle health. And I thank you so much for sharing this conversation. I've really enjoyed it. Thank you for inviting me. Yeah. Thanks for having us. Great. Thank you.