! narspeyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttyttytt thing. And so fasting seemed to be helpful. And my girlfriends were trying, we all kind of did this fasting thing. And I was like super excited about it. Everybody felt better, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Okay. So fast forward, I'm learning more about hormones, body composition, protein intake, all of these needs. And suddenly as I'm counseling my patients, I'm realizing I can't meet my own protein goals if I'm trying to fast at the same time. And I quickly realized if we're looking at healthspan, if we're looking at body composition, there may not be a lot of room for fasting for these patients, you know, or for my girlfriends, you know, and it is really difficult for my patients to reach their nutrition goals. So never at the expense of meeting your basic nutrition goals and your calorie needs. And it is really, really hard to do while fasting. So you may get a short-term benefit with weight loss, but there really doesn't now, Duster Sims can get into the nitty gritty of, you know, all the basic idea of fasting. If we want to use the term fasting, we have to look at it as, are we talking about intermittent fasting or time-restricted eating? So intermittent fasting is kind of like, you know, your water fast, your five-day, two-day, all that kind of crazy stuff, which for the most part, men can get away with and have a positive impact on body composition, but women can't. If we want to talk about time-restricted eating and working with our circadian rhythm, which is optimal, then you have breakfast within, or food within a half an hour of waking up that helps dampen that ghrelin and cortisol response I talked about before, so that everything's coming down, your hormones are starting to work properly, and your body's like, great, I'm ready to go. I can, I can handle this. And then you're eating at regular intervals. And I try to have people have protein and fiber at every eating interval so that they are maximizing protein and fiber intake. Then you have dinner, and then you don't eat after dinner. What do you mean by every eating interval? So breakfast, maybe you have a snack. If we're looking at training or exercise, if you're splitting your breakfast, then you're having some protein and carb before, you're having the rest of your protein or more protein afterwards. And then you're having some protein and some fiber at lunch. So you're having maybe tempeh or tofu or salmon with salad or fruit and veg. So every time you're eating, you have a protein and fiber focus. So time-restricted eating is within a 24-hour period? So you're looking at, I'm going to eat during the day when my body needs it, and I'm going to stop eating when I finish dinner. So I have about a two, maybe three-hour break before I go to bed. So that when I go to bed, I'm not trying to digest food. My body can get into the parasympathetic responses it needs to, to sleep well for reparation. And then I eat again at what time? When you wake up in the morning. It's typically about 12 hours of eating and 12 hours of not. So you're trying to follow that circadian rhythm and work with your hormones. It can also, when you do have that period of time, which maybe that sounds very intuitive, but a lot of people are eating at 10 PM, they're snacking on food, then they're trying to go to bed, and then they're getting up. When you give your body a little bit longer, so at 12 hours time, is when your body will really efficiently be using up all your glucose, really dropping some of those insulin levels. But it's not so much that it's stressful. And we're using stress very generically here, but on a cellular level, long periods of fasting for women specifically can be very stressful to the body. And that's why if you think about Stacy's example of what happened in two fasting periods to, you know, a man and a woman, different things are going to happen to your body if it thinks it's being in starvation. So we don't want to put your body in a starve state. We're just trying to give it a time period without food so that it can start to process the energy that's available differently. Why not though? What's going to happen? I understand from what we talked about earlier that my fertility, my cycle is going to change. But is that it? Well, there's adaptive stress, and then there's stress to the point of you're hurting yourself. Men can, you said that men can do longer fasts. They can. They can do longer fasts, and it can show to actually, you know, be something that might be advantageous for them for how their body is made, might increase their focus and some other metrics. But for women, these longer periods are actually going to promote more visceral fat storage and become pro-inflammatory. And you said it a little casually, but disrupting your hypothalamus and shutting off your hormone system will cause a low estrogen state. And that's very problematic, as we've talked about. So thinking about your body should not be in a starved state. So utilizing time-restricted eating, meaning I'm going to eat within my circadian rhythm, the hours that there is sun outside, back how your body is made to function, is working with your biology. If you're saying, I'm going to not eat for three days because I'm doing this fasting period, for women, that's going to induce a stressful state where you're going to start to store more as visceral fat, and cause more inflammation. And if we bring it into the, you know, people holding a fast till noon or after, you're phase shifting. So it's like you're having social jet lag, where if you're phase shifting, your hormone responses, your appetite hormones, then you're not going to get into a good sleep because your body's like, it's not time to go to sleep. Your melatonin peak in women usually peaks around nine o'clock. So you start to get sleepy. That gets shifted to 11, 12. So you're not actually going to get good sleep because you now have reset your melatonin responses. So we want women to understand that time-restricted eating when you're not eating in the dark is really beneficial. Right? Easiest way to say it. Easiest way to say it. Yeah. You're fueling for your body during the day because that's when it needs the fuel. That's when we want to be able to create an environment that's supportive to hormone health, supportive to muscle growth, to brain health, to all the things, and reducing stress when we can control that stress. So when you start phase shifting and holding fast and creating this stress on a circadian level, knowing that there's a circadian response on every cell as well as a total body circadian rhythm, that if you shift that, then we start seeing a lot of metabolic dysfunction, poor sleep. And unfortunately, we see this in shift workers because that's what's happening. They're having circadian shift. And they have significantly lower longevity. They live, what, I think I had 14 years less. You're working night shifts. I don't know. You have higher rates of infertility, higher rates of pregnancy loss. You're more metabolically unhealthy. Of course, we're generalizing a group of people. And sometimes I think we've all had moments of life where shift work was part of what we had to do. But night shift work, most people are not getting enough sleep during the day. And they're what we call flipping back and forth, right? Because you want to be on a daytime schedule on your off days and live your life that you're constantly sacrificing what your body needs. And what I tell people is you may, if you can get off of that, it will be a healthier life pattern. But in moments where it's not, you need to really prioritize trying to get enough sleep, making sure that you're taking care of yourself in the other time periods because you're set up for a place that is going to cause hormone dysfunction and impact your metabolic health. You believe the same, I believe. I advocate feeding ourselves for optimum health. To be any kind of active, you must feed yourself and stop eating three hours before bed. So what do you think of people that do these longer fasts? Do you think that they've just been given poor advice? Because I know, I was talking about Mel earlier, and I know she does frequently does three-day fasts. Because I think people think they've heard this term. Autophagy. Autophagy is the term. Take it, Stacey. So this is the thing with autophagy. You get that with exercise. So the idea of autophagy is recycling some of the parts of cells that have broken down or somehow become dysfunctional. So your body's really good at cleaning that out. We see with exercise, it invokes that autophagy. With fasting, it invokes that too, but not the severe fasting, like three-day fast, that kind of stuff. When we're looking at the telomere changes that people say with fasting, you get that with exercise. So telomere is points that we look on the DNA to see how you're aging. So we want longer telomere length because that means you are more stress resilient. You get that with exercise because exercise is a big stress. It creates a change within, like we were talking about before, yeah, adaptive stress, epigenetic changes, which improves all of those markers that people are so adamant fasting does. What about fasting and then doing exercise? So fasted exercises? For women, no. That's what you taught me. For men, I'm going to say no as well, because when we're looking at the fueling mechanics of exercise, muscle is a very metabolically active tissue. If your body is trying to fuel itself, it's going to break down the very first thing that's creating an energetic need, which is muscle. We see in women, women- So you're going to lose muscle. You're going to break it down and use the amino acids as fuel. You can tap into blood glucose and some fat. But when you aren't bringing blood glucose up through eating first, it's really hard for your body to understand that this is what you want it to do. So it's like, okay, I need to conserve fat. I don't want to go through all the glucose that I have because I need it for brain health. So I'm going to start feeding more amino acids in to fuel what I'm doing. For women, we already use more amino acid than men. So if we're looking at fasted training, then we're already increasing the amount of lean mass that our body is going to break down to use as fuel.