! NAC- you think about women are over 50% of the population. And then we look at bone and bone health. We know that there is not just an aging issue that occurs with women, but we also see that there is a hormonal flux, right? We'll see younger women who have both thalamic amenorrhea who don't have their periods to end up with lower bone density. And we see that in perimenopause and right up into the two years before menopause, there's significant changes in bone and bone density. And the reason why we really want to focus on why we want to increase that bone density prior to hitting perimenopause is we also see women live longer, but that length of life is not a quality of life in the general population. So if we're looking at women who are exercising, who are putting the stress on the bone to improve the bone turnover and the bone density, they tend to have less of a fragile life and more of a robust later postmenopausal life. And so they can live the quality that they want. Perfect. Yeah. And in my practice as an orthopedic surgeon, of course, you know, the real world implication of this is that 75% of hip fractures occur in women. You know, women in their 50s are the, you know, first at-risk group to sustain distal radius fractures. You know, it's kind of like a canary in the coal mine. So you have these 50-year-old women fall and break the wrist. Those women are twice as likely to subsequently have a hip fracture. But, you know, why is this happening? It's cumulative across the lifespan. We have women who were intense athletes who had periods of amenorrhea, you know, relative energy deficiency syndrome, potentially then, you know, arriving at perimenopause where we see the first acceleration in bone loss, you know, happening the year before your last menstrual period. And then, of course, menopause, early menopause associated with accelerated bone loss. And so all these things can be really cumulative for women and just put them so much more at risk. And then, you know, a hip fracture is a real change in someone's quality of life. You can go from being able to walk to being dependent on a walker, from being on a walker to a wheelchair, wheelchair to not being able to transfer. And so there's a real loss of independence that can happen in our later years because of things that, you know, a cascade that really started, honestly, before the age of 30 with building of peak bone density. And we also see now that the, that peak bone density is even lower because of the inactivity of our kids, right? So it's becoming more of a public burden disease rather than just a specificity of women in a certain type of lifestyle. And that's why it's really important to get the messaging out to younger and younger populations. Like it's not just about, you know, how you're going to live when you get older, but the fact that if you don't start now, then your whole quality of life is going to be affected throughout the decades as you proceed. So is there such a time as it's too late to start working on your bone health? Like when is the best time to start focusing on bone health? Now. Now. Whatever now is. Yeah, whatever now is. Yeah, I totally agree. This question can be interpreted badly in so many ways. So I always like to say, yes, you do attain your peak bone density by the age of 30. And we know from studies of high impact sports like soccer, basketball, gymnastics, certainly you can arrive at age 30 with greater bone density and hold onto that in adulthood or decline from a higher peak into adulthood. But whenever I share that message that our peak bone density is attained by age 30, and yes, we need to emphasize those activities prior to that, I always want to make sure we don't send a discouraging message to older adults and women, especially postmenopausal women or even women in their 60s, that it's too late because that message can, it's really easy to misinterpret that. But there are tons of studies and a lot of research on women with low bone density, you know, osteopenia, osteoporosis who are in their 60s, who are able to make improvements. So now is the time. It's never too late to start. Although if we could go back in time, it'd be great to emphasize these things in our teens and 20s. Yeah, absolutely. And I suppose that leads us on to what can be done. Like what is it that we can do to improve our bone health? Stace, you want to start? Where to start? You start. I'll start kind of like in the middle to the end. Okay. Yeah, I love that. I always bring this up as a case study that I like to demonstrate that it doesn't matter how old you are when you start building bone. So there were three women I was working with and they are all in their 60s and they all were osteopenia or had low normal bone density. One was osteoporotic and they were really afraid of going on menopause hormone therapy because of their age, their late 60s. They didn't know what to do. They felt like they were kind of doomed, you know, here I have weak bones and what do I do? And I was like, well, let's first put some body weight on there. And then we're going to start getting into lifting heavy and then we're going to get into plyometrics. And like, I'm not ever going to be able to jump. What are you crazy? So over the course of six to eight months, we progressively overloaded them, got them into heavy lifting, then put them into plyo and they all got into a normal range of bone density. And that was a very short amount of time. We're thinking about eight months. So it's not impossible at whatever age, and it's not, you know, based on hormone status or anything like that. It's about the mechanical kind of load that you can put on the whole skeleton. And that's what I love so much about what you're doing with the multi-directional force of jumping and how important it is because people used to say, oh, you can't jump when you're old, especially if weak bones, there's no way you can't lift heavy. You can't do any kind of, you know, mechanical stress because you're going to break your bone. But we know inherently from the research and from clinical work that that's just not true. Yeah. And I mean, it's been shown in study after study, the best combination in terms of an approach of exercise for improving bone density is a combination of resistance training and impact training, ideally. And just to safely do that, these have to be a gradual exposure. So many of these studies are interventions that are eight to 12 months, you know, showing improvements in bone density, again, even in women in their 60s. And when you think about that in terms of the timeline that we study medications on, you know, medications that improve bone density, we're often looking at interventions that are, you know, two to three years. And certainly some of these medications create larger gains than exercise, but we can use exercise prophylactically to hopefully keep you away from, you know, needing medications. And if you're on medications, I mean, these are, there's a multifactorial approach to maintaining bone density. I also think about the younger spectrum, right? So coming from a professional cycling background, we see all these issues that we have from crashing, non-weight bearing, and how much bone loss is occurring over a season, not only in the young women, but also the young men. So when I was in that world and looking at the DEXs and it's going, oh my gosh, we go from normal bone density in young men to really low bone density in the season. And that same thing is happening with the women, but you compound that with low energy availability. And we're seeing all these stress fractures, just broken clavicles, that kind of stuff. So we put in interventions throughout the season to have impact loading because yes, you want to ride your bike. You want to be as light as possible, but we also don't want you to crash and break everything. So it's that messaging of, okay, what kind of sport are you doing? What kind of energy availability do you have when you're younger? Because it's not just about, yeah, it's very complex. And we have to look at that overarching picture. I think coaches are becoming more aware that we can't just focus and be narrow on what is the pointy end of our sport, but how are we going to make our athletes as robust as possible? And that goes, yeah, exactly. And it comes from, yeah, little kids playing soccer and trying to keep them injury free all the way up to our professional Olympic athletes. And so it's across the whole spectrum that we have to be aware of this. Yeah. Cycling is an interesting intersection of all the things that, all the things, yes, the energy deficiency that can happen. Not necessarily people always think of energy deficiency as disordered eating. And it's actually not that. That's why we no longer refer to the female athlete triad. We call it relative energy deficiency in sport, but certainly you can get into the overtraining, under fueling, and bicycling is essentially a non-load bearing exercise. They can have monster quads, but this gets into the difference of, do you have your huge quads and glutes from doing strength training where you are carrying the load and it's being applied across your lumbar spine and hips because you're literally carrying it as opposed to cycling where you're building up your quads and muscle mass and body composition does relate to bone health. However, that method of building up your quads isn't necessarily generating bone density. And I run into this conversation all the time because we have so many people who have both arthritis and osteopenia. And for people who have knee pain, what is one of the go-to ways you can still get your cardiovascular exercise, which is also extremely important to women. Cycling is a great way to get your cardio in. You can sprint, you can do all the things that you need for cardiovascular exercise, and it can spare you from knee pain, but you're not getting that load-bearing exercise. So I think it's important to recognize that there is a place for some of these joint sparing forms of cardio, but we need to figure out how to supplement them with the resistance training that's more load-bearing, trying to find ways that people can tolerate impact if they can. Yeah, cycling is not going to help you with your bone density.