 what are your thoughts regarding, you know, yoga and pilates? And where do they fit in? So I look at yoga as being parasympathetic invoking. So even if we're doing hot, hot yoga or power yoga or something like that, it can be a little bit of postural and endurance strength, but it doesn't count with what we're talking about with pure strength. So it does help with parasympathetic. So it's a, you know, it can be an add on with Pilates. It's the same with posture and balance and proprioception. So they're good complementaries, but they're not the, um, the bread and butter of what you want to do. So there's definitely a time and a place for it. But as I've said before, as women, we need to find a voice and take up space because we are always marketed as being, you need to be smaller and quieter and you need to, you know, spend more time on the cardio and you need to do yoga and Pilates and look this certain way. And it's just a bunch of crap. What would you say to somebody who's doing? I agree. What would you say to somebody who's doing five days a week of Pilates and yoga? I'd want to know, first of all, what, what their end goal is, is it because they love it and it's their soul food? Okay. I understand that. But if it is to go after a certain look or certain, uh, movement pattern, well, we can do that with other modalities. It's the same as if you look at someone who's riding or running five or six days a week, like, okay, that's your soul food. You want to get fitter. There are other ways to get you fitter and stronger and still keep you in connected with your soul food, but we have to mix it up because I don't like to look at it as a training block. I like to look at it as what are we doing now? So that we are still very mobile and able to do things in five years, in 10 years. It's just, I did longevity. Um, so I have so many women are like, oh, I'm just, I love going to yoga and I, I don't like getting sweaty. It's like, okay, well, have you tried heavy resistance training? It's not going to make you bulky. It doesn't get you sweaty, but it does actually improve your strength, which will compliment your yoga. So it's just trying to find that, that mode of, of what is the driver for being so wrapped up in Pilates and yoga. Got you. Um, we talked, I think you talked briefly, um, online about plyometrics. Now plyometrics, who is it for? Everyone. What level, if you're like an, you know, a beginner to exercise, what level of plyometrics would you advise that people, what would be a great starting place, for example? Uh, squat jumps. That's plyometric. We can do, um, plyo pushups off the wall, right? So you're leaning in and pushing off, um, battle ropes. That's plyometric. And what are the benefits to the muscles? So it's all about explosive movement, right? And so we're getting a really good, fast explosive response feeds back to central nervous system, maintaining muscle quality. And we also see that when you're complimenting strength and plyometrics, so they're working together, it's better proprioception, better cognition, less injury, less illness, because there's so many adaptations that happen to that high intensity and explosiveness. And it doesn't take much. You can warm up with some box jumps, right? And so you're getting some plyometric work and it's not, it's not overly taxing, but you're still getting that stimulus.