! and mobility come into work. Kelly and Juliet are good friends of mine, and I love their ready state and all their mobility work that they do because it's so critical for maintaining joint integrity. So when women start getting into perimenopause and having plantar fascia issues, frozen shoulder joint issues, it's all about taking care of that soft tissue around the joint, and that's where mobility comes into play. So really working on mobility to maintain range of motion and reduce any kind of sticky point of soft tissues as you get older. Things like sauna, cold water exposure, cryotherapy, stuff like that has become widely popular over recent years as well. What are your thoughts on that as it relates to what we're talking about? It's like the icing, right? We want everyone to look at all their lifestyle stuff, but if you're going to go down the route of using environmental stuff, which is fantastic. Near and dear to me, because I'm an environmental physiologist, we have to look at the different sex differences and responses. So something like cryotherapy, way too cold for women. If we look at cold water immersion, you want to be around 55 degrees Fahrenheit or 16 degrees Celsius. That's cold enough for women to invoke all the metabolic and parasympathetic responses. Because if you get into the really cold stuff, it causes too much of a vasoconstrictive response, and then it's a threat to the body and you don't get the same benefit. If you look at the sauna, everyone responds well to the sauna. Everyone responds well to the heat. We see cardiovascular adaptations. We see hormone changes. We see better blood glucose control. So if you have to pick, of course, I'll push people to the sauna. But a lot of people are like, I don't like to heat. And you're still going to get all the parasympathetic responses too. Yeah, there is some benefit in the cold as long as it's not too cold. And there's definitely benefit for sauna exposure and heat exposure. So as somebody who's an environmental physiologist, like what factors do you think play the biggest role in women regarding their health, aging, et cetera? I think we live in a society that is too comfortable. We all have air conditioning. We have heat. We, you know, don't want to go out if it's raining. We never challenge ourselves. I think the biggest thing that women can do is challenge, have a challenge every day. So either it's a mental challenge or it's a physical challenge. More looking at environmental challenges as well. We have to become comfortable with being uncomfortable because we live in a society that just makes everything so in a box that the body is never challenged. such in such in such in such in such in such in such in such in such in such in such in such Thank you.