appingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingappingapping bone health program. So both of you have mentioned a little bit about, well, the hormone replacement therapy or the menopause hormone therapy. We call it different things in different countries. What are your thoughts on whether this can actually be beneficial cumulatively? So we're not saying that it's going to take the place of the exercise or even getting the nutrition building blocks in place. But Jocelyn, do you want to start off with that? I mean, there's very clear evidence that for people who are able to use menopausal hormone therapy or HRT, specifically that includes estradiol, that this is going to improve your bone density in both your lumbar spine and your hip. Is it enough by itself? No, I completely think this should be coupled with strength training efforts, ideally impact exercises as well. But yeah, it is shifting the balance in favor of bone formation as compared to bone breakdown that would normally occur with withdrawal of estrogen for sure. Stace, have you got some thoughts on that? Whenever someone asks me about it, I'm like, okay, we have to look that menopause hormone therapy is a tool in the toolbox, right? And we can't just say, I'm going to use that and everything's going to be fine, which I think is the rhetoric because I mean, I worked on the Women's Health Initiative, so I know they out follow that. Now we're seeing the pendulum on the other side where people are like, oh, I'm going to use menopause hormone therapy. I'm going to back my 20s and nothing's going to worry. But actually it slows the rate of change. It doesn't stop it. So when someone's like, I'm on MHT, so I'm fine with my bones. It's like, well, no, actually you have to put the lifestyle changes in as well. And if someone's doing all the lifestyle things and they're still not getting to where they need to be, then I say, well, maybe we should consider MHT. So it's not all or nothing. We do have to look at where it fits in that whole schematic of how women are going through perimenopause, what are their needs? Are there symptoms? Yeah. Are there symptoms? I mean, that's the main reason why people go on menopause hormone therapy is for symptomology. And we're seeing in the research that not protective for dementia prevention, there might be some cardiovascular benefits, but it depends on what age and when you start it. We do definitively know that it does help with bone and bone density. So when we're looking at the reasons why you prescribe MHT, it's symptomology and bone density. So if a woman is a risk factor for osteopenia or osteoporosis, then yes, for sure, that's something. But if someone isn't and has good bone density, maybe all the lifestyle things of impact and resistance training and adequate protein and following circadian rhythm, all that's going to be protective. But again, as Jocelyn was saying offline, we don't actually have enough research in that two-year period before the last menses to really understand what's going on. Right. The first acceleration in bone loss is in the year prior to your last menstrual cycle. So that's technically two years before menopause. And I think that is where lifestyle interventions like exercise are so important. Paying attention to your diet is so important. And for people who can't use hormone therapy, there are people for various reasons, maybe history of a pulmonary embolism or a blood clot, or depending on different types of cancer history, through shared decision-making processes, they may not be a candidate for that. I think it's really important to note that some of the scale of the improvement that you can see with things like resistance training and impact combined is on par actually with the improvements that you can see very close to the amount that you can see with menopausal hormone therapy. So I don't ever want someone to hear the message that, oh, estradiol does so much for your bone density and, you know, without it, your bone density is going to decline because it can feel like there's nothing for them. And really important to note that just, again, the scale of the improvement can be nearly, you know, on par, particularly with the resistance training, impact training. If you look at the results of the lift more trial. Yeah, exactly. Gaining 3% bone density in your lumbar spine over an eight month period is, you know, not dissimilar to some of the gains that we're seeing in the improvement in the lumbar spine through the women's health initiative with, with Premarin. Right. So they're really, they need to be combined. And if you cannot use hormone therapy, there's so much that you can gain through exercise interventions and diet. Which I think is really important because of the way the pendulum has swung. There are people who are contraindicated for using MHT, but still are trying to find ways to get on it. So if we are very vocal and these are all, all the alternatives that are going to be on par with what you're seeing with MHT, I think it's going to help that pendulum come back in the middle and allow people to have more cohesive and educated understandings to make decisions. I actually, you've both talked a lot about bone mineral density. And I think, you know, that's one thing that, of course, is linked to hormone replacement therapy, but, you know, the change in bone geometry that can occur with exercise, you're not going to get that from hormones. You're going to get that after a remodeling process. And so, you know, something like a target, you know, the targeted impact work, but also remodeling our muscles. So we know that muscle is an area that just is, Stacey's just creating so much momentum worldwide. Women are lifting heavy, shh, I'm not going to say it. Yeah, can I say lifting heavy shh? No. Lifting heavy stuff. And I love that message because we've never really had that message for women before. So,