 Aghiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphiphip I'll say the word period. We can also say menopause. It's all part of aging. But again, what happens when we talk about puberty and all the changes that happen in puberty, we're having the reverse of that happen in women. And it can start as early as 35 because it's a down regulation of your ovarian hormones that have been working so well for you up to this point. And now things are starting to change. So as I demonstrated earlier, we have every system of the body that is affected by estrogen and progesterone, starting to unwind, every system of the body is affected and women feel a little bit crazy. They're like, what is going on? The training I was doing last year is not working for me. I'm going to start training more and eating less is usually the default. Puts them in low energy availability, gives them the offshoot of being osteopenic. I've gotten into the habit now of requesting DEXA so that I can see when a woman comes in and looks really lean and fit and she's older, I want to see what her bones are like and how much visceral fat she has. Because if we keep doing the same kind of training that we're doing when we get into perimenopause, our body is not going to respond the same. So we have to look for an external stress that's going to take the place of those hormones that used to work so well for us. So this is why we look at that. If you are already training and you already are consistent, we look to optimize by interjecting some heavy resistance training, some plyometrics, and some high intensity work. Because those three are going to optimize your body's responses to keep you progressing forward. But if you aren't moving, then start moving and work with resistance training first and then start adding some things in. So why? Because when we see the effect of these flatlining hormones, we know there's an increase in total body inflammation because estrogen is such a powerful anti-inflammatory agent. We see there's more insulin resistance, again, because estrogen and progesterone work to help control blood glucose. We see there's a decrease in our lipid removal rate, but there's actually no change in lipid uptake. So that means we have a change in our blood lipids. So for a woman who has had normal cholesterol through her entire life, then all of a sudden she's 47, 48, she gets her blood work back. And all of a sudden she's told she has high cholesterol and high LDL or the bad cholesterol. She's like, what? But I eat well and I train what's going on. It's because we've had this hormone shift. In order to counter that, we have to look to different types of exercise to be able to clear that cholesterol, reduce the LDL, and improve our actual vascular responses to exercise. And we also have a lot of cognitive changes and mood disorders. So I want to bring it back to estrogen and estrogen's influence on our skeletal muscle. So we see that we have these estrogen receptors on the nucleus. We also see it's in the mitochondria. But for my concern, it's right here. We're looking at the myosin heavy chain. So we know that myosin and actin bond together to create a really strong muscle contraction. Right? So one of the very first things that happens when we start having a change in our estrogen is we have a misstep in the way myosin and actin actually come together. So if we're looking at a misstep, that means that we aren't having as strong of a contraction. We're not having as fast as a contraction either. So this is why I said when we're looking at women who are under-recovered and heading towards amenorrhea, the first thing that goes is power and strength. Because they no longer have enough estrogen to stimulate that myosin to work properly. And the same thing happens in perimenopause. So what we want to do is we want to say, okay, so what can we do to make that work for us? We look and we see heavy resistance training. Because we get that central nervous system response now that's going to make that work for us. So when we start looking at what's happening specifically, we know that there is something we can do. I've got all these fancies. So ideally, we want to lift heavy shit. Right? But we don't want to do that until we move well. So I say it takes a good six months to a year to learn how to lift a heavy three properly. Not only that, we see at any age. So she didn't start lifting weights until she was 70. So it is very possible to gain lean mass and become strong regardless of your age. The other story I really love is Joan McDonald. So she was, you can read about her full story on her site. Her daughter is a personal trainer and really into the health and fitness world in Canada. Joan was obese, type 2 diabetic, having lots of issues, saw what happened to her husband, went downhill, having the same types of typical sedentary behavior diseases. She said, I don't want that route. Can you help me? And her sister's like, or I mean, her daughter said, yes, let's get you resistance training. So over the course of 10 years, she went from being obese, sedentary, type 2 diabetic, to being very healthy with lots of lean mass. So her story is amazing. It's never too late to start. So her story is amazing.