효ie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avorsie,avors Yogurt, you know, nothing. It doesn't have to be a full meal if you're that early, but you do want to have some protein and carb before you go training. After training, we see that women's blood glucose comes back down to normal within 45 to 60 minutes. So that means that you've effectively come back down to baseline. But that doesn't mean that your hormones have settled. Your brain is still like, I need some food. Blood glucose has come back down because we don't use it the same as men. So there's a different regulatory mechanism post-exercise. But we still have an elevation in our catabolic hormones. So we need to eat some protein and some carbohydrate pretty soon within an hour, preferably no longer than an hour after exercise, so that we can shut down that breakdown state. Because if we don't, then the brain perceives us as being in that low energy state, which can feed forward to complications that we talked about with low energy availability in Redis. When we talk about protein intake, I know there's been a lot of chatter that there's really no sex difference in protein intake post-exercise. The caveat there is we're not looking to just potentiate muscle recovery. We're looking to stimulate hypothalamus going, oh, amino acids, let's stop that breakdown state. So that's why it's really important to go, okay, I've had my morning session. I need to have real breakfast pretty soon after. Or, you know, I'm going straight from the gym to work and I'm not going to get to work for another hour or so. What am I going to have in my bag that's going to be transient enough? So this is where we're looking at a flask of overnight oats that, you know, you don't really have to refrigerate because it's pretty viable for a couple of hours outside. Or if we're in a real kind of pinch, then we're going with a protein recovery drink that also has carbohydrate in it. And then when you get to work, you can have the rest of your real meal. And so we look at, you know, really trying to see how many training sessions we have in a day. If we have one really big one fueling really well in and around that session. If we have two, we know that if you don't refuel well after the first one, the second one suffers because your liver and muscle glycogen isn't topped up enough. So you might be able to get through the second session, but it's not optimal with the training stress or to subsequent adaptations. So eating as much as you have eating opportunities, but really be cognate of how you are fueling in and around your training.