 k no supplements? So we look at protein, protein powders. Yes, for sure. We look at beta-alanine. Yes, that works too. There's good stuff or good research for that. We look at creatine, definitely from health and performance standpoint. But then we look at something like nitrates, nitrates. It's a double-edged sword. So we see that in younger women who are still in their reproductive years, it actually decreases performance, decreases of you and has a counter effect. But for women who are post-menopausal, it has benefit. It causes vasodilation and it actually does have a benefit. And it has to do with estrogen because estrogen is tied to the nitric oxide cycle that is responsible for blood vessel and blood vessel control. When we look at things like vitamin D, vitamin D, yes, it works. It works with a timing effect where we want to have it after training to help reduce hepcidin so that we can have optimal iron. But then we start looking at all the other things that are out there and there really isn't very much robust research for women and very small amount of research for men. And so you think mostly it's all overhyped except for protein, creatine, beta-alanine, essentially everything else you think is just a waste of people's money? Yeah, for the most part. I mean, it's an individual case-by-case basis, right? So if you find something and it works for you, great. The exception of course is adaptogens because that's a completely different category than general supplements. So yeah, I mean, I get questions all the time about all these things that come up for mitochondrial health or for mobilizing fat and you look and it's been done on rats, but it hasn't been done on people. And so do you think that a lot of, because you will hear people who take supplements like, oh my gosh, like I feel so much better after taking this, or I noticed this is helping me lose body fat. Do you think that's generally speaking placebo? Because a lot of times when people start taking a supplement, it's because they've noticed something in themselves. They're like, I don't feel that great. I might need some iron. I don't feel that great. Maybe I need some X, Y, Z. So not only are they paying attention to how they feel, but then they start cleaning up their diet as well. Right. And so when you start cleaning up your diet and supplementing, you're going to feel better. It doesn't necessarily mean that the supplement is the X factor. It's the combination of things. That's so true. Anything else you think would be important to mention within the context of what we're talking about regarding women's health and tips for them to optimize things like, you know, burning body fat, building muscle and living longer. Yeah. One of the things that I was actually having a conversation with a couple of colleagues this morning, looking at DEXAs. So people will go get a DEXA scan, right? And they'll go, oh, I have really good body composition. I have really good bone density. But what I want women who are 35 plus is not to pay attention so much about body composition, percent body fat is visceral fat or visceral fat, depending where you come from. Because there's been some recent medical cohorts where we have seen women who've come in with a long history of endurance. And so from a general practitioner point of view, they're generally healthy. They look healthy. They exercise on a regular basis. But then we get their DEXA results and their blood results. And we see that, yeah, they might be 20% body fat, but their visceral fat is above a hundred cubic centimeters, which means that they have an elevated risk factor for cardiovascular disease. And we get their blood results and their LDL is elevated, their total cholesterol is elevated, and their A1c is elevated. So it's not protective when we're looking at the endurance exercise. So if you are a generally active woman who spends a lot of time doing endurance and you're 35 plus, if you get a DEXA, find out that visceral fat, find out your blood work, because it's better to take action now than when you're 45 or 50 and you're faced with lots of blood lipid issues and insulin resistant issues and high visceral fat. Right. So do the same tips apply regarding like losing visceral fat, like strength training, cleaning up your diet, improving your overall health and wellness, like lifestyle and stuff like that? Yeah. So we see the strongest impetus for losing visceral fat is resistance training and sprint training. Because what that does is it creates a conversation from myokines to the liver. And then the liver is like, Hey, these free fatty acids now need to go into the muscle. I don't have to esterify them and store them as visceral fat. So if you're looking for the biggest bang for your buck, it's you go in, you do some heavy lifting, finish with some sprint intervals and get out. It works for men too, but it's really important for women. Okay. Okay.