 N-so I've heard you reference polarizing training for women. Could you explain that to our listeners? Yeah, sure. So if we think about polarizing, it is the very low, low and the very high, high. We want to stay away from the stuff in the middle. Unfortunately, most women who are in their mid to late 30s onwards think you have to have a really heavy, hard, sweaty session to be successful in their training. And it's like, well, optimally, no. We can do a really low intensity as kind of a recovery, but within the session, we want to be able to do an interval at a targeted intensity, and we need to recover between each interval so that each interval that we do is at that targeted intensity. So example, one of the things that a friend did today as a finisher to upper body workout was a one-minute skier, and then her other friend was doing a heavy farmer's carry while she was doing the one-minute skier, and then they switched. So they did that, four rounds of that, and then a break, and then did another two rounds of that. So it was the ability to hit the intensity that they needed to get the training adaptation. And at the end, you know, it's a sprint, and it's hard, but they didn't have to spend a lot of time doing it. And if they were to just carry on and keep doing six rounds total, then the last two to three rounds would not have been at the intensities that they needed or wanted. So it's about, let's make sure that our intervals are super quality, and we have to have the appropriate really low intensity recovery in between so that we are getting that stress to the body to create an adaptive response that we want. Are you ever recommending the more Metcon type of exercises or boot camp style exercises where people are largely in kind of a persistent zone 3-4 heart rate? Are you seeing benefits there other than, I mean, there are obvious social benefits. Like, sometimes the best exercise is the one you'll do and the one you enjoy, and you can meet your friends there. Or, you know, like, people love pickleball. I never want to take it away. Or people love going to tennis with their friends, you know. So aside from those things, which truly, truly matter, like, just from a physiologic standpoint for women, do you see times when there's major benefit to those? Or would you just assume women lift heavy and get some true hit intervals? And, you know, we also love low zone cardio for cardiorespiratory fitness around here and longevity. But just curious your thoughts on those, because they're very popular, these types of classes. Yeah, they are super popular. And in the ideal world, women wouldn't do them. But that's not ideal. Because we look at it and, yes, it's a social connection. It's the feeling they get from accomplishment of it. And it's also some people's soul food, where they're like, yeah, I go and completely mental release. And I don't ever want to take that away. So we look at what is the maximum benefit for the time that you have. So ideally, we want two heavy lifting sessions and one true hit and one true sit session a week. So that's four sessions that you have. And maybe it's actually three days in the gym. And if that's all you have, that's optimal. But if you're like, I really miss my friends. I really love going to the boot camp. And I want to go to Orange Theory. Make those classes work for you. And I feel like I'm constantly reminding women that you're paying to go to these classes. So if it's not working for you and you feel exhausted and you're not getting benefit from it, don't stop going. But work within the confines of those classes. So maybe in the boot camp, you're doing less reps and heavier weight. Or maybe you're going to pick that day just to do the high intensity work. So you're dropping the weight and just doing the movement efficiently. If we're looking at something like Orange Theory, maybe you're focusing on the splat points on the treadmill. And that's your intensity for the day. And you're really working that intensity. And then when you go to the strength training component, you're working on functional movement. And really working on how am I going to move well. So the next time, I'll just use the treadmill as a warm-up or low-intensity stuff. And I'll really nail the strength training. So it's within the confines of the class that you can make it work for your body. Because you are paying to go. And you want that to be beneficial for your body as well as your wallet. So it is a little bit of a self-confidence thing where you have to say, Yeah, I'm going to this class. And there are some things I don't want to do because it's not appropriate. But it's beneficial for you to modify. And you get the social constructs. You get the ability to be with your friends. You get the benefit of being in a class. And you have ownership of what you are doing to benefit your own body.