!aneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneaneane about the anovulatory incidences in most women. If we were to understand and know when a woman ovulates, in addition to how she feels across her cycle, then she can individually tailor her menstrual cycle to her training. But for general plan, we can't do that. I think it's important that, you know, building muscle, using muscle, consistency is a huge part of effectiveness when it comes to exercise or to building strength. And so one fear we have when we say do this in one phase of your cycle and do that in another phase is that if, you know, 15% of patients are not ovulating or they have no idea when their follicular and luteal phases are, are they then doing overall less because they're waiting on this directive to tell them what? What is not untrue though, and how I frame this to patients, is that strength and resistance training should be the core of what you're doing regardless of the phase of the cycle you're in, regardless if you're pregnant, regardless if we're doing fertility treatments, building muscle, using your muscle. Now, what you do on other days is where you should allow yourself to say, how do I feel this day? What do I need this day? And be okay with giving yourself the grace that that may look different on your period, in your follicular phase, in your luteal phase, and saying doing something and moving your body is still ultimately, we're all going to agree, better than sitting on the couch. Exactly. Many women will say they have more energy in that late follicular phase. And so if you are looking at your workout structure, this is a day I want to try heavier weights or more reps. It can be smart to put that in a time where you have a higher chance of being successful. That's how I explain it. If you have your own data and you know which days you feel really fantastic, that's where you want to put your higher intensity, your heavier lifting, because you know that you're going to hit those training metrics. What we don't want is for someone to go in to do a high-intensity session on days they feel flat, because then they won't hit the metrics that they need to to get the stimulus we're after. Can you explain this to me like I'm a 10-year-old, in terms of where in the cycle typically women will have more energy and really be able to push themselves? Right here, five to seven days before ovulation. Some women feel really great around ovulation. Some have a transient where they'll feel really awful on and around ovulation, and maybe 24 hours later they feel really fantastic. Most women are variable through the early luteal phase. So if we think about day 6 to 14, that's when we see women feel really robust and strong and feel like they can take on the world. Because estrogen is rising. Yeah, exactly. And you see the physiologic changes, heart rate variability, resting heart rate. Your immune system is more prone to taking on virus and bacteria. It's not pro-inflammatory, so you have that working for you. Your core temperature is lower. You can access carbohydrate a lot easier, so you have more availability for fueling to hit high intensities. Then when we see with ovulation, like I said, some women feel really fantastic right around the time of ovulation because of the estrogen surge. Some have transient where they don't feel so great. When that follicle ruptures and the egg is released, the granulosa cells that are surrounding it, which is what actually makes estrogen, get disrupted. And so some women feel that transient breakage and their estrogen is dropping before it reforms to become the corpus luteum and make again. So you have this high peak estrogen, and then some women are really sensitive to these hormonal changes, and they feel that drop. So that ovulation day may not always be your very best feeling day, which makes women feel like it should be and like something's wrong with them. On a side note, we did a survey on women experiencing pain on ovulation because it's something that was never talked about. Middelschmurts. Yes, exactly, middelschmurts. Middelschmurts. We had – so you can feel the follicle rupturing, and that's called middelschmurts. So it's German for in the middle because it tends to happen in the middle of your cycle when you ovulate. And it's painful. It's a pain. It can be. It's just a pain. It's like a cyst bursting inside your body. And then some women are down for the count because of it. So they can't – they don't plan any physical activity around that because they just can't, from a physical and mental standpoint, put themselves through anything. So that's why I'm saying like ovulation, some women feel bulletproof, other women who have this transient feeling of really flatness and pain. And then afterwards in these early luteal phase, so day 16 to about day 22 is variable. Well, some women will feel like on top of the world still. Other women will feel, hmm, I can't quite hit eye intensities. And then in general, these few days about day 24 to 27 before those hormones actually drop, this is where you have your PMS, your premenstrual syndrome and cramping and fatigue. And a lot of women are like, hmm, not so great. That's when your progesterone drops. When both of them drop. I just love how you guys explain it because what I see on social media is absolutes. You must do this doing follicular. You must do this at ovulation. You must. And I'm just like, really? You know, and so I love how you're like, well, some women, it may affect them this way. And others this, we generally tend to see X, Y, Z. So rather than like, you absolutely have to do this at these different times. I think learning to listen to your body and the signals that it's giving you, I mean, across the stages of your life, that's really key to so many of the questions that we're talking about because you want to understand your own response. And where many women are falling short is that they've been suppressing their cycles, they don't know about it, and they were not taught all of these different changes that are perfectly normal. And so it's very hard to then hear a social media post that says, only do this in the follicular phase and don't ever do cardio in the luteal phase. And you get a lot of mixed messages when in fact, there's no absolutes. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No.