! GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO GROATRO a little bit shorter than men's. And in that we have hormone pulses. And where I'm going with this is that when we look at circadian malalignment or a misstep in our circadian rhythm, we see that women end up having a change in their appetite hormones. So they end up having more cravings, they end up having a precedence for wanting more carbohydrate, and they don't feel full. So when we talk about what changes our circadian rhythm, it's delaying food and not looking at daylight and then eating late. So when I bring it to women saying, look, we want to build muscle and reduce body fat, but specifically really reduce visceral fat. We want to eat according to our circadian rhythm. So that means for women, because we have a higher cortisol peak within a half an hour of waking up as compared to men, we need to have a little bit of protein carbohydrate. To dampen that peak and to tell the hypothalamus that we have some nutrition ready to go, and we're good to go for the day. And we want to eat protein at every meal hitting about 40 grams. And we want to make sure that we are fueling for our training and recovering from our training. And then we have dinner, but we don't have anything after dinner. So it might be using buzzwords of a seven to seven overnight fast, which is a 12 hour fast, but really we're working with our circadian rhythm. When we look at the research that shows by working with our circadian rhythm or eating according to how our body needs fuel, we have less circadian malalignments. We have less interruption in our appetite hormones. We have less precedents for blood sugar irregularities. We have less of a stimulus for putting on body fat. And then when women are like, wait, I need to lose some weight too. It's like, okay, well, if we want to lose a little bit more body fat, then we take maybe 150 calories away from the night meal. And this is a small enough calorie deficit, and it's going to allow your body to digest better so that overnight it can get into all its reparation it needs to do. So there isn't a magic bullet to it. It's more about timing. And we're talking about the quality of food. Like I said, I'm not a huge calorie in calories out person because four calories of carbs react differently in the body than four calories of protein. So we have to be very mindful of the timing and the nutrition density of the food that we're eating. It's interesting coming from like a science background that you're not as, you know, excited or I guess dogmatic about the calories and calories out approach. Talk more in depth about why and some things for people to keep in mind as they're eating food throughout the day. Yeah. So calories and the nutrition label of calories all stem from a research point of view of trying to really determine the energy that was associated with food. And it's a rough calculation. So when we start looking at the non-mathematical aspect of food and energy of food, it reacts differently in the body. So like I said, four calories of carbohydrate have a different response than four calories of protein. Those four calories of carbohydrate coming from a carrot is completely different from four calories of carbohydrate coming from carrot juice. And people are like, why? It's because the carrot has fiber. Carrot juice does not. The fiber really helps to avoid any kind of blood sugar flux that happens when you get fruit sugars. And yes, carrots have a higher amount of fructose in it. And the fiber also helps with the gut microbiome. The juice doesn't. So when we start getting into the nuances of calories in calories out, that four grams or four calories from carbohydrate from the carrot, is it juice or is it the whole carrot? Completely different responses in the body. So when we start looking at how we should be eating, I really want people to understand that we want to take care of our gut microbiome first. So more fibery foods, more colorful fruit and veg, and really good protein. Trying to not reach for, I was in the States recently and saw protein fortified pop tarts. I was like, that completely misses the mark. That's not what we want to get from our protein, right? Sounds delicious though. Every once in a while. That fits in the 20% rule, but you know. Protein pop tarts. Come on now. I know. I just think ultra process, ultra process to where is it coming from? But yeah. And as an expat, I find it really interesting, the two different food systems. Well, like I've traveled to Europe. I live in New Zealand. I go back to the States on a regular basis and I go to the States and I walk into a grocery store and there's rows and rows and rows and rows and rows and rows and rows of things that they say is food, but can't eat it. I can eat the fruit and veg. I can eat some of the other things, but there's so much packaging and sugar and additives and ultra process stuff that it's no wonder people are confused. So your rationale for focusing on quality versus the quantity of the food really revolves around how people will feel after eating them and also from a performance perspective and from a longevity perspective and how they impact you from a physiological level, impact things like the gut microbiome, et cetera. Right? Yeah, absolutely. And the timing's important too, to avoid the hypothalamus going, hey, I'm in a low energy state because if we exercise on an empty stomach as a one or we delay food intake post-exercise as a woman or a man, then the brain perceives you as being in a low energy state. And the automatic response is down-regulating all the systems in the body and that's counterproductive. So if I talk to a woman, she's like, yo, yeah, I went to the gym, I had coffee before and then I wasn't hungry afterwards and I was rushing around and I didn't have food until 11 or 12. I'm like, why'd you go to the gym? Because you stayed in a breakdown state the whole time. You didn't have any impetus for building muscle. So if you were to like lay out a few golden rules for nutrition, other than focusing on quality instead of like calories in, calories out, what would you say for a woman who's listening to this, who wants to, again, build some muscle, make sure she's also improving her body compositions, not gaining too much fat? Like what are a few rules you think everybody should follow? Really trying to focus on getting one gram of protein per pound of body weight. And we want to distribute that evenly throughout the day. So it's not like having a big whack of protein in the morning and then kind of scuttling off throughout the rest of the day. It's really making sure that you're getting 40-ish grams at breakfast, 40-ish grams at lunch, and 40 or 50 grams at dinner. Also taking an eye that you want a lot of colorful fruit and veg as your carbohydrate, and you can accent that with what we call the 20% rule. So that's where your protein pop tart comes into play if you wanted it, you know? So it's the protein and the fiber that become really important when we're looking to fuel well and to build muscle and prevent that body fat from coming on.