!phphphphphphph you to dive down that because creatine is getting a lot of attention right now for very positive ways. And I would just love your take on it. Yeah. So if we think about supplementation, it's like the icing on the cake, right? And we see that it is highly unregulated and people are thinking, oh, I need to take this and that and this and that. I need my multivitamin. I need my greens. But it's like, let's look at the diet first. Like we can really get what we need from our diet. And then it's a supplement for a reason. It's a supplement, the whole foods. It's not to take the place of what we're eating, but to supplement. So if you know that you are low in magnesium, then you take it. But for the most part, we know most women will really benefit from omega-3s, vitamin D, especially in post-menopause and creatine, creatine monohydrate. So those are the big three. So we think about why we want omega-3 fatty acids because they're really good at anti-oxidative properties. So this is when we're looking at our cells and they're under a lot of stress and we get free radicals. Omega-3s come in and help with mitigating some cellular damage. And when we're thinking about peri and post-menopause and our body's under a lot of stress and our cells are going through a lot of changes and relying on different signaling, we want to support it with omega-3s. Also for our brain, it's really important for brain health as well. When we think about our creatine monohydrate, this is again, one that is getting a lot of press. And we see it's the most studied supplement in all of the research across years. And it's super beneficial for health and performance. It used to have the big bodybuilding idea of you want to load creatine for increasing the bulk and the ability for your muscles to do muscle work. But we're not talking about those high doses. We're looking at three to five grams a day. Over the course of three weeks, your body will fully saturate. And what does it do, right? This is the big question. I should take it, but what does it do? Creatine is really important for every fast energetic in the body. So we think about the brain and how fast we have neural connections. All of that relies on our ATP, CP fueling system. And creatine is part of that. We think about our gut, we think about our heart, we think about also muscle performance. All of those require creatine. Women have about 70 to 80% of the stores that men do by the nature of having less muscle mass. And unfortunately, women don't eat enough to really supply what they need. So when we start looking at the research and understanding how important it is, as we get older, we also store less. So it's important to get that creatine in. We see more and more studies coming out that when you're under fatigue and you're under high stress, if you are dosing with creatine five grams twice a day, it improves the capacity to be more stress resilient. We see people who have IBS or gut issues, and we see a lot of uptick in gut issues in perimenopause because of the disconnect of our estrogen receptors. Creatine helps maintain the integrity of our intestinal cells because we now have the creatine that's there to keep the mucosa lining intact, even under stress. So there's so many benefits for it. And we see that it's beneficial in pregnancy as well, because again, pregnancy is a fast, energetic, and highly calorie. I guess you have a lot of calorie requirement when you're trying to build something. And so you have all these energetics that are happening. Creatine is very beneficial. And then that brings us to vitamin D, right? Vitamin D3, a lot of us don't spend enough time outside. And even the time we spend outside isn't enough to bring our levels up to where they are needed. And it's really important for things like osteoporosis prevention. We see it's important for muscle and immunity, also really important for brain health. And the research on vitamin D is still growing. So those are the big three for women. Back to the creatine breakdown really quick. One question that I have for you is how about taking it on like rest days? Can you, should you take it every single day? Yeah, absolutely. Yep. Yeah. I love the positive process getting on. I know. I love it. It's great. Yeah. How about any supplements that you would say are being like overhyped or unnecessary? Almost everything else. No, I'm just kidding. I mean, that's a fair response. The pre-workouts, like I get questions on pre-workout all the time. Yeah. Like it's a way to like jack you up. But if you're really looking at the efficacy of your pre-workout, it's beta-alanine and caffeine. Those are the two things that are allowing you to feel less fatigue and to improve muscle function because beta-alanine is a vasodilator also provides some of the essential, I guess, co-enzymes your body or your muscles need for faster contractions. So that's like the pre-workouts are just astronomically expensive and not very efficacious. I get like all the menopause hormone or menopause hormone supplements that are out there. And, you know, all these things like Menoprove and black cohosh. No, no. Let's look at other things first. Nutrition first, right? Nutrition first. Yeah. And collagen is the other one where I get frustrated with collagen because people think about collagen peptides and collagen protein as being dietary protein for muscle and neurotransmitters where it's a specific structural protein that goes to hair, nails, joint. And there is some research there to say that taking collagen supports those structural things, but it's hit or miss depending on what kind, what type, when you take it. So people are like, I have a lot of protein with my vital proteins or, you know, my collagen proteins. Like, no, it's not the same. So just to be clear there, it doesn't account towards your protein intake for the day. No, it does not. Thank you. It does not. Yes. I appreciate how clear you make all of that because there's just, there's a lot of confusion out there. It's like, absolutely. Yes. Get the foundation right. And don't, you don't need to all the things. Right. Yeah. Right. Okay, cool.