! Gastiteite, for a somewhat intense training session. Yeah, so we often get questions from the 5 a.m. club. It's like, what do I eat when I get up at 4.30 and roll out of bed and try to go to the gym and start working out at 5, 5.15? You probably don't want an omelet, Ben. No. Why not? And then you have those who are like, have breakfast and get the kids off to school and then they have the time to go to the gym. So we talk about the 5 a.m. club, you want something that has a little bit of carb and protein. So, I mean, I circulated the protein coffee idea on social media. That's one way you can do it, where you're getting 30 grams of protein in pretty quickly. But if you're not a coffee person, you're like, I don't want to use protein powder. Maybe you're having a few tablespoons of overnight oats or maybe you're having a little bit of yogurt before you go or maybe you're having protein water during your training. So you're getting some protein amino acids and then having your real breakfast when you get home. But if you're someone who's like, I've had my breakfast, I've gotten the kids out, now I have time to go to the gym, and then I'm working in the afternoon, you have 90 minutes. You know, if it's been more than 90 minutes since you had your breakfast, then maybe you're going to top up with a little bit of protein and then get into your heavy strength training. How long after training do you like women to have a real meal or some real fuel to positively adapt to what they just did? Yeah. So there are two things to consider here. We see that women come back down to metabolic baseline or they're resting blood glucose levels within 45 to 90 minutes after a session. When we're looking at the hypothalamic responses, we are in a breakdown state during exercise because we're not building tissue. We are having muscle contraction and breaking down tissue for fuel. So that is a signal to hypothalamus that we're in a catabolic state. As soon as you bring food in, it signals to the hypothalamus that we have nutrition and we're able to start repairing and rebuilding. If we delay that intake, we stay in that catabolic state. And the issue with that is it's still a signal to breakdown tissue. So if you've gone to the gym and you've done a heavy, hard training session and then you're not refueling afterwards and you're holding it until lunchtime, which might be an hour, hour and a half or more after your training session, you're not actually signaling to build mass or repair that tissue because the hypothalamus is like, wait, there's no fuel coming in. I got to maintain this catabolic state. So when we're looking at sex differences, right? And we see this window, supposed window of opportunity post-exercise. In men, the hypothalamus isn't as sensitive. So there isn't really a window. But for women, we want that eating opportunity within 45 minutes. One, to help with that euglycemic control, bringing blood sugar back down to normal, but also telling the hypothalamus, it's okay, we can build this tissue. This is such a good reminder for me. I'm thinking of the days when I can't get my lifting in at lunch, which is what I prefer. And then if I'm lifting after I'm gone seeing patients, and then I'm like, I need to feed my infant and all of these other things are going on and time can get away from you, right? So this is such a good real life reminder. In terms of circadian rhythms with strain of exercise and training, are there times of day, I imagine this might shift during different life stages and month stages. So maybe there's no, maybe it doesn't matter. Maybe consistency, like you said, is key here, but are there times a day you think training is most effective or least effective for women? I don't like people doing intense training right before sleep, personally. But aside from that. Yeah. Yeah, if it interferes with sleep, I don't really recommend it. We see it's more of a chronotype. So you have the early morning people who do really well, and you have the later night people who do really well. But from an ideal standpoint, you want to be able to have your core temperature drop for really good sleep. So if you're doing a very intense session before bed, you're not going to sleep well. And then you also have the question of, if I have a late training session, how do I refuel? Because you don't want me to eat before bed. It's like, well, actually, I want you to back it all up. So if you have to do a training session at 6 or 7, 8 p.m., you've had the bulk of your food prior to, so you're really just recovering with some protein and a little bit of carb, that's going to help with the recovery overnight. But yes, ideally, consistency. And then when we get into the weeds, if it's really late at night because of shift work or something like that, then we work within the individual because we want to maintain circadian rhythms, especially when we're talking about shift work. Yeah, yeah. Oh, I used to work some overnights as a hospitalist. It was very hard to maintain training and maintain body composition and I'm sure insulin sensitivity. Gosh, I'm glad I didn't check it then. You'll be glad you didn't. Yeah, for sure. It's like one night of bed so you can wreck it, I know. Yeah, yeah. Thank you.