! TNF-e Assuming we have some kind of a workout here, we get up in the morning. How do you counsel people to fuel themselves through the day, taking into account these impactful workouts? Yeah, so there's definitely a sex difference here, right? So we see women should not do any kind of fasted training. So for women, we are looking at having some protein and carb before first thing in the morning workout, and then afterwards having a real breakfast. And for women, it works better to have smaller, regular meals throughout the day. And we're talking, you know, not massive, huge portions, but you could break up your breakfast and have half breakfast before training, the other half after. Then you have a snack of good quality protein, could be nuts and a hard-boiled egg or something. Mid-morning with some carrots or an apple. Lunch is a big mixed grain and veggie bowl with some other lean protein in it. And then afternoon, you're having another high-quality protein carb snack. Dinner, if you're trying to lose weight but still train hard, then we look at dinner and take away maybe 150 calories. Usually that's dropping a glass of wine or having a slightly smaller dinner plate so your portion size is just a little bit smaller, but not enough to create a calorie-restrictive response that invokes kind of a sympathetic tizzy in the brain. So it's just a very, very small amount. And we take it away from dinner because we see that if you are having less food at night, then you're able to sleep better. So it all feeds into the sleep hygiene aspect. For men, men are more capable with regards to being resistant to negative outcomes. You can do fasted training. It's not necessarily ideal, but you can get away with it and then have really good breakfast with high protein, about 30 to 40 grams protein after your training. And then throughout the day, having regular hits of protein as well. By the nature of the research and looking at what happens with men's bodies versus women's bodies, we know that men can have a big, huge bolus of protein, and that's fine, but women need to break it up throughout the day. You used the word fasted, which brings me to time-restricted eating. Time-restricted eating. Yeah. Guys. Yeah. So buzzwords, right? So we look at time-restricted eating or intermittent fasting. If we look at population research, and with that population research is chronobiological research, we see that in both men and women who hold the fast till noon or after, and their eating window is from like 12 to 6 or 7 p.m., they don't have any positive outcomes. They still have sympathetic drive, metabolic syndrome. They don't get any of the supposed benefits that you get from intermittent fasting or time-restricted eating. For those who break their fast by about 8 o'clock in the morning and their eating window ends at 4 or 5, they end up with all the positive outcomes that you're seeing with time-restricted eating. Eight-hour window. Yeah. Okay. But when we're really dialing it down to sex differences and looking at what women should be doing versus what men should be doing, we look at circadian rhythm, really. So men's circadian rhythm is shorter than a woman's circadian rhythm. So men's is about 23 hours. Women's about 25 hours. And for women, we really need to eat within a half an hour of waking up to counter that cortisol peak. Because if we don't, the hypothalamus is like, we're in a bit of a stress situation here, a flight or fight situation. So the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to start really catabolizing my lean mass. So for women, we really need to be conscious and cognate of our circadian rhythm and the way that our hormone pulses throughout the day, cortisol pulses throughout the day, testosterone, estrogen, and after ovulation, progesterone as well. And to some extent, progesterone that's not produced from the egg breaking down. So in perimenopause, you still have pulses of progesterone. But for men, the circadian rhythm is slightly different. And we see that under times of stress, men lean up. Because the brain is like, oh, we have to get ready to really fight or to really dive in and find some calories. So that's why we're looking at the data of time-restricted eating, holding things, restrictive calorie restriction, and how that affects men's lean mass versus women's lean mass. So for women, time-restricted eating is just normal eating. Where you eat breakfast, you have dinner, you don't eat any snacks after dinner, and you go to bed, right? So you stop eating two to three hours before bed. You wake up, have food within a half an hour. That's your, quote, time-restricted window. During the day, you're eating at regular intervals, and then you are tapering down your food, and you're not eating after dinner. For men, there's a little bit more leeway where you can hold windows for a longer period of time. If you are really looking for some particular benefit. But when we look at disruption of circadian rhythms, we know that circadian rhythms are set with day and light and food and meal planning. So if you're really trying to get even energy, maximize your ability to train hard and to sleep well, you probably shouldn't be holding a really long fasting window either. You should probably follow the whole stop eating after dinner or, you know, no snacks after dinner, wake up, have breakfast. I'm somewhat friendly with Brian Johnson, who stops eating at 11 in the morning, and he goes to bed at like 8 or 9 at night. I have to have something about an hour before I go to bed. Like I have some like collagen in my tea or something. Or else I just wake up in the middle of the night starving. Do you eat enough in the day? Oh my God, do I feel like I'm a farm animal? It's like all I do. I mean, they're moving. Yeah, because that is the thing we see. We've done a few studies with like continuous glucose monitors and sleep studies. And a lot of people who wake up a lot are hypoglycemic because they haven't eaten enough in the day. Or they go to bed slightly low blood sugar and they should have it up a little bit. So, yeah, if you're like, I need to eat before bed, then you're the exception to the rule. I've worn a CGM and the alarm will go off. It's the alarm that says like, Morning, morning, morning. You need to go to a hospital. And I'm like, fine. But yeah, I'm one of them. Yeah, fair enough. Thank you.