ݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣݣ overtraining. And as you pointed out, for various reasons, cultural reasons, historical reasons, around exercise, my observation is that most women sort of, unless they know better, default to cardiovascular exercise as opposed to resistance training. So if a woman in her 40s, late 30s to let's say 50, is doing two to four sessions of resistance training workouts per week, and they also really like cardio or they feel they want to or should do cardio, should they be careful about how much cardio they're doing? And is there a best form of cardio? Should they really emphasize the high-intensity interval training? Should they avoid zone two? We should probably also define for people what zone two is if they don't already know. So I am notorious for slamming things like Orange Theory and F45 because they market specifically to that age group of women, and it's not appropriate because it's not true high-intensity work. When we're looking at women who are really trying to maximize body composition change and longevity, and unfortunately default to cardio because they think, oh, that's going to help change my body composition. It's going to help me lose body fat. It doesn't. Is this things like soul cycle as well? Yeah. Okay. I've never done any of these. Yeah. But I imagine there's a lot of spinning, a lot of moving, a lot of sweating, and a lot of quote-unquote calories burned emphasis. Yes, there is. But it puts women squarely in moderate intensity where they're so used to leaving one of those classes feeling absolutely smashed that when you tell them, actually, that training doesn't work for you because it's putting you in a state of intensity that drives cortisol up. But it's not a strong enough stress to invoke the post-exercise growth hormone and testosterone responses that we want to dampen that cortisol. So this is why we have that hyperbole of women who are in their 40s plus shouldn't do high-intensity work. It's like, well, actually, they shouldn't do moderate intensity. They need to avoid that. Polarizing, absolutely. That's what we want. We want true high-intensity work, which is one to four minutes of 80% or more. Or if you're doing sprint interval, it's full gas for 30 seconds or less. And you're doing that a couple of times a week. You're not doing it every day because you need to have enough recovery to hit those intensities truly because those are the intensities that are going to give you those post-exercise hormonal responses to drop cortisol. When we're looking at women who are like, oh, well, I love going out for hours and hours on my bike and I love doing my spin classes. It's like, okay, but we need to look at the big rock here. If you are looking for longevity and body composition change and cognition and all those things, you have to polarize your training and that has to be the focus. But soul food, I come up with a long background of endurance. I now love riding my gravel bike on the weekends for long periods of time, which is not optimal for me, my age, that kind of stuff for all the things that I want to see improvements in. But mentally, it's great. So when we talk about going out for that long stuff, zone two is that low conversation and that's fine for mental health and being out in nature. But for optimal health and well-being, we don't want to do that. We want to look at resistance training as a bedrock and true high intensity work to help with body composition change, metabolic control, insulin sensitivity, brain health, and dropping that cortisol. I have family members who are women who are thin because they love to walk and they just walk a ton. And they eat well and enough. But they are resistant to resistance training. And if they do pick up a weight, it's usually some very light dumbbells, do a few curls, a couple tricep extensions, and aren't really leaning into the higher intensity work. I think this is pretty common. And my observation is that it's common not because they couldn't be incentivized to do the higher intensity work, but that learning the complex compound movements, like how to squat properly or even leg press properly, deadlift properly, can be a bit overwhelming, especially when one walks into a gym. This is true for men too. Like all this stuff, all this equipment, all these bodies, and these people look like they know what they're doing. It's like if I were to go into an advanced kitchen or symphony, and all these instruments, I don't know how to play. So what's the best line of attack for somebody who really wants to overcome this longevity barrier? Because clearly resistance training, proper nutrition work. And the cardiovascular exercise piece is a little bit more intuitive. Walking, you do it faster, you're jogging. You do it faster, you're running. Yeah, yeah. The bike, the soul cycle class, et cetera. It's easier in terms of the mechanics. One can still get hurt, but it's just more straightforward. Is there a way that in the absence of a budget for a personal trainer that somebody can learn how to do these movements and, as you said, ease into them over the course of even up to four months in a way that they can be confident that they're unlikely to get hurt and really build up their capacity to do real work that can benefit them? Yeah, this is where I love technology for one thing. But if we're staying really basic, I look at some of my family members and I've gotten them started with just body weight stuff or loading a backpack with cans to add a little bit of resistance so they feel comfortable in their own house and they might be doing lunges or squats, just keying them up of like wear foot placement and knee and that kind of stuff. So they're getting used to that kind of movement. Um, I love Kelly Starrett's stuff with mobility. So show them like, here's how we do some of the mobility to find where the sticking points are. And then you can either direct them to some of the programs that are out there that, um, like Haley happens has some really good ones for women who are 40 plus. So does, um, uh, Brie and then Sonny Webster down in Australia. You can send in a video of what you're doing and he can critique you and tell you things to do. There are other programs like that too. Um, so there's lots of ways of getting help if you seek it. The personal trainer is very much a stumbling block for a lot of people. And as much as I am not a fan of planet fitness, I am a fan of the fact that they've made it really easy for someone to walk in who's interested in resistance training and they can go to a circuit, one of the circuit things that they have at the back and they can start resistance training on machines, which is another level up to learning compound movements. So there's lots of ways of breaking that barrier to entry. You just have to find the motivation factor of what's going to incentivize the person to give up their time walking every day and taking time to go to the gym or taking time to do garage based stuff. That's going to improve their lean mass.