 apnea, NACin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warzin,warz Women build bone and peak about up to 25, sometimes 30. And then bone loss plateaus for a little while. Men continue to lose about 1% a year. So men do not arrive with hip fractures or devastating fractures until their 70s or 80s or older. Women also decline slowly until we lose our estrogen. And then the rate of decline, and I'll tell you why it happens for bone, doubles or triples such that you will lose 15% to 20% of your bone density during your perimenopausal period just from loss of estrogen alone. Because estrogen plays many roles. I've already talked about estrogen being a huge anti-inflammatory. Bones are very sensitive to inflammatory chemicals in your body. Estrogen also directly affects the balance of the two main cells that subtract minerals from bone, the osteoclast, and the cell that builds the bone, the osteoblast. And in well-hormoned times, there is a balance. The body loves balance. We take what we need. We build it back. But because estrogen has such a profound effect on the osteoclast, the Pac-Man bone-eating cell, there's an unbalance. And we take more bone than we're capable of building. We're still building bone. But the rate cannot keep up with this. So with the inflammation, with the direct effects on the osteoclast, women will lose bone density if they do nothing. Well, number one, they're going to lose bone density. But they must do something about it. The reason it's so critical for a 33-year-old is because you still have your estrogen. So let's learn how to lift heavy. Let's take advantage of the estrogen circulating. Let's learn to have a jumping practice and impact our bones, right? So the way our body tells our bones to build more is there's another little cell called the osteocyte. It sits encased in bone. But it's connected to these other cells by little tunnels that contain fluid. When you jump, the biomechanical impulse of that fluid shifting in the little tunnels is translated into a biochemical stimulation that tells the bone, oh my God, she's jumping around. I need to build more bone. So we need that impact to stimulate the laying down of more bone. I was looking at this graph, which is what you were describing. Men and women aren't that far away in terms of bone mass. So this is showing the fact that because of the way testosterone interacts with a man's bones, he will peak at a higher bone mass than a woman will. So he's starting at a higher level. So I would want young women to do everything humanly possible to start at the highest possible level. But I see lots of 20-year-olds, 30-year-olds, really young women with poor bone density for a lot of reasons. And so I'm a big proponent for having bones measured early. Don't wait until you're old so you know where you're starting. But that's not the standard recommendation. No, the standard recommendation is 65, which is way too long for that. But because I do do either a DEXA scan or a REMS ultrasound to look at bone quality on everybody, we can catch it earlier. And that's really important to get in front of it because it's estimated. Research says that in order to affect bone density, if you're going to use estrogen, for instance, you need to do it for 10 years. And why should people care about bone density? Everyone cares about muscles, but very few people talk about bones. Fracture. Can't carry your muscle around if you have weak bones. So without bone, muscle is just a heaping pile of steaming metabolic tissue sitting there, right? There would be no bicep to complement, right? Because it has to be connected to a bone. So they're important for locomotion and giving support to the muscle. But bone is an endocrine organ that secretes hormones that go to your brain to help build neurons, to your pancreas to be active in insulin release, to the muscle for glucose metabolism. In men, to the testes to build testosterone. And that's only one of the many hormones that the bone produces. The bone is not only structural, not only hormonal. I've already talked about it being a storehouse. But it's an incubator. In our pelvis is where we build all of our blood cells. And so it has these multifunctions. But to Mary Claire's point, for women, 40 to 50% of women will have low bone density. And when you have that, 50% of the time you'll break a bone. So if we're looking around at this table, if we all have osteoporosis, which we don't, two of us will fracture. When that fracture is a hip fracture, which is very common, 70% of all hip fractures happen in women, 30% of the time when you hit the floor and something breaks, you have a chance of dying in one year. This quick, your life changes. 50% of the time, even if you survive, you will never return to pre-fall function, meaning you can't go home. And that puts your family in the situation of having to figure out 24-hour care. Or you move in with your eldest daughter. Or you go into a facility where you use your life savings until you have no more. And then you have to apply for Medicaid and the government will pay for it. These are terrible situations to get at something that we could have prevented had we started early enough. So you want to start early. So I'll have Mel. So Mel's going to be doing strength training, not just for the muscle benefits, but also because it's going to help her build strong, healthy bones in that critical decade. Yep. And then we finish it with some jump training. Jump training. Yep. Yeah. So plyometric type work, or if we're looking at not having the robustness of doing straight plyos, then you can do band-assisted pogos. You can do low depth jumps. You're getting some impact. The bone, because as Dr. Roy was talking about, it's a multidirectional stress. People think, oh, I run. I'm going to have strong bones. But running doesn't do it. You need multidirectional stress. So if you think about it, when you land, your body has to move. The ground doesn't. So it's called the ground reaction force that comes up through the bone to create that strength. So that ideal situation in a workout for her would be some mobility, some heavy lifting. If we're doing plyo, that's also a sprint type training. So you're getting a metabolic stress. So you're hitting all the major factors in one one-hour workout. I read that there was a study done with some Australian elderly ladies on bone growth. On lifting and bone growth? Yes. Yeah, Lift More. The Lift More study by Dr. Beck. Yes. She was trying to dispel the myth, which I hear every day, that you've got osteoporosis, you can't lift weights. Yes. And so her study, because we're big proponents of teaching people to progressively lift heavier and heavier, and that scares people, but especially if you think you're going to break. So she did a study where the load was five reps, five sets under a supervised situation. So five reps means that it was heavy enough that at five reps they were near failure, right? So these women, all osteoporotic, not only were capable of lifting heavy under supervision, none of them broke, and they built bone. So that answers the question. Right. Can you lift? Yes. Yes, you can. And the other thing that isn't really brought up into these conversations is when you hit perimenopause, not only is estrogen sort of the stimulus for satellite cell or building muscle cell, but it has a distinct, I guess, influence on myosin. So myosin and actin are two contractile proteins. So if you think about a sliding filament or coming together, you have myosin and actin that bond together to then pull and move and pull and move, and that's how you have a muscle contraction. Estrogen is responsible for how tightly myosin bonds to actin. When we start to lose estrogen or we start to have variability in our estrogen, we get myosin dysfunction. So that means we're not going to get a very strong contraction. So we get weaker. We get weaker. And this is one of the very first things that people complain about to me. I don't have power. I don't have strength. I can't. My grip strength's gone. I don't know. But their body composition hasn't changed yet. So if we think about lifting heavier loads, it's a neuromuscular response. And that direct stimulus creates the adaptive change in myosin that now estrogen isn't responsible for. It's a different external stress that creates that change in myosin to go, yep, I have to grab onto actin. And have a very strong contraction. So we see that this dysfunction happens first before we start seeing a change in our lean mass development. So if we are already in the habit of lifting heavier loads, then we can offshoot some of that myosin dysfunction that occurs with the estrogen change. So when my patients come in and they are looking to prevent osteoporosis or they've gotten a diagnosis of low bone density, you know, what can they do? I've discussed the LIFTMORE trial. The new study just came out May of this year of 2025. And they looked at very similar to the protocol used in LIFTMORE. So there was a control group where they just did nothing. Then a group that did the – they did three days a week. And they did resistance training and jump training. And then the third group did all the same exercises and added HRT. And depending if they had a uterus, they got estrogen or estrogen plus a progestogen. And so, of course, as expected, the do-nothing group lost bone. You gained bone as expected in the resistance group. But it seemed to be synergistic when we added hormone therapy and the resistance training together. They grew even more bone. They had even better results. So when my patients are like, I want to hedge my bets. My mother fell and fractured. She's broken her hip in a nursing home, whatever. And I'm trying to avoid this. We're hitting all the points. And the only medication of it – now, we have other medicines that will help slow down resorption of bone, the bisphosphonates and stuff. But they can be hard to take, and they have a lot of side effects. So to me, prevention is always better than cure. Exactly. Right? So I'm trying to get them and get them early. I just ignore the guidelines that say you have to wait until 65 unless you have some chronic medical condition to get a bone density. I'm telling patients, you can find it for about $99 around – well, I work in Houston. And that is worth the investment for you to go get your baseline bone density. I don't know a single orthopedic surgeon, a single exercise physiologist, or anybody who deals with osteoporosis who thinks 65 is a good idea. So if your listeners are like, oh, well, my insurance won't pay for it. I'm like, there are centers popping up now where you can go and get a DEXA scan and just pay out of pocket and get a great – and figure out where your starting base is. A DEXA scan is – A bone scan to see your bone density is the easiest way to describe it. And your muscle mass. Yeah. They can do that as well. This conversation is really important, though, to extend besides just menopause or perimenopause, that there are women of reproductive age years who have profound periods of low estrogen who are also at risk for serious problems with their bone density both now and down the road. And so if you come to me and you say, oh, I haven't had a period for seven years, no big deal. Well, that is a big deal. And depending on the reason why, many of the causes will result that you had low estrogen and you were not ovulating and you have hit that graph you showed while you're building your bone. That person is on a different trajectory. And those women do need bone scans much earlier so that we can see where they are and see what treatment we need. But it's one of the biggest reasons – bone health is one of the most acceptable medical reasons for why we should put younger women who have low estrogen time periods onto estrogen treatment because it can so profoundly change their bone health long term. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you.