 fibrin, einer fibrin, einer fibrin, einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibrin einer fibr it's come back and she's found out she's obviously suffering with this red S and she wants to raise awareness. And I think it's incredible that an athlete is doing that. Just for anyone that might have looked into, like, I mean, following Seeker, like, could you give us a bit of a rundown on red S and females and anything you think might help there? I just think it's really cool that she's sharing the information. It'd be cool to give a bit more information from an expert. Yeah. So we've done a lot of research into relative energy deficiency in sport. It starts with low energy availability. So we see, like I was saying, that you need to eat enough and you have to make sure that you're eating in and around your training. Because if we are not fueling enough and we're not eating in and around our training, then our brain perceives us as being in a food scarcity state. So we start seeing a downturn of all of the systems of our body. You might initially start seeing some disruption in your menstrual cycle. It might get longer or the bleed pattern changes. It goes from a normal, your normal pattern of five to seven days, and then it goes down to maybe two or three days. That means you have more of an anovulatory cycle. Most women don't realize that even if you don't ovulate, you will still bleed. But watching your bleed pattern is really important. So that's the first sign that your body's under too much stress and load. We see a lot of metabolic disturbance where you get a blood test and your blood lipids come back and your physician will say, oh my gosh, your cholesterol is suddenly high, your low density lipoproteins or your bad cholesterol is elevated. You might come back with a misstep in your CK and people are blaming it on creatine. But actually, it is part of a warning sign that you're in a low energy heading to relative energy deficiency in sport. So it's a full body system shutdown is what's happening. And the more you're trying to train and improve performance and that athletic mentality comes over of, oh, I'm having a bad day, I'm overly tired, and you keep pushing and you're still not eating and you're not resting, then you get into a full-blown syndrome, which takes years to come back from. So when I talk about trying to eat more and stay on top of things, get your rest and recovery, it's really to stop the first step into that of low energy availability. We used to call it overtraining syndrome, but now we're seeing it's more low energy and under recovery is what's promoting a lot of the symptomology. And within the low energy, we see that low carbohydrate intake and low carbohydrate availability, which often happens in sport because women, one, are afraid of carbohydrates because of how they've been demonized, and two, aren't eating enough for the training that they're doing. That also presents as a lot of endocrine dysfunction, and it's another step towards relative energy deficiency in sport. So the more that we can take a stand and eat appropriately for the training and recover, including sleep and taking care of the emotional and physical stress around us, the more we can stay out of that next step into relative energy deficiency in sport. And it's not just a female issue. We're seeing it come up more and more in men as well, especially if we have more aesthetically oriented sports, which of course, hybrid training and hybrid athletes tend to fall into that. But it's more dire for women because we're more sensitive from a brain standpoint and appetite regulation standpoint to low food and low carbohydrate intake. So interesting. Yeah, it's the diet culture, isn't it? And like the 90s and everyone saying, yeah, you know, fat burning. Yeah. Or the Atkins diet, everything like that. And it seems like, especially for females, very targeted into the diet culture and people are, yeah, be lighter to be a faster runner as well. I think a lot of people think the lighter they get, the better athlete they'll be. Yeah, that's a hard one because it works to a point. And I say that, like, it works to a point in the top pointy end 1%, as long as they've done it smartly, where they've worked over a long period of time to lose a bit of weight and their weight comes up in the offseason. So it doesn't stay low. So you have cyclical changes in your weight to stay healthy. That's when we look at how lower body weight improves running performance. But for people who are just calorie restrictive and trying to drop their weight, their performance does not improve because they have so many other shutdown effects and reduced recovery effect and lack of adaptation. So they might say, oh, I'm 20 seconds faster in my 1K time. Yes, for one 1K rep. But how is that going to be sustainable in two weeks time, or if you're doing eight 1K reps? And that's what people don't think about. Yeah, I think it is important the, like the, I guess the length of time these things, like, one take to recover from and two take to happen, you know, like, a small amount of under eating, but for a long period of time, is, yeah, is like, gonna have this negative effect. But I think maybe sometimes people don't realise it, because they, they think it's not very much or like, oh, but I am like, I don't know, I feel good. And I'm dropping the weight, but it's the length of time that it goes on for that, I guess, really affects you, because it just is like a domino effect, isn't it? Like, Absolutely. So working with a lot of my professional athletes, I want them to go into their race season heavier than what they think they should be. Because when you start getting into a race season, be it high rocks or cycling or whatever it is, if you have more weight at the start, you're more robust, and you're going to get fitter as you're racing, and you're going to lose weight as you are racing, just by the nature of the whole season, and everything that you have to do to get there. But if you start heavier, then you don't get sick, you don't get injured, you have reserves. And I'm not saying start five kilos heavier than your ideal. But if you're like a couple of kilos heavier than what you think you should be, that's ultimate gold. Because now you have a buffer that you can afford to lose as you're going, and it's going to be body fat, it's not going to be lean mass. And you're not going to end up with bone stress reactions, which can lead into stress fractures and other bone issues. And you're going to also have the availability to see if you're losing too much as you go through, because you're going to start to feel less recovered, you're going to start to see menstrual cycle irregularities or disturbances. And you might end up picking up more upper respiratory tract infections and colds even in the summer. So that's why I'm like, everyone start a little bit heavier than what your ideal is if you're going to be doing a longer season or more than one event. And even if it's your first event, or you're only doing one event, ideally, we want you to be a little bit heavier than what your ideal in your head weight is. Because when you are training so hard, you reach a set point. And that's the ideal weight for you.