ممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممممم So again, it comes back to what are we doing from a dietary perspective? Are we nailing all the things we need to do with diet? And then we can look at where we might be losing out. Do we need vitamin D? Most likely. Even in the summer, we're still using sunscreen, long sleeves, being inside a lot. Vitamin D is one of those things that's coming up more and more in the research. It's really important for preserving lean mass, which is bone and muscle, for immunity. There's so many things from a vitamin D perspective that is beneficial, that creatine and vitamin D tend to be the two that are almost non-negotiable. The rest of them, it's a case by case. And when we're seeing all the stuff that's coming out like collagen, yeah, it works for joint pain, but does it work for hair and nails? Skin? Don't know. So there's lots of things to think about when you're talking about supplementation. The biggest thing about preserving our lean mass and our bone is what kind of training stress we're putting on, right? Are we doing our plyos? Are we doing our heavy strength training? Are we doing our intensity work? How are we recovering from that? Are we bookending our training with food? Are we being conscious to get enough protein throughout the day to meet what we need from our life phase perspective? Those are the big rocks. And then the supplementation are the ones that you go, oh yeah, well, I'm doing a really heavy, heavy training block leading up to this race and I can't eat enough. So yeah, I'm going to supplement. Vitamin D, there's a lot of missed or I guess a lot of different information on the actual dosage of vitamin D. You know, I know I live up North and in the winter, I take a lot of vitamin D. Now I've had a few years of my aura data as well. It's very obvious how my HRV dips when the sun goes away. It's shocking. I'm talking like cut in half, right? So I'm going like 20, 30,000 per day of vitamin D. Is that crazy? What would you suggest for different people at different times and different climates? Yeah. The best is to get a baseline blood test to see where you are in the normal range. If you're in the low end of normal, then we see that dosing up to 8,000 to 10,000 international units. It's helpful in wintertime, especially with really, really low light. When we start getting into more summer orientation, drop it down. But you really do need to have your baseline blood test to know what's going on because some people will overdo it. Their blood levels shoot way super high. And we actually don't know what the toxicity level is with regards to how long a high level can affect things because right now they haven't found an upper limit. But that's not to say to keep taking more and more. It's just they haven't been able to determine what is the maximum amount to take for X amount of time. So we're not going to be able to determine what not to take for X amount of time. Thank you.