함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함함 are trying to give women time off around certain parts of their cycle, for example. Would any of you change anything? Well, there are a couple of companies in New Zealand who are pretty flexible, especially after the pandemic, where they have allocated certain hours that are free to work at home and just have to get the work done to the point where they have four-day working weeks. And then they're also putting into the annual leave, what they call menstrual leave or menopause leave. And you just say, you know, I can't come today. Some people are using it for child care. Some people are using it for really bad cramping days. Other people are using it for mental health days. But it's there to be used for however. And you don't have to identify it as being menstrual cycle day or menopause. It's just extra leave. And people don't care as long as you get the work done. And I think that having that flexibility across, you know, if you have that ability to have more flex hours or shared time space or something like that, greatly benefits productivity, as well as the feeling of empowerment and inclusivity, which then feeds forward to better productivity. If I've got an extremely high stress job, is there any part of this cycle where I should theoretically be avoiding stress? Well, that's an individual thing. It's how, because, you know, we hear all the stuff about cycle tracking, and it's about understanding your own responses to your own hormone blocks. Because Mel, my partner, says to me that she needs to not do work. There's like a couple of days a month where she's like, I'm just going to nest. That could be her responses. And she's like, I just don't have the stress tolerance to be able to do X, Y, Z. And understanding that in her own cycle is great, because then she can allocate tasks that take more stress for other days. For most people, it's peak luteal. So when your progesterone is the highest tends to be when people have a harder time focusing and concentrating or getting tasks done. Now, which is where? Which is going to be the middle of the luteal phase, at the middle of this second half of the cycle when you have that progesterone. Outday point one-ish. So when you have that progesterone, you know, really high, your body might be ready to implant an embryo if there was one. That tends to be when people say they feel more fatigue and less energy and less focus and concentration. So if you are looking at your month and you might notice that and you have the flexibility to say, okay, I'm going to try to write this paper, get this study done, do these tasks that call for an increased focus. In my follicular phase, when I'm estrogen dominant, have high estrogen and no progesterone, for the average person, that is typically when they're easier, have an easier time achieving those tasks. Which is the first 14. Yeah, the first couple of weeks, the time period before ovulation. But there is an individual response. And I definitely will see some people who they feel immensely better when progesterone's present and not so great the other time. So I think we use generalizations just as a rule of thumb because that's what it is for most people. But hormones specifically, there's always an individualized response and learning to listen to your own body is key in knowing what you need to do. I want to close off on this point about just how employers and the way that we work can be better suited to a woman's health. Is there anything else we missed there? Flexibility. I think we mentioned before the ability to make a decision for yourself. This is a day that I can do these tasks. I think every woman wants to do a really good job. And she is going to frontload those tasks on a time that she feels better and offload in a time where she's not feeling as well. But she's going to get it done for sure. And so giving her the flexibility is going to allow her to be her most productive rather than demanding she have X amount every single day. And I think support can come in a lot of ways. But the financial burden to a large corporation of having a stopgap childcare at work. So maybe if you're not going to offer full childcare, because you're getting a lot of productivity out of women if they know their children are on campus and can go at lunchtime. But if you're not willing to do that, if you have a stopgap where instead of calling your attending or one day my nanny didn't show up and I had to find some way, just for those emergencies within the corporation, that breeds loyalty, that will increase productivity. And so I think it's money well spent. Talk about having a competitive woman. She would probably want to work for you. So, you know, is offering those things to make her mothering easier while she's trying to work. I think you would have the most competitive workforce. And what does that mean? So that would mean having a nanny on site or is that? A daycare on site. A daycare on site. On site. Whether it's full time, like bring your children full time there, or that's a big corporate, but a smaller corporate commitment would be this emergency childcare so that your kid's not there all the time, but maybe they're sick or maybe somebody didn't show up and then you have days you can do that. You have a licensed childcare provider available. Yeah. You know, who could. Yeah. Which is a fault of the U.S. system. Yes. Yeah. What happens in New Zealand? You have 20 hours free daycare. A week? A week? Yeah. So it's, yeah, 20 hours funded. And then it's a very small nominal fee for hours over that for up to year five or when they're five years old because then they start school on the first day that they turn five. It's like, you turned five, happy birthday. But it does help significantly kind of keep productivity and a little bit of the worry off. What am I going to do with my child? Amazing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.