ểmểmểmểm,ểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểmểm because if you're building muscle, then you're building more metabolically active tissue, which helps increase your quote basal metabolic rate and high intensity work. So if we're looking at true sprint interval training or true high intensity interval training, both of those are a very strong stress to the body. So carbohydrate, more glycogen, also building more muscle mass and creating an epigenetic change within the muscle so that your body isn't as reliant on insulin as it usually is. So if we're looking at what is a slow metabolism, that's more of a dysfunction of your feedback mechanisms for metabolic control. So if we're looking at how do we increase our feedback mechanisms, how do we have better appetite control? How do we have better signaling from the hypothalamus that we need to build muscle and lose fat and not be so sluggish? It's stimulating it with high intensity and resistance training. Are you telling it? Are you saying that we should all basically train like sprinters, lift heavy, run fast and high intensity? So, you know, I was, you know, mentioning to some of my friends earlier, whenever I take somebody into the gym, I'm always sizing them up. I'm always looking at them and the type of athlete they are and really looking at, okay, what type of exercise is going to suit this person? Are they an endurance athlete? Do they have predominantly slow twitch muscle fibers? Are they a power athlete? And I think, you know, it still astonishes me that, you know, general population, the average woman has no idea necessarily, or may have lost, may have left that kind of athletic journey behind when she left high school, when she stopped doing basketball, when she stopped taking part in sports. So it might have been a long time between that, you know, participation in sports and the connection between what she should perhaps be doing for everyday physical activity. What would you say to those athletes out there whose genetics lean more in the endurance side of things, perhaps a person like yourself? Although, yeah. Oh, yeah. I'm a really good case study for that because it's like, I got into endurance as a means of being outside and escaping like reality, I suppose is the best way to put it and doing adventures. And I will admit, and I say this to my husband all the time, I'm like a dog. I need to be outside every day exploring. So that's kind of like the love of the endurance. But as I've gone through my entire endurance career, I've always been in the gym doing resistance training. I was like one of the few 15 year old girls back in the day, because my friend's brother was into bodybuilding and he got us both in the gym. And just the feeling of being powerful, even as an endurance athlete, if you're thinking about the strength that it takes to do something that's three to 10 hours, right? So if we're talking about endurance versus power, I don't really see there is a huge difference in what you should be doing in the gym. Every woman should be training for power for many reasons. One, it's the strength and injury resistance, but two, women are already very highly oxidative. We have a lot of slow twitch fibers. And as we get older and we're losing more glycolytic capacity because we're having perturbance in estrogen, progesterone, we're losing more of the nerve signaling for strong muscle contraction. We have to be doing power training. Otherwise we're going to default to being slow and a little bit heavier than we would like, because that's the default for the female body to be able to go very long and slow. And also, if you're listening, if you're listening, if you're listening, if you're listening, you're listening, if you're listening, if you're listening, if you're listening, if you're listening, you're listening, if you're listening, if you're listening, if you're listening, if you're listening,