 radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi radi feeling good and feeling full and protein does that. And we've also been taught to be very afraid of carbohydrate, but you need carbohydrate and protein together to build lean mass. So really reaching for that protein is so important. And as we get older, we need it because we become anabolically resistant to exercise and food. So we need more protein at more regular intervals. How many portions would you be recommending a day? The general consensus right now is if you're having three meals a day, you want to get between 35 and 45 grams of protein at each meal. And then snacks are around 15 to 20 grams. And if you're in a heavy training block, then you need to bookend your training with 10 to 15 grams protein before and 35 to 40 after. Fabulous. Now my vegan clients and friends will kick me if I don't ask you about your own vegan diet and how you get that protein in. So what obviously, you know, there's a real need and a difficulty or more of a struggle for vegan clients to consume adequate amount of protein, just pure and simply because perhaps not wanting to go down that ultra process route can make it very, very challenging. Stacey, talk me through your own process. Like where are you finding those, you know, forms of protein? What are your go-tos? Do you have any recommendations? Part of it is eating more. Unfortunately, when we're looking at plant-based vegan, eating a lot of plant stuff fills you up with fiber. So you have to really learn to eat more because if you're eating more, then you're going to get more nuts and seeds and you're going to get sprouted grain breads. You're going to be able to eat more adenami and green peas and you're just going to eat more volume of food with really, really good protein. For me, when I'm traveling, it's hard when you're going from border to border and crossing lines and stuff. So I travel with a combination of hemp and brown rice protein as my protein powder. If I'm in a pinch, then I'll use a whey isolate, which I don't really like to, but I will if I'm in a pinch. And I make sure that I have something available with me at all times. So I'm always looking at, okay, if it's a plant source, does it have protein in it? Yep. Okay, good. So my meals are a mix of so many different things that then do add up to 35 to 40 grams of protein. And I think people discount things like green peas are really high in protein. So it's adenami and quinoa and black rice and tempeh because tempeh is really good as a fermented product too. So there's lots of things available now. When I was 15 and went down this path for the first time, there was nothing. That was really hard. But now I'm like, oh my gosh, there's so much choice. So it seems to be hard because of the volume of the food that you need to eat. But again, women don't eat enough. So when you start increasing the volume of the food, then getting all that protein becomes relatively easy. One of the things that I've actually seen in vegan clients who are getting the best outcomes, they're often that their nutrition is easily in excess of 2000 calories a day for those women who are physically active and doing quality training. I've seen very little change in physiology for those people who want to stay at a lower calorie goal because pure and simply, they're just not meeting those protein needs. They're not meeting those fuel needs. And so the body actually just kind of stays in this really, really static phase. So hearing that's going to be hopefully really instrumental. Yeah. Yeah.