 What are your recommendations for fasting for women, taking in consideration age and level of physical activity? So thinking about your very active females. Yeah, so there's a lot to unpack about the fasting, right? So I'm going to spend some time setting this up. So if we look at the basic research on fasting, you have things like intermittent fasting, you have time-restricted eating, and there are different terminologies. When we talk about intermittent fasting, this is, a blocked time where you're not eating, a blocked time where you're not eating, a blocked time where you're not eating. It can be a 20-hour window, it could be an 8-hour window, it could be a 12-hour window. When we're talking about time-restricted eating, this is fasting with calorie restriction, which a lot of people are like, oh, trying to understand the two differences, right? And when we actually look at the research that has been done for calorie restriction and time-restricted eating, or fasting itself, right, we look and see that it's been initially done on rats and then transferred over to humans. And then the few that have been done in humans has been on sedentary obese men or sedentary men. There are two studies that have been done on post-menopausal obese sedentary women. And when you look at those groups and those populations, then yes, things like time-restricted eating, so that's a time area that you are eating with calorie restriction, or intermittent fasting can benefit because it's acting like exercise. So we look at exercise. Exercise is a fasted state in itself. And the fact that it is creating a lot of signaling for autophagy, it's creating signal for mitochondria, oxidation and increasing the ROS system. It is looking at increasing our responses for anti-inflammatory responses. It's looking at increasing our ability to use and mobilize free fatty acids. So when we're looking at the differences in an active population, regardless of gender versus the fasting population, the stressors that you get with exercise are far above and beyond for longevity and health better than fasting. Everyone responds to fasting. Everyone responds to fasting. So then when we unpack it a little bit more and look at basic physiology for women, women inherently are different from men from the aspect of being XX or XY. So when we are assigned female at birth because of XX, we have inherent genetic and sex differences that affect our fueling and our responses to nutrient density. First and foremost, we are born with more mitochondria as well as more of the protein within the mitochondria to use free fatty acids, as well as having a higher upskilled antioxidant system because we have more mitochondria, more mitochondrial proteins. The other thing from a neurophysiological standpoint for women is we have two areas in the hypothalamus that are sensitive to nutrient density. The reason for that is we have an endocrine system that requires a lot of energy because it's a menstrual cycle. It's responsible for reproduction. So you're building tissue and shedding tissue every month. So if we look at the two areas in the brain, the two areas of kispeptin neurons, when we start to do things like fasted training or we are inadequate in our carbohydrate intake because of the restriction around the food that we are eating or the time window that we are eating, we get a down regulation of our kispeptin neurons. We get that down regulation. We get a misstep in our appetite hormones because appetite hormones are controlled by genetic expression within those neurons. We also see a downturn in our luteinizing hormone. If we don't have an luteinizing hormone pulse, then we don't get an estrogen surge. We don't have an estrogen surge. We don't have ovulation. We don't have ovulation. We don't have progesterone. So it leads into menstrual cycle dysfunction. So I know that there are a lot of women like, hey, hey, hey, hey, wait, I've been doing fasting. And intermittent fasting for a super long period of time. And it works great for me. So then there are two other things to unpack here. One, what were you doing before you fell into the fasting and intermittent fasting diet? What kind of foods were you eating? When were you eating it? How were you timing it? Most of the time when people look back, they're like, I wasn't eating that well. Or I was bookending my calories on either end of the day. So I was eating a lot before bed. So I wasn't getting really good sleep. I was craving things all the time. And that comes from sleep disruption. If we look at doing a normal human thing of eating with a circadian rhythm in the day. So we wake up and we have food. We're fueling for all the stress in our day, including exercise. And then we stop eating about seven or eight o'clock. And then we have a good night's sleep. And then we don't eat till breakfast. That in effect is fasting, but it's also normal eating. And it works so much better for women. One, when we talk about exercise, women do so much better in a fed state. Because we have that differences in the hypothalamus about nutrient sensitivity, as well as the fact that we fuel our bodies differently when we're exercising rather than men. So men will go through muscle and liver glycogen, and then they'll tap into free fatty acids. Women go through blood glucose, a little bit of liver glycogen, very, very small amount of muscle glycogen, and a lot of free fatty acids. So when we're looking at what's happening, the idea of getting better glucose control, autophagy, better focus and cognition, parasympathetic responses, all of those are male data. When we look in female data, none of that happens. All of those are male data from theidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidetidet