 Thataskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskaskask real evidence to show. So again, this is where marketing is greater than science. If we're looking at soft tissue injuries, then we have to really look at what's the impetus for all the soft tissue injuries, especially women who are peri into postmenopause or are mid-30s to mid-50s. And it is a lack of muscle strength and the change in our tendon tension responses. So this is where we have to work on strength, especially calf strength, because we start to see, you know, plantar fascia issues, soft tissue problems with our hamstrings, hamstring tendinopathies. So we have to worry about whole posterior chain. And then we want to throw in some ballistic movement, which a lot of women who are in this age group are afraid to do plyometric work because of injury or sore joints. But we have to look at how are we improving the health and tension in the tissues. So again, it comes back down to training. We can look at mobilization. We can look at blood flow restrictive therapy. So there's lots of things in there that's going to address the tissue changes that are happening with hormone changes. When we start turning to peptides, there's not a lot of efficacy there to say, yes, this is what we want to be using. Save your money because they're very expensive. They are very expensive. I love that we're having this conversation because I don't think that we, you know, in terms of where the research is at and what we know is worlds apart. We're still not there yet on a lot of this. Exactly. That's the thing. And this is where we see pro science and the longevity groups throwing stuff out. It's like, let's get everyone on our peptides. Let's get everyone on NAD and methylene blue and rapamycin. But there are no real robust human studies on that. Yes, we see that topical rapamycin can help with skin cancer, but that doesn't mean that everyone should be using it for a glowing complexion. I have one more question for you. If every woman listening could change one thing tomorrow for better energy metabolism, performance, and hormone balance, what would that be? Just one or can I say two? You can tell as many as you like. There are two critical things. One, of course, is sleep. Let's look at sleep hygiene and how we are really protecting our sleep because we can't induce any kind of change from a metabolic or physiological standpoint unless we have really good adequate sleep. We see, well, I've been telling my husband about this study that came out two weeks ago where the brain is cleaning itself. And I was like, okay, we'll use that. But sleep deprivation and the times in the day when you lose focus and attention, it's your brain is trying to clean itself by flushing in CSF or your cerebral spinal fluid into the brain and then washing it out, which is what it should be doing when you're at sleep. But it's happening in the day and this is why we lose attention and focus. So we want to change that and not have brain fog. We have to really focus on how are we getting quality sleep. So that's the one thing. The other is having about 10 minutes of real quiet mindfulness. I find that first thing in the morning, get up before everyone else, go outside, see what's happening, no noise. And it just centers and allows you to get a little bit more parasympathetic response. And then you can bring that to touch points during the day where you start to get overly stressed, anxiously, just bring yourself back to that 10 minutes in the morning where you're like, okay, no noise. So it's kind of book endings. Let's start the day with some good parasympathetic, like self quiet time. And then let's focus on sleep. If you get those two things, then you can start looking at all the other pillars and implementing some change to really focus on quality of life for a longer period of time and not just a short little training block. Excellent. So, and everyone can do that. But also if you're not sleeping properly, then figure out why you're not sleeping properly. There's always a reason and there's always the solution. Yeah. Okay.