 word for both sexes to really thrive. So I always tell people get as much fruit and veg and whole grains as you can, like really try to garner that fiber component and make that the base of everything. And of course, high protein, but it doesn't matter what that protein is. If it's animal source or plant source, have a mix of it, right? And it's always the 80-20 rule. Like 80% of the time you're really nailing it and then 20% is life. Yeah. Cause you don't want to stress if you're on vacation or school holidays or traveling, or, you know, like someone brings you a really nice bottle of wine or whiskey or whatever it is. You don't want to say, well, I can't have that because it doesn't work with my ethos at the moment. It's like, enjoy it. Like life's too short. So you got to enjoy things. When you're talking about fruit and veg and things like that, are you speaking about absolute quantity or variety thereof? Both. Both actually. Yeah. So, I mean, when you're looking at plates and things, it's like, let's go with the Japanese idea of your plate or bowl is primarily veg and some whole grains, and then you have an accent of meat. So your veg and whole grain is a lot of protein as well. And then your accent of meat complements it. And then fruit can be dessert or snacks, or you can put the fruit in with your salad. So it's lots of different colors, variety, it makes the bulk of everything. And even if you're making, you know, a sauce or something, you can look at, well, is there an opportunity to put in some spinach or some cauliflower into this red sauce? So there's lots of ways of increasing the vegetable intake without going, oh gosh, I have to have another massive, huge bowl of salad. And what are your thoughts on, you know, testing methods? I find when people tell me, like, I have to eat 170 pounds. So like, people want me to eat 170 grams of protein. That is just like, so, it's just like so much. Is there a testing method on that? So to find out like how much, I'm guessing we're all a little different, different activity levels, different microbiome and such. So I always like to remind people that the recommended daily allowance of protein is based on the least amount you should have to prevent malnutrition. Right. So when we're talking about protein, we have to look at our lifestyle. If you're sedentary, you probably need about another one third onto that. If you're very active, like you going to the gym, doing cardio stuff, you're really trying to get that two to 2.3 grams per kilo a day. So around that one to 1.1 gram per pound. And you're like, shit, 170, that's a lot. But when you start looking at all the things that have protein in it, you'd be surprised. It's like you look at green peas, adenami, nut seeds, your ancient grains, your spelt, your amaryth, your bulgur wheat, even things like Brussels sprouts has some protein in it. Like pea protein isolate is one of the protein powders out there that is almost the same as whey. And then you can look at all your dairies, your eggs, your fish, your, your meat, all of these things all combined. So when I do a schematic for like a vegan and they're like, how do I get 150 to 170 grams of protein? It's like, okay, well we look, chia seeds and oatmeal with some nut butter for breakfast. And then we have a combination of different veggies and grains for lunch. And then dinner might be tofu, curry, and that kind of stuff. And all of a sudden there's 150 grams in there. And they're like, whoa, how did I do that? So we're not looking at 150 to 170 grams of just animal-based. We're looking at everything and combining all those things throughout the day. So it's really easy to get that protein in if you're doing a wide variety of both plant and animal-based stuff. If you are fully plant-based, you might have to work a little bit harder to up that protein, like really including some tempeh, maybe some tofu, if you can handle it, putting some more quinoa and black rice in different places. And sometimes, you know, supplementation really does come into play and it's not a bad thing. There's a reason why we have pea protein isolate or whey protein isolate as a supplement, not as a mainstay, but as a supplement to boost the protein level, especially in times of really heavy training loads, where we know that protein not only helps with lean mass and recovery, but also helps with immunity. So we're going from winter to summer, but the weather right now is so variable. I feel like everyone's sick. It's like, okay, up the protein, let's get everyone's immune systems going. And so for you guys in the Northern hemisphere, when you're starting to cool down and kids are going back to school and there's a whole bunch of germs going around, it's like, up your protein, let's keep your immune system going. Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá France Tá