 gene. So people use it as if it's a muscle building project. Not to add to your dietary project. Right. It doesn't. And most of them are type ones and twos, which is really just skin and hair and nails. It's not about joint. You want to look for a type two that's joint. And then is it a peptide? Is it a native? Do you respond to it? Do you not? So the evidence is really equivocal. Like there is some people that really benefit from it and others who don't. So again, as a, as a blanket statement, oh yeah, you should definitely use collagen. It's kind of like with a pause. We have to look at who you are, what your activity, do you respond to it? What are your needs? So there's a lot of other things you do before you get to collagen. There are so many things you can use, but I do think there's reasonable evidence for type one collagen. There are some studies, you know, showing improvement in bone density. Yeah. Is everyone a responder? Possibly not. And I also feel like it's not harmful. Right. I just think it's a waste of money, but it could, but for, for some people, yeah, there's cost associated. And then for joint health, there are two forms. So there is the hydrolyze form that can include type two, um, which there is some basic science evidence for showing essentially reduced breakdown products of your, of your cartilage in your body. And some people having reduction of joint pain. And then there's another type called under nature type two collagen, um, with some studies also showing diminished joint pain. So this is what I always tell my patients. If you're going to try something, first of all, don't go try, like, don't add on four different things at the same time. Um, give yourself a little test, or even if you're already taking something and you're not sure if it helps stop taking it for a month. Like glucosamine and joint is a really common one. I see people taking, which has very, I would say mixed evidence. And one of the best done studies called the gate trials showed that it really wasn't very helpful in most people, but people are, again, you're spending $30 a month. So I always tell people if, if you've been taking this, give yourself a holiday from it. See if you notice a difference, go back on it. See if you feel better, because these are, can be like long-term investments. People can be spending a lot of money on things. Um, but I, I actually, I'm very much a fan of anti-inflammatory diet for bone and joint health. Um, and I think food is probably ultimately more important than a lot of supplements. Um, and we didn't really talk about, you know, some of the things you need to get out of your diet for your bone health, like adequate magnesium, calcium, um, you know, vitamin K. I think most people can get actually without too much difficulty. Um, and then yeah, the fiber for sure. And I find it really interesting as an expat to go back to the States and I'll walk into a grocery store and there are rows and rows and rows and rows of stuff that's supposedly food, but it's nothing I would eat because like you put a piece of toast and the toaster smells like cake. So we also have to look at the availability of the kinds of foods that are there. So what's the old, um, saying like shop the perimeter, like your grandmother it's holds so true, especially in the States, um, food sourcing and stuff here in New Zealand is completely different. And there's so many ultra processed foods both here and in the States, but in the States it's such a much higher level and people are just bombarded by the, like, here's a protein pop tart. Oh, it's protein, right? Without really thinking, Oh, it's an ultra processed food has nothing beneficial for my gut in there. So those are some of the other quantifications that we have to, the ingredients, the better. Yeah, exactly. So at this point, I would love to get a gold nugget from each of you. If we were just going to talk about, um, if you had to just pull out one thing that you think, uh, is a message that you'd like to provide on, uh, on bone health, let's just peel it back to that. Do you want to start Jocelyn? This is a very basic thing, but I feel like as people age, um, they, you start to encounter little ailments, um, and they add up. And someone will say, I can't do this and I can't do that. I can't do that. And I just tell my patients, think of aging as when you were a kid and you had a sports related injury. And while you had the injury, you had to figure out a way to work around it, except for as you age, many of these things don't go away and they're there forever. So you just, you need to think of them as sports related injuries that you continue to work around because you have to stay mobile. You have to stay active. Um, you know, if you can't run, you can walk. If you can't do a heavy back squat, you know, maybe you can do knee extensions to maintain your quads, but do farmer's carry instead. You know, we just, we need to constantly find workarounds for limitations. Otherwise, you know, you're going to become like less and less mobile, less and less strong. Sometimes we just need to be accepting of those limitations. And if you can't lift super heavy stuff, um, there is still benefit to moderate intensity strength training. It's not as much as high intensity, but I just, I think we need to remove that barrier to entry to maintaining physical fitness and strength training for people that have some of these ailments that kind of maybe keep them away from some of the really high level stuff. You know, if you can't do the eight inch drop, jump in a rebound, you can still do heel drops. And so my message to people is yes, as you age, you're inevitably going to accumulate ailments that affect what you can and can't do, but it just, you can't let it defeat you. You need to find ways to work around your ailments and, you know, find ways to get that impact, find ways to get that load bearing, find ways to do your cardio. Um, it's just, we're never going to be as young as we were yesterday and it's, it's okay to accept that and find ways to, uh, navigate this. So I love it. That's my, my nugget. Thanks Jocelyn. I love that. I think that comes on the back of, I have noticed that a lot of people are very absolutist. Like nuance. Yeah. Nuance. I can't lift heavy. I'm not going to lift. I can't jump. I'm not going to jump. It's like, no, just like you were saying, it's, it's your journey, right? And sometimes you get a big brick wall and you got to find a way around it or over it. And it's the same. It's a nuance. What is your journey? What are your sticking points? Nobody has a straight path. And so we have to know that we have the modifications. Again, if you can't lift heavy, bring it back. Maybe you're doing more reps. Maybe you're adding some contrast training. So you're having more tempo involved. So you're putting different types of strain on the bus and on the bone and the muscle. So again, it is a workaround and it's also reframing what it means to be fit and active at this point in our lives. It's like, if you were to look at what I was doing 10 years ago with a three-year-old versus what I'm doing now, it's like, what I'm doing now isn't because I don't have a three-year-old is because these are the things that are allowing me to keep moving, which is way less and different than what I was trying to do when my kid was three. So, you know, you do have a different journey and people kind of go, well, how did you go from being competitive athlete to just really loving strength training? It's like, yeah, I went from Ironmaning to loving strength training because this is what my body needs. And this is the path that I'm on. Maybe other people will find that path, but I can't dictate to you what to do. We're not absolutists. But we can never stop. No. We can never stop. No. And don't compare yourself to others. Yes. No. Thank you.