 okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay When we're talking about high intensity, we're talking about high intensity interval training, where it might be a total time of 40 to 45 minutes. Within that, you're having good warmup and cool down. And then the actual exercise set could be one to four minutes of an interval of 80, 85% and variable recovery. So you're looking and maybe you're doing one minute on, one minute off, or maybe you're doing two minutes on and one minute off. So you're trying to maintain a heart rate of between 80 and 85% for 20 minutes. And you're working within the variability of recovery to maintain that. So this is contrary to what I understand. If I have a heart rate monitor, and we're not talking about effort, I'm just looking at my heart rate monitor. So for me, like sort of my max is about 165. Mid-150s, I'm really feeling it. Keeping that for a period of time would be very uncomfortable. But I can keep it there for like a minute or so. Bring it down to like 130, a minute on, a minute off, whatever your interval is, two on, two off. Is that what we're talking about? Exactly. So the whole, if you're looking within the 45 minutes, you have a really good block of time. With the recovery integrated into it, that when you look at your metrics at the end of that workout, you've spent around 18 to 20 minutes in that 80 to 85% zone. But you're able to keep it there because you're not trying to hold it for a whole 20 minutes, right? You're doing your variable recovery because you're polarizing within the workout. Now, the other factor that we talk about is sprint interval training, which is a subset of high intensity interval training. And they do two different things. So if we're looking at sprint interval training, this is 30 seconds or less, as hard as you possibly can go with two to five minutes recovery between each interval. So I teach people like on the assault bike, go as hard as you possibly can for 30 seconds, you're going to fully recover. And then we're going to try to chase those meters and beat them. So people are really learning to make themselves uncomfortable. It is a significant challenge. It's horrible. Everyone loves it. It's horrible. Right. Right. But when we look at that kind of training, you're having a complete system response that is telling the body that we don't need to store the cereal fat. And we need to increase our insulin sensitivity. So you're having epigenetic changes that occur with this high, high intensity work. When we're looking at the little bit lower of the high intensity interval training, not the sprint interval training, this is more of metabolic capacity for getting more extra kinds saying, hey, let's pull more fat into the mitochondria. Let's improve that mitochondrial function because we start to have a little bit of dysfunction in the mitochondria when we are perimenopause. So it's all about improving the muscle economy. So both of those work really, really well to improve the functionality of muscle, the quality of muscle, body composition. And then both of those work to attenuate cognitive decline. So when we're looking specifically at what's happening in perimenopause and we're seeing all these changes within muscle quality, bone, gut, where we're putting our body fat, as well as all the issues we have around brain fog and cognitive issues. When we're looking at specifically targeting that with intensity types of exercise, we see a lot of fantastic outcomes. But when we're talking about the zone two, it's not a hard enough stimulus to invoke change. And when we're looking at the zone two data, it's all about improving metabolic flexibility and fat burning. And women are already there. So we don't need to spend time there. I get pushback there because we have people who are ultra runners or want to go out for their long run or their long ride. I'm not saying don't do it. I'm just saying you have to take a step back and go do your soul food. Go for your hike or your run with your friends. Go for a group ride, whatever it is. But don't make that the bread and butter of what you are doing. Don't spend the three or four sessions that you have in a week on zone two stuff. We want to look at two to three really good high intensity sessions. So that could be one true high intensity interval session and two sprint interval sessions. Or maybe you're doing two high intensity interval sessions and one sprint interval session. It doesn't take a lot. It's not about how often you're or how long you're spending time doing it. It's about the quality of the work. So if you wake up one day and like I had this high intensity interval session, I'm going to go try it. And after the first 10 minutes, you're like, I can't hit those intensities. Then you call it and you do some mobilization. Maybe you go for a really slow, chill walk. You do something different because if you start trying to do that high intensity work and you can't hit the actual intensities you need to, you fall into a moderate intensity. And this is the problem that so many women end up in is this moderate intensity. We see this with the F45s and the orange theories and the boot camp classes and the quote high intensity interval training classes that are a lot of the gyms are promoting, especially to women who are 40 plus. But it's not polarized enough and the intensity isn't pushed enough to actually create true high intensity interval training. And when you're in that moderate intensity, it just creates more sympathetic drive and you don't get any of the changes that I was just talking about with regards to muscle quality, muscle function, body composition, because your body's in the stressed state. And we don't have any post exercise responses to reduce that stress state. So this is where I always get women who are in their 40s going, I'm doing all this stuff and it's not working. It's like, well, we need to pull back and see what you are actually doing for high intensity, how many days you're doing it. And if you are really, really challenging yourself in those intervals. So we pull people back. We have them do two really specific workouts in a week and they understand, hey, wait, I can only do two in a week because if I try to do four, I just hit that moderate intensity. Because I don't have the recovery and the ability to hit that true high intensity. This is great. I personally use zone two as sort of a de-stress situation. My strength works for about an hour and a half a day. And then I do my cardio in the morning. And the major thing that I deal with is physiological stress. So like in the mornings, I will get on the treadmill and just walk uphill for 45 minutes as a way to just sort of bring things down. You can press. Exactly. If we're talking about lifting heavy two or three times a week, I can't really do heavy deadlifts more than once a week. It's too impactful on my body. Right. And, you know, if I do what you're describing, like a sprint workout and a couple hit workouts along with the weight training, what are your strategies for taking somebody out of sympathetic drive, getting them into parasympathetic so that they can recover? Because that's the fail. Right. That's absolutely the fail. Right. So reteaching women how to train is one of the biggest things. So when we're talking about heavy lifting, we're not talking about an hour and a half in the gym. Like I did a heavy lifting session this morning of front squats and hip thrusts and I was in and out in 25 minutes. So we're looking at that kind of like short, really focused. So you're doing five reps of a heavy lifting session. And you're doing that, you know, maybe you're doing five to six sets of that with adequate recovery. So you're not super setting. You're not doing anything else. You're just fully recovering. And then you can finish that 25 or 30 minute session with a sprint interval session. So that sprint interval might be another 15 minutes. If you're talking about 30 seconds or less with really adequate recovery between. So then you're hitting two of your sessions in one less than one hour session in the gym. Right. So if we're looking at it, we periodize the strength training where maybe we're going to do it three days a week. So Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, Monday is a squat focus. Wednesday is a push pull focus. Thursday is your posterior chain, deadlift, hip thrust, whatever it is. Right. And then one or two of those days we're finishing with battle ropes or explosive kettlebell swings to hit the sprint interval. And then one other day of the week, you might go do a true hit session. But your hit session could be with your friends. Say you're walking up a hill or your stairs. Then you can say, okay, well, I'm going to push harder for this one minute and I'm going to run up the stairs. I'll meet you there and we'll keep going or not. Like you can make it work for you, however it is. And it doesn't have to be an hour and a half session. It's all about retraining and reframing, getting women out of the mindset that calories in calories out. We have to spend lots of time in the fat burning, all the stuff that was pushed on us in the 90s. Like we have to really unpack that and say the longer duration that you have, the more chance you have of increasing sympathetic drive by driving cortisol up. Now, cortisol isn't a bad thing, but there's this rhetoric around increased baseline of cortisol. You're having elevated cortisol. You shouldn't do high intensity because of cortisol. If you do true high intensity and you do really good heavy lifting, you have a post-exercise response that increases growth hormone and testosterone, which leads for a parasympathetic response. So this is the reteaching of let's reduce the volume. Make sure that we're compounding our workouts appropriately so that we have adequate recovery between the sessions. So we might do a Monday morning and a Wednesday evening so that you end up with 36 hours or more between your sessions. And you're still going to get a lot of benefit from that. And then we're talking about the parasympathetic activity. I always tell people, look, you need to find a point in your day. For me, it's first thing in the morning before anyone else gets up because I want to have that absolute silence where it's just 10 minutes of maybe some mobilization or stretching or drinking a tea or a coffee outside, just being aware of the environment, just with no noise and learning how to breathe and center yourself to bring yourself back to that point at any time during the day. So there is a lot of that mind-body connection that comes with it. So we look at kind of the, well, actually four things to invoke change. First is sleep. If we don't have really good sleep, we can't invoke any kind of change. There's no body composition change. There's no mental status change at all without really good adequate sleep. Then we work on the physical for the most part because women can start to see really good definitive change with heavy lifting with strength within a few weeks. And then because nutrition is so polarizing, we work on nutrition kind of after we do the first two. Because most of the time if you ask someone about nutrition, they go, oh, I'm keto or I'm IF or I'm vegan or I'm plant-based. Like it's an identification, right? So there's a lot to unpack there. And across those three, we're working on the mind-body, right? We're learning how to invoke parasympathetic. So after 20 some odd years of working with people, I found that those are the three that you can really manipulate. Sleep first, mind-body throughout the other ones. Sometimes it changes the physical and the nutrition because some people want to work on nutrition because of the physical first. But for the most part, I find retraining people how to train is so much more effective than just giving them a training program and saying go. This is fascinating. I got to talk to my PTs about cutting down my program. They kill me. Yeah. That's like an hour and a half. That's a long time to be in the gym every day. Yeah. They've amped it up to everything is now four sets of 10, 90-second rest between each thing. Yeah. Mike, what are you doing with four sets of 10? Are you trying to get fatigue? Are you trying to get hypertrophy? What are you doing with that? Well, it sort of depends on what they're doing to me. Like I said, the de-stressing is like a big issue in my life. Right. Right. And I find that when people do a lot of metabolic stress, like the higher reps and lower loads, it invokes more stress. Because if you're doing the heavier loads and less reps, you leave feeling worked but not exhausted. And that feeds forward to a better parasympathetic drive later. Right. Right. Thank you.