 narsin, behaviogel, behaviogel, behaviogel, behaviogel, behaviogel, behaviogel, behaviogel, behaviogel, behaviogel, behaviogel, behaviogel, behaviogel, behaviogel, behaviogel, behaviogel, behaviogel, behaviogel, behaviogel, behaviogel, behaviogel, behaviogel, behaviogel, behaviogel, behaviogel, behaviogel, behaviogel, behaviogel, behaviogel, behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel behaviogel You know, the calories in, calories out. No one talks about the quality of food, the timing of food, what your specific goals are, because they're just, you know, there's so many things about if you want to lose weight, but they don't talk about if you do certain diets, you can lose muscle mass. Who wants to lose muscle mass, right? And it's weight on the scale, but people aren't really realizing that, no, it's not fat mass. It's muscle mass. So I think there's so many things out there, but most of it is all these myths that keep perpetuating in the fitness world that people buy into and believe. So for women, is it a question of calories in? Is it simply a question of calories in versus calories out? From a high touch, no, because we look at it and we see people who will delay their food intake until like noon. And so they have calorie restriction, but then they are putting on body fat. Or we see people that tend to eat a lot in the morning and then they were restricting in the evening and then the opposite happens. They actually lose body fat. So it's not about like both of those women would be eating the same amount, but it's the timing and it's the type. And we're hearing more and more about ultra processed foods and we're on the run. And so we're not like sitting down and having a meal. There's this dysregulation of our appetite and appetite hormones. So there's so many things that are going on that it is not about calories in, calories out. And we can't actually exercise enough to burn enough calories to invoke weight loss. So for a woman who has a weight loss goal, for example, a fat loss goal, what can you be doing in order to put yourself in the best possible conditions, put your body in the best possible condition to lose fat? One of the things that we experience quite regularly here at Slay, and it's really interesting you talk about some of these things, is when a woman is in a calorie deficit, but is losing muscle mass and increasing in fat mass, what is going on in a woman's body when that happens? Well, a lot of it is just a feedback from the hypothalamus, from the brain, because we see like in women, we have a very sensitive area in the hypothalamus that is reading nutrition. And it's also tied into our luteinizing hormone pulse, our menstrual cycle and our thyroid function. So if we are low carbohydrate intake and we're low calorie intake for our daily stress, as well as our exercise stress, hypothalamus is like, whoa, wait a second. We need to like really look to conserve here. And the first thing to go is lean mass because muscle is metabolically hungry. The body's looking at how do I conserve all of my processes because I need the brain and the heart to work. Okay. Well, I also need fuel. Let's break down this mass. So you'll start lean mass going, fat coming on, and we'll see a higher incidence of women who are exercising a lot and they become sarcopenic because they're exercising a lot. They're not eating enough and the body is chewing through the lean mass and putting more and more fat on. Explain sarcopenic for those at home who just went over the head. Oh, sorry. Okay. So sarcopenia is when we're looking at muscle quality and we're seeing that there's more and more fat droplets and more and more fat intermixed within the muscle. So it's not really dense muscle fiber that we want. It becomes more of a fatty tissue. So if you think about like beef cuts that are very well marbled, that's what we think about with sarcopenia. Very well marbled, non-functional muscle. So we're looking really for quality of muscle that essentially comes from quality nutrition and quality training. Is that right? Both. Yes, exactly. So one of the things I was going to say was, so if you're in a calorie deficit, you're also in a low carb state. You're losing muscle and increasing fat mass and you have thyroid issues. Let's say you're suffering from hypo. So, oh gosh, my brain is having a little brain fart here. Hypothyroidism. Are you more likely to be in that state where your body's like, no, I'm going to be utilizing, breaking down your muscle mass and utilizing that for energy? And why would that be the case? Yes, absolutely. It would be. And again, we look at endocrine function. And when we're talking about endocrine function, I'm not just talking about our female sex hormones and luteinizing hormone pulse, there's a direct feedback mechanism that goes from estrogen levels to appetite regulation. So leptin and ghrelin and other things that are controlling our energy processes. And when we're in a low carbohydrate state and a low energy state, and we're doing a lot of exercise, there is, again, that feedback mechanism. So everything starts to slow down. And we see that after four days of low energy intake or low energy availability, we see thyroid dysfunction. So thyroid starts downturning. Thyroid and the function of your thyroid is to keep everything humming at a higher rate. So if your body's trying to conserve, boom, thyroid goes down. If you already are suffering from hypothyroidism, it perpetuates that. And you might find you have to change medication doses. And you're playing around with that. So it's really important that women pay attention to themselves and the fact that they need to fuel for the work at hand. And it's not about, you know, where am I delaying food intake because I'm not hungry? And how am I going to have calorie deficit? If we look at a lot of the research that's coming out, especially around fasting and delayed food intake, we're seeing that it doesn't matter if you're a man or a woman, if you're fit or not. If you are delaying your food intake till around noon, having your eating window up till seven. So you're still having, you know, like seven hour, eight hour eating window. There are more obesogenic outcomes. So we're seeing that people are not losing weight. They're putting on more body fat. They're having endocrine dysfunction. They're having metabolic dysfunction. But for those who break a fast or start eating around seven or eight in the morning, and then they stop eating around four or five, there isn't that dysfunction. We see that they do garner all the benefits of what people are talking about with time restricted eating. And it has to work with your body's rhythms. Like when do we need fuel? When we're awake and we're moving. When do we not need a lot of fuel? When we're winding down and when we're sleeping. And if we're looking also about how to lose weight, we need really good sleep. And a lot of people who are eating later at night and they are trying to get sleep and it might have been, you know, meal within two hours of going to bed, then they're going to have a lot of irregular sleep patterns and really poor sleep, which then feeds forward to more metabolic dysfunction, poor blood glucose control, poor energy fatigue. And again, kind of messaging to the brain that, hey, we're not in a healthy state. We need to conserve. And the best thing that we do is we conserve fat. So for a person who wants to be in a calorie deficit, lose fat, if you are saying like seven till five is much better than, you know, 12 hour or even longer fasted period, what would be the best way to break fast? What types of macronutrients are we looking at? What type of fuel? What type of food should we be eating from that first meal of the day in order to make sure we're setting ourselves up for success? We need to put a precedence on protein and carbohydrate. So if we're looking, say someone comes in and they're like, oh, I have to do an exercise session or I'm going to the gym at 6 a.m. So they're getting up super early and they're like, I can't eat before I go. Well, yes, you can. You can have 30 grams of carbohydrate, which is around 120 calories, if that. And that will fuel you for your cardio or your Metcon session. And then you make sure within 30 to 40 minutes of finishing that you're having your breakfast. If you're going in for more strength orientation, then you want to add another 10 to 15 grams of protein. So that may be one tablespoon of protein powder or a couple of tablespoons of yogurt. It's not a lot of food. But that's enough to signal to the body that there's nutrition available. We can do this work at hand. And then you have to have breakfast afterwards. And it's a good dose of protein. So we say between 35 and 40 grams. So, you know, palm and a half size serving of protein. And that can be from all sorts of different, you know, foods. It can be nuts and seeds and yogurt, dairy, eggs. If you're leaning more towards meat, then you can do that too. But it's really making sure that you're fueling for that task at hand. And then eating at regular intervals throughout the day, making sure you have a good hit of protein and some carbohydrate at every meal. And then you stop eating two to three hours before bed. Why do you stop eating two to three hours before bed? You mentioned this earlier. Is it because the body's like still in digestion mode? And is that the type of thing that's going to disrupt sleep patterns? Yes. So we say there's the parasympathetic system that's the rest and digest. And if your body is busy trying to digest food, it can't get into the parasympathetic sleep pattern that you need to get into. So if you are going to bed on a relatively empty stomach or, you know, you don't have a full meal that needs to be digested, your body can get into that parasympathetic activation, which is what we need for good sleep architecture. And good regeneration as well, right? Rebuilding of that muscle tissue. Exactly. Thank you.