 C3, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyrgi, pyr And we're seeing that if you're increasing your calorie intake and have a higher percentage of protein while you're trying to change body composition, you get a benefit because protein isn't just for muscle. It's for neurotransmitters. It's for nerves. It's for so many other things, even bone, right? So we're thinking about how protein is a building block of almost everything in the body. So if we are eating a higher quality protein more often during the day to increase our calories, we are also stimulating the growth of bone, muscle, neurotransmitters, reducing sympathetic activity. We have a whole bunch of benefits. If we were to increase by fat, we wouldn't have the same thing. If we increase by ultra processed carbohydrate, we definitely don't have the same thing. So when we start increasing our calories, we want to think about two things. One, how are we promoting the growth of positive tissue? And two, most importantly, how are we helping our gut microbiome? Because if we have a relatively non-diverse gut microbiome, then we don't have any kind of change. We don't have any kind of impetus for better health. So when women are like, well, I don't even know how to increase the amount of calories and like reach for protein and fiber, lots of colorful fruit and veg. And if you're also adding nuts and seeds and legumes, you're putting in some protein. And then also look at all the other types of protein that you can bring in. So if you're on 1100 calories a day, I don't want you to go tomorrow and go, oh, I need 2000 calories. Slowly eat, get up over the course of a month, find eating opportunities, because most people don't know what it means to be fed. They only know what it feels like to be hungry. And they don't even tie into that. And we see that there's disconnect in our appetite hormones. The more that we hold on to an elevation of cortisol, it reduces our ability to feel hungry and it reduces our ability to feel full. So we have to reteach the body that. So having an eating opportunity that includes protein and some fiber and carbohydrate allows the hypothalamus to understand that, which means we have better connection with our appetite hormones and a reduction in the cortisol production. Love that. I love the proteins getting the highlight. Nowadays as to prior, it never really did. Yeah. Never did. Not until like the past three or four years when people started really going, okay, well, I can't do carb. I'm scared of carb. I can't put in fat. And we've seen the trends of keto and all that stuff. And now the focus is on protein and people still are afraid to eat more protein. And I don't know if it's because there's the fear of eating more or we have this myth that is going to cause kidney issues. Yeah. There's so many things around it where it's like, we need to unpack this and make people understand that our general recommendations for daily intake of protein based on the minimal amount that you need not to be undernourished or malnourished with protein. So we want to say, here's the bare minimum. If you're lying in bed watching Netflix, but as soon as you start to move, you need more. Yeah. What is that real target? Cause there's like, people say 0.8, people say one gram per pound of body weight. Um, 1.2, it varies. So what is the real target? So it does vary depending on where you are in a training block, how old you are. We see that younger women about 1.6 grams per kilo. So that is about that 0.8 is, uh, if you're recreationally active and you're not in heavy training block, that's like your bare minimum. But as soon as you start putting in a really heavy training block, or you have a lot of stress in your life, you want to eat that up to about one gram per pound. When we start to get older, like I said, you hit your forties, mid forties, you become more anabolically resistant to protein and exercise. So this is where we're like, definitely low end target is that one gram per pound, heavy training, heavy stress, heavy travel, just eat it up to 1.1, 1.2, but it can fluctuate depending on where you are and what your lifestyle is with regards to stress and building. So how about the, um, it's, I mean, I, I hear you. It's all, it's so individual like this journey for somebody eating training. I mean, it comes down to the lifestyle needs of that individual, like to make it exactly sustainable for them. Yeah. Like if I could pinpoint one, like avatar for somebody that's listening to this episode right now, that maybe you could have like some just immediate, like understanding of navigating what they may be struggling with. Right. Maybe they're travel, they're nonstop traveling. Um, they're experiencing symptoms of menopause. Like they're, they're going like a couple months after their period and getting it back. Um, and they're, they're stressed. Like what would be a good, and they're training, they're training like five days a week. Um, what would be a good, like protein intake for that individual? That may be really hard to answer. Yeah, I know. I think you just described my life. Um, honestly, I'm thinking about one of my, my babes and I'm like, I just want to be able to help her right now. You know? Yeah. Yeah. Um, so definitely hitting that one gram per pound. That's where we want the target and people think about it as being really difficult, especially if you're traveling, how do I get that protein? It's like, you're looking at different eating opportunities. You bring stuff with you. You might have, if you're traveling internationally, you can't have nuts, but if you're traveling nationally, you can have nuts, you get a protein powders. You can have, um, little individuals, things of ed nami and green peas. So there's things that you can have on planes. You can stop at, um, a gas station and you can get a yogurt and a protein and stirring your protein powder. Like there's things that you can do and every eating opportunity, you're grabbing some protein. And if you're looking at the different types of protein, you're also getting the fiber. And when you're under that travel stress and going from hotel room to weird time zones, having that protein does help you get into parasympathetic and into a good sleep too. I love that to be resourceful and to options. Yeah.