 I want to hear your take on carbs too, because I know so many women like we just talked about is terrified of them or there she's like myths around it or there's like you shouldn't eat them because they're gonna make you fat. Yeah, I know. I'm like, no, it's again the type of carbohydrate, right? Like women need more carb than men just by the nature of having a more robust endocrine system. So this is not just sex hormones, it's thyroid as well and our appetite hormones and we're more sensitive to y y y y y y y y y y y y y variety of carbohydrates. So yes, that's fruit and veg. It's a whole grains. It's also like sprouted grain bread or sourdough bread. Don't be afraid of it because it's all super beneficial. It's fits in with, if you're having protein with it, it helps moderate blood sugar. If you are someone who has a sweet tooth, you find a time and a place. So if you're like, okay, right after training, that's a great time to have higher sugar content because that sugar is going to get put into your liver and your muscle, even without insulin, because we know that post-exercise is an acute recovery period where your body just soaks it up. So there is a time and a place for the things that you think, oh, I shouldn't have. But for the most part, you should be having lots of different colorful carbohydrate oriented foods with your protein in every meal. Again, that helps with gut microbiome, but also it helps stabilize blood sugar. Love that. How about cycling or like, you know, timing around the workouts, as you just mentioned, like what, what's the deal around that? Or should it just be like a, hey, focus on getting your carbohydrate intake balanced throughout the day based off of the fruits, veggies, whole grains, you know, sprouts, all that kind of stuff. What, what do we do? Okay. So I'll scope it in two ways. One, if we're just, if it's a recovery day or, you know, we haven't had time to train it's, you want to eat with circadian rhythm. So you want to eat, you know, within a half an hour of getting up, you want to have carb and protein at pretty much every meal. And then when you get towards the end of the day, the carbohydrate, you really wanted to come from fruit and veg because then you have the fiber compound and you don't have big spikes in blood sugar right before you go to bed. And we also see that the higher protein content at dinner also helps speed forward to more metabolic recovery and repair while you're sleeping. So you want to think higher carb into higher protein throughout the day. If we're looking at a training scope, if we're going to train first thing in the morning, we get up and we have a little bit of carbon protein, not a lot, 15 grams of protein, 30 grams of carbohydrate. So people are like, what does that look like? A couple of tablespoons of low fat Greek yogurt and a little bit of honey. There you go. Then you have your real breakfast, half an hour, 45 minutes after training. And with that breakfast, you want a good hit of protein and some carbohydrate because we're going to take advantage of that open window to pull carbohydrate in, to stimulate the hypothalamus that we're not under exercise stress anymore. Let's start rebuilding and repairing. And also telling the hypothalamus that, Hey, you know what? You don't have to start conserving things. You don't have to stay in a breakdown state because there is nutrition here. And then you can go on with your day, right? And we want to look at using training as a way that we can manipulate signals to the brain to really change body composition. Cause there's so many women are like, I'm going to do fasted training and then I'm not hungry after training. So I'm going to withhold food until my next meal. And you're staying in this big breakdown state. That's a threat to the hypothalamus central area of the brain that controls so many things like thermoregulation, appetite hormones, or sex hormones, or thyroid. And if you're in that big hole of no food, the brain's like, yep, not enough. I'm going to start turning things down. So let's look at using eating opportunities in and around training as a way that we can maximize our training ability to hit intensities. We want to recover well, and also have an eating opportunity to help the brain understand that we are not in a significant famine. We have the opportunity to build muscle. Mic drop. Yes. Say it louder. Let me eat some food, please. Yes. Amen to that, man. Oh, I remember when I told people when I first like got into the fitness space and was learning all of these things, I mean, so it's over a decade ago now. But I remember telling someone that they should try to just give them body a little bit of food before they work out. And it's like, no, I've never done that before. I can't do that. I'm never hungry. I feel like I'm going to get sick. The way I would explain it is like, well, yeah, your body's just never been used to that before. You've been like that for, you've been doing that your whole life. You got, your body needs, it needs to try something different. But you need to put something into your body to do exactly what you just broke down scientifically. Yeah. Yeah. I still have pushback. Still, I can't eat that early in the morning. I'm like, I'm not telling you to have a full meal. I'm just saying, bring your blood sugar up. Exactly. Give it some amino acids. Just, just a little bit. Yeah. A couple of bites of Greek yogurt and honey. It's like, nothing, but it's just, it's the perfect amount that you need. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. What's the