 TPC T3, I think people would be interested in females always, I think, find or not always, but the upper body and in high rocks like the sled pull or the wall balls at the end. Just more the shoulders sometimes than actually the squatting of the wall balls and find that hard. And lots of females aspire to being able to do however many pull ups. And do you mind talking a little bit about I've heard before the kind of distribution of weight with females and why females often find the pull ups so much harder than the males? You know, you go to the gym and you just see some guys smashing them out and it's super easy and you're like, how is this possible? I train all the time. So maybe delving into that a little bit. Sure. So we know center gravity for women is lower. So you are having to pull a bit more of the weight up than men do. Men's center gravity is closer up to the middle of their chest and women is more down by the belly button. And we also have to think about shoulder girth and the width of the shoulder girdle itself. So when we're thinking about pull ups, most people are taught to arms up and then it's a couple of hand widths apart. So you're more shoulder width apart. But for women going wider, you want to go wider. So you can actually activate the lats instead of just the shoulders. And it it is a little bit more complicated for women to get really good at pull ups in general because we tend to have longer arms and torso and our center of gravity is lower. So if we do a lot of eccentric work where we're doing a jumping pull up and a slow descend, we're going to gain a lot of strength that way and facilitate getting into more pull ups. But also a lot of eccentric work helps with the wall ball because you're catching and kind of an isometric hold before you throw it again. And so if you're strong in that isometric and eccentric work makes the wall ball a lot easier. Yeah, because I think I found personally by the wall balls, I feel like it's more my shoulders than my lower body. And I know a lot of people struggle generally just with the mobility as well. And maybe we find that the males actually find it sometimes harder with the mobility and the squat depth than the females. We noticed in the female field that they that the elite athletes, loads of the females can do the 100 wall balls unbroken. But for the male athletes, actually, that seems to be a bit harder and and you don't see it as much. So it is interesting. But I think I've always naturally wall balls. I thought it's going to be my quads, my glutes, my lower body that tires first. But it's been my shoulders. Yeah, absolutely. The other thing about it is women are more endurance. We're born with more of the oxidative or endurance type fibers. So as a race goes on and the movements get longer, we get better. So you see the wall balls and a lot of women are getting to 70 to 100 without too much issue compared to the men is because we're more endurance. So when we're looking at the types of things that are in high rocks, the strength part, I'm really happy that the really heavy stuff is at the start. Because then it's like, OK, let's warm up and potentiate everything. Because then as the race goes and we become more effective in our movements because we're more endurance, I think it's easier. And if you're hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping to be hoping