 Niamariamarastro, congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation congregation We need consistency. And if you want to get into the weeds and we look at compound movements with maybe some isometric holds in between, it depends on what you're trying to do. For a lot of women who are more injury prone, because as you get into perimenopause, we see a lot more soft tissue and joint injuries. We look a lot of the isometric stuff to complement some lighter compound movements, just to get more out of the movement and not create incidents of an inflamed tendon or soft tissue. So it is a little bit of a nuance in that, but consistency is the biggest thing. Just keep going. Even if you have a scheduled deload week, go to the gym the same time, but work on technique and mobility. Sure. Expect consistency. Yeah, makes sense. And just out of curiosity, bringing up people with injuries, obviously the risk of atrophy or tissue loss can go up extensively as people age. And it doesn't take many days off to speed to consistency to lose a massive amount of muscle that's very, very difficult at certain ages to regain. Sometimes we like to use things like EMS suits for people, like postoperatively or around an injury to maintain muscle loss. Do you use those at all or do you have any thoughts on them? Just out of curiosity, like catalyst suit or what? This is not sponsored. No. I wish I could bring my camera down and show you that my knee is wrapped with voodoo floss right now. Oh, no. For a little blood flow restriction. Because I had an injury in February with a torn meniscus and distal hamstring tear. And trying to preserve muscle is really hard. So, yes, EMS, we look at blood flow restriction. We look at all of the things, plus a higher protein and omega-3 intake. Because it is, strength-wise haven't lost that much, but lean mass-wise have lost a significant amount. And it is hard when you're in your late 40s, early 50s to build lean mass. So, yes, there are tools in the toolbox to use to keep that lean mass. Because you can always build the strength quickly, but to lean mass and maintain that is super important. Yeah. Yeah. Gosh, for that reason, if you ever have patients on GLPs, which for anyone that doesn't know what that is, things like ozimpic or trisopatide, Zep-bound, you may have heard, Wegovy, there's lots of different ones. At really micro doses, we actually sometimes really like them for certain risk patients for longevity. But we always screen them with DEXAS because that lean mass is so precious. And we're starting to see a debt. We're really just trading one longevity risk factor for another. That's probably more powerful, right? And it can be so hard for it. I mean, because anything can happen. If you have one thing that's tipping the scale with lean mass and then you get an injury or you have to have surgery, you know. And in another life, I worked in critical care. And I have this study that never left my mind that if anyone ends up in critical care for any reason, if you don't have optimal muscle mass going in, you have double the risk of death. I don't care if it's a car wreck. I don't care if it's an appendectomy gone wrong. You know, it's crazy how important it is. And it ties into so many things with chronic disease or acute disease, right? So it's just so precious to maintain muscle mass. And I'm so excited that, like, you know, people like Dr. Lyon and different people are speaking to this so heavily these days for women and giving that a voice. So cool. I'm glad to hear that you're pro EMS suit. People think they're so funny. People are like, oh, are you sure? And then sometimes we'll have people that are like 80s putting on lean mass like crazy. And I'm like, this is so cool. I know. Like, yes, this will keep you. Yeah, because, I mean, you look at the older set. I think about my mom, my mother-in-law and their friend group. And they get sick and they lose weight and they get excited. It's like, no, because that's not the kind of weight you want to lose. And two, when you're in your 80s and 90s, you don't want to be too light because you get sick. That's it. And lean mass is key. And lean mass is key.