 nidididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididididid all of the things that we need to maintain as we get older. And if you're looking from a power-based stance of resistance training, so that's the heavy lows, the three to five reps, three to five sets, it also improves balance and coordination. So when you're 80 and you accidentally step off the curve, you don't run the risk of falling over and breaking something because you have better reaction with the power training. So the base, again, as you get older, you really need to focus on that resistance training. And the endurance is the soul food, but that's not the bread and butter of it all. Yeah, yeah, no, that's great. I love it. So kind of switching gears a little bit, a very common thing with females and endurance athletes, under-fueling. Can you address the physiological reason as to why weight gain occurs sometimes in those with red S, under-fueling, et cetera? Yeah, so it kind of leads back to the initial point where I was talking about fasting, where in the hypothalamus, right, we have the two areas of kispeptin neurons. So when we are under-fueling, we're down-regulating those kispeptin neurons. So we don't have enough energy coming in to signal to the body that, yes, we can adapt to the stress as well as take care of our own health. We know that after only four days of low energy availability, we start to get this downturn in thyroid and everything starts conserving. So if you are constantly under-eating and in this low-energy state, your appetite hormones are perturbed, your luteinizing hormone is suppressed, and your thyroid and resting metabolic rate, everything gets suppressed. So you get into this big conservation aspect. And you also start to lose lean mass because your body, again, is looking for food and fuel. So it's really, really, really difficult to put on mass. Back to your point earlier where you're the only one putting mass on because you're eating, right? You can't put mass on unless you eat enough. So when we're looking at putting body weight on for under-fueling, it's because your body's conserving. And when you tell people to eat more, I'm sure that you know in your practice, you need to eat an extra 1,000 calories a day. People freak out because we're so in this, I'm putting weight on. I need to restrict and train more. And then you do that. You put more weight on, more body fat. And you're like, what's going on? I'm not training hard enough. We need to get out of that mantra where we need to look at fueling for what we're doing, fueling and recovering from what we're doing, adding that polarized training and making sure that we're fueling enough to keep those cospeptin neurons going and having a proper menstrual cycle. Yeah. And I don't know if you can speak to this, but I see a lot of women who have under-fueled for so long and then just trying to get them on that journey to start digging themselves out of that hole. I don't know if you have any advice to women who might be struggling with that and who've been pretty under-fueled for a long time. But it's a very common struggle, I see. It is. And the way we start really is trying to fuel for what we're doing. So if you're eating something before and you're definitely eating something after, and then you're having your meals, you can put in another 200 to 500 calories without having impact, but actually bettering your adaptations and bettering your body composition. When people first start doing that, they jump on the scale and they're like, oh my gosh, I'm putting on weight. But it's not fat weight, which is a thing when you're using scale, which is not adequate to tell you what's going on. You're actually starting to store more carbohydrate. And with carbohydrate, you have more water storage. And it balances out. After about two to three months, everything starts to balance out. And you'll notice that your body shape is changing. You're getting more lean mass. You're getting stronger. And your sleep is better. So when you have that quantification of all these things coming together, because you are actually fueling and being responsible for the health of your, all your body systems, then it starts to play forward and a little bit more food comes in and then a little bit more. But we always have to start with that increment because if, you know, I worked with professional cyclists, I'm like, you're under eating by 1500 calories a day on a rest day. And they are like, wait, I'm only eating 1500 calories a day. It's like, I know we need to speak it up. It hurts. It does. I know. Oh, that's, that's super excellent. And I'm sure a lot of people, you know, it's a hard, it's a tough thing to hear, but hopefully it starts to resonate with some women who might be watching this. I think, I think that's great.