! TNF-alitine, Theta, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush, ush And so we should kind of think about doing more steady state work then. But as we've gotten more research over the past five to six years, we know that every woman's cycle is different, even cycle to cycle. And there are more and more anovulatory cycles that are occurring. So you don't actually even know because you'll still have a estrogen withdrawal bleed without progesterone. It might be heavier, it might be shorter, but women aren't that aware that they've had an anovulatory cycle. So what we're finding is because it is so variable, you do find your own patterns. Like you were saying, women know when they feel good, when they feel bad. So you just want to track your own cycle to see how you respond. So when you start finding out that, you know, like day 18, you feel like crap and you know that from every cycle, then when you go to the gym and you're doing something, you're like, oh, it's because I always feel this way on that day. It's not because I'm not fit. It's not because I'm not strong enough. It's because my body's like, I'm trying to deal with this hormone flux that's happening. So let's just back it down. And when women understand that, they become so empowered. And that negative self-talk that we have about not being fit enough, not being strong enough, not showing up. It gives us permission just to relax a little bit. And then fitness improves because then you push hard on the days you feel really good. Because remember, the days of exercise that you feel really good, you get a greater training stress. Then your body overcomes that training stress, which is how we get fitter. So if you can increase the load on the days you feel really good, you get a greater training stress, which means your fitness accelerates. Instead of trying to push against the grain, right? And try to do something when you don't feel that great. The takeaway here is track your cycle. Firstly, if you're not doing that, because I think a lot of women, you can fall in the trap of going, is this my life now? Is this, especially even if it's only one day that you feel like this, you're like, what's wrong with me? Is this my life now? Like what I was yesterday, I felt great. When's it coming back? Whereas if you know this about yourself, or at least you track it somewhat, I have gone through this phase more recently. Cycle day 21, I've finally figured out is just not a great training day. It's so funny though. And my trainer will say, is it day 21? I'll be like, interesting. Let's have a look and see. It is. Also, and I love this because I have had other people that I've discussed your work with, and they've said, oh, Stacey's now saying, I can't remember, I'm not going to quote it exactly, but basically, if you feel good on cycle day one, then go for it. Train on that day. And I'm like, absolutely. Like that's always been me. But if you ask me cycle day 27, no. Don't even talk to me. Don't ask me to be creative. Don't ask me to come up with anything. That's the day that I just go away. And then I come back on cycle day one and we're good again. Everyone's different though. That's the point. Absolutely. Like when I was racing professionally, I always wanted my period to come on race day because I felt the best the day before and the day of. And then if it came the day before, it's like, oh, it's not going to be as great as it could be. You're not getting the benefits. But also, I think this is important that a lot of women dread their period because it's not healthy as it should be. And I think the first place to start then is actually looking as to why that is and really focusing on that. A lot of the things that we're talking about help with that as well. But I think getting to the point where your period is kind of like this, it's an event, but it's not a shut down everything event. Is a different way of operating as well. And not everyone has that experience yet. Yes, I am always telling young girls, giving talks to like the surf clubs and that kind of stuff. If they are down for the count when their period starts to talk to their parents or their mom about it because there's something that can be done. It's not something to dread. If you're in bed with severe cramping and bleeding and it's taking time out of your life, that's not normal. And I don't think a lot of women realize that because we haven't said that. We've never really talked about the bleed phase. We always talk about the menstrual cycle, but not specifically the bleed phase. What's normal? What's not? Even women who have pain on ovulation, that hasn't never really been discussed, but it's a definite thing. And that can definitely take people out. And the more conversations we have about what's normal or what's within the range of normal and what's outside of the range of normal, then we can really start to empower more girls and women. You. Thank you.