 Alright, gkesuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuchuch about a rating of perceived exertion. So we want someone to do a modality at a rating of perceived exertion of nine to 10 on a scale of one to 10 for 30 seconds or less. So when we're talking about what do you mean by sprint? Yeah, it could be running. It could be on an assault bike. It could be on an erg, a rowing erg. It could be running upstairs, walking up a hill. It could be battle ropes. It can be anything that is 30 seconds, full gas. And then you have between one and three minutes total recovery because we're looking for that central nervous system and being able to go again because we're not looking for fuel depletion. We're looking at that fast explosive movement and that top, top end to create an external stress that's going to allow our body to say, hey, okay, I need really good, fast glycolytic capacity. So I'm going to upregulate some of my type 2Bs so that I can have more glycolytic capacity. I want to be able to use ATP and CP. So that's the first bit of your muscle contraction and everything. So I'm going to store more creatine, super important for women. And it also creates a neural response to having more fast twitch and the ability to conduct a nerve really quickly. And those are the things that we're after, especially as we get older. And then the big thing for general pop is we end up with more exerkinds. So this is the crosstalk between skeletal muscle and more visceral or abdominal adiposity, where the exerkinds will signal that we don't need that, the cereal fat. Let's get rid of it because it's a hindrance to the type of work that we're trying to do. Got you. So basically get in there, 30 seconds, up to 30 seconds of intense exercise, battle ropes, ski erg, whatever piece of equipment that you have. And then, so let's say that takes care of our cardiovascular. How many repetitions of that would you aim for in a session? No, more than 10. And most people will get to like three and they're like, yeah, I feel good. They do the fourth one. Like, oh, I can't keep that up. And it takes time to get up to the 10. And if you can actually complete 10, then you probably haven't done it right. If you're really well, if you're well trained, like, you know, you probably might be able to go up and be able to complete the 10 and feel like good. But most people can't do it. I pretty much done it. I put a cap on around about eight reps. You know, I think the interesting thing is we started a running club here in Los Angeles about 18 months ago. And it's a seasonal running club and it's a short distance running club. And the whole idea was that I think we have this, you know, I think the media perpetualizes and really, really reinforces the idea that we should all be out doing low intensity exercise and a running club should be a middle distance running club. It should be long distance and it should be marathons and half marathons and five Ks. I don't subscribe to that because I know that my body is, you know, full of, full of fast twitch and power. Um, and so we set about, you know, creating a little sprint running group, which is really good fun. Um, but yes, the interesting thing was that people were like, is that it? There was the question of, is that it? So there's this idea that, you know, eight repetitions of a sprint is not a real session because it doesn't last a full hour. And when I used to say to my clients, actually, you can get a hell of a lot done and some real quality work in just 20 minutes of cardiovascular exercise. And more importantly, I don't want you to be in the gym for an hour, unless we're doing like, you know, an active recovery day. I don't want you to be doing cardiovascular work unless there's a reason behind that unless it's an active recovery day. Um, so, you know, having a little bit of that, uh, reiterated there is extremely exciting, obviously for me. Now we talked about, um, power training, um, as a woman, how, I don't want to say how heavy should you go, but if we're looking at percentage of body weight, what would be a really great aim for somebody to start, you know, person who's like starting out from scratch, what would be a really good kind of place for them to be aiming to get to? Let's say for like big lifts, like squats, is there like a percentage of their body weight that they should be like, you know what, I'm going to aim for that. I think it more comes down to form because like if someone has really long femurs, then they might have a more difficult time lifting it's 60% of their body weight as compared to someone who has a long torso. So we want to look at form and mobility and how you move through that in complete range of motion. And then you add load. So it's like looking to add load, add load, add load so that it, it brings you to a failure point. So at first you might be only able to lift and you're going 10 to 12 reps, it's failure. But our aim is to get you down to being able to do three to four reps to complete failure by like the fifth set. So it is very much that mobility and movement orientation first. And then you add load as you go, as long as you are maintaining really good form. Because I think that's one of the things that's missing in so many of those popular gym programs and it frustrates me where, you know, I'm happy to call them out. What's missing, the form or the progression? A bit of both sometimes. Both. Both. Yeah. I would agree. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely.