!ntafro-pooraf- Women are dealing with poor sleep. They're dealing with high stress lives, cortisol through the roof, hormonal chaos. And they're always wondering like, why my weight won't budge or why I can't see the results that I want to see. So I'd love to talk about those pieces and how they play a role. One being like, how does, like the first question I would have is how does recovery need to shift for women in menopause? We need to put more of a focus on recovery because we have this sympathetic drive and a higher baseline cortisol. So how do we look at recovery? One, it is bookending your training with nutrition because that's how we can actually help with the signaling for reparation is with the food, especially before and after training. We think about mobility and looking at like foam rollers and those kinds of things. Super important. I think I spend more time warming up and cooling down now than I did before. I spend less time training and more time mobilizing. We kind of laugh about it, but it's really important. I need to become more like you. I need to do that. I can feel it in my body now. I'm like, I need mobility in my life. Yeah, exactly. It's like once you start implementing it and it's like you can do some mobility between your squat sets and you get better out of your training. Right. But then we think about all the things that are circulating about Norma Tech boots, cold plunge, sauna, all these other things that are supposed to be for recovery. But are they really? Does it add more stress? It depends on how much time you have. Right. If we're thinking about having to specifically go somewhere and do a cold plunge and does that stress you out to go there and do that? We think about going to a sauna specifically because we see people who are on social media stepping out of their sauna. If you have it in your house, that's great. If you are somewhere where it's really close and you can tie it into your training, fantastic. But don't put an extra stressor on you just because you think you have to. So it's not necessarily about what's available, but it's about how does it fit into your life? And I think one of the biggest things that women don't do is own time for themselves. We see when you start taking onerousness of what you are doing and own your own time, it's like weight is off your shoulders. Guilt has no room, right? It's a, I struggle with it, of course. I think every woman struggles with it, but it is an emotion that doesn't do anything except break us down. And I try to reteach people how to kind of deal with that where you're looking at 10 minutes and surely you can find 10 minutes. Maybe it's 10 minutes when you first wake up with no noise, right? No one else is up and you have those 10 minutes just to have no noise, be up, go outside, if you can. If not, don't worry about it. Just being able to have those 10 minutes to recenter and find that time for yourself. Training, right? Write it in your calendar as a wellness meeting. It's a non-negotiable. It's your time. Because if we can't show up for ourselves, then we're only half-assed showing up for other people. And when we start owning that for ourselves, then we start reducing the stress because now we're like not going, oh shoot, I have to do training, but yet I feel like I have to go pick my kids up and this and that. So you schedule it, right? It becomes a time for you. And it doesn't have to be every day for scheduling the training, but that 10 minutes is non-negotiable every day. Because if you are able to find that quietness for 10 minutes, when you get into a highly stressed state, you bring yourself back there and remember what that is. And yes, it is part of the mindfulness training that people do, but it's really beneficial when you're like, okay, I have these 10 minutes. I can calm down. I wake up. I'm not blasted by all this noise. And then later in the day, when you are blasted by all the noise, you're like, okay, I'm just going to take myself back to those 10 minutes. And even when you wake up in the middle of the night and your brain is circulating, then you have the ability to go back and say, I remember what that breeze felt like. Or I remember opening the door and feeling the cold air or the warm air. Like you bring yourself back to those moments in time, which allows your body to just go. Relax. Back to sleep. Back to sleep. Yeah. Oh, so good. I'm sorry. That was such a powerful response. I'm so happy that you touched on that. I think that's really like just taking that time throughout the day for yourself can make a huge difference. And compounding over time. Yeah. I find like a lot of people who are driving around, right? And we have radio on, we have the news on, and it takes a lot for you to turn it off and just be driving. Yeah. And it's amazing when you turn it off and you just like have the windows down a little bit, even if you're in traffic and you have all the noise around, roll your windows up, turn the air on, but try to have that no noise in the car. And all of a sudden it's not road ragey because you have that constant chatter and you might not like the music. You might not like the DJs or what they're saying. And it's just another level of stress. I'm not saying you have to do it all the time, but it is very helpful just to have this. Let's turn it off. Totally. There's some reason why when I drive home after the gym, I don't want any music on. I just really enjoy that when it's super quiet in the car. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you.