 jaring watercentro, jaring, misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin misin survive more than the male fetus. And when we're looking at after they're born, just differences in muscle morphology. So we're looking at the type of muscle fibers. And then as we're growing, we're seeing a divergence in cognition, reaction, strength, all of the things that we encompass as being physically fit for activity. We see this divergence that happens. And it's not just because we have an expression of our sex hormones when we hit puberty, but also these undercurrents of sex differences. We see it right down to the molecular level. So there are inherent sex differences, and then you have the overlay of hormones. But remember that the hormone conversation for women, we spend more than half of our lives not in a hormonal state. We have pre-puberty, and we have post-menopause. And so the middle years is where we have hormone representation. Yes, that has a distinct interplay in how our bodies respond to things, but it's not the only thing. So let's talk about hormones and the different stages that we go through. So let's talk about your menstrual cycle and training around your menstrual cycle. And is that point in our life when we are menstruating, where we're at our biggest difference to men and therefore need to pay the most attention to the way we're training and not like a man? So when we're looking at the menstrual cycle and we're looking at a normal menstrual cycle, we have to remember that there's variability from cycle to cycle in each woman, as well as variability from woman to woman. What we're finding out now is that there are inherent body comp changes, there are brain changes that occur cyclically with the menstrual cycle. So this is where we start to see individual differences in how we perform. So when we're looking at low hormone, you know, women can have times where they feel really fantastic versus maybe not so great. And we see that around the time the period starts, women might feel really bulletproof two days before. And then when their period starts, they feel really flat or maybe they have bad cramping. Some women aren't affected. So when we're talking about training around the menstrual cycle, we have to bring it back to tracking how you feel and also having the overlay to understand your own patterns because we're seeing a greater and greater incidence of an ovulatory cycles. So you can't just rely on our menstrual bleed because we will still have a bleed if we don't ovulate, but it's different from normal. It's lighter, might not last as long, but women don't necessarily understand that unless they've been tracking. So if you're tracking your bleed phase and you're actually tracking the length and how you feel over your entire cycle, that's when we can really dial in training and times where we really want to be more aggressive and be more confident because we can see our hormones can work with us that way. And if we talked about training generally in that time of life, so I'm talking pre-perimenopause, which generally is 40 plus, isn't it? I was 41 when I started having perimenopause and symptoms. So we're talking about women in their 20s and 30s. How generally can they train and should train in that age group, which maybe differs as we move through the decades and we can come on to that? So when we're in our reproductive years, we can pretty much do what we want. But in the caveat of we need a really good structured program, the undercurrent of that is knowing that women are born with and have less fast twitch fibers. So if we're trying to maintain power or build power, become faster, then we really need to work on that glycolytic system. So that's your lower reps, your higher weights, doing more explosive work. We see that if you are doing the higher rep range of 10 to 12 in the strength training arena, you're going to get some strength, you're going to build some mass, but it's not as optimal as if we are periodizing, right? So we're having times where we have a power base and we have times where we have a little bit more hypertrophy and then we have definitely deloads. So we can play a lot around with that whole periodization and rep range scope when we're in our reproductive years. As we get older, it changes because of inherent changes within the muscle. Is it a case that your body can deal with more stress, the stress you put upon it in your reproductive years? Whereas when you get 40s and beyond and your cortisol levels are starting to rise naturally, your body is less able to cope with the pressures of high intensity exercise? No, not really. So when we talk about high intensity exercise, it's across the board, right? So if we don't have the right stimulus, meaning that we don't have the right kind of high intensity, then we're not going to get the adaptation we want. So when we're in our reproductive years, we can do things like F45 and orange theory, which is more of a moderate intensity, and you can come out feeling completely slammed. You'll get some benefit. You'll see some body comp change because it is a calorie burn, but it's not optimal when we're looking at really having a polarization to get optimal change. So when we talk about high intensity, we have to say, okay, when we're looking at high intensity work, we want to make sure that we are hitting 80% or more of our max for the intervals, and we bring it right back down to recovery, which is about 50%. When we're in our reproductive years, that recovery can be variable. As we get older, we have to be very on point that we're recovering enough between the intervals so that each interval is just as strong as the first one, because we're looking for that top end stress to invoke change, and we need recovery to keep doing that top end stress. And I think this is the disconnect when we talk about high intensity interval work is that if you are doing high intensity interval work, that you're going to perpetuate a baseline cortisol elevation. When we get into our perimenopausal years, our body's already pretty stressed because of all the hormonal changes. So we do have an elevation in our baseline hormone of cortisol. But if we think about as you get fitter across the board of your resting heart rate, right? As you get fitter, your resting heart rate comes down. If we're looking at how we're taking care of the intensity and the stress in our perimenopausal years, we can do high intensity, but we have to make sure that we are doing it properly, not in that moderate intensity, like the 45-minute bootcamp. We have to really polarize it so that we get a post-exercise response of growth hormone and testosterone that then subsequently drops cortisol. So then our new baseline starts to come down, and we can moderate our cortisol through high intensity and the post-exercise responses that we get. But we have to make sure that we're doing the intensity correctly. sort of water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water water