Like do you have any like advice for like people that are trying to enter into science communication or things that you've learned over the years skills? >> One, find your voice, right? Like you can start out by emulating people, but it's like being a good standup comic or something. It's you first you you do your George Carlin impression or whatever it is, you know, whoever you like your hero and then and then you kind of you find your style, right? So just find your style and it it doesn't have to be like my style and it doesn't have to be the polar opposite of my style, right? Everybody's going to have their tone because we need everyone to have their different tone speaking to a particular demographic on a particular platform in a particular language, right? Whatever it is, we need you all. So, find find the one that's that's natural to you and and uh because that's that that's the kind of authenticity that's going to bring a following. Um, you know, integrity and stuff. This this is the currency that Sycommerce work with integrity and authenticity because we're trying to get people to trust us more than frauds that they've fallen for. You may have to I it's very irritating to have to learn new skills and have to learn new software and stuff where I had to learn how to use Adobe After Effects and I had to learn you know I didn't like I'm not super duper savvy with all this stuff but you know you sit down you learn it it's easier than you think. Um, and then you this world opens up to you of how to make content the way that you want to make it and and then get really efficient at it, right? I'm ridiculously efficient with with my content creation now. Um, I turn because I'm doing this basically alone over here and I'm I'm really turning them out, but it's 10 years of kind of doing the same thing. Um, yeah, that's why >> I see. I mean, yeah, it's it's amazing how fast that you're able to turn this stuff out. It's uh it's very impressive. Um, >> thank you. Yeah. >> Yeah. >> I don't sleep much, so that's fine.