Hey everyone, as you know, I enjoy debunking science deniers of all varieties. But perhaps none are quite as damaging to public health as antivaxers. Antivaccine sentiment, which used to live more or less in the conspiracy bin, has become completely mainstream in this postcoavid and post-truth era. And one of the OG antivax grifters, amazingly, is still making the rounds. So, let's talk about him. Some of you might recall my generalized antivax debunk that I put out in 2021. It gave some background information on the history of vaccination, explained the relevant mechanism of action, and exposed some common misconceptions about their development and ingredients. I'll link to that video below and encourage everyone to watch it if you haven't yet since it addresses so much of the disinformation that antivaxers spew in checklist fashion. But in that video, I also took a few minutes to tell the story of a guy named Andrew Wakefield, since his pivot towards fraudulent activity nearly 30 years ago is almost single-handedly responsible for the huge surge in vaccine hesitancy that has led us directly to where we are today. Once again, my previous video has the full story, but it's worth briefly summarizing here so that everyone has the appropriate context on this guy since we are going to be dissecting a recent conversation he had with Michael Nolles. Yes, the Dailywire douchebag who was interviewing fake genius Chris Langan in one of my other videos. He doesn't have a great track record when it comes to choosing guests, it would seem. But let's get some backstory out of the way before tackling this video called I've seen what this does to children. Michael and the vaccine dissident. A dissident, of course, being someone who opposes an authoritarian government. the kind of tyrannical institution that eradicates terrible diseases and immeasurably improves the quality of life for billions of people. The horror. Anyway, in the 1990s, a baseless narrative began to develop among parents of children with autism that vaccines were responsible for their condition. This attracted a number of personal injury lawyers who wanted to exploit the situation. A lawyer named Richard Bar knew he could cash in if he could get someone qualified to provide some evidence for this link. So he found a gastroenterenterologist Wakefield and paid him a few hundred,000 pounds to produce a study that would give him the green light to sue. In 1998, Wakefield published a study in the Lancet claiming that the MMR vaccine, which inoculates against measles, MS, and rebella, is linked to a number of gastric disorders and autism. He suggested that the MMR be abandoned and three separate vaccines should be administered, including a standalone measles vaccine he conveniently had a patent for. But much more importantly, the study itself was completely fraudulent. It had only 12 subjects, making it statistically meaningless, and all 12 children involved in the study were clients of Richard Bar, some of whom were known to be autistic prior to receiving the MMR vaccine. Wakefield also heavily manipulated all of the data. No other studies could replicate these results. A host of studies were subsequently done in response to prove conclusively that there is no link, and the Lancet retracted the study, but the damage had been done. The public bought the story thanks in part to some dumb celebrities spreading it high and low. And this singular fraudulent retracted study from nearly 30 years ago is still referenced to this day by people continuing to claim that vaccines cause autism. I repeat, people who make this ridiculous claim are exclusively referencing this one study from Wakefield that was proven to be completely fraudulent while ignoring the mountain of legitimate science that has been done since then to prove conclusively that there is no link. Wakefield obviously lost his medical license, but his career as a disgusting piece of [\h__\h] Grifter didn't end there. He then made the pseudo documentary Vaxed, another pile of dishonest garbage that people still reference, and since then has spent his days making public appearances with hefty price tags, coasting entirely on his reputation among the antivax community. In short, Wakefield is a con man. He and RFK Jr., whose debunk is forthcoming, are probably the two most prominent figures in the antivax movement. Now, I hadn't heard much about Wakefield in some time, so I was slightly surprised to see him show up in my feed talking to Nolles. Not that surprised, of course, but a little surprised. I had forgotten about him for a bit, and being reminded of his existence was not pleasant. So, let's give him what he deserves and tear this conversation apart, shall we? And of course, the very first second of the video is a [\h__\h] disclaimer on top of dramatic string music. Do their followers seriously never wonder why these [\h__\h] need action movie soundtracks and manufactured drama to get anyone to swallow their crap? Warning, this video is a big pile of lies from top to bottom. So don't be surprised when it doesn't line up with real science from real experts. All the brainwashed anti-establishment idiots watching this video are already at full erection. I started getting calls from parents saying my child was perfectly normal. They stopped sleeping at night. They were screaming. They were in pain. The lights went out in their eyes was a very common description. Doctors say, "This is just part of autism. Get over it. Put your child in a home. Have another child and forget about it." Jesus [\h__\h] Christ. The transparent alarmism about children is to be expected. But put your child in a home and forget about him. This dumb [\h__\h] thinks that children with autism get put in homes like 80-year-olds with dementia. Anyone who gets through this emotionally manipulative stinger intro without immediately knowing this guy is completely full of [\h__\h] is absolutely beyond helping. Obviously, he knows exactly what he's doing. But anyone who can't accept that Wakefield is lying has to accept the alternative that Wakefield doesn't know what autism is, doesn't know a single child with autism, and doesn't know how autism is treated. So he's either a lying piece of [\h__\h] or a clueless [\h__\h] Take your pick. What were they thinking? This is their quote. We are not going to be left with an orphan drug. And so it was decided to avoid that. They would put it into one day old infants. They took a poison and put it into infants says the most disgusting fraud in human history. I mean vaccine dissident. Buckle up folks. You haven't seen fear porn this good since Fox News told you that the transgenders are coming for your guns. Do vaccines cause autism? No. The answer is a resounding no, Michael. It's not yes. It's not maybe. It's not probably not. The answer is no. Beyond the countless studies that have been performed exclusively as a response to public panic resulting from Wakefield's fraudulent study, which all definitively prove there is no link between vaccines and autism. You can also just know what autism is. It's hereditary, which means it's genetic. I repeat, autism is genetic. Conclusively, look at family histories. Look at studies comparing identical twins with fraternal twins. Autism is the result of brain development in uterero, which is determined almost entirely by genetics. So again, the answer to your question, Michael, is no. Should we pack it up then? Oh, you're going to proceed with 90 minutes of shameless lies and manipulation. Be my guest, [\h__\h] When I was a boy, it was the left that was skeptical of vaccines, thought that there might be a link between vaccines and autism. It was the left-wing shows that promoted this idea. Now, politics has flipped upside down. It's people on the right who suspect that vaccines might cause autism or other adverse health effects. It's the people on the left who are defending big pharma. While Michael is right that vaccine hesitancy is probably the one anti-science conspiracy that has also permeated the left, he's wrong that it was exclusively on the left, the right has been the party of science denial for a very long time. And vaccines are no exception. And stop talking about people defending big pharma. Rejecting a bogus study and knowing how autism works is not advocacy for any particular industry. It's just being an educated person who can't be manipulated by this kind of garbage. You've now got Bobby Kennedy who was a Democrat. He's a Kennedy for goodness sakes. He's now the Secretary of Health and Human Services for Donald Trump who previously had been kind of a Democrat. Now he's the Republican president. And here I am still totally ignorant of vaccines. The big surprise here is Michael admitting that he's a [\h__\h] idiot who knows zero things about vaccines. Other than that, yes, RFK is a Kennedy and both his dad and uncle would be deeply ashamed of what he's become. Yes, both RFK and Trump shifted to the right specifically to grift off of people who would be receptive to their lies. It's not some big mystery, Mikey. So, I figured I'd call in a man who is at the center of this controversy, and that is Dr. Andy Wakefield. Dr. Wakefield, thank you for coming on the show. It's nice to be here. Thank you very much. It's good old Dr. Andy. A shucks, G Whiz. He somehow found himself at the center of this madness. I wonder how that happened. Hey, Mike, drop the doctor. It's just Andy now. He hasn't been a doctor for a very long time. For the people who don't know who you are, you published the study in the 1990s that suggested adverse health effects from the MMR vaccine. And you have also been the chief target of everyone who wants to defend all vaccines really and especially the MMR vaccine. According to I think it was David Weldon, former congressman who was nominated for CDC under Trump, you are the most unfairly vilified man on planet Earth. It's so unfair how people vilify him. He's just a disgusting, grifting piece of [\h__\h] who published a fake study for money and has done nothing but push lies about vaccines for almost 30 years that get children killed. Call off the Inquisition. And and I said, "Well, is that true? Let me look up a little bit about Andy Wakefield." And I I know you certainly have the best Wikipedia page I've ever seen. Now, some of my friends have been unfairly malignant on Wikipedia, conspiracy theorists, hoaxers, bigots, whatever. The first line of your biography on there is, uh, Andrew Wakefield is a fraudster and a former medical doctor and a this and a that and a this and a that. OMG, you guys. Who ever heard of accurate information on the internet? Stupid open- source Wikipedia. Stop making it harder for us to lie to people. I will never get tired of these douchebag charlatans spraying lies all over the planet with a [\h__\h] fire hose and then having the balls to act shocked when people call them exactly what they are. Oh, good heavens. Well, I never Isn't that a fine? How do you do? You're terrible actors. Take me back to the beginning before you were one of the most politically controversial figures on the planet. You're a doctor. Well, there I was. It was 1981. I graduated in medicine from St. Mary's Hospital Medical School in London. I was one of five generations, now six generations of my family to graduate from that medical school. Medicine was really in our blood, I suppose you could say. And in 1995, I started getting calls from parents, highly articulate, intelligent parents, saying my child was perfectly normal. They had speech language interaction with their siblings. They were sleeping well, eating well, growing well. And then they had their MMR vaccine. I wasn't antivaccine doctor. I took them to be vaccinated on time. And within a very short space of time after the vaccine, they lost all their skills. Speech language gone. They their eyes glazed over. The lights went out in their eyes was a very common description. They stopped sleeping at night. They were screaming. They were in pain. Yep. That's a bunch of [\h__\h] None of that happened. No parent said any of those things. It's a script he wrote decades ago and has dispensed ever since. But Dave, how can you be so callous so as to dismiss this mountain of anecdotal evidence? Because I know he's a lying fraud. So anything he says that can't be verified is sure to be a lie. But if you love anecdotal evidence so much, here's mine. I don't share photos of my family on this channel for safety reasons, but I have a son with autism and his behavior has never changed. He was autistic before vaccines and he's autistic now after vaccines. He's always had precisely the same amount of autism. There's an abundance of light in his eyes and nobody from the state came to put him in a home. So, anyone who wants to tell me that the personal experience of people Wakefield made up to sell his grift should matter more than my real personal experience on top of all the actual science that proves him wrong can go [\h__\h] themselves. And I said, I know nothing about autism. You must have got the wrong number because even this part of the story is pretty shocking. It's not as though you started out investigating autism. As you say, you were you were investigating gut issues. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. Wakefield knew [\h__\h] all about autism then and he knows [\h__\h] all about autism now. Richard Bar just needed a doctor to pen the fake study. Any doctor. It didn't matter whatsoever what kind of doctor it was. Gastroentererologist Andrew Wakefield. He'll do it for half a million. Let's get it done, boys. Wakefield made the pivot into grifting and never looked back. When I was at medical school, autism was so rare. We weren't even taught about it. There was no class from autism. I I think one in 10,000 children. No, that's another lie. The prevalence of autism has not changed, only our eagerness and ability to diagnose it. Diagnosis have risen because we now diagnose it. That's all. If you had autism in the 1950s or even the 1980s, you were just regarded as weird. Now you are medically diagnosed and participate in a host of therapies like occupational therapy and speech therapy to improve the quality of life for the child with medication only being used in severe cases. Again, my son does these therapies and the improvement in his mood and behavior has been obvious because autism is about brain structure and function, not about some nasty poison from the nasty vaccines. But they need this angle really, really badly. According to them, autism is from vaccines. And according to them, we use too many vaccines now. So there must be a rise in autism to mirror the alleged rise in vaccines prescribed, which is just a lie anyway. So how do they spin it? Yes. No, I whatever statistic I saw, it said in 1966 it was 1 in 2500 and then in 2000 it was one in 150 and then today it's one in 36 kids is getting diagnosed with autism. Even more one in 31 in 20 boys. It's more common in boys than girls. How do you explain that? Well, that's a very good question. So, this is what the parents brought to my attention. They said, "Doctor, my child has intractable gastrointestinal problems, diarrhea, alternating constipation and diarrhea, bloating, abdominal pain, failure to thrive, all the cardinal features of an underlying inflammatory bowel disease." But the doctors and nurses I've been to see, doctors, say, "This is just part of autism. Get over it. Put your child in a home, have another child, and forget about it." Ah, yes. just put your child in a home, which once again should be enough to make every single person laugh their asses off and switch to another video. He's saying nothing. It's blah blah blah IBS. Here's some [\h__\h] to make you think that my former career as a gastroenterenterologist prompted me to stumble upon some super secret truth about vaccines. Pathetic. I thought I mean this is extraordinary. I've never heard medicine respond in this way at all. Yeah, nobody has since nobody has ever said that ever. you just made it up. They said, "The other thing, doctor, is there is a an epidemic of this problem of developmentally normal children suddenly losing their skills and becoming autistic." And so I said, "Okay, now the fundamental rule of clinical medicine, okay, let's go right back to the beginning, is to listen to the parents. No one knows children like their parents, particularly the mother." This sudden loss of skills thing is also total horseshit. In autistic children, certain skills are delayed. Speech is a skill that can be delayed. My autistic son definitely had delayed speech. He eventually got there and now he's a total chatterbox. But autistic kids are just wired differently. Their developmental progress is not the same as a neurotypical child. And there's nothing wrong with that. Autism is not a disease. It's not a paralysis. It's not a pathogen. It's a neurodedevelopmental condition which comes with benefits and disadvantages when it comes to integrating with a society that is predominantly neurotypical. That's all. Different is not inherently bad and it certainly is not an epidemic. Also, where the [\h__\h] is this fundamental rule of clinical medicine written that says listen to the parents? That's the dumbest [\h__\h] I've ever heard. When you take your kid to a pediatrician, they don't start by asking, "Hey, your parents, what do you think is wrong with him?" The accurate response to that would be, "I don't know. You're the [\h__\h] doctor. I thought maybe you could tell me. Do your job that you trained for like 20 years to be able to do." But Wakefield needs to empower all the stay-at-home Karens who worship him. So, he's going to tell them that they're always right and they know best. If they think the vaccines made their kids sick based on something they read on Facebook, who are doctors to tell them otherwise? Am I right? Yes, there is a link. We don't know what the nature of that link is, but yes, there is a plausible link. And I said to the Department of Health once, you know, if I take you for a pint of beer, you may begin to understand what I'm talking about. They thought I was trying to offer them to go out for a beer and enjoy their company. Nothing could be further from the truth. What I was saying is if you drink a pint of beer, within a very few short period of time, you will feel the cereble effects of that pint of beer on your brain. There is a gut brain connection. This isn't difficult. No, alcohol affects your brain because it enters the bloodstream and subsequently reaches the brain where it acts as a central nervous system depressant. It increases GABA activity while inhibiting glutamate. These are neurotransmitters that dictate brain activity. It's not a gut brain connection. Ethanol goes into the blood and travels to the brain. And this [\h__\h] went to medical school. Even simply if you take alcohol out of it, you know, I I some women in my life, they if they are a little late to lunch, they get a bit hangry. Okay, you see emotional and psychological connection. Wow, good one, Mikey. Some women get hangry. Therefore, the gut can give you autism. Great job, dumbass. Again, these insights had come from parents. We'd follow up followed up on those insights and they were true. You hear that delusional Karen? Andy sees you. All those real doctors that roll their eyes when you spew the horseshit you read on the internet, they're just shills for the establishment. Andy knows you're right. Karens are always right. And you're the reason Andy has become the beacon of truth that he is today among science illiterate delusional Kairens all over the world. There's a dramatic improvement incredible in the symptoms of autism. Not just the bowel symptoms, but the cognitive symptoms as well. People say, well, they were just out of pain. They were feeling better. They were sleep. No, this was children who were using words that they had not used for five years. Words that, you know, you would had disappeared from their vocabulary were all in there. They came back. This is the most hilarious part to me. Obviously, Wakefield is full of [\h__\h] for pretending that vaccines brought on developmental problems and children. He's just lying when he says they had all these great verbal skills that disappeared after vaccination. There is no way this is true. But how do you prove it? We don't have 247 footage of these kids to nail him on it, but the [\h__\h] has the balls to pretend that he treated them and it went away. So, he is basically claiming that he can cure autism. Forget the fact that autism isn't a disease and therefore has no cure. But if his narrative were accurate, why doesn't he rid the world of autism with his glorious insights? Shouldn't he be able to do it to anyone with autism? Oh, yeah. It's probably because stupid big pharma won't let him, right? The medical experts. God save us from medical experts. We're wrong on every single count. You could take that library of textbooks written by experts and burn it to the ground for the value of the story from one parent telling you what actually happened. This is a nice little sound bite which encapsulates everything that's wrong with frauds like Wakefield. It can't be made any more clear that he is elevating anecdotal evidence from one clueless parent, which is certainly fabricated anyway, over the entire edifice of scientific knowledge. This is science denial in a nutshell. Everything we know is wrong because it has to be in order for my lie to be true. Revolting. You know, you may be right, but this isn't going to be good for my career. So, would you take your child and leave that this room and shut the door behind you? Thank you. That's what happened. That is that is what that is what was happening. The story never changes. These frauds always want us to believe that a new discovery would somehow destroy the careers of scientists and doctors. Electric universe is true. But all the physicists deny it because it will destroy their gravity ccentric careers. No. If it were true, they would study it, develop new scientific principles describing it, manufacture new technology based upon it, and probably win Nobel prizes for doing so. Science is not afraid of growth and change. Not by a long shot. And the implication to the contrary is one of the easiest ways of spotting a science denying fraud. I didn't have a bias one way the or the other about whether the vaccine was involved, but I there was a moral and professional obligation to investigate. Didn't have a bias, huh? You were paid a bunch of money to come to the predetermined conclusion that vaccines cause autism. But that didn't bias your fake study at all, now did it? I went to see the dean of the medical school. I was called into his office. He said, "Andy, if you continue this vaccine safety research, it will not be good for your career." There was an overt threat. He was absolutely right. It wasn't good for my career. Yeah. It's not like vaccine safety is researched every single day or anything. Don't do a totally routine thing, Andy, or we will excommunicate you from the Church of Scientism. Isn't he so brave to persist with his noble quest, you guys? and and in 1998 you publish the famous study in the Lancet. Yeah. So the study comes out and I I actually have trouble in in the popular reporting on this even determining what the study said because they seem to accuse the study of saying things that it didn't necessarily say. So what did the study say? Hey [\h__\h] if you're dying to know what it says, here's a thought. Maybe you could [\h__\h] read it. No, you're just going to ask your old pal Andy and blindly trust everything he says. Got it. But we said at the conclusion of the study, this study does not prove an association, let alone a causal association with the MMR vaccine. So hold on, hold on. This this is the part that's the craziest in the story to me. You are blamed for creating vaccine skepticism. You are blamed with measles outbreaks. You are blamed and called a terrible fraudster and a horrible practitioner of medicine because you said in your 1998 study that the MR vaccine causes autism. Except you didn't say that. Quite the opposite. And we said what we do need is further research. Yeah. Give me a [\h__\h] break. Here it is in the discussion section. Reubella virus is associated with autism and the combined measles, mumps and reubella vaccine rather than monovalent measles vaccine has also been implicated. Futenberg noted that for 15 of 20 autistic children, the first symptoms developed within a week of vaccination. Gupta commented on the striking association between measles, mumps, and reubella vaccination and the onset of behavioral symptoms in all the children that he had investigated for regressive autism. Striking association. And notice how eager he was to absolve his own measles vaccine that he stood to profit from. Then to give himself a way out when pressed about this fake paper, he included, "We did not prove an association between measles, mumps, and reubella vaccine and the syndrome described. Viological studies are underway that may help to resolve this issue. So we just faked a bunch of data in order to insinuate it aggressively and repeatedly, but we didn't prove it, you guys. So don't attack us." And of course, he is glazing over the fact that he held a press conference where he specifically insinuated the link, denounced the MMR, and promoted his single measles shot, and then spent decades claiming this link through public appearances for cash. What is this [\h__\h] tactic? He is world famous as the guy who lied to pretend that the MMR vaccine causes autism. And here he is pretending he never even said that. So, are you admitting that it doesn't, [\h__\h] Are you finally coming clean? Okay, now. I read again just in popular reporting this was a few year more than a few years ago now that that study even with its modest conclusion was retracted by the authors of the study but I'm sitting across from one of the authors of the study. You didn't you didn't retract it. So what what was that? Was the study retracted? No it wasn't. And this was another myth that's been perpetrated by the media. Of course Wakefield didn't retract his own dog [\h__\h] study. The editors of the Lancet retracted it because they figured out that it was a fraudulent study. It's common knowledge that it was retracted. Anyone can Google it and see for themselves. Nolles asks, "Was the study retracted?" Not, "Did you retract it?" He asked, "Was it retracted?" Wakefield says, "No, it wasn't." That's a myth perpetrated by the media. Does anyone really need any more evidence that Wakefield is a piece of [\h__\h] who will lie about literally anything? It was an exciting time. But we defended the pharmaceutical industry. We defended government policy and the World Health Organization and the and UNICEF and the major pharmaceutical companies that make the vaccines, the American government. We defended a lot of people. My fake study must be true because big pharma bad. Your fancy British accent can't disguise the fact that this is all you have. And it's depressing that this is all it takes to trick millions of people. We're all familiar with cancel culture. If you are a doctor, however eminent, you stand up and you criticize say COVID Yeah. vaccine policy, that's the end of your job. Doesn't matter how many papers you publish, doesn't matter how eminent you are, you are finished. The way in which the system historically now deals with this kind of problem is to simply cut the person's head off. This douchebag is drowning in conservative dog whistles. All I did was rape a bunch of women. Now they're trying to cancel me. All I did was single-handedly create a public health crisis for money. Now they're trying to cancel me. No need to follow up on the specific claim he made. Which doctor said what and what happened to them? Anything. Obviously, they these labels became they perpetuated in the media, conspiracy theorists and all kinds of things. And so that's fine. We continued the work until they made it impossible to go any further. and they leveled all kinds of allegations against me and against my colleagues of research misconduct. The worst being the allegation ultimately that it was all fraud. It was all made up. Yes. Through a combination of private investigation and general medical council inquiry, it was proven that the study was fabricated. Data manipulation and falsification as well as ethical violations and the financial conflict of interest, also known as the gigantic bribe, were exposed. Again, all of this is common knowledge. What's your response to everyone knowing for a fact that your [\h__\h] study was fabricated, Andy? And um when you control the media, nope, just nope. Just [\h__\h] you. And nope. It's never anything but whining about whatever boogeyman he needs to prop up in order to escape reality. My study was fake, but big pharma bad. My study was fake, but government bad. My study was fake, but mainstream media bad. These are meaningless deflections that anyone could make at any time, no matter what they've done, and it's all you have. [\h__\h] you, Andy. [\h__\h] you, Mike. So, they they accused you of misconduct in the methods of the study. They accused you of taking money from other interests. They accused you they they had this whole litany of accusations in the popular media. Was there any truth to the allegations? So, there was an element of truth. And the truth is for example the lawyers had come to me at some point during this the conduct of this work not the research not the Lancet paper and I had agreed as is very common practice to undertake a study to determine whether there was a link. Is it very common practice to accept a gigantic bribe to fabricate a study with a desired conclusion of a link that doesn't exist? Andy funny how you forget to mention the bribe. Huh? Um, but I was singled out as, "Oh, Wakefield's doing this to undermine the MMR vaccine and launch his own vaccine onto the market and make a fortune." And yes, they they accused you of having a desired patent for a rival vaccine. I'll never get used to these [\h__\h] frauds whining in an offended tone about being accused of things they objectively did. They all do it. This is how sociopaths abuse their partners, too. It's nothing but gaslighting all day long. But you What do you do about that? When you don't control the editorial, you right, they can say what they like and then you've got to unpick that mess afterwards. Do what? Sue. Sue them. Suing someone costs $3 million. Where are you going to get $3 million from? Suing someone costs $3 million. Really, Andy? Everything I find says something around a few tens of thousands of dollars. So, you're obviously lying. If it costs that much, nobody would sue anyone ever. And for a case like this, the struggling underdog against the big bad system, I'm positive you could have gotten someone top-notch to do it pro bono for the publicity. You didn't sue because you're a piece of [\h__\h] fraud with nothing to sue about. $3 million my ass. I think eight or nine of my colleagues, nine of my colleagues were persuaded to sign the retraction of an interpretation. The interpretation being that MMR vaccine causes autism. I said, "Guys, when they asked me to sign the retraction, I said, 'We never made that claim." You're asking me to retract something I didn't say. How can you retract something that doesn't exist? God damn it. Is Nolles not the most pointless schmuck you've ever seen? This frantic giggle that only devout closeted gay men know how to excrete, which represent 80% of his contribution to both the Langan interview and this one. It would already be grading enough, even if it were totally innocuous. But the way he thinks a lie becomes true by pushing a frenzy of chuckles through his [\h__\h] eatating grin, it's the most pathetic attempt at pseudojournalism imaginable. The safety studies on the vaccine were undertaken in small populations. They were not controlled trials. They were not nothing that would have passed uh a drug trial for the FDA and they were done on children in mental institutions because they were expendable. Hey, look at Andy, the lying piece of [\h__\h] telling another gigantic lie. MMR was tested on small populations of children in mental institutions. It was done on thousands of infants and children from the greater population, followed by countless metaanalyses and retrospective studies. Again, all very easily googleable stuff that this disgusting jerkoff lies through his teeth about during an interview. Have you thrown up in your mouth yet? Why is that? Okay. And so I did the research and I found precisely that there was interference between the viruses in the component in in in the combined vaccine. But people are just okay moved on. Interference meaning what interference is that the immune response induced by the single vaccine was different from that produced by the combination the MS in particular interfering with the measles. Michael says, "Interfering meaning what?" A question we were all thinking. Andy says, "The MS were interfering with the measles." Which doesn't answer the question at all. Interfering how? And Andy says, "Interfering." What the [\h__\h] are you saying, Andy? How does one virus interfere with the other? Concretely, mechanistically. Funny how Mikey has no followup after his question was dodged. I would be much more likely. Yes. Really on any vaccine to say, "Okay, we'll give them the single one first and then maybe in eight months we'll give them the other one and then six months." I don't know. It seems it seems more prudent to me, more cautious really because earlier in this interview you whined about the staggering number of vaccines given to children, a dumb talking point that all antivaxers blindly parrot without having any idea what the vaccine schedule really is. Splitting up the MMR means one vaccine becomes three. So, do you want more vaccines or less, Mike? Make up your [\h__\h] mind. This is the time late 90s, early 2000s, that people are really starting to speak about the link. Uh, Bobby Kennedy, now the Secretary of Health and Human Services, is suggesting this link between vaccines and autism. As you say, your paper invited further research. It would seem to me, I guess, in my innocence, that this would be great opportunity for scientists. Wow, this is great. You know, we could uh I could make my bones proving something really important in medicine. Yeah, like I said, all subsequent studies proved conclusively that there is no link. Did you want to talk about that at all, [\h__\h] No, just reference RFK for no reason. The other most prominent grifting antivaxer who is now in a position of frightening power. Got it. What it meant was the CDC had had an obligation to do a bigger, better study somewhere else to see if they could replicate it or to at least advise parents that they may wish to delay the vaccine while this issue was being resolved. But they did none of those things. They buried it and caused terrible damage in order to protect themselves and their reputations. This is the end of a several minute long rant where he accuses CDC of burying a study that supported the MMR autism link. In reality, CDC has done multiple studies confirming there is no link while demonstrating the safety and efficacy of the vaccine, as have many other institutions. But CDC equals government and government is one of the best boogeymen. So Andy just baselessly accuses them of whatever narrative he wants to spin because government bad, big pharma bad, media bad, but Andy good. Andy always good, airtight, huh? And that I found absolutely heartbreaking. And William Thompson, the science the CDC scientist contacted my wife sent to her and said, "We could have salvaged your husband's career if we'd been honest." Well, it's irrelevant. My career is It doesn't matter about me because the issue isn't about me. It's not about me. It's about something much more important. It's about all of those children out there who were exposed unknowingly. Wow. What a great guy, huh? He doesn't care about himself at all. He's so selfless. People who brag about being selfless every chance they get are usually super trustworthy and not manipulative sociopaths at all. The CDC conducts this study, proves your point, buries the study, then comes out and says the MMR is great. On what basis, if if any, does the CDC say forget about that study that we're not going to tell you about the MMR is great? They don't. Yeah. since none of that ever happened open and shut. As all this is going down, you're facing not only soft pressure and reprisals, but they took away your medical license. How did that happen? Where does that stand now? Why haven't you sued them into the ground to gotten your medical license back? Well, you could say, "Why would I want to be part of that villainous crowd?" Fair enough. I really want to do that. Now, I'm a filmmaker. I make I write and make films. I Yes. Why would you want to continue being a respectable member of the medical community when you can produce pseudo documentaries full of lies that make you filthy rich? It couldn't be greed and immorality. Heavens no. It isn't important. There is something far more important and that of course is the position. It hasn't gone away. You got to ask yourself why is it being talked about now more than ever pro particularly with Bobby Kennedy in the White House. Yes, COVID happened. Grifters generated a mountain of propaganda surrounding co vaccines. Half the [\h__\h] population fell for it. And now antivaccine sentiment is so mainstream that even an ancient proven fraud like you can find their way onto a platform like this. While an even bigger fraud can find his way into Trump's cabinet. It's a [\h__\h] up clown world, isn't it? We were alleged to have conducted unethical research. No, we didn't. Yes, you did. Apart from the undisclosed conflict of interest aka gigantic bribe, you performed unnecessary invasive procedures like colonoscopies and lumbar punctures on vulnerable children without clinical justification. You're a piece of [\h__\h] who abused children to make money. That's why everyone rolls their eyes when you have the balls to pull a hell in love joy. Won't somebody please think of the children? Even I was just sitting down with Secretary Kennedy a few weeks ago at the White House and we got onto the topic of vaccines. I said, "Is anything going to change?" He said, "Everything's going to change because we're going to base this on the science now." And he brought up one of the objections which is people point out there is a an adverse reaction database for vaccines ve and people if if they think their kid has had an adverse reaction, they can file a claim. There have been payouts. There there have been laws passed by Congress. And yet what the CDC says is, "Well, the the database is not reliable." And I what do I don't know if it's reliable or not, but I asked this to Secretary Kennedy. And Kennedy said, "Well, don't you think after so many decades we should have a reliable data? Why don't we have a reliable database? Here comes the VES [\h__\h] Mikey, you can't think of a single reason why a database consisting exclusively of unverified reports isn't reliable. Did you know that lying is a thing? You work at the Daily Wire, so I know that you know what lying is. Apart from people being idiots who think some incident was caused by a vaccine when it definitely wasn't. The database is regularly abused by antivaccine propaganda peddlers trying to fabricate legitimacy for overblown claims of vaccine injuries. It's not that hard to understand. And the idea that RFK somehow represents a move towards science over the previous administration instead of the complete disavowel of science that he truly is makes anyone with a brain want to cry. It's so difficult for me to believe that they people are willing to compromise the health of America's children for generations just to make a buck. But is that it? Is that is that just what it's all about? Yes, Michael. You've described my entire identity quite immaculately. Chip chip cheerio. Well, and the and the statement that you alluded to that vaccines are safe and effective. They're not. They're not safe. The the determinance for safety, I mean, the government itself has said vaccines are unavoidably unsafe. Yeah. Where did anyone admit that [\h__\h] The same fantasy land where kids with autism get put in special homes. With the amount of lies you tell per minute, it's astounding that you're not in Trump's cabinet as well. I I want to be clear here because Bobby Kennedy just announced that now there will be controlled studies with placeos to to test the safety and efficacy of the vaccines. You're telling me before now though there have never been studies. When Bobby Kennedy met with Fouchy and Collins in the White House, they said, "Oh yes, they have. We've got a stack of papers here." He said, "Show me, please show me one of these studies." Oh, we haven't got it here. We'll we'll send it to you. Never got sent. Several years later, they admitted that Bobby Kennedy was absolutely right. It had never been done. Gee, do you think this is another dumb lie that can easily be exposed with 10 seconds of Googling? Start your timer. There seemed to be a lot of parallels here to CO, which was CO comes out very quickly. It's clear co does not really pose much of a risk to little babies actually or to healthy young people. Maybe there's a risk to older people or people who have immune system conditions. But the vast majority of people did not face a major risk from CO. Uh what planet were you living on [\h__\h] Right at the start of the pandemic it was [\h__\h] mayhem. Take a country like Italy. They had almost a thousand COVID deaths per day for months. Everyone was in a constant state of panic. Obviously, those were disproportionately elderly people, but there were plenty of mortalities from other age groups as well, including children. All in all, CO killed around one in a thousand of all humans. And that would have been a lot more had the vaccines not been developed so rapidly. I know that doesn't make it like the black death, but for [\h__\h] sake, it didn't pose a threat. How revisionist can you get? And yet rather than the government going out and saying, "Okay, the people who maybe are at risk, maybe they should take the vaccine, even if it's experimental, even if it's really recent, instead every single person, all these young healthy people were mandated to get it." Here comes the tired [\h__\h] about mandates. Institutions have a right to ensure the safety of their constituents and patrons via a vaccine that was not experimental and which completed clinical trials. If you didn't like it, you had the right to choose somewhere else to study your work. Just because you're hellbent on being a danger to society doesn't mean your rights are more important than the rights of others. Cry about it. Yes. I think CO the whole CO experience was the biggest mistake they ever made because it caused people like yourself and others to say, "Hang on a minute. We've been lied to." Yeah. Lied to by ass hats like you. I'm still waiting for that realization to take place on a grand scale. The doctors and nurses come into the room. And they say, "Okay, we want to give your kid who at this point is about 3 hours old. We want to give your kid a hepatitis vaccine." And I say, "Excuse me, why do you want to give my kid a hepatitis vaccine?" Said, "Well, you know, just to be safe." It's done in that time frame because of risk of infection from a potentially infected mother during the course of childirth. Infants have a higher risk of developing chronic hepatitis B, which leads to debilitating liver problems. Last I checked, you get hepatitis from sharing needles on Skid Row and going to whouses. I don't think my baby's gone to either of those in in the past 5 hours. And from being born to an infected mother who could be infected without any symptoms. Pay attention, Mike. They say, "Well, no, that and they dance around it." My wife really pressed the issue. They said, "Well, it's, you know, in case maybe your husband has cheated on you." I'm standing, you know, I'm I'm here, guys. Uh, I can assure you we're good. Okay. Yeah. Guys, do you have any idea how hard it was to become sufficiently aroused by a woman to be able to impregnate her? Do you really think I'm going to go through that charade with someone else? They push all of these vaccines. And I I presume in part it's because they've got a captive audience here. They can stick the kid. Most people are probably going to say yes, even if it's totally unnecessary. Totally ridiculous. Totally ridiculous. how absurd and ridiculous it is to bestow your child with immunity towards dangerous pathogens that have killed billions of people. Let's go back to 50% child mortality rates like nature intended. Comes to hepatitis B vaccine. So historically it used to for a very long time contain a mercury preservative thyosol. Mercury is highly dangerous. One of the I think perhaps the second most dangerous thing that you can expose someone to on the planet. And thyarisol isn't mercury. For the thousandth [\h__\h] time, it's a compound with a mercury atom in it. Compounds are nothing like the elements they contain in elemental form. Organic compounds are not coal just because they have carbon atoms or oxygen gas because they have oxygen atoms. Sodium and chlorine are both highly toxic, while sodium chloride is yum yum powder on all of our food. This is why all it takes to know that Andy is a gigantic fraud is a high school level knowledge of chemistry. And yet that it was there in these vaccines for infants in highly toxic amounts, way in excess of the EPA guidelines on exposure. Nope, that's a lie. 0.01% by mass or around 50 micrograms per dose. Even if you were to somehow isolate all the mercury atoms from the thyosol, it would still amount to less than what's in your standard serving of tuna fish from a can. It was never an issue. and vaccine manufacturers removed it from vaccines a long time ago anyway just to cater to the public outrage conjured up by [\h__\h] like Wakefield. Those cooks were right. When you go into the original data, find out what they did, the cooks were right. The conspiracy theorists once again were right. The media bought and paid for. There you have it everyone. Conspiracy theorists are always right. Don't trust anyone but me. No doctors, no scientists, no journalists, only me. Andy is speaking directly to his target demographic of clueless parents and pumping them up to do battle on the internet with people who aren't stupid. There was a doctor recently, a pediatrician a couple of years ago who testified before his state uh legislators on this very issue. And he said, I decided not to vaccinate anymore from based on my experience of what I'd seen Yeah. happening to children in doing that. He said, "I lost $700,000 a year in bonuses." I'll take things that definitely never happened for 200, Alex. $700,000 a year in bonuses. The average salary for a pediatrician is a little over 200,000. Doctors don't get huge bonuses that are more than triple their salary just for administering vaccines, which is just part of their job. There are incentive programs related to quality of patient care and health outcomes which don't specifically correlate with pure volume of vaccine administration and they are nowhere near this gigantic number. This is just another shitty lie from Andy's lying piece of [\h__\h] mouth. You you've got the medical uh groups, the the different medical offices. Uh there's that issue. Then the schools, obviously the schools are run by the government most of the time, so they just follow along with whatever the the schedule is. It seems like this is just a political problem. Yes, it's a political problem. Conservative anti-science propaganda peddlers like you, Mikey, disseminate mountains of lies about vaccines all over the internet, which cause people to not vaccinate themselves or their children, which leads directly to human deaths. It's a [\h__\h] enormous problem. But sure, the school is government so school bad. Why should a state offer free education to its citizens? And how dare they try to ensure the safety of children? Preposterous. A parent comes to you says, "Andy, my doctor's office says I got to vaccinate my kids. Should I give them all the vaccines? Should I give them none of the vaccines? Should I give them some of the vaccines? If I should give them some of the vaccines, when should I give it to them? Do you would you give advice to those parents? No. It is not my job to give advice about what vaccines they should and shouldn't have. It's my job to direct them to the science that will help them come to a decision and they should have fully informed consent. What I do say is this is that I don't give that advice. But what I can say in all honesty, if I were a new father today having a baby, then I would not vaccinate them. Oh, cool. So, you wouldn't give anyone advice except according to you, you shouldn't vaccinate your children at all, which is definitely you giving that exact advice to everyone listening. I'm so tired of these grifting [\h__\h] including these totally transparent caveats to later point to out of context to feain level-headedness when they're immediately followed by the exact misinformation they're there to push. Don't vaccinate your children at all for any reason, says Andy Wakefield, the vaccine expert. That's the headline that's intended. That's what is heard by the gullible viewer and that's what results in the vaccine hesitancy that is responsible for the resurgence in measles deaths we are seeing today. Those deaths are on Wakefield and RFK more than any other people alive. These two men are essentially murdering children. End of story. When antibiotics came in over less than a 100 years ago, antibiotics were a miracle. Yeah. We were plagued with rheumatic fever and battlefield gangrine and syphilis neurosyphilis for which there was no treatment. Patients were dying. Antibiotics came along. They were a miracle. But the miracle changes. It's a dynamic relationship between organism and antibiotic. And the overuse and the misuse of antibiotics has led to the emergence of highly resistant very dangerous strains of bacteria. Right? And now the British government calls that the post antibiotic apocalypse. their words. Wow. Some pathogens become resistant to select antibiotics. So, I guess we shouldn't even have bothered, right? I love this rhetoric about superbugs as though there is anything more potent or dangerous about them other than that a particular antibiotic doesn't work on them anymore, which is just the same situation we were in before having invented antibiotics. These drugs are [\h__\h] miracles and they've saved billions of lives. But the minute one of them doesn't work on one thing, now they're garbage. And it is because we have a situation where the pharmaceutical company are now saying, "Guys, we're pulling out of antibiotic research because by the time we bring an expensive antibiotic to market, the bugs have already become resistant. So, it's a waste of time." How the [\h__\h] would bacteria already be resistant to an antibiotic that hasn't been circulated yet? Explain that to mechanistically, [\h__\h] Also know there are dozens of new antibiotics in development at any given time. Lies, lies, lies. And we need to deal with that. And we need to understand that nature will not be deceived. Nature will not be it will find a way. And we need to respect nature to anticipate its moves and not to assume that we can can outwit nature. This is the whole basis of Jurassic Park. Yes, reality is Jurassic Park. You guys, movies are real and we can't outwit nature even though it isn't sentient and we are. I guess horiculture isn't real. I guess genetic engineering isn't real. I guess weather management isn't real. Will there be a huge upsurge in measles? Should people be concerned about that? Yes, they should. Yes, they should for various reasons. Is that measles strains of measles that are now evolving just in that the same way as antibiotic and and bacteria strains of decllay? What a de called declades of measles. A particular genetic variant of measles has emerged in highly vaccinated populations which is resistant to the immunity induced by the vaccine. No, that's another dumb lie. There are no measles strains that evade vaccine induced immunity. The motivation for this blatant lie is obvious. You know those kids that are dying from measles because they didn't get vaccinated since I told people not to vaccinate. It's not because they didn't get vaccinated, so it's not my fault. It's because super crazy new measel strain that vaccines don't work against. [\h__\h] you, Andy. So, we've got the emergence of resistant strains. What do we do about that? Because we can't go on using the live attenuated vaccine that's now decades old. Right? So, people are saying, "Oh, I know what we'll do. We'll make an a messenger an mRNA based vaccine for measles and mumps and reubella and all these other things." That from our experience with CO would be an utter catastrophe. But that if you and I are talking about it, they've already done it. No, they haven't already done that. Nobody is working on mRNA vaccines for measles, MS, or reubella because the MMR vaccine works immaculately as is. There is interest in potential mRNA vaccines for HIV and even certain types of cancer, but it's still in the research phase. But of course, Andy is just triggering all the fear centers with zero regard for reality. COVID vaccines bad because internet told me so. MMR bad because Andy told me so. I'm surprised he doesn't start complaining about trans people. These vaccines have been generated. Calling them vaccines is a is a misnomer. These genetic modification tools are what they are. Yeah, let's pile on even more stupid. The old experimental gene therapy trope. They're not genetic modification tools, you [\h__\h] halfwit. The mRNA is translated to produce the viral envelope protein rather than injecting the viral envelope protein. Do we really need to explain nth grade biology to you? We do have a problem. We have a real problem. And berating people and belittling them in the media isn't going to help that problem. It's not going to solve it. Yeah. You guys, can everyone get off my back and just let me spew my script of lies for cash without trying to undermine me in any way? No. Andy, those of us who take it upon ourselves to neutralize toxic charlatans like you will never stop [\h__\h] all over you and exposing your fraudulence to every new generation of internet users. You are a laughingtock and you will continue to be nothing but a laughingstock until the day you die and make this world just a little bit better. The same goes for you, Mikey. The Daily Wire is practically bankrupt at this point, specifically because fewer and fewer people are falling for your neverending string of lies and manipulative rhetoric. Furthermore, people who snap out of the spell you cast on them are pissed off and motivated to retaliate. Enjoy your final era of remote relevance, [\h__\h] As far as Wakefield's entire persona, he represents a cautionary tale. For those who judge the veracity of people's statements based on personality and intuition, look at Wakefield's manner of speech, his demeanor. He has expertly crafted his behavior to seem as genuine and compassionate as possible. He's soft-spoken. He projects manufactured sincerity out of his puppy dog eyes. Every third sentence is a proclamation that he doesn't care about money and just wants to help children. So many frauds are like this. Steven Meyer from Discovery Institute is the same way. Look at how I talk and dress and smile. I can't possibly be a disgusting fraud who lies for a living, can I? Everyone, please remember sociopaths can very easily feain sincerity and will always paint themselves as well-meaning martyrs. Your intuition is not reliable here. These people get to where they are because they are masters of manipulation. Don't just conclude that they are probably right because they sound sincere. Factcheck their claims as we've done together throughout this video. When you see that every single thing they say absolutely does not pass fact-checking, this is the only thing that should matter to you. Of course, millions of people simply do not operate this way. Going through the comment section of this video, as anyone could predict, is absolutely heartbreaking. My doctor told me I'm a [\h__\h] mom for not vaccinating my kids, which I definitely am. So now I just don't go to that doctor anymore. Then this [\h__\h] chiming in says the doctor was going for his insurance bonus since basic public health is just a scam. Obviously a hundred bucks says this [\h__\h] now goes to a naturopathic fraud who just tells her the [\h__\h] she wants to hear. And hopefully her children will later disown her. I'm an awesome dad with healthy super genius children. They've never been sick a day in their lives. A thing which is totally possible. Or so I'm told. I haven't seen them in 12 years. RFK should make it illegal to require vaccinations for public school children. It's our god-given right to infect anyone we want with the pathogens we accumulate from being total [\h__\h] idiots. Kids with deadly airborne diseases aren't dangerous or contagious. That's a bunch of woke liberal nonsense. Here's some waste of space with a fabricated story right on brand with Wakefield, most likely from a fake account. My kid could talk and then he couldn't. Horseshit. MMR gave my kid seizures. Seizures, you guys. I'm in tears over how wonderful and selfless and compassionate this grifting piece of [\h__\h] Wakefield is. He cares more about kids than money. That's why he took a huge sum of money to write a fake paper that resulted in children getting killed. You guys, I was in school and they actually had the nerve to teach us that Wakefield published fake results. How dare they teach us facts in school? Hey, look at the dumb CDC warning telling us this is false information. That's how you know it's true. Anything I like is true. Anything I don't like is false. Nothing dangerous with that way of thinking at all. These people are a disease. Luckily, we have ways of combating disease. For pathogens, we have antibiotics and vaccines. And for walking diseases like Wakefield, we have the power of the very same medium he wields. Where he gets views, we get more. where he spewses lies, we expose them. That's what we do. That's what we all have to do. And with any luck, this worthless human cancer will go into remission and fade away along with all the other worthless, greedy hacks in line behind him. So, that's it for Andrew Wakefield, the second biggest piece of [\h__\h] in the antivaccine grifting universe. As we all know, number one is RFK, and you'd better believe his video is coming very soon.