Hello everyone, and this is the professor speaking Spanish. You didn't think I only spoke English and Italian, did you? Or maybe I want to tell you about my new Spanish channel, but to be clear, this isn't me speaking. It's someone who speaks Spanish much better than I do. The cell membrane is semipermeable, meaning it lets some things through and blocks others. Professor explains it. Anne Louise Efe, Weekly Washington Software. We just spent a good amount of time learning Einstein's theory of special relativity, which he developed in 1905. This and other publications from that year made him known as someone worthy of recognition. A decade later, in 1916, he published his theory of relativity, which described the geometry of space itself and revolutionized the way we think about gravitational force. This happens once many viruses have been generated and the cell bursts. Then the viruses are released and go to infect other cells. Anders Behring, Weizsácker, Server Kennedy, Interval Spirits, Wine by Grace Jones. Now, Johnny Damon Winter says, "Well, in this adventure, the penguin mentioned a bat. Do you think he works with..."  Destroyer could be wait for my signal plus I'll take care of it that's right the Spanish Rafael greetings I'm 6 instead of the rose voice actor and the official voice of Professor Dave in professor at AITEX Plains I want to send a greeting and a very big thank you to all the people who have seen and support the videos and remember if you have any science questions ask Professor Dave Lovering Fermín only has the Tenerife low point form languages ​​in project regarding the yen in Iberaval Line Filmin destroyed religion and business designer one with Jay Leno number land in high school in move the city trades spaces of the filter tap on board linguist lamentation salmon Brian McCann Sant Lluís mini type spas are offered must be interposed of a language Walsh name I'm not you in technology research for professor of what he explains today State Farm and major the destiny of find my fitur in the West End no click reiterated this space not of the ground Naturalis Break and sell them from Petén additional software that is not  He infiltrates like a professional, explained in Airbag or in a real option, his city is unstoppable, after Robert Der Vaart likes, he writes in The New York Times, goodbye friends