Hey guys, welcome to ask Professor Dave. I get a lot of questions by email and in the comments section of all the videos, and a lot of them are not about science, they're actually just personal questions about me, and I wanted to figure out some way to answer these questions for you guys, especially because there's certain questions that I really get a lot, and so this is a little series that I'm that I'm putting together to answer these questions for you guys. So first and foremost I think the most common thing is that I get a lot of comments on my appearance, and a lot of you guys have an idea of who I might look like. Some of you think that's Dave Grohl of Nirvana and the Foo Fighters, some of you think that I look like Russell Brand, but I think the most common one is Jesus. A lot of you guys are very convinced that I look exactly like Jesus of the Christian faith, and you're very vocal and adamant about this comparison. Another actually equally common one is Ranbir Kapoor. Like, dozens of you guys have told me that I look like this guy, and so I finally looked up who he is, and he's, like, this Bollywood heartthrob so while I don't really completely see the comparison, I'm always completely flattered to be compared to any sex symbol, so that's a fun one as well. So obviously a lot of you guys have some kind of assumption about my ethnicity, and a lot of you have straight-out just asked: "What are you?" So I wanted to settle the controversy once and for all. I am Italian. I'm 100% Italian. My parents are Italian immigrants, and they met in Italy, they were married in Italy, my older sister was born in Italy, and so that's it. I'm really 100% Italian. My family is from a town called Pisa in northern Italy, in Tuscany, and if you're familiar with the Leaning Tower of Pisa that's where Pisa is, and so my parents left in their mid-20s and they went to Canada, they went to Edmonton in Alberta, to do Graduate Studies, and then a little bit later they came to upstate New York which is where I was born. My very first memories are in Syracuse and then when I was four we moved to Connecticut, a town called West Hartford and then for high school I moved to Wilton. So I was born here but my family is 100% Italian, I go there often, I grew up going there every year, I actually speak Italian and in fact I'm working on some Italian tutorials for you guys, so look out for those coming out soon. And so that's it, I apologize to anyone who hoped I was Indian or or Israeli or Armenian or something like that, you can continue to pretend, I really don't mind, so that's it for the first Ask Professor Dave. You wanted to know my ethnicity and it's Italian, so feel free to ask me any other questions that you'd like to know the answers to. You can comment on this video, you can email me directly, and it doesn't have to be about me, it could be about science, really anything, I just wanted a place that is separate from the science tutorials to talk about some things that you guys want to know in a little bit more of a casual manner. So please send any questions you have, if you use my science tutorials quite a bit please please subscribe, and certainly any donation you can make on patreon would help me to continue making the content as quickly as possible. So that's it for today, I'll see you guys next time.