Hi, my name is Mayor. I study astrophysics. Actually, this fall, I'll be starting a graduate program where I will be pursuing my PhD in astrophysics. I study stars. And today, this profile is going to be my attempt to share with you guys all the different things that we do in astronomy in research today. Now I do want to be a little specific here in that there are two core subd disciplines of research in astronomy and astrophysics today. There is both theoretical and observational astronomy and astrophysics research. Uh for the purpose of this video I'm going to be mostly talking about observational astronomy and astrophysics research where the core thing that we are doing is looking at objects in space trying to discover and characterize novel phenomena under the theories that we currently have. Whereas theoretical astronomy and astrophysics research is more focused at pushing the boundaries of our theory and trying to see what we can discover or predict in the future. So while both subdisciplines use calculations and computations, for the purpose of this video, I'm going to be mostly focusing on the things that we're doing in the day-to-day in observational astronomy research. Now, at its core, observational astronomy is the study of light, the way things in space emit light. And that impacts our observations in a lot of ways. But one key way that that affects us is that it forces us to send our telescopes into space to observe objects at specific wavelengths. In the high energy regime and also in the infrared regime, we often have to send telescopes into space to collect the data that we need at high enough resolution to conduct our studies. Whereas in the optical and the radio wavelengths, the atmosphere is largely transparent. So we can collect a lot of data from those wavelengths. But in those other regimes, we're oftentimes forced to send telescopes into space. Later in this video, I'm going to cover some of the ways that we collect data for observational astronomy. But before I do that, I'm going to briefly cover some of the research that I'm currently doing to give you a perspective on some of the research that astronomers do in the day-to-day. This kra here shows us what we ideally might consider a star to be, a spherically symmetric object with some darker locations uh along its surface that correspond to spots. This is really important for the research that I'm doing where I am looking to measure stellar rotation periods of stars that aren't our own sun. And so the idea being that as these stars rotate, we can see them getting dimmer as darker spots pass into our line of sight. And then as those spots move out of the line of sight, that star will get brighter. And so as I will show now, this is what we actually observe when we see a spotted star where on the right is what we call the light curve. Whereas the star with the spot rotates out of line of sight, it gets brighter. And as it rotates back in, it gets dimmer. And using the tools of frequency analysis, we can determine what the most common periodic signals are that appear inside of the light curve. And we can use that to infer things about the star that we are looking at. There are some caveats though, which is that rotation isn't the only signal that appears as some sort of syosoidal periodic behavior. Um, and so we do have to be quite careful prescribing the period that we detect from a light curve to the rotation alone. We often need other pieces of data to confirm whether or not that periodic signal corresponds directly to the rotation period. Now that we've gotten that out of the way, I want to briefly touch on the two main ways that we collect data in observational astronomy. One of these methods is called photometry from the Latin photo meaning light and metria meaning measure. During photoometric observations, we are trying to precisely measure the brightness of an object either in relation to some absolute scale which we call absolute photometry or in relation to another object in the field of view which we call differential photometry. This is the method of observation used in my own research studying stellar rotation periods. But it also has a whole host of other applications including the sephiid period luminosity relationship discovered by Henry Edwan Levit in 1912 where sephiid variables are pulsating stars and that pulsational period corresponds to its absolute brightness. And so by measuring the period of their pulsations, we can measure their distances, which is how she measured distances to the Magelanic clouds in the 1900s. Or transit phenomena where objects like planets or binary stars may pass in front of a main star, which can cause a change in the object's brightness, which can help us measure the properties of the system, such as the mass of either object and the radius that they are separated by. Photometry can provide a ton of information for study, but it's only one of the main ways that we collect data in observational astronomy. The other method is called spectroscopy, which I'm going to dive into right now with a demo. >> This is a CMOS detector. CMOS stands for complimentary metaloxide semiconductor. Uh, this thing is basically a camera. Um, and so the camera on your phone, you click a button, it takes a picture or a digital camera, you click a button and it takes an exposure. essentially a camera and at the back we have an array of pixels. Um, and so when we take an exposure with the CMOS detector, it's equivalent to taking a picture. That's very useful for a number of things. Obviously, we can just set this up right onto a telescope and take images. Uh, but we can also attach it to other devices to take different types of images. Um, which is where this big bulky thing comes in. This thing is called a specttoraph. Um, and so as I mentioned, this object right here is a spectraph. And I'm actually going to now overlay the optical design of the specttoraph so I can explain the individual parts that I am now visually pointing out to you all. And so the ring that I was previously holding on to is located on this diagram at the very top where it says telescope f overd equals 10. That is where the specttoraph attaches to the telescope and all the light being observed passes through. That light is then immediately passed onto a reflective slit which reflects most of the incoming light through the upper optical path into the guiding camera which was that small camos that I was holding in the previous clip. That camera helps tell the telescope where to move to keep whatever we are observing inside the field of view. The tiny slit of light that's passed through the slit is then reflected to the back of the spectrograph where there is a grading. This grading is perhaps the most important piece to the spectrograph because it allows us to take a beam of light and split it into its component wavelengths. The way we do this is by building a grading where the spacing between peaks is smaller than the wavelength of light that we are trying to measure. For this optical specttoraph, the scale is on the hundreds of nanome scale. So our grading needs to have spacings on that scale to split the visible light into its components. This light is then reflected once more out to the final cos which takes an image. The image which is then called a spectrum. And so as you see over here, this might be a typical setup for someone doing spectroscopy on on astronomical objects. You'll notice up top here we have a solar filter because we're looking at the sun and we don't want to blow up our telescope. Uh down here we have the spectra app that I demoed earlier. It's connected to the eyepiece. And so the light comes into here, hits a dicoric which splits it into this which is our guider camera right here. Right now there's an eyepiece but we could put a camera there to track as we're doing observations. The dicoric then splits the light and it passes through a little slit and that slit of light passes down to here gets reflected once more back here to the diffraction grading which we can change uh what wavelengths we're looking at with this micrometer right here. And then that light is bounced back over to our detector. And our detector outputs images to our computer right here, which we are able to save and look at. >> And although I haven't shown it yet, had we taken spectrum of a sun, they would have looked a little something like this. Each row here is an individual solar spectrum taken with the same spectrograph that I was just demonstrating. The numbers on the left and right show the wavelength coverage of that specific spectrum, meaning from what to what wavelengths are shown in that spectrum. The black line here are important and they are called solar absorption lines or fronhoffer lines. And what these lines tell us is that those elements exist in the sun and they are absorbing the light being emitted at that specific wavelength. As you can see lines of iron, calcium, sodium, magnesium, hydrogen and helium all appear in the solar spectrum. Though I should mention that the colors are completely artificial and that the spectrum that we get are completely grayscaled. And so by using our vast knowledge of atomic spectroscopy done by the amazing chemists in the National Institute of Standard Technology, we were able to over decades categorize and learn what each of these individual spectral lines, which elements they corresponded to. And those have now become extremely useful in astronomy such that when we identify lines inside the spectrum of either our own sun or other astronomical objects, we can know exactly what element could have made such a spectral line which can tell us important stuff about the history, formation and future evolution of astronomical systems. So I want to thank you for joining me on this quick little journey through research that we do in observational astronomy these days. Uh, please feel free to shoot me an email at any point. I'm going to link my email in the description of this video. So, please feel free to reach out to me if you have any questions. And thank you guys so much. Go science.