 inad inad inad inadmispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispispisp which he pretended was an alien spacecraft with zero basis. This put him on the map with suggestible masses, and he sold a bunch of copies of a shitty book. In all of his output, he lied about Oumuamua's dimensions, he ignored aspects of its behavior, he exaggerated deviations from its expected orbit while ignoring the obvious explanations that his colleagues provided, and more. He told the public that a comet was aliens because it's a fun story to make money and nothing more. Then, in 2023, he took an adventure off the coast of Papua New Guinea to illegally recover material from the seafloor that he pretended was pieces of an alien spacecraft which had crashed into Earth nine years prior. In reality, the object in question was just a regular solar system bolide, meaning a meteor. It wasn't an interstellar object, like he claimed. The spherules he recovered were just some bits of rock, and they weren't from the bolide he pretended they were from. They had been sitting down there for thousands of years. This can all be easily confirmed by the ratio of iron isotopes and several other independent threads of inquiry. Again, my previous video on Avi provides an in-depth analysis of everything I just told you, with reference to all the relevant primary scientific literature, so go watch that if you're not convinced. These two debacles amount to two consecutive rounds of the Avi Loeb grifter playbook. Two rounds of stepping outside of his expertise, distorting data, making baseless sensationalist claims, avoiding legitimate avenues of publication and peer review, lying directly to the press to gain notoriety and sell books, and then whining about how any and all pushback from experts in the field can only be happening because they are jealous, close-minded, gatekeeping, meanie-pants doodoo heads, not because they are accurately prosecuting his corruption and fraudulence. This is the playbook of a charlatan and media whore, not a scientist. Now, in that first video, I also briefly mentioned another exocomet named 3I Atlas, which was first spotted in early July of this year, the third such object to ever be detected. At the time that I was producing the video, Avi had already begun mouthing off with his typical script about how Atlas is totally aliens because he says so, instead of the exocomet that it definitely is. But I decided to limit that video to his first two rounds of scamming and allow the Atlas stuff to unfold for a potential follow-up video. And now the time has come. So this video will focus primarily on what we know about Atlas, how Avi lies about it, and the damage that is done to the scientific community through his continued campaign of sensationalism and his defamation of legitimate academics who expose his lies. This defamation always takes the precise form you would expect. There's a crisis in science. Academia is a stupid communism jerk face. It's the same fucking story every time, whether it's coming from Eric Weinstein, Sabina Hassenfelder, or Avi Loeb. Not an ounce of originality to the grift, likely because it all originates from the same handful of rich assholes who are constantly poisoning society with science denial and distrust of expertise. Despite the transparency of Avi's grift and the certainty with which we know he's lying, there is a brainwashed flock that comes to his defense time and time again. Avi just wants scientists to keep an open mind. He's not saying anything is definitely aliens. He's just creative and looking at all the possibilities. Nope. Here's a quote from his first shitty book. Oumuamua must have been designed, built, and launched by an extraterrestrial intelligence. Must. Not a possibility. Must. Funny how it passed us by and left without any fanfare, just like a lifeless object should, huh? Then here's what he said about the bolide he pretended to recover spherules from. It's most likely a technological gadget with artificial intelligence. Not maybe, most likely. These are direct quotes. And he's doing the same thing with Atlas right now, yet again, for round three of the Avi Loeb grifter playbook. So let's talk a whole lot about this object, the observations that make us absolutely positive it's a comet and not a spaceship, and expose every single lie Avi tells about it. Sound good? Great. Let's first briefly set the stage. It had been expected for a long time that once observational technology was sufficiently sophisticated, we would find interstellar comets. And that a few percent of all the comets we detect would be from outside our solar system. Our solar system is estimated to eject four comets for every one that is scattered within our Oort cloud. And other systems likely do the same, which would mean that there are countless comets roaming the galaxy, ejected from their systems, and occasionally bumping into other systems, including ours. As we already know, the first interstellar object ever detected, 1i Oumuamua, in 2017, seems to have been made of planetary ice, or solid nitrogen, much like the surface of Pluto, given its high reflectivity, the flattened shape that is explained by substantial sublimation, and the lack of a visible tail. So it was not the most typical comet, and this took a few years to figure out in detail. The second interstellar object that was discovered, 2i Borisov, in 2019, behaved very much like a typical comet. Even though it was slightly different from the comets in our system, we easily recognized it as a comet. So what is a comet anyway? Comets are small, icy celestial objects that form far away from the sun, much like other Kuiper Belt objects, and due to some gravitational perturbation, have been jostled from their distant, nearly circular orbits, to then plummet towards the sun, in a new, highly eccentric elliptical orbit, slingshotting around at high speeds, only to return again some number of years later, depending on its period. We've observed almost 5,000 comets in our system. We even landed on one in 2014. Comet 67P Churyumov-Gerasimenko was visited by ESA's Rosetta mission, which dropped a probe named Philae onto its surface, to gather sophisticated data. So we know quite a bit about comets. This is the general structure of a typical comet. At the center is a nucleus, a chunk of ice and rocky dust, plus some organic goo. The nucleus is typically only a few kilometers in diameter, although they can be bigger. Hale-Bopp has a diameter of around 60 kilometers. Most of the time, the nucleus does nothing, but as it approaches the sun, the ice is sublime, meaning they go from the solid phase to the gas phase. Water ice sublimes at temperatures typically reached once within three astronomical units from the sun, though some water vapor can be produced as far away as 6 AU. More volatile species, like carbon dioxide, typically sublime at lower temperatures, and thus even further out. There is often a sequence of different ices subliming as the comet approaches the sun. As the ices sublime, dust and other ice particles trapped within them are released as well. The comet's gravity is too small to hold on to much. Gas and other particles, those being rocky dust grains and ice grains, surround the nucleus in a coma that is thousands of kilometers across. That's the main thing we can see. It's largely transparent, but because it's so big, it still reflects a lot of sunlight. The solar wind and solar radiation pressure push the dust and ice grains away from the nucleus, forming a dust tail. The gas is pushed back too, plus the gas that is sublimed from the dust grains. Molecules like H2O can be broken up by sunlight into H and OH radicals. Many other molecules can be ionized by sunlight as well. As they do, they are left in an energetic state, which causes them to emit photons of characteristic wavelengths, which we can detect here on Earth to discern their presence. These ions are swept back by the solar wind, forming an ion tail. The ion tail and the coma glow from the light emitted by the ions. The ion tail always points directly away from the sun, while the dust tail curves and lags behind the comet, influenced by both the solar radiation pressure and the comet's orbital motion. Comets emit all sorts of gases, H2O, CO2, CO, and other volatile species. But around five years ago, astronomers learned that dozens of solar system comets have iron and nickel in that gas too, which was surprising because these heavier substances are not volatile. High temperatures are required to vaporize metal. The leading explanation is that cosmic rays and other types of radiation cause reactions in CO or CO2-bearing ices, forming carbonyls that associate with the metals to make organometallic compounds, like FeCO5 or NiCO4. These are volatile, so they sublime. And once they're in the gas phase, sunlight breaks them up, releasing iron and nickel atoms. More on that later. Moving on to 2I Borisov, this definitely came from interstellar space and is now on its way back out there. It did all the comet-y things. It had a coma and tail with normal comet gases, C2, CN, CO, CO2, H2O, and OH. It even had iron and nickel emission. The proportions of these gases were unusual for a solar system comet, but not unprecedented. 2I Borisov had a small nucleus, less than half a kilometer across. A key thing about Borisov is that when it was discovered in August 2019, it was 2.64 AU from the sun. At that point, water ice was subliming, so it was already actively doing all the things comets do. It was discovered by an amateur astronomer, so it had to be active to be discovered that way, or it wouldn't have been detectable. We expected that the next interstellar comet to be discovered would also do all these things. Fast forward a few years, and 3I Atlas has exhibited all the same qualities as Borisov, but with one twist. Here in 2025, we've gotten so much better at discovering comets that we discovered Atlas when it was at a distance of 4.53 AU from the sun, before it had even started to do a bunch of comedy things. So we got to see everything unfold in real time. Now, we have to make it absolutely clear up front that 3I Atlas has never once looked like anything other than a comet. Never. Upon its discovery on July 1st, it was immediately recognized to be traveling at speeds that made it interstellar, and it had a fuzzy coma around it, making it a comet. On July 2nd, the very next day, did you hear me? The next day, the minor planet center designated it 3I Atlas and C2025N1, meaning that the astronomical community immediately understood that this was an interstellar comet. It was not expected for much H2O to sublime at that distance, but many comets have volatiles like CO and CO2 that sublime and outgas that far from the sun, and that's what it looked like at the time. Later observations confirmed this. It was immediately seen to have a tail that looked small in the sky because of the angle of observation, since the tail was essentially facing away from us. Its brightness was extremely normal for a comet at that distance. The brightness would be equivalent to an asteroid around 20 kilometers in diameter, but it wasn't an asteroid, it was a comet. Most of the light reflected is from particles. The very first papers written about it made this precise point. Its color was quite red, as red as the reddest Kuiper Belt objects, and about the same redness as 2I Borisov. Nothing unusual. The orbit is interesting in that its trajectory happens to be only 5 degrees off of the Earth's orbital plane, or the ecliptic, essentially the plane of the solar system. Because of this, and because it got within 1.36 AU of the sun at its perihelion last month, it inevitably made some relatively close passes to some inner planets, namely Mars and Venus, and it will make a close approach to Jupiter on its way out. On July 20th, based on the wavelengths of sunlight that were reflected, it was reported that not only were the coma particles red, there were also water ice grains in there. Like many such objects, it was determined to have ice with irradiated organics called tholins in them. As expected, the water ice grains had likely just started vaporizing in late July. On July 30th and August 1st, the Swift Observatory saw emission from OH radicals from a wide field of view around the comet. It's likely that this was due to photodissociated water molecules from those ice grains in the coma. As it got closer to the sun and heated up, various gases sublimed and became visible. Observations in mid-August by the SPHERE-X mission showed water ice and CO2 gas. Astronomers at Lowell Observatory saw CN gas around August 22nd. Observations by the Very Large Telescope on August 21st showed CN gas and also nickel vapor. Observations in mid-August by the James Webb Space Telescope confirmed all of this. Starting August 28th, as the comet got inside 2.64 AU, iron vapor was also detected, as expected. As time went on, the iron-nickel ratio in the gas increased to near solar values. Through September, more CN and other gases were detected. As the comet began its curve around the sun, the dust tail became oriented to the side of the comet from our perspective and appeared longer in the sky. The velocity with which the comet approached the solar system was 58 kilometers per second, which is a bit high compared with Oumuamua and Borisov, but consistent with it having been in the galaxy a long time, so it has been scattered by more close calls with other stars. It's thought to be roughly 7 billion years old, so it's older than the solar system. Compared to solar system comets, this comet is redder, has a lower abundance of hydrocarbons, as evidenced by C2 emission, and a low but increasing iron-nickel ratio. But even solar system comets always show variations, and nothing about 3i Atlas is unprecedented. Nothing about it is uncomet-like. I will repeat for emphasis, there was never a single observation made about Atlas that would lead anyone to believe with any empirical basis that it was anything other than a comet. Got that? Let's continue. The comet reached perihelion on October 29th, and was on the other side of the sun with respect to the Earth. It is just recently newly visible again with Earth-based telescopes, as it emerged from behind the sun just before the release of this video. The PUNCH mission, designed to look for things near the sun, has already seen it. It's on its trajectory. Preliminary data shows that, like all comets, it's exhibiting non-gravitational accelerations from all those gases pushing off its sunlit side, with a push that is totally consistent with it being less than one kilometer in size. Okay, sorry for all the information there, but it's very important context, because we are now going to talk about how Avi has lied about this object from the moment the astronomical community became aware of it. He's been itching for another round of grifting, and he decided on day one that this was it. Another juicy exocomet that he can call aliens because reasons. So what did he do? Every step of the way, Avi has tried to inject manufactured doubt. This thing we definitely know to be true might not be true because of this thing I made up. That's the gist of the tactic. We know the difference between healthy skepticism and manufactured doubt. A climate scientist may be skeptical of the link between carbon dioxide and climbing temperatures, analyze the data and find a strong correlation, but also uncover other factors, requiring further analysis. Manufactured doubt is someone using scientific language to conclude, without thorough analysis, that carbon dioxide levels aren't rising, but if they are, then it isn't our fault, and anyway, carbon dioxide is good for plants, so stop complaining. This is the kind of bullshit we dealt with in the Matt Ridley video. This type of gish gallop is the behavior of someone who is not interested in uncovering truth or applying the scientific method, but just manufacturing doubt for some other reason. There's usually a profit motive behind this. Manufactured doubt has been used to stifle efforts to remove lead from gasoline, keep kids dying of measles, all the good stuff. And Avi sure as fuck is personally profiting from the doubt he manufactures. He can't fund his Galileo project or sell his crappy books if objects like Amuamua or Atlas are just obviously chunks of rock or ice. He also gets to play the maverick hero scientist, exposing a corrupt scientific establishment, which he ironically is a part of, to the adulation of a public that desperately wants to believe in aliens and will champion anyone who provides them. So what were Avi's precise talking points? Let's start with size. From the first week of July through today, he's focused on the size of 3i Atlas. He wants to manufacture doubt that the nucleus is small. The reason is simple. If the object is abnormally large and part of a natural population of comets, asteroids, and chunks of nitrogen ice like Amuamua, then we would expect many, many small objects for each large one. If the object is larger than 20 kilometers in diameter, we'd expect thousands of Amuamua and Borisov-sized objects. Therefore, if it's very large, he can claim that it can't be part of a natural population and must therefore be a spaceship because reasons. Here's the problem. All publications on this object, starting with the first one on July 2nd, the day after it was discovered, convert the brightness of 3i Atlas into a corresponding size if it were a single body like an asteroid. That number is in the tens of kilometers. Every observational paper about 3i Atlas goes on to say that it isn't an asteroid, though. It's a comet. What we're seeing is sunlight reflected from the particles in the coma. The coma is thousands of kilometers across and very sparse, so it can let through about 98% of the light, absorb 1%, and reflect 1%, and still reflect the same amount of light as a single object only tens of kilometers in size. The nucleus itself is not reflecting almost any light. Upper limits to its size come from images, but if it's smaller than one pixel, we can't say how much smaller than one pixel it is. The upper limits are typically tens of kilometers, but the nucleus is almost certainly much smaller than that. All the data are consistent with this being a comet with a small nucleus of less than one kilometer, and a coma is reflecting almost all the light. All of this has been known and repeated in multiple papers literally since day one, so it's taken an astonishing level of willful ignorance on Avi's part to keep insisting that it's large. When confronted early on with the images of a coma, Avi dismissed them, claiming multiple times the fuzziness in the picture was because astronomers didn't know how to keep their telescopes focused on the object. He eventually seems to have acknowledged there is a coma, but he never backtracked and admitted his error. Next up, the gases in the coma. Until emission from gas molecules was detected, Avi made a big stink about how there weren't any. No gases means it's not a comet, so it must be a big object and therefore a spaceship because reasons. But remember what we explained earlier, comets aren't outgassing all the time. That happens when solids sublime, which requires heat, which requires a certain proximity to the sun. These gases were not expected to be detected until it got within 3 AU of the sun. By the time it did, in mid-August, it was outgassing as expected, and we observed OH, H2O, CO, CO2, and CN. Again, just as we would expect. So then, he pivoted to whining about what a large single object it must be to be outgassing that much. Pick a lane, jackass. Then recall how some of the gas species observed were nickel and iron atoms. Once again, we learned in 2020 that dozens of comets, probably most comets, had nickel and iron atoms in their gas comas. These were also seen in 2I Borisov. The nickel-iron ratio tends to be near the value in the sun, but is quite variable. It can be a factor of 10, higher or lower. The models for this say that nickel tetracarbonyl and iron pentacarbonyl molecules form in irradiated ices, and then those species sublime at low temperatures. First nickel at low temperatures, then iron at slightly higher temperatures. Got it? Different compounds subliming at different temperatures, and thus at different times as the comet approaches the sun, which was predicted and subsequently observed. These species were observed coming off the comet at exactly the times they were predicted to, which is a stunning theoretical success. But Avi took every opportunity to say that iron and nickel should be seen in the same proportions because they are produced in supernovas together and that the existence of nickel without iron must imply industrial processes. How's that for pulling things out of your ass? If he's not just bullshitting, then Avi just doesn't understand the concept of elemental fractionation or honestly chemistry in general, so he's either lying or he's just really dumb. Even after iron was detected as well, precisely when expected, he continued to call the nickel-iron ratio anomalous, even though the authors had already said that the ratio would continue to change as more iron pentacarbonyl sublimed, and it was quickly becoming more solar. Avi either can't read or knows that his followers won't read anything that proves him wrong, so he just keeps repeating the same lie. Now moving on to the dust in the coma. At one point, Avi did admit there was a dusty coma, but also argued on August 11th that it had to be a very large single object to make that much dust. This is not even true, but he should have realized the inconsistency in his logic. Remember how he wants the thing to be so huge that it's not a comet? Well, if there is lots of dust, then most of the sunlight is reflected by the dust, so there is no evidence for a large nucleus, and therefore no super awesome huge spaceship. He discounted this and insisted that because the dusty coma is largely transparent or optically thin, it can't possibly be reflecting most of the sunlight. Again, this is just false. We know how comets work. We've seen almost 5,000 of them. Instead, he insisted the central object emitted most of the light, and he would prove it with his huge superior brain. The way he tried to prove it is by looking at the data collected by Jewett et al, on the surface brightness profile to try to show that it followed an inverse cube relationship, or 1 over D cubed, where D is distance from the comet. This might indicate that the dust was only reflecting sunlight from the central object. At some point, he even said that the amount of light it was emitting, around 10 gigawatts, is the signature of a nuclear reactor, and lots of media outlets picked up on that because, as always, alien stuff from Harvard guy equals tons of eyeballs, whether it's even remotely true or not. But, as always, he grossly mischaracterized the data, since it's not an inverse cube relationship, and he ignored everything Jewett et al said, which, in a nutshell, was that this is a normal comet. He also posted some really embarrassingly awful calculations on Medium, because that's totally what scientists do, where he proposed that dust grains act as a collective plasma, and ignored a century of understanding that dust grains are pushed by the sun's radiation. The guy doesn't even know what a bow shock is. This is James' tour levels of incompetence. But it sounds nice to people who can't spot these errors, don't know anything about science whatsoever, and want aliens to come here, right? Regarding the nature of the dust, he then pivoted to say that this would all be expected if it was an interstellar spaceship. It would detect nearby objects without using radar. Instead, it would eject dust in all directions, and see what the dust hits. Yes, the hyper-advanced aliens arriving from another system detect other objects by the super-advanced technology of seeing what dust hits. That totally makes sense, and isn't just some ad hoc bullshit Avi pulled out of his ass. Next up, the non-gravitational accelerations. On September 24th, Avi announced a paper by Cloette, Loeb, and Vares, as always, not yet peer-reviewed, in which they claimed that the orbit of 3i Atlas was equal to that set by gravity alone, and therefore could place an upper limit on the non-gravitational acceleration it was experiencing. They estimated the force from JWST data, reporting a mass loss rate of 150 kilograms per second and ejection speed of 0.44 kilometers per second. To calculate a force of 150 kilograms per second times 440 meters per second equals 66,000 newtons. To have a force of 66,000 newtons translate into an acceleration less than 6 times 10 to the negative 9 meters per second squared requires a mass, M equals F over A, of greater than 3 times 10 to the 13 kilograms, or 30 billion tons. For a density of 0.5 grams per cubic centimeter, this translates to a sphere with diameter of 5 kilometers or radius of 2.5 kilometers. This was widely reported in the press. Let's first point out that this is way smaller than the numbers he was throwing around before. He's downgrading his mass estimate by a factor of 1,000, but it's still pretty high. One might still expect 100 smaller comets for every comet this large. But additionally, they made errors in both inputs. Again, the force is derived from analysis of JWST data by Kordiner et al. Here is the gas velocity of 0.44 kilometers per second, they assumed, and they reported the following loss rates. This is how Avi got his 150 kilograms per second. But this refers to gas put into the whole coma. Comets have jets, and they shoot gas out in all sorts of directions, mainly from the sunlit side, but not exclusively. What Loeb and colleagues did is assume that all the gas shoots off in one direction all the time. Comets eject gas from localized jets, and comets are spinning, so the true non-gravitational force would be significantly smaller than they computed. As for the acceleration, they argued that there was a good match between observations of Atlas's position and predictions of one model that assumed no non-gravitational acceleration, or non-grav. They then found the maximum spatial deviations of the comet from that model were small, and argued for an upper limit on the acceleration. This is garbage in, garbage out. If you find the best fit orbit assuming zero non-gravs, you're going to get an orbit that only works if there are near zero non-gravs. The right way to do this is to assume varying degrees of non-gravs and calculate orbits and see which is the best fit orbit across all of these possibilities. Especially because the non-gravitational acceleration would be primarily away from the sun, which means primarily away from earth, so you wouldn't see much lateral deviation that you could use to detect a non-gravitational acceleration, at least not until the geometry changed from our perspective. It's very likely that a different orbit calculation that included non-gravs would fit the comet's orbit even better. This is nothing more than Ovi muddying the waters with bad science that is only noticeably flawed to people who work in the field. Speaking of people who work in the field, expert dynamicist Marshall Eubanks, who has been analyzing 3i Atlas's orbit since July, did exactly this calculation as reported to Jason Wright in a post on his blog and found that best fit orbits require some non-gravitational acceleration, with the three vector components of the acceleration being 8.25 plus or minus 1.97, 14.73 plus or minus 5.54, and negative 0.046 plus or minus 0.371 in units of 10 to the negative 7 AU per day squared. So there definitely does seem to be a non-zero, non-gravitational acceleration of 1.1 times 10 to the negative 6 AU per day squared, or 2.2 times 10 to the negative 5 meters per second squared, the same value reported on the JPL website on November 7th. The comet just passed perihelion, and there's still some uncertainty associated with the calculation, but at face value, it's essentially a certainty that the comet is less than a kilometer in radius, which makes it on par with 2i Borisov and very typical for comets. So no, we don't expect thousands of smaller objects. After perihelion, Avi tried to downplay the non-gravitational accelerations, pointing out that there was no tail or jets observed, so how could it have the high non-gravs being suggested? Then on November 8th, images likely taken by some amateur astronomers showed a very complex tail and jet structure. In Avi's own words, is the network of jets associated with pockets of ice on the surface of a natural cometary nucleus, or are they coming from a set of jet thrusters used for navigation of a spacecraft? We do not know. Gotta love the use of the royal we there. This is all he does. No visible jets for like a second? Hey, there are no jets, so it's a spaceship. Then the jets are visible. Does he apologize for jumping the gun about the no jets announcement? Of course not. He just tries to find a way for the jets to make it a spaceship. It's nothing but spin and ad hoc justifications for his predetermined conclusion, which is not how science works. Speaking of which, now that we've gone over all the crap Avi spewed to manufacture doubt about 3i Atlas being a comet, let's continue to highlight more of the crap he spewed in support of it being a spaceship, which is of course the centerpiece of his grift every time, that everything is aliens. The speculations he mustered in support of this claim would have been patently false and completely idiotic, even if there had been doubt about what this comet was, which of course there wasn't, at any point in time. Avi sometimes couches his speculations in the form of questions, so as to appear inquisitive and open-minded, and of course that's what his minions always claim he does, so that they don't have to engage with the abject falsehoods he spews, but even this is not always the case. On July 16th, in the article Is the Interstellar Object 3i Atlas Alien Technology, Avi continues to ignore its true size, and he mischaracterizes what it meant that we hadn't observed gases yet. He assigns malicious intent to several features. He makes the trajectory near the ecliptic plane and past some planets seem much more improbable than it is, as if the probe just had to see Jupiter and Mars. He suggests it came from the direction of the galactic center on purpose in order to hide amongst the background of stars, not because a lot of interstellar objects will come from the direction where most of the stars are. He strongly suggests the comet reaches perihelion when it is on the other side of the sun from the Earth so that it can make Oberth maneuvers or eject gadgets without being seen. He explicitly compares the comet to the star-killing probes in Sishin Liu's The Dark Forest. But all of this pageantry is just the beginning. On July 18th, he posted the article Security Risks from Interstellar Objects, amplifying this sexy manufactured danger for maximum seduction. On September 28th, he asked if this comet emitted the WOW signal from August 1977 that originated from the direction of Sagittarius and the galactic center, which again, is where most things are. Avi claims that there was only a 0.6% chance Atlas would be so close in the sky to the WOW signal. This is obvious cherry-picking. If there was a gamma ray burst in the same part of the sky as the comet, he'd have said that was weird and related to its space shippiness. But the gamma ray bursts are in other parts of the sky, so he assigns nothing special to them. Anyway, those numbers just prove that the signal did not come from the comet. The radio signal came from a part of the sky that was 8 degrees away from the comet, about as far apart as Rigel and Beetlejuice. He literally disproves himself, but with numbers that sound neat to people who don't know what he's talking about. Additionally, on August 5th, Avi responded in his Medium post to the question, as of today, what percent chance would you say 3i Atlas is of extraterrestrial alien intelligence origin? With an unequivocal 60%. That's right, even though he claimed just two days prior in his August 3rd Medium post, nevertheless, at the end of our analysis, we must abide to the common sense of the duck test. If the interstellar object looks like a comet, moves like a comet, and outgasses like a comet, then it probably is a comet. Well, here he is contradicting himself. If you say there is a 60% chance this car is red, you can't then turn around and say it's probably green. He is obviously trying to play both sides. He needs a quote where he seems pragmatic that people can cite in his defense, while he continues to cater to the alien crowd with all his other output. That's called being a duplicitous fraud. As we can clearly see after all of this analysis, 3i Atlas is a comet. It was never going to be anything but a comet. Avi said it was a spaceship for attention and money, just like he did with Oumuamua, and just like he did with the Spherules. Because to Avi, everything must be aliens, if saying so brings him the fame and wealth that he's decided he deserves, at the cost of the integrity of the scientific community. That's right, Avi is doing immeasurable harm to science, so let's talk about that as well. Every step of the way since Atlas was discovered, Avi has ignored, dismissed, discounted, minimized, misquoted, mischaracterized, and otherwise drowned out what expert scientists were saying about this interstellar comet. Anyone who makes a peep about his objective wrongness is met with hostility and accusations of jealousy, because everyone in his field must be so jealous of how he fumbles basic calculations pertaining to celestial dynamics. In his very public and very infantile retaliation, he inevitably condemns the entire scientific community and their approach. And whenever possible, Avi has tried to empower himself at the expense of scientists and the public at large. In a Medium post on July 28th, Avi reported calculations done by Loeb, Hibbard, and Crowell, arguing that a delta-v of only 2.675 kilometers per second requiring 110 kilograms of fuel could get the Juno spacecraft that is currently orbiting Jupiter onto a trajectory that could fly by 3I Atlas on its way out of the solar system. They said the possibility of this encounter would depend on the amount of fuel it had left. Their calculations for determining the amount of fuel left, which depend on a few factors, can't be verified because we don't know where they got the numbers since they don't offer a citation, as per usual. But let's do our own. A quick googling pulls up this JPL press release, which says the total mass at launch was 3,625 kilograms with 1,593 kilograms of dry spacecraft, 1,280 kilograms of hydrazine, and 752 kilograms of oxidizer. This fact sheet shows the specific impulse of the Liros-1B engine is actually ISP equals 318 seconds. So they should have found delta-v equals 2.56 kilometers per second, and they should have recognized that this refers to the total delta-v attainable by this spacecraft since its launch. But of course, NASA didn't send up all that fuel for nothing. They used it to get the Juno spacecraft into its present orbit. The JPL press release says that when it entered its Jupiter orbit insertion burn, it had 810 kilograms of hydrazine and 422 kilograms of oxidizer, or nitrogen tetroxide. And it would have used 241 kilograms of hydrazine and 206 kilograms of oxidizer in the orbital insertion burn, leaving 569 kilograms of hydrazine and 216 kilograms of oxidizer, or 785 kilograms of fuel total. Of course, that's generous because NASA sent the fuel to also be used during the subsequent years of orbital maneuvers in Jupiter orbit. For example, lowering it from a 107-day capture orbit to a 53-day science orbit and consumption of 73 kilograms of hydrazine during a maneuver in 2019. But immediately, we can see, by their own math, that what Juno has left in the tank would allow at most 1.24 kilometers per second, way less than 2.675 kilometers per second. Whoopsie. And there's a bigger problem. During orbital insertion, there were problems with helium valves sticking open. As a result, they stopped using the main Leros 1B rocket engine and relied only on the thrusters. Unlike the main engine, which uses both hydrazine and nitrogen tetroxide, the thrusters only use hydrazine. So the oxidizer is dead weight and you really only have at most 500 kilograms of fuel. So that brings it down to 0.76 kilometers per second. In short, all of this means that Avi's bright idea is a non-starter. There's not enough fuel. There is objectively not enough fuel to do the thing he selfishly wants. Or maybe he doesn't actually want it and is only saying it because he knows it can't happen so he can complain about how closed-minded scientists won't listen to his big brain ideas. Either way, anyone competent in the field would take about 20 minutes to go from, hey, wouldn't it be cool to send Juno to intercept 3i Atlas? To, oh, I guess NASA didn't design a mission with enough fuel to get to Jupiter and then escape from Jupiter to go do something else. But reality has never stopped Avi before. So on July 31st, he took it upon himself to get Florida Congresswoman Anna Paulina Luna to send a letter to NASA leadership urging them to redirect the Juno spacecraft to intercept 3i Atlas. More recently, in his Medium post on September 30th, he proposed the establishment of a United Nations Committee on Interstellar Objects to coordinate global scientific research on interstellar objects, claiming there are critical gaps. According to Big Brain Avi, he is worried about an absence of coordinated detection, classification, and intercept capabilities, insufficient protocols for rapid scientific response and international policy decision to time-sensitive observations, and the need for effective science communication to maintain government and public support. Part of this initiative would be to use his new Loeb scale to classify the space shippiness of interstellar objects. The Director General of this committee is proposed to be, surprise, surprise, one Professor Abraham Loeb of Harvard University. The proposed representative of the Secretary General is Anna Paulina Luna. An initial investment of $380 million and an annual budget of $80 million is proposed. That's right, Avi is the super best scientist in the world at looking for aliens, since everything is aliens to him, so he needs hundreds of millions of dollars to keep looking for aliens. Jesus Christ, what a fraud. Apart from the blatant manipulation and opportunism, it's all quite insulting, actually. The astronomical community has done a phenomenal job of discovering and rapidly characterizing interstellar objects. They discovered 3-Eye Atlas at the remarkable distance of 4.5 AU, and they knew the next day that it was an interstellar comet. The next day. Avi had no part in that. He's just leeching off of real science to promote fantasy. By the way, if there was an organization that established protocols for responsibly communicating scientific results to the public, he would not enjoy being bound by those protocols because his entire grift would go up in smoke. He would have to go rogue and abandon his own organization to sell his shitty alien books. That he tricked some congresswoman into buying into the grift, or maybe she knows it's a grift and went along with it for the cash, is totally irrelevant. Avi does not speak for the scientific community. He does not represent them, and at this point, he should not have the privilege of being one of them. Finally, the proposed budget is totally insane and unjustifiable. $380 million for what? All the infrastructure for the proposed activity already exists. Avi shouldn't be in charge of anything, much less allocating where $380 million should go, leaving us to wonder how much would end up in his pockets. As I showed in my previous video, Avi couldn't even plan an oceanographic expedition that would give conclusive results about the seafloor spherules he picked up. He never consulted other experts, or he would have known that the seismic signal he identified with the bolide was actually from an ambulance on nearby Manus Island. He didn't create adequate control samples, something children learn in middle school, and of course, he rushed unvetted and objectively false findings to the internet so he could do what? Sell some shitty books. Of course, Avi did all this not because he's stupid, but because he's a fraud. He knows he's wrong. He knows the spherules weren't from that bolide. He's just doing what he knows will look like real science to his target audience, people who have no idea what real science looks like. Despite all this, Avi repeatedly claims to be helping to popularize science, but he's not. He's denigrating science and popularizing pseudoscience. Just like Graham Hancock or Discovery Institute or any of the other frauds I debunk, science makes falsifiable predictions. Avi pulls claims out of his ass and never admits he was wrong when they're falsified. And he's had so many opportunities to acknowledge how objectively wrong he is. He could admit he was wrong to keep repeating for months that the size of 3i Atlas is around 20 kilometers. He could admit that elements like iron and nickel do not have to be in the same proportions in every object just because they're made in supernovae and stop characterizing their variations as products of industrial processes. He could admit that 3i Atlas had a coma from our very first observations. The list goes on. He doesn't want to popularize science. He wants to popularize himself. The end result of this self-aggrandizement disguised as a quest for knowledge is a bastardization of the scientific process being taught to the public. Through the compliant, eyeball-hungry media he manipulates, Avi teaches the public that science is a popularity contest, that anything can be true if you shout it loudly enough and defame any colleague that stands in your way. The harm his behavior causes is irreparable. It contributes to the general erosion of understanding and support for science, which has created a public that is actively hostile towards science and enthusiastically votes administrations into power that slash funding for science, promote pseudoscience through official communication, and drag the status of public health back to the Dark Ages. Avi is an embodiment of the sensationalism and science denial that plagues our civilization in this modern era, which is an embarrassing identity to hold as an alleged practicing scientist. And he's not helping fan the flames of alien hysteria one bit at a time when Congress would prefer to hold hearings on alien conspiracy theories while simultaneously gutting the budget for NASA and every other department pertaining to scientific research. And if you needed any more convincing, on November 3rd, Avi used his platform to invite Kim Kardashian to his research team. Kim Kardashian, the science illiterate moron who has publicly stated that she doesn't believe the moon landing happened. For the record, do you think that we didn't walk on the moon? I don't think we did. I think it was fake. Oh my gosh, why aren't there stars? What's up with the flag? That moron. I mean, we already knew that he's a media whore, but this is ridiculous. Any serious researcher would not be caught dead making this kind of formal affiliation. But Avi sees followers and dollar signs, and he hasn't had a shred of integrity for years now, so he goes full reality show. On the bright side, letting Kim do some of the work can't possibly make it any worse. With all of that for context, should we listen to Avi run his mouth a little bit so we can all marvel at what a disingenuous piece of shit he is? Of course we should. Telling lies and crapping on other scientists is what he does best, so let's see him in his element. An ex-guest, Harvard astrophysicist Avi Loeb, has suggested the 3i Atlas is actually some type of alien technology sent here from another solar system. And he's come on the show before to lay out the scientific reasoning behind that startling hypothesis. Well, this weekend he made headlines again when he said that the object could actually be on a mission to release, quote, mini probes that could invade Earth. Avi Loeb joins us now. That's right, you guys. It's definitely a spaceship and the aliens on board plan to send mini probes to invade Earth. The leader of the aliens is named Zizbor and the probes are made of a titanium alloy. Given that titanium is abundant on their home world of Omicron Persei 8. The probes are equipped with numerous tools with which to implant themselves within the brains of top officials in every nation so as to take over their bodies and secure political power. This will smoothen the transition once the mothership lands on Earth, at which point humans will be enslaved for manual labor mining rare Earth elements as well as for sexual pleasure. Avi knows all this because he's the best scientist in human history and he used his gigantic brain to decode a secret signal in that grainy footage you just saw which none of his loser colleagues were able to detect. Tell us more about Zizbor and his race of super beings, Avi. I'll bite. What are these mini probes you're talking about and how would this even be possible? Well, there are two possibilities. If it's a technological object then it might maneuver itself. We haven't seen such a maneuver so far but the other possibility is that it may release some other objects that reach the planets and it will continue along its course to the next star and we just need to keep our eyes on the ball the way that basketball coaches often say to their team members. Yes, just the way that the sport coach tells the player you keep your eye on the ball so you can win a score point from the basket. Two possibilities says Avi. It might start flying around like a spaceship would or it could release mini probes and then fly to another star. I can think of a third possibility. It's a fucking comet and Avi is a fraud pulling things out of his ass to trick people into buying his books. Because we don't know but it may well be just a rock which has some ice on the surface that evaporates in which case we will say it's natural. You mean a comet? What you're describing is called a comet. The thing that Atlas definitely is. Why can't you bring yourself to even say the word comet Avi? Do you not know what comets are? You know I defined the new scale last month that is now called the lobe scale where zero is a natural object and ten is a technological object and at this point I give it around a four but if it looks like a comet as it comes closer to the sun I'll reduce the rank closer to zero. Oh he does know the word comet that's a relief but what's this lobe scale all about? Oh it's just a ridiculous attempt to make his bullshit sound official? Yeah nobody is using the lobe scale but you Avi stop trying to make it a thing. That is so fetch. Gretchen stop trying to make fetch happen it's not going to happen. But anyway on Avi's super special lobe scale the comet is a four you guys which is equivalent to a 40% probability that it's a spaceship based on literally nothing since he said this in September after a solid two months of everyone knowing that it's definitely a comet. At least he's come down from 60% but it's still not what it should be which is zero. Well four is not ten so it's actually you think there's more of a shot that it really is actually just a comet? Yeah the reason was that the inferred size of the object was huge it was between 20 and 46 kilometers unless there is a dense cloud of dust around it that is scattering sunlight. This is an object if that is the size of it that is a million times more massive than the previous interstellar objects we've seen and that's quite unlikely. And that's a lie as we demonstrated quite thoroughly the size is not anomalous at all and sorry unless there is a cloud of dust around it you mean like the dust cloud that is definitely around it? Come on Avi got anything better? And the second is that the trajectory is aligned with the plane of the planets around the sun. Now we will get a good image of it when it comes close to Mars on October 3rd we don't need to wait a lot. More lies it's not aligned with the ecliptic it's pretty close five degrees but that's not precise alignment so he's lying. October has come and gone everyone knows even more conclusively that it's a comet and Avi hasn't changed his tune one bit. The fun of doing science is that we are guided by evidence and not prejudice. Congresswoman Anna Paulina Luna is asking NASA to monitor 3i Atlas and to send an orbital spacecraft even closer to it as it passes that would give what are the chances that NASA will agree to do that because that would certainly give us even more data right? Even more images. Yeah this came because she actually spoke with me on the phone and I mentioned Oh so you put her up to it Yeah and I suggested doing that Right Avi politely suggested that the two of them try to scam the government out of hundreds of millions of dollars the same government that just recently slashed NASA's budget by 6 billion Okay let's listen to Avi with walking shitstain Glenn Beck So tell me about 3i Atlas and why you say it may have alien technology Right so let me give you the facts I mean the whole point about doing science is that we can collect evidence data from instruments and we don't need to rely on stories that people tell Said the fraud ignoring all the data and telling stories Good God what a gaslighting maniac this guy is So what are the facts that make it really unusual Well first of all it's the size as I mentioned in the beginning we expect many more small objects than big objects then there is the fact that you know the Hubble Space Telescope observed it and noticed I mean in the image it displays a glow that is towards the sun pointing towards the sun instead of what you usually see for comets where you see glow pointing away from the sun just like seeing an animal in your backyard and everyone says oh it must be a street cat because it has a tail but then you look at the photograph of this animal and you see that the tail is coming from its forehead in addition the trajectory of this object is aligned to within five degrees with the ecliptic plane of the planets around the sun and the chance of that is one in 500 lies about the size and lies about the dust tail there was briefly a small sunward pointing tail due to heavy particles not getting pushed back by solar pressure when it was far from the sun but the tail has been like that of a totally normal comet for a while at this point so he's just full of shit and then more lies about the probability of its trajectory being coincidentally near the ecliptic not that it matters anyway since we've seen so few of these objects and you ask why why is it coming in the plane and by the way all of these anomalies nobody that is calling himself or herself a comet expert they just say it's a comet but if you ask them why is that they would not have an explanation why does it come in the plane oh it's by chance why is it so big oh it's by chance why is it you know why does it have this glow towards the sun rather than away oh it's something we don't fully understand so they would say that but they would not admit that it could be something else all of this has been explained to you in great detail by frustrated colleagues who are tired of your antics you ignore all of them and keep spewing your script of lies on every platform that will have you this one was posted October 20th dozens of peer-reviewed publications are available that contradict the bullshit you're spewing while you pretend that nobody out there is doing science but you pathetic and finally we get to Avi's favorite friend the biggest platform he can get with the least amount of pushback on his lies is who the hell else Joe Rogan a couple weeks ago Avi went on Joe's show for at least the third time to spew all of his alien bullshit with zero pushback since Joe has zero ability to push back on Avi's claims and also really wants them all to be true because aliens are super cool and they probably built the pyramids and vaccines kill people because Bill Gates blah blah blah let's get some highlights from this turd fest there is a lot of misinformation you know some people said I invented 3i Atlas this object in order to distract attention from the Epstein files is that what people are saying? yeah and I said look this object is the size of Manhattan Island it's at four and a half times the earth sun separation if I was able to put it out there you know I would be more powerful than the Pope starting off strong in the first minute with a big old straw man nobody credible is saying that you invented this object Avi nobody credible is suggesting you put it out there or that it doesn't exist it's a comet and you lie about it get with the program initially a lot of people were dismissing your concerns and they were saying that this object is nothing but a comet and it's very normal but then as it got closer and as we got more data it seems like you're correct well this is a very unusual object nope the closer it got and the more data that was collected the more normal it got there is literally nothing about the object that does not conform to the completely typical characteristics of a comet you've been duped Joe anyway we are born on this rock which is just three millions of the mass of the sun it's left over material from the formation process of the sun some debris was left over in a disk and the earth was made out of that that's it and it's just a speck of material nothing significant and this earth was moving around the sun 4.54 billion times before the Vatican even existed and why do I say the Vatican because the Vatican put Galileo in house arrest when he said I don't think everything moves around the earth I see some moons through my telescope you know I see some moons around Jupiter and they don't seem to revolve around the earth they revolve around Jupiter therefore the earth is not at the center so they put him in house arrest today they would have you know cancelled him on social media Galileo and cancel culture the Catholic Church tried to cancel Galileo just like the scientific community is trying to cancel me millions of scientists are all inquisitors and I'm just like my hero Galileo anyone who says otherwise is a woke trans-communist snowflake trying to cancel me case closed what an asshole once you reach a certain threshold you can't shove anomalies under the carpet of traditional thinking the way that my colleagues do just to give you an example the first interstellar object was Oumuamua okay and it was discovered 2017 and it was really strange because you know it was shaped like a pancake based on all the data we have and it was pushed away from the sun by some mysterious force without showing any evaporation no gas or dust around it what did these conservative comet experts say most recently just just in December 2024 there was a paper of them saying it's a comet it's a dark comet in other words a comet where you can't see the cometary tail around it so it's just like experts you know specializing in zebras and they go to the zoo and they see an elephant so then they say oh the elephant is a zebra without stripes and I say no it's a completely different animal you know a spacecraft would appear differently than a rock than a comet because it will not have a cometary tail it could be propelled by something else Jesus Christ these fucking analogies nobody is sweeping anomalies under the rug you're just fabricating anomalies Atlas is a typical comet in literally every way and Amuamua isn't a zebra elephant or whatever the fuck you're trying to say it has a particular shape and a particular structure that we now understand quite well and you're just butthurt that you have to admit it wasn't aliens like you pretended it was to sell books just like you'll have to do in six months when Atlas is gone and no alien invasion occurs by the way if you decide not to collect evidence not to look for it then you will not find it so I say extraordinary evidence requires extraordinary funding you really need to put resources to find the evidence by not attending to this possibility by not imagining this and by the way I much prefer to listen to imaginative science fiction writers you know first class because they're much more interesting than second class scientists who don't have an imagination and they don't they not only have a problem with discussing alien intelligence they also have a problem with whoever discusses it and they will try to suppress that voice money me money me please scientists aren't doing science even though they definitely are so give me money to pretend to do the science they're already doing hey asshole thousands of people are looking in every direction of the sky every single day to see what's there you take the things other people find and call them aliens to sell books and yes we know that you'd rather talk about science fiction than listen to your colleagues that's evident by the science fiction you try to pass off as real science nobody is suppressing you nobody is afraid of talking about aliens it's just common knowledge among astronomers that you're a complete fraud and this is your way of deflecting you can ask also whether on earth there was a sophisticated technological civilization before us that somehow you know either through self-inflicted wounds or because of a natural catastrophe disappeared well there's a lot of people that think that especially now that they're looking at the pyramids and these structures that appear to be underneath the pyramids uh oh Joe just came in his pants super secret ancient civilizations daddy graham hancock tell me my favorite bedtime story again while i pleasure myself joe you mongoloid there are no huge structures under the pyramid that's called a hoax you fell for a hoax on the internet for the millionth time but everyone can go watch my video debunking the shit out of graham if they like now back to the space stuff and then it saw a near-earth object so they flagged it for that reason and they realized it's moving too fast to be bound by gravity to the sun and that was and then it looked looked weird now i had no agenda i was working on cosmology at the time you know i was working on black holes i was the founding director of the black hole initiative at harvard and stephen hawking had passover at my home in 2016 and this object was discovered a year later you had no agenda you completely shifted your entire research focus to enter a subfield you know next to nothing about and started lying out of your ass about an exocomet to sell books about aliens but you had no agenda that's crazy talk and the same thing within the paper itself there are statements that are clearly because the student was using AI i'm really worried about that because the young people are not reading right they don't read history so they go to protests that make no sense right they don't and people say oh that that is always the useful thing to do but no no no this one is triggered by misinformation it's triggered and it's organized and it's organized exactly which protests would you be referring to avi would those be pro-palestine protests are you implying that everyone who protests israel's genocide does so because they were tricked by artificial intelligence pathetic i already talked at great length about how avi is a zionist piece of shit in the previous video so we don't need more of that here so now when you when you listen to comment experts that say well this claim or that claim was never published in a peer-reviewed journal guess what they are the editors or the reviewers who are blocking the discussion on possibilities and i think it's inappropriate especially in the case of alien technology because it could be a black swan event it could be something that affects the future of humanity and we if we behave you know very conservatively we might not last very long well it's also arrogant it's arrogant it's so arrogant to block avi from publishing baseless sensationalist crap in legitimate journals you guys no what's arrogant avi is you asserting yourself over the entire scientific community and denigrating them for pushing back on your lies what's arrogant joe is you sitting there like you have a shred of a clue what you're talking about and pretending that platforming proven frauds is somehow championing free speech you're both clowns what is it about your field in particular that you think motivates mudslinging like why why are they averse to risk and why do they not just why are they not just averse to risk but why are they attacking you for proposing what seems to me to be a reasonable alternative considering the possibilities given all the planets and stars that we know are out there that's the problem joe what avi says seems reasonable to you because you know absolutely nothing about astrophysics you have zero ability to compare what he says to the primary literature for accuracy and zero interest in doing so even if you could you're taking avi at his word and he's a liar that's why this shit seems reasonable to you and that's why you're echoing avi's slander about other scientists being mudslinging jerk faces instead of acknowledging what's really happening astrophysicists are tired of avi taking a big dump all over their entire field and they have begun to expose him so he plays the martyr whines about cancel culture and you fell for it hook line and sinker because you're obsessed with this narrative and arbitrarily platform any fraud who pretends they're being unjustly canceled does that clear it up then the media came to my door and people started asking me a lot of questions I got you know I got well known at that point the attacks the personal attacks started so it's jealousy yeah jealousy and you know but I can tell you that I learned my lesson you can't respond I just ignore it they're all jealous duty heads just ignore them you're the most handsome boy in school Milhouse haters gonna hate the narcissism is off the charts you know two days later I speak with a reporter from the London Times and he puts out his report and says I read the report for half an hour to my kids and they told me they want to become scientists and you know this is another thing that there are two things that are missed by my colleagues one it's an opportunity to excite the kids to get into science you know that's an amazing yeah lying to children is okay because it makes them want to be scientists when Graham Hancock pretends Atlantis is real it makes kids want to be archaeologists if biologists start saying they found dragons and unicorns kids will want to study that too of course once all these kids actually start studying science they'll be disappointed to find out that they've been duped by grifting frauds but maybe they'll stick around anyway so let me ask you this once the understanding of the composition of 3i Atlas once that was out and people recognize that this is a very unusual object have more people started to consider what you're saying yeah I get a lot of people sending me in the academic world also in the academic world those are people that keep that say we are inspired by what you're doing you know they keep sending me emails saying keep doing it it's an inspiration to all of us but this is privately privately yes so many scientists have been sending him their support in private he can't share their names because that's confidential but they totally exist just like his girlfriend that goes to another school which is why you don't know her in reality nobody is doing that because the composition of Atlas is totally typical it's not unusual at all it's not unusual for Avi to sit here and mislead Joe about its composition is all you need to hear to immediately understand what a fraud Avi is so what these zealots I call them say is you know we don't want people to deviate from the beaten path because we base our stature we base our honors awards and so forth on past knowledge we don't want new knowledge unless it's proven beyond any doubt but how would it be proven if you keep ridiculing anything different we don't want new knowledge Avi is proposing that those butthead zealots also known as every astrophysicist but him don't want new knowledge they don't want the thing that is what all of science is I'm sorry but anyone who falls for this script is an intellectual toddler speaking about my colleagues you know so there are people who said oh you're doing it to win the Nobel Prize that's what you or you're trying to sell books you know I don't charge a penny for my essays on medium.com money is not at all what motivates me how about your shitty books are those free the ones that you prop up in the background for every interview you've ever done oh those cost money and you get some of it yeah money means nothing to you we all believe you Avi and for the scientific community to ignore that is irresponsible why is it irresponsible because it could affect the future of humanity well I think the problem with the scientific community is the problem with all communities they're overrun with ego I agree and as I explained at the beginning it's just human beings when they get to a position of any kind of authority any sort of a position of respect and prestige they want to protect that at all costs and they want to keep everyone down who they think is getting unwarranted attention above them like yourself Jesus Christ the lack of self-awareness is mind-boggling every community is overrun with ego like the podcasting community of which you are the single most successful member which has given you such a gigantic ego that you're incapable of realizing that you almost exclusively platform frauds who use your show to poison society with science denial and elevate themselves financially and everyone who calls out your show and also the garbage joke of a comedy scene in Austin that you've cultivated you just blacklist them and call them haters great work Joe let me ask you this have you seen any compelling information any data that leads you to believe that we have been visited the only data I'm aware of that is worth attending to is the anomalies of Oumuamua of 3i Atlas which are very different anomalies Avi Joe is asking you if UFO stories about little green men are true he's done talking about Oumuamua and Atlas neither of which are even remotely as anomalous as you pretend Joe is trying to tee up some UAP bullshit and you're not taking the bait there's supposed to be a symbiosis here get with the program oh you're gonna start spewing horse shit about the bolide fine it must have been extremely tough much tougher than all the previous meteors cataloged by NASA okay so I can show you some images from that trip to the Pacific Ocean actually it was documented by Netflix and there will be a documentary coming out within a year next year 2026 this was the team of researchers that came with me on the deck of the ship and we collected materials with a magnetic sled this is a sled with magnets on top of it fuck me you brought Netflix with you this boner is basically announcing that the entire project was nothing but a publicity stunt we already talked about how the meteor was not extra solar the material he recovered wasn't from that meteor and all the other lies he tells but this just seals the deal he wrote a narrative and sold it to Netflix Harvard guy Avi Loeb finds alien stuff in the ocean they saw dollar signs and agreed then he went down there with a documentary crew rummaged around for some random spherules that had been there for thousands of years and declares himself successful does that sound like how a scientist behaves we have no way of knowing if we will succeed on this scientific expedition but come on Netflix I have a feeling it'll all work out since I'm going to lie about every detail the entire time bring your cameras unbelievable we should approach the universe with a sense of curiosity but also modesty you know it's really we desperately need to be more modest that's rich coming from the arrogant egotistical narcissistic asshole who uses a script of lies to assert himself over the entire scientific community and lashes out like a toddler when professionals call him out for it remember when you tried to shit on a former director of SETI who spent her entire life looking for aliens and accused her of being a wet blanket who just doesn't want to find aliens well some of us do no no let me finish how many people make statements about scientists that explore these possibilities within the scientific method that's the acidic culture that I'm talking about there is an acidic culture that suppresses innovation in the current culture of science and the best example is SETI do we need more modesty or just you Avi think about it anyway there's not much else to say this is the third round of the Avi Loeb! grifter playbook that we are seeing played out in real time anyone who can't see that he's an opportunistic money-hungry charlatan by now either doesn't have the facts or just isn't paying attention that would be all the sheep who fall for his rhetoric about encouraging scientists to have an open mind stop being so closed minded scientists you would be the ones burning Galileo at the stake for suggesting the earth is round or whatever the fuck happened I don't actually care about reality these mental midgets who whine about open-mindedness are the precise ones who trolled my first video on Avi without watching a single second of it to see how he's objectively wrong and you'll find them in the comment section of this video as well utterly oblivious to all the facts I just provided that demolish Avi's deceptive script all they can do is echo his baseless complaints about how nobody is searching nobody is looking nobody is doing the work which is preposterous at face value since he's not the one who found any of the three interstellar objects he just bastardizes the work of people who find them at impressively far distances to inflate his status and make boatloads of money speaking of the work of other researchers lest you think all my criticisms do not represent the scientific community let's speak with one such researcher now Steve Desch is a professor of astrophysics at Arizona State University who specifically studies the origins of meteors as well as astrobiology or looking for signs of life on other planets he even has an asteroid named after him shall we see what Steve has to say about Avi Steve thanks so much for joining us I'm excited to talk about Atlas and Avi as well maybe ignoring Avi for a moment let's just talk a little bit about the object itself first what do you find interesting about it are there any new observations as of late as it's emerging from behind the sun what's you know we want to get the pulse what's the astrophysics community saying about Atlas yeah from the very first day it was discovered it was recognized to be a really interesting object because it's an interstellar object it's coming in at a speed so fast that it can't remain bound to the sun and therefore didn't start bound to the sun and that means it came from another solar system and it's so rare that you can see a piece of anything from another solar system and analyze it we can learn about the chemistry of another solar system by inferences about how long this thing has been in the galaxy we think it might have been in the galaxy tooling around for about 7 billion years and that tells us something not just about a different solar system but one that formed before ours more distant in the galactic past and so there's so much we can learn from this object and it was also very exciting because it's only the third interstellar object and the second interstellar comet and it was discovered when it was pretty far from the sun four and a half astronomical units from the sun and therefore it hadn't even really started to heat up and out gas and so we got to see the whole sequence of how gases and other things come out of this comet in real time so it's been a really exciting development very cool what about as of the last week or so when is it that it began to become visible from the other side of the sun yeah it went to the closest approach to the sun which is still somewhere between the distance of earth and mars around october 29th and the earth happened to be ill positioned to observe it at that time but it is starting to be seen now by some amateur astronomers and it was seen I think just two days after perihelion by satellites like the punch satellite designed to look at objects or you know close into the sun so with that we can observe these jets that have developed as all comets do when they heat up the gases are formed from ice sublimating ice turning from solid into gas and it pokes through weak parts of a comet's crust and it shoots these jets out and like all comets do it's been doing that so that's been exciting to observe and we can also begin to see something about the deviation from a purely gravitational orbit we can hope to maybe see some sort of deviations we would say these are due to non-gravitational accelerations and again all comets have these and so they're routinely calculated it's still just too early to see a lot of deviation and so there are estimates of those non-gravitational accelerations but it's still pretty noisy and a lot of people think that they'll go down somewhat but we can begin then to assess something about the size mass of the object and this is that's due to the thrust produced by outgassing or what are these accelerations exactly yeah when the gases shoot out of the comet as the ice turns to gas it shoots out in these jets and it is very much like a rocket we call it the rocket effect and it tends to concentrate on the side facing the sun and so there's a tendency for the push to be away from the sun but the comets all are spinning and the jets pop on and off and so it can be quite random too yeah it's not so clean so despite the enthusiasm I detect there's a marked lack of sensationalism here when you talk about the comet so let's pivot over to Avi what's your impression of his rhetoric regarding this object and his general conduct in talking about it to the media etc what do you and the scientific community think about it it's irresponsible it is doing science a disservice and it's doing the public interested in science a disservice can you elaborate at all yeah so from the very first day scientists astronomers were able to ascertain a lot of information about this object including the fact that it had a coma a fuzzy cloud of particles could be dust could be ice could be both surrounding the comet and they were able to tell from literally the first day that this was a comet and at no point in the days since then in the months since then has it done anything that would make you think oh that's not what a comet does every single thing that it has done has been cometary in nature and it hasn't done anything uncommentary and pretty much anything you would expect a comet to do it has done so to to keep raising questions about the fact of it being a comet or questions about the size of it it's it's all manufactured doubt it's not there as healthy skepticism it's not there to say okay sure it's a comet but is it an unusual comet in what way is it different from other comets it's all in service of saying this couldn't possibly be a comet and it's it's really obtuse you really have to be willfully blind to the evidence and really ignorant of it to honestly think this is anything but 100% a comet and to do so repeatedly over months after being corrected also on these things is beyond any sort of oh I'm just asking questions and it's beyond any healthy skepticism it's simply irresponsible and I think that it gives the public a really false view of how science is done it mimics the scientific method because of course scientists they question each other's results we all want to double check each other's work that is built into the scientific method you say okay but when I reproduce this I get a factor of 1.2 different than you do that sort of thing happens but to say oh I'm going to throw away a century of knowledge about comets and the knowledge we've gleaned from watching 5,000 comets over the last century and start from scratch that's not really how science works and it just really gives this false view to the public and finally it drowns out the actual interesting science this is from another solar system the odds are this comet is from a solar system that had formed billions of years before even our solar system formed when the chemistry of the galaxy was different there were different proportions of elements it probably came from a different part of our galaxy and that is so cool and we can't talk about any of that or bring that to the public's attention because all the media cares about is it a spaceship yeah the the the conversation that the general public has access to is absolutely saturated by obvious claims by alien rhetoric by all of this stuff there's just no room for a genuine scientific discourse and I agree I do think that's a shame what what how many members of the scientific community have attempted to communicate with Avi on this how many people have brought his errors to his attention what is his reaction personally when doing so have you tried to talk to him have your colleagues tried to talk to him what what's what's happening there no I haven't talked with him or tried to talk with him on previous issues we did try there was a paper that he and a student wrote this paper on the chick's loop impactor and they argued really incorrectly that it had to be a comet couldn't be an asteroid which it almost certainly was and we my colleagues and I wrote a comment like a correction paper that would be published in the journal and we had to have communication with Siraj and Loeb and Loeb was included in those emails and never responded to me and so I instead what he did is he started to trash talk us on archive writing spurious papers trying to denigrate the work we were doing so I just very quickly gave up trying to reason with him I think that other colleagues of mine have written him emails people who know him and I would say it's probably in the dozens I don't know though what year was that incident that you just mentioned that was spring of 2021 okay so that was yeah in the middle of this of this the bolide stuff that he was doing so that predated it this was in the middle of his book tour about Omo on Omo okay so yeah he was yeah riding the wave of the first round and kind of planning probably the second round what what do you like what I'm curious about how long will it be before Atlas kind of goes past Jupiter and then kind of starts to recede and you know stop to you know we won't observe it as much and the public inevitably won't talk about it as much how long is that going to take and what is that going to look like from the perspective of the public right it will be observed by multiple observatories and I think JWC will observe it again in the next few weeks in the month of November and I don't remember the exact date it goes by Jupiter sometime late March I think or something as late as March okay but in the next few months as it recedes from the sun we will we will see as it comes around and is easily observed in November we're going to see the results of all the heating it got as it was closest to the sun and the expectation is that many of the weird chemical ratios will look more familiar more like regular comets so far it has ejected a lot of carbon dioxide and water but in proportions different from most comets but not unprecedented but the same gases as comets just in different proportions it's emitted iron and nickel vapor both like other comets but in a proportion that's different than we've seen in other comets in our solar system but we think a lot of that has to do with the fact that it is moving so fast and it got very close to the sun before it was able to heat up and so all of the things that comets do it's been doing sort of late it's behind schedule in that regard so we expect that as it goes past the sun and gets heated up more we'll see it look a little bit more normal like other comets also it's from another system right so why should it be identical to comets from our system who knows what other interactions it has had how many other stars it has flown by what those interactions looked like what material was ejected in those interactions yeah I mean yeah the big things being that it's from a system that was born at a time when the chemistry in the galaxy was a little different and it's been in interstellar space for so long cosmic rays have probably done more energy into this comet than other comets and all of those things make a difference in what we observe but nevertheless we expect it to look more normal and then the activity will wind down through December and then it'll go by Jupiter with nothing happening and that'll be it so I don't think there's ever a moment where we can point to it and say oh now I see now it's a comet it did that on day one to those who wish to manufacture doubt it's never going to look comedy enough right in terms of the public it's fascinating because obviously I debunk a lot of frauds in a lot of different areas of science and therefore I deal with a lot of trolls that come to their defense in terms of Avi there's just this ideological fervor with the trolls that infested the first video I did on him and inevitably will be in the comment section of this video that just it's not it's never about oh that's an interesting perspective I hadn't thought of it that way there's just this absolute insistence that Avi is just asking questions scientists are closed minded he's the only one who's thinking of these possibilities what can we say to these people myself as a science communicator yourself as a scientist who's researching these objects in earnest how can we help them understand that it's not one rogue truth teller against the closed minded establishment what how can we help them see what's going on here I ask myself the same question I call them the low bros and I don't know what to do about it either this myth that every system of experts is corrupt is not limited to science it's pervasive there's a lot of people who find the current state of the world and its complicated nature and our interconnectedness overwhelming or desirable there's there's a yearning for this myth of the lone wolf or the maverick we all really wish we were self-sufficient we wish that we could just figure everything out ourselves and have the secret to the world and not have to rely on anybody else and I think that desire is so strong that when somebody comes along and plays that role it's intoxicating and we really wish it were true and that simple and it's just not that simple yeah yeah I agree it is a feature of virtually every aspect of science denial and yeah my goal is just not only to debunk those false claims but also feature researchers like you kind of demystify the scientific community and see that you know people should be listening to the consensus of the astrophysics community as opposed to one rogue figure so that's all I can do and I'll add consensus sounds like you know we went into a back room with our cigars and decided this would be the story we would tell the public or something and that impression is strong and it is so opposite of what science is sure and of course science is all about we are trying to tear down each other at least our hypotheses you know we hope not to make it personal but sometimes it does sometimes scientists don't like each other in the process but it's all in service of tearing away everything that doesn't make sense until you're left with something that does and inevitably as a part of that process you learn that it's almost impossible for one person to figure out everything by themselves and you learn to trust that if a bunch of people who have argued about it have decided hey this is the only thing we think that makes sense you learn to have some faith in that that's what we go with for the time being if that's overturned in the future by additional data then we'll go with that instead yeah I think that that's very intuitive to the common public therefore science denial has to rely on weaponizing the word consensus and making the public associated with corruption as like a Pavlovian response right because they have no ability to assert their narrative above the scientific consensus so they have to take it down a notch somehow by association so yeah yeah yeah well that's yeah let me know if you have any last thoughts otherwise just I definitely want to thank you for for providing your insight and yeah helping the public get some perspective on what science is and what scientists are doing thanks yeah I really look forward to these future observations and the Vera Rubin observatory came online this summer and in fact it it would have discovered Atlas if the other surveys hadn't found it first but it's poised to find many more and depending on exactly how many are out there but according to our estimates it could be dozens to hundreds of objects like these comets or like Oumuamua in the next decade and hopefully that will put a lot of these conspiracy theories to rest as you see the same things over and over again and you realize these are just natural objects and you know we'll get familiar with them and as we see statistics about you know the alignment of their orbits with various things and you realize oh I guess it's random you know yeah how many book tours can Avi go on crying aliens every time before people put it together hopefully this is the last round of it I hope so yeah I'm eager to see the reaction to this video well thanks very much for chatting with me that was great it was my pleasure thanks thanks Steve so what's next well as we said 3i Atlas will continue on its trajectory passed by Jupiter on its way out of the solar system and keep doing exactly what a comet would do since it's a fucking comet no alien invasion no probes nothing Avi won't admit an ounce of fault he'll reference the handful of statements he made about how it might be a comet which he only made in order to save face after the fact he'll whine about how Juno wasn't redirected to look at Atlas even though it was physically impossible for it to do that and he'll start looking around for the next thing to call aliens with zero basis to sell another book none of his science illiterate fans will have learned a goddamn thing about astronomy or figure out how to think critically in any way whatsoever and the cycle will continue unless we can get some of them to find the courage to watch this video wouldn't that be something so that's it for Avi Loeb again his celebrity scientist status is only continuing to rise since that's what he spends most of his time working on generating fame and attention so as to sell books and manipulate sources of funding for what may turn out to be some political agenda beyond fame and cash what will round four of the Avi Loeb grifter playbook look like we'll just have to wait and see until next time