Hey everyone, it's time to debunk another grifting fraud. And today's target might surprise a few people. It's Avi Lobe. Some of you may be familiar with him, others perhaps not, but either way, there's a lot to dissect here. So, let's get started. To say that the targets of my debunks span a wide spectrum of qualification and credibility would be an understatement. Sometimes we cover completely uneducated buffoons like Terren Howard or mentally ill, ineffectual grifters like Ashton Forbes. But sometimes we have to cover wellrespected scientists like Dennis Noble or even Nobel Prize winners like Luke Montany who slip into unscientific behavior like Nobel's Third Way or even blatant crack pottery like Luke's water memory [\h__\h] Today's target belongs in the latter camp. Avi Lobe is a legitimate scientist with genuine credentials and decades of solid physics under his belt. But in true Grifter fashion, he has leveraged his position to manipulate the media into publicizing paper thin claims outside of his expertise, which he has converted into considerable book sales. His colleagues have noticed, and when they call him out for this unethical behavior, he just whines about being a victim of the establishment that he himself is a part of. In a move that has become synonymous with frauds presenting as martyrs, he compares himself to Galileo, which is why he calls his project to look for aliens the Galileo project. Why won't the stupid church of scientism stop persecuting this brave rebel trutht teller? A tale as old as time. By the way, do you know who's listed as part of the research team on the Galileo project website? Eric Weinstein. We all know he's a top-notch researcher, so I'm sure they'll find some aliens any day now. So, what do we have here? We have a perplexing case of a scholar at the pinnacle of academia who claims to somehow be an academic outsider in order to cash in on anti-establishment fervor to sell books. That's the long and short of it. But how did Avi get to where he is today? Let's hit the background information. Avi is a theoretical physicist. He has a PhD in physics from Hebrew University in Jerusalem where he specialized in plasma physics. He then worked at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton where he began working on problems in astrophysics. In 1993, he became a professor of astronomy at Harvard, receiving tenure in only 3 years, eventually becoming the chair of the department in 2011, which he held until 2020. He has hundreds of publications on stars, black holes, galaxies, and so forth. So, as you can see, AI's resume is plenty impressive. In fact, you'd be hardressed to find someone who would better represent a successful establishment astronomer. He's worked at several top institutions and enjoys the laurels of a long career in academia. He is the establishment. He is big physics. Keep that in mind for later. The problem is that much like other grifters within academia, Avi presents work in areas where he has little to no experience and demonstrates very little knowledge about those who specialize in that area. He doesn't do the necessary research to learn what the issues are. He doesn't consult actual experts. He just does a quick calculation, plops out a flashy paper, and calls up the newspapers to start the glazing. In fact, we could call this the Avi Lobe playbook. One, he writes a paper outside of his expertise, ignoring existing work in the field and avoiding experts like the plague. Two, he publicly makes outrageous comments and claims using Harvard's reputation to create buzz and sell a bunch of books. Three, when experts inevitably chime in to point out how his work is sloppy pseudocience, he portrays himself as a victim being silenced by the establishment. Just like the wise Galileo, big science is dismissive of his brilliance because they can't handle the truth. Obviously, they do the same thing with Terrence Howard's crappy arithmetic and with Discovery Institute's anti-science propaganda and with Graham Hancock's Atlantis fantasies. This is the only script a charlatan really needs because it works. In this video, we will go through two extremely clear cycles of this behavior so that you can see what I'm talking about and become totally convinced that this wasn't a fluke. This is what Avi is now. The first one is the incident that put Lobe on the map with Popsai enthusiasts Mua. If you are unfamiliar with this object, which was detected in 2017, I actually did a video about it as part of my astronomy series. This is the first object we've observed passing through our solar system that is from another solar system. So we can call it an interstellar object. It was spotted moving away from the sun only a fifth of an astronomical unit from Earth. It is rocky, fairly small, and has a peculiar shape with a length of somewhere approaching a kilometer while only about 100 m thick. By analyzing its tumbling motion combined with its speed and trajectory, we were able to conclude that it did not form in our solar system, but instead was captured by the sun's gravity. It plummeted towards the sun with very high eccentricity and then slingshot around with a speed greater than the escape velocity of the sun. Meaning it is now on its way out of the solar system back into interstellar space. So we can refer to AmuA Mua as a rogue comet or an exoc comet meaning a comet that originated in some other system was jostled from that system presumably due to gravitational perturbations and drifted through interstellar space for a completely unknown duration of time before encountering our neighborhood to give us a brief flyby. While this was the first exoc comet ever detected, we found another one in 2019 and named it Boros arriving from the direction of Cassiopia in a hyperbolic trajectory. Then on July 1st of this year, we found a third and named it Atlas. There is plenty of scientific literature on these objects and there is no controversy as to what they are. They are exoc. But back in 2017, Avi had a different idea. He conjured up the narrative that Omuam Mua was an alien spacecraft. Due to the interesting dimensions of the object, he proposed that it was a solar sail. Where did he get this idea? It had to do with some early observations. Let's hear them from astrobiologist Karen Meech presenting them in a TED talk fairly soon after the discovery. >> Its brightness wasn't constant. Now here we see a Mua Mua racing between the stars. It's centered in the middle. The stars are trailed out because the telescope is following its motion. It started faint and then it got brighter, fainter, brighter, and fainter again as sunlight is reflected off of four sides of an oblong object. The extreme brightness change led us to an unbelievable conclusion about its shape. As shown in this artist's impression, Amua Mua is apparently very long and narrow with an axis ratio of about 10:1. Well, it turns out that Amua Mua is not rotating in a simple way. It's wobbling like a top. So, while it is rotating around its short axis, it's also rolling around the long axis and nodding up and down. This very energetic, excited motion is almost certainly the result of it being violently tossed out of its home solar system. We firmly believe it's likely to be a leftover archaeological remnant from the process of the birth of another planetary system, some celestial driftwood. So as you can see what's being described is the process by which we figured out the interesting shape of this exoc comet. It's not spherical and it was tumbling in a complex way because of its trajectory given that it did not form in our solar system. So the size of the reflecting surface facing Earth was changing as it rotated around multiple axes at once. From this data, we were able to discern the sort of flattened cigar-like shape that is now commonly understood. When it was first detected, some people jumped to the notion that it was an interstellar spacecraft. It wasn't showing any outgassing, something that we would expect comets to do, at least if they are from our system. The irregular periodicity of its brightness made some think of artificiality prior to figuring out the logical explanation due to its shape. Since scientists are extremely thorough and open-minded, they entertained to the notion that it was an extraterrestrial spacecraft. They listened for radio signals, but found none. And I do want to be perfectly clear. It was not outrageous or unscientific for a handful of astronomers to present this highly speculative hypothesis. That's what science is all about. It's okay to propose outlandish ideas as long as we remain objective and empirical and discard such ideas when data are collected that rule them out or better explanations arise. But then there's a lobe. This is the event that put Avi on the map in terms of public awareness. Remember A's playbook? Step one, make outrageous claims in a paper. That would be this 2018 paper. Could solar radiation pressure explain AmuA Mua's peculiar acceleration? In this paper, Avi and his colleagues suggested that this object was extraordinarily thin, as thin as 1 millimeter. This would align with his claim that this could be an alien solar sail, which is technology that could be used for rapid space travel, absorbing momentum from stellar photons in order to generate propulsion. This was based on some slight anomalous motion that suggested the presence of a force in addition to the sun's gravitational pole. In the paper, he states, "Considering an artificial origin, one possibility is that Amua Mua is a light sail floating in interstellar space as a debris from an advanced technological equipment." He also offers the status of alien probe for the object. Alternatively, a more exotic scenario is that AmuA Mua may be a fully operational probe sent intentionally to Earth vicinity by an alien civilization. Sounds pretty juicy, right? And at that time, while outlandish, it at least stemmed somewhat from a place of reality. Solar sails are real. We've built them and we know how they work. If we found a solar sail floating around in space that we didn't build, that would be the most incredible discovery in human history. But did Avi have any positive evidence supporting this claim? No. Had he done any kind of homework whatsoever in order to carefully consider whether this object could be a solar sail? No. Did he consider the broad range of natural explanations before jumping straight to alien spaceship? No. Step two, leverage Harvard's prestige to get coverage in credulous popular press. That's right. Instead of engaging with experts, his own colleagues, in order to discuss this possibility and all the data working against it, Avi reached out to journalists because what the [\h__\h] do they know? A guy from Harvard is selling alien stories. It's a clickbait gold mine. Scientific American February 1st, 2021. Astronomer Avi Loe says aliens have visited and he's not kidding. The subtitle is extra juicy. In conversation, the Harvard University professor explains his shocking hypothesis and calls out what he sees as a crisis in science. Whoa, whoa, whoa. A crisis in science? Did Sabina Hosenfelder ghost write this? Are you telling me that science is dying or that physics is dead or that universities are communism or however else you want to phrase this [\h__\h] anti-establishment narrative that's been sweeping the internet? Now I have two reasons to click. Aliens are here plus colleges are bad. I nearly sprained my finger I clicked so fast. And check it out. AI says the most plausible explanation for AmuA Mua was as obvious as it was sensational. It was so obviously a millimeter thin solar sail from an alien spacecraft. Duh, you guys. He wrote all about it in a paper and it was a smash hit with clueless journalists who know [\h__\h] all about astronomy. But his stupid buttface peers, they don't like it. Its properties are well within the realm of natural phenomena. Damn you stupid scientists. You're such a wet blanket. Anyway, Avi had a roundt discussion with the researchers most qualified to study this object. He listened to them explain how the data very clearly indicate that it's an exoc comet of already specified composition and dimensions. He learned some new science and retracted his controversial paper. The end. Just kidding. He ignored absolutely everybody and wrote a crappy book so that he could grift off the public. It's called extraterrestrial. The first sign of intelligent life beyond Earth. I'm sure that every random person who sees this thing at a Hudson News and JFK airport is completely up to speed on the primary scientific literature surrounding AmuA Mua and will read this book with a huge grain of salt and dollop of healthy skepticism. Right? Of course not. It's alien book by Harvard guy. Everything in it must be true, especially because his stupid jealous scientist friends are saying it isn't true. That's how truth works. As you can imagine, while AI's paper retained an aura of scientific integrity, couching its language and remaining somewhat speculative, the book goes allin like a poker hot shot with pocket aces. Amua Mua must have been designed, built, and launched by an extraterrestrial intelligence. Must you guys, no ifs, ands, or buts. Avi is 100% positive it's aliens because he says so. And he said precisely this on Joe Rogan and Lex Friedman and whoever else wanted to cash in on the baseless clickbait. Not because he was lying to sell a [\h__\h] ton of books. How dare you even suggest that. It's because he's a super awesome rebel scientist with the super best science. And anyone who disagrees is a stupid jerk. In the meantime, not that anybody who bought A's book cared at all, but experts who actually study this area had been analyzing the data from AmuA Mua in great detail. And the farther they got, the more ridiculous A's claim began to appear. Let's quickly summarize the ways we know that Avi is definitely wrong. First, the shape of a Muam Mua is completely incompatible with what a solar sail is. AI suggested it could be 1 millm thick. It definitely isn't. It's about 100 m thick, but even 1 millimeter would still be much too thick to be an effective sail. They have to be a few microns or even nanometers thick, a tiny fraction of the thickness of a human hair. They don't work if they're too heavy with respect to their surface area. Also, if it were truly that thin, it would be much too faint to see during the moments when it was directly edge on to Earth, and that never happened. It was always visible, just varying in brightness due to the mechanics of the tumble. Second, the motion would make no sense. Avi claimed that if it was a solar sail, it would explain the anomalous acceleration, but the tumbling behavior and trajectory are totally incompatible with that. A solar sail would be accelerated in a particular direction consistently and directly away from the sun. You can't just say weird behavior, therefore solar sail, only to then ignore what a solar sail actually is and what it does. Besides, the deviation from the expected orbit based on gravitational influence was very small, and it turned out to be completely consistent with the sun melting some ice on it as it approached, which gives it a boost as it turns to gas. The effect was weaker as it got further from the sun, which is consistent with this identification. Jason Wright, an astronomer at Penn State and an expert in this area, summed it up nicely. A parsimmonious explanation for nearly all of AmuAM Mua's anomalous behavior is that it is not a dirty snowball made of a mixture of rock and Isis like most solar system comets, but is mostly ice. As you can see, it's extremely reasonable to conclude that this object is a frozen rock from another solar system, which is why that quickly became the consensus of the scientific community long before Avi published his deceptive cash grab book for the public. So, what does a fraud like Avi do when the experts don't support his outlandish claims? Step three, play the victim. Why admit that your claims run contrary to the evidence when you can just whip up some conspiratorial rhetoric and cash in even more? According to Avi, the scientific community is closedminded. They don't have all of the immaculate reasoning we just described with which to reject his baseless claims. It's just that they don't want to make awesome discoveries. They're cowards, losers, idiots, or whatever characterization suits your anti-establishment bias best. If you'd rather hear it from him, let's check out a webinar he gave in 2021 for Instituto de Astrophysica in Chile. >> And if I had to summarize my book uh extraterrestrial, I would use the sentence, when you are not ready to find exceptional things, you will never discover them. >> Yeah. Most scientists don't want to discover things. They just want to be pointless losers. But not Avi. He wants to make breakthroughs so badly that he simply hallucinates them and pretends they're real. In science, it's not data or evidence that matter. It's just what you want to be true. Anyone who says otherwise is a stupid shill. If a large enough community of people in the academic culture decides that you can work on some mathematical erh arena and demonstrate that you are smart and therefore get awards and and without putting any skin in the game, without testing it against experimental evidence, then that's completely fine. But if you are talking about looking for evidence for something that might as well be out there, that's ridiculed. Something is really wrong in the current scientific culture. And my book is attempting to correct that. >> No, your book is attempting to pass off whimsy as real science. This is just the Trojan horse you're using to do it. People don't get awards in science simply for being smart. They get awards for doing great science. This script whining about math is the same one that Wall Thornhill used to push his electric universe grift. It's the one that Sabina uses to [\h__\h] on the entirety of physics. It's an easy tactic since most people hate math. Same with pretending that physicists don't test the math. The math is there to make quantitative predictions which can then be verified to staggering degrees of precision, thereby corroborating the model that made the predictions. Scientists who become grifters always seem to forget how science works. >> But as far as I'm concerned, it's not so much whether there is primitive life on either Mars or the nearest star system. It's more about are we the smartest kid on the block. And as I mentioned, there is no good reason to expect that. Perhaps that's why many of my colleagues are not willing to engage in the search. Just like my daughters, if I were to ask them, they would prefer not to go to the kindergarten because then they can keep the illusion that they are the smartest. But my suggestion is that without a prejudice, we should do the search that knowledge is always beneficial. You want to know who lives in your neighborhood. I don't want to bury my head in the sand. You know, just like those philosophers in the days of Galileo that said, "No, we don't want to look through your telescope. We know that the sun moves around the Earth." This is [\h__\h] ridiculous. Researchers have been actively looking for extraterrestrial life since before Avi was born. Said he began in 1960. He's pretending that researchers who disprove his baseless claims are only making a fuss because they don't want to know things. Those stupid scientists are too scared to find aliens. No, jackass. They just have a thing called intellectual integrity. It's every astronomer's wildest dream to find aliens. You can't find a single one who wouldn't kill to be responsible for that discovery. That's what makes them so irritated when grifting frauds like you pretend to have found it when you definitely didn't and just lie to the gullible public who see the name Harvard and assume you've done your homework. But sure, compare yourself to Galileo for the thousandth time. >> So the search for technological signatures which I regard as the most important question in science that the public cares about and the public funds science. So how dare the scientists ignore that question if they have the means to address it? >> They don't. Literally nobody is ignoring that question. You don't have to artificially inflate its importance. Looking for aliens is definitely not the single most important thing in science, but people are doing it anyway. You're not the only astronomer in the world, Avi. Also, this entire angle just does not track. He's whining about scientists ignoring the questions that the public who fund science want answered. Well, Avi consistently attempts to undermine the credibility of the entire scientific community in a broad and dishonest manner, which has the clear effect of diminishing the public's appetite for legitimate science, which motivates politics that will shrink funding for science. That's exactly what we are getting with the current administration. He's always flashing his big science credentials while pretending to be an outsider criticizing big science. It's ridiculous. Anyway, after this lengthy seminar, it was time for some Q&A. It was during this portion that Avi got called out for his [\h__\h] by Jill Tarter, who was the director of SEI for many years and was the inspiration for Jodie Foster's character in the movie Contact. Let's hear what Jill has to say. >> So Avi, I get a little bit pissed off when you throw the entire scientific culture under the bus because some of us have been thinking about and building instruments to find anomalies for a very long time. And I think that um when we say that we if we ever are going to announce such a detection that we require extraordinary evidence, we're doing that as a way of differentiating ourselves from the pseudocience that is so much a part of popular culture with UFOs and and all kinds of claims of things that people have detected. So, um, >> okay. >> I wouldn't be so hard on the whole culture. Abby, >> very well said and remarkably restrained at that. Real science requires evidence, unlike the pseudocience Avi pushes, even though Jill didn't go so far as to put that label on him when she very well could and should. I sometimes wonder why scholars are so diplomatic. Anyway, what's his response? >> Well, let me explain to your first point. I'm talking about a factor of a thousand in funding. I'm not talking about a factor of two over a decade increase in funding. I'm saying there is a discrepancy by a factor of a thousand in what's what needs to be the case relative to what is the case of the community that you are talking about. A factor of a thousand is a big factor in funding and moreover it's even a bigger factor in bullying because anyone that makes a suggestion in the direction of technological signature is being bullied and ridiculed. >> I don't second let let me finish. >> Grifters always get hostile when they're cornered. Jill was talking about the strength of the evidence and Avi starts whining about money. There's no amount of money that can turn your [\h__\h] into real science. Obby got anything better? >> Now my second point is uh my second point which is very important is in the dark ages people used to say that the human body should not be dissected. There shouldn't be operations because it has magical powers because there is a soul. Now think about it. If scientists were to say, "We don't want to discuss the human body until there are extraordinary evidence for something, we don't want to discuss it because of all this nonsense being said about the human body. Where would modern medicine be?" I say it's a science has an obligation to focus on problems that are of interest to the public and use the scientific method to resolve them. It's just more deflection and [\h__\h] rhetoric. What about thing hundreds of years ago? Somebody was wrong once, so my pseudocience must be real. It's just not even worth entertaining. Avi, you've got one last chance. Say something that doesn't make you sound like a [\h__\h] idiot or snake oil salesman >> and rather than say we need extraordinary evidence and then step on the grass and not allow it to grow, which is currently the case. We need extraordinary evidence, but anyone that mentions this possibility is ridiculed by some uh blogger that doesn't even write a single paper in a decade. That makes no sense whatsoever. This blogger should first practice science. Well, some of us do. >> No, no, let me finish. How How dare people make statements about scientists that explore these possibilities within the scientific method? That's the acidic culture that I'm talking about. There is an acidic culture that suppresses innovation in the current culture of science. And the best example is SETI. >> This is Avi fully unhinged. Step on the grass and not allow it to grow. You're not the grass obby. You're a weed. You're not ridiculed for bringing up extraordinary evidence. You're ridiculed because you pretend to have it when you objectively don't. But of course, you refuse to acknowledge that you've got nothing to back up your claims. Rather, anyone who points that out must be part of an acidic culture that suppresses innovation. Oo. Do you think they're part of Eric Weinstein's distributed idea suppression complex? I guess this is why he's on your team, huh? Did he coach you on how to spew this script? Anyway, who is this blogger he keeps whining about? That would be Ethan Seagull, a cosmologist who became a science journalist. He wrote a scathing rebuttal to Avi's paper that ran in Forbes, which summarizes with extreme clarity all of the science that proves Avi wrong, and mocks him a little bit for his unscientific approach, calling him out for ignoring all the experts in this area, pushing a hypothesis despite having no convincing data, and also blasting him for being a media [\h__\h] That'll explain why A's panties are in a bunch since a lot of people read this thing. But of course, his gripe is not just with blogger Ethan. He has big problems with STI. >> And the best example is SETI. >> Avi just tried to take a big dump on SETI, the organization that's been looking for aliens every single day for 65 years. Right to the face of a former director of SETI. >> Why don't you join me in arguing for a thousand times more budget? But Abby, I've been doing that for 40 years, right? We've been arguing. >> You are arguing with me about the credit of who gets credit for arguing that rather than saying, "I endorse your view." Why don't you say, "I endorse your view." instead of saying, "Oh, I've been doing it. Why are you doing it now?" >> He's behaving like a toddler. Ay's Harvard money just isn't enough. He's being suppressed by whoever the [\h__\h] he imagines is higher on the academic totem pole than Harvard, and all the money talk is just a deflection from the real issue. Anyway, Avi is a crackpot pushing pseudocience with zero evidence. You don't need any more money to do that, chief. And for someone who whines incessantly about being bullied by big science, you sure do like to bully other scientists. Anyway, Avi later realized that he came off like a complete ass hat and was forced to issue a public apology to Jill. Let's read what he wrote. Sorry, I was being stupid. You had a super awesome comment. You're the one who has actually been looking for aliens for decades, unlike me who is just playing pretend. Let's please join forces and be friends. Also, money me so I can grift some more. Even he knew he crossed the line. And he can't have that damage his reputation or it'll come back to him and reduce book sales. Speaking of book sales, his crappy book hit the bestseller list, which he followed up with a whirlwind podcast tour and headlining UFO conventions. His three-step system worked like a charm. Eventually, book sales died down. Avi returned to being a normal astronomer doing normal science, and he never did anything shady ever again. The end. Just kidding. Avi is a full-on grifter now. So, he immediately went hunting for his next grift. But what could that be? Another pretend spaceship somewhere in the solar system? Heavens no. He decided to pretend that he found alien technology here on Earth. Let's get the background information covered. In 2014, a dishwasher sized meteor struck territory surrounding Papua New Guinea. US government sensors, some from intelligence satellites, measured its speed and direction, as they do for everything they see. The measurements suggested that like a Muam Mua, it might be an interstellar object, but the data were very fuzzy, and the US government doesn't like to reveal exactly how well they can measure stuff. JPL says it's not enough data to know. Clearly, it was moving extremely fast, but we only got data for less than 5 seconds, so it's not much to work with. Experts in this area know that these kinds of data are not reliable and prone to measurement error. But Avi is undeterred by facts and numbers. He had to get down there and figure out a way to call it a UFO. And boy is he confident. He said it's most likely a technological gadget with artificial intelligence. Most likely. Strong words. Anyway, he commissioned a boat to drag magnets along the ocean floor looking for fragments of the object called spherules, which are tiny balls of iron. sometimes created when meteors turn into fireballs in the atmosphere. How did his playbook go again? Ah, yes. Step one is dubious publications. In 2023, he released a manuscript with a dramatic title discovery of spherules of likely extra solar composition in the Pacific Ocean site of the CEO. Quite the team there, but wouldn't you know it, he's just blowing smoke. Let's see how Steve Dash and Alan Jackson, two experts in this area, break it down. First up, the bolide is not likely extra solar. It's just been mismeasured. You actually expect to get a mismeasured one like this when you measure a lot of them, and there are nearly a thousand such objects in the catalog. Most have a margin of error of about 8 km/s, so there will inevitably be an outlier with an even greater margin of error. Avi hunted for a bolide that in isolation appears to be his yatsi, cherrypicked the one from 2014, and used it as the subject for his next grift. In reality, there are other details that clue us into the mismeasurement of its velocity, such as the light curve it would have produced at this higher velocity, which would have made it visible by satellites at a higher altitude. The conclusion most consistent with the data is that the bolide originated in our solar system, and in fact, Avi ignored analyses from multiple researchers as well as the velocity uncertainties inherent in the database as they were inconvenient to his desired conclusion. Next, the spherials he found are not even from the bolide in question. At the speeds allegedly measured, they would have been completely vaporized in the atmosphere. Avi does [\h__\h] math by arbitrarily tweaking parameters and misinterprets the literature in order to claim that tens of kilograms would impossibly survive the landing. All of this is in his manuscript that was not peer-reviewed. Next, Avi looked in the wrong place. Satellite data put the impact somewhere in the red box, and Avi narrowed it down to the orange band. But in order to do that, he used seismograph data. Here's an arrow pointing to the datam that Avi claims corresponds to sound waves from the fireball. This is an amount of seismic energy that occurs every 5 to 10 minutes. An event of similar magnitude occurred only 4 minutes earlier. In fact, within any particular 1 minute window, there is a 10 to 20% chance that a background event of that magnitude will occur. So, this data might correspond to a meteorite disintegrating in the air, or it could be due to a truck driving by. Next, ocean currents are known to carry spherules several kilometers in some direction before they hit the floor. That's why the ocean floor is littered with a background concentration of cosmic spherules and micrometeorites as well as volcanic ash and anthropogenic coal ash. These types of objects are essentially everywhere and they've been collected routinely for decades. Overall, there is a huge amount of uncertainty as to where this bolide hit and a very good chance that the boat didn't come anywhere near the impact field. A's boat collected from a quarter of a square kilometer area. And it's estimated that there should be about a million spherules in any random search area of that size. So the spherules he got are not even from the object he was pretending to investigate. Reinforcing this very clear conclusion, the spherules he found look exactly like what one would expect from objects originating in our solar system after sitting in seawater for tens of thousands of years. Objects from our solar system have a specific ratio of iron isotopes. The spherules Avi found have exactly this ratio. This is essentially irrefutable proof that they originated in our system. They conclude with the claim that these abundance patterns have never been described in the cosmic spherial literature is laughable. Lo at all failed to do due diligence in their literature review. This is a chemical pattern seen in spherules in very different parts of the world and are not unique to the spherules from the 20148 bolide, if they could even be associated with it. So, as you can see, the only thing Avi got right is that there were some spherules. They weren't from the bolide he pretends they were from. They aren't from outside of our solar system, and they're not alien anything. They're just some [\h__\h] rocks. Exactly like with Omuam Mua. Despite all this, what did Avi do? He went on to step two. ignore all the experts and go straight to the public. This is described in the introduction of the paper we were just examining. Lo and friends did not consider and did not test the simple hypothesis that the spherules were of a common and well understood type found worldwide from solar system asteroids. They did not seek expert opinion and posted the manuscript without peer review and without even submitting it to a science journal. They just put out a press release which was picked up by USA Today. Aby has published a lot of papers. He knows how to write and publish papers. So, he has absolutely no excuse for this kind of behavior. He doesn't go through peer review because he knows his claims are utter garbage. He doesn't care. He's a fraud now. He wants hype and book sales. When pressed, he claims he doesn't want spotlight or fame, but then he puts himself up in [\h__\h] Time Square. Does this look like the behavior of someone who isn't aching for the spotlight to you? This monumental level of hype naturally leads to headlines like this. Harvard professor believes he may have found alien technology. CBS doesn't give two shits about scientific consensus. They need those eyeballs. So they interview Avi and he spews his script of lies. This, of course, was conveniently timed to align with the announcement of his newest book, Interstellar, the search for extraterrestrial life and our future in the stars. Sounds riveting. And all of this naturally leads to step three. Ignore any and all criticism from actual experts and just whine about how academics are closedminded. In the times of Israel, he says, I don't receive any negativity coming from the general public, coming from the US government. On the contrary, it's all positive, all encouraging, all open-minded. Why is it so difficult for people in academia to be open-minded? This is the tactic of every charlatan in a position like Avi. The goal is to completely circumvent the process by which science is done and shared within the scientific community. A process that Avi understands very well in order to affix in the general public an unsubstantiated whimsical idea that they will latch on to for emotional reasons. Then when anyone who actually knows what the [\h__\h] they're talking about comes along and reigns on A's parade with real facts and data, he can just whine about victimization and ivory towers and how academia, which he is a part of, is so closedminded, only further endearing him to those who are hostile towards any semblance of expertise or intellectual authority. Why can't academia be more like the totally clueless general public? Why can't they ignore all the things they know so they can more readily swallow his lies at face value? Because they're fun and exciting. It's beyond transparent. Again, experts who work in this area are excited to find bits of interstellar objects. They simply are committed to doing their work properly. There is no evidence that an interstellar object has struck the Earth at all. And when someone like Avi pretends there is by ignoring real data and pulling stories out of his ass, experts are going to push back. The experts are in it for the science. Avi is in it for the book sales. End of story. Avi is no longer a scientist. He's just a charlatan. It makes you wonder if he actively decided to become a charlatan at this stage in his career or if his entire career was only a preamble to some pre-planned charlatanry as a way of manufacturing credibility. Either way, with this furial stunt, Avi has done more than just irritate the [\h__\h] out of academics with his false claims and incessant disparaging of the scientific community. Officials in Papua New Guinea say that he did not have the necessary permits to remove material from their territory. A senior official in the immigration department said that Avi broke the law and can be charged criminally. Cutting corners might sell books, but it also might get you in trouble. No news yet as to whether he will actually have to face any consequences for his actions. With all of this context now understood, we can circle back to that Scientific American article and see how pathetic he sounds in this interview. Here he's asked about the part in his book where he claims he doesn't want limelight and doesn't engage in self-promotion. He just wants to share his message to a broader audience. Sure, that must be it. A real man of integrity. Then he whines about scientists being motivated by ego that they build echo chambers with students who repeat their mantras. Science shouldn't be about image. Jesus Christ, what a disingenuous fraud. You only learn by getting feedback from experiments. Like the mountains of experiments that experts site in refuting A's [\h__\h] which he repeatedly ignores. That's the problem. People are no longer guided by evidence. You took the words right out of my mouth, Avi. The problem is that grifting frauds like you are not motivated by evidence. You're motivated by profits. You lie to the public, disparage the scientific community, and accuse them of being everything that you are. An ego-driven, cloutchasing, money-hungry fraud. Josh Hedgepath summarizes it nicely here. The real arrogant one is Avi, entering the domain of SETI, asserting himself above all the people who have been doing this work for decades, dismissing everyone who knows more than he does, spewing nothing but fallacies and redirection in response to very well-deserved criticism. It's what we've come to expect from politics, not science. And the damage is widespread. As Steve Dash said, it's polluting good science, conflating the science we do with this ridiculous sensationalism and sucking all the oxygen out of the room. describing AI's newfound disdain for legitimate publication. It's a real breakdown of the peerreview process and the scientific method, and it's so demoralizing and tiring. Add this to all the budget cuts and other channery the scientific community has had to deal with as of late, and you can see how scientists would get bent out of shape about this. In summary, Avi Loe is a smart guy with a lot of expertise. He's not a Terrence Howard or even a Graham Hancock, but that's what makes his relatively recent grifter status so undeniable. He knows how to do science, and he's turned his back on that process to sell books. He doesn't even publish in peer-reviewed journals anymore. He just writes whatever [\h__\h] he wants, runs it down the mass media pipeline, whips the public into a frenzy, and then plays the victim when experts point out that he's objectively full of [\h__\h] And as we mentioned, due to the anti-establishment mind virus that has swept the nation as of late, this fabricated martyrdom only makes the public love him even more. They get their fix of aliens and a rebel fighting big science at the same time. Even though once again, nobody could be labeled big science more appropriately than a Harvard professor. He claims he's being bullied by an establishment he's a part of, like Edward Norton beating himself up in Fight Club. But seeing how his behavior has only gotten worse over the past few years, it doesn't seem like Avi will be redirecting from the grifting path anytime soon. So, it's only a matter of time before his next outlandish claim hits the streets. Probably coming to you from his new podcast on Rumble. Oh, and while it's not necessary to make it a focal point of this video, it's worth a quick aside to point out that Avi is a Zionist, or more specifically, Kahanist douchebag. Here's a few snippets from an interview he did with Pointless tool Brian Keading. as a man of science, as a man of conscience, and as a Jew, how have you been dealt affected by the events of October 7th? >> Well, let me first clarify. This is not a war between the Palestinians and Israel. It's a war between the Hamas and Israel. And there is a clear distinction because uh given the charter of the Hamas, there cannot be peace. There cannot be a two-state solution. The Hamas calls for uh the removal of Israel, for killing all citizens of Israel. There is no room for compromise. And therefore, anyone that sides with a terrorist organization which basically aims to anhilate uh the state of Israel, kill all the Jews rather than reach a compromise is basically advocating violence. Uh what happened on October 7th was uh rape of women, killing of babies, a most violent uh act of barbarism uh against humanity. Basically killing people uh that have nothing to do with a military conflict. These are civilians at their homes. Then you ask yourself, how is it possible that the 25 student organizations at Harvard University would cheer up and say that the victims uh deserved it? Irrespective of political views, nobody should celebrate killing of innocent civilians for any political purpose. There is something wrong with academia. Claudine Gay was asked whether uh calling for a genocide of Jews should be considered harassment, yes or no. And she said it depends on the context. Obviously, a lot of students feel unsafe and classes are disrupted by demonstrators all the time right now at Harvard University. You need to educate people. What does it mean to educate people? It means that to tell them when they are wrong, not to allow them to say things that are harmful. >> Yes, AI is pushing lies and propaganda about babies being killed, ignoring all Israeli atrocities before and after that day, which dwarf the events of October 7th by several orders of magnitude, and then winds about anti-semitism at Harvard and groups calling for the genocide of Jews, which is really just people protesting Israel's genocide of Palestinians and Harvard's direct financial support of it. Avi is so triggered by people protesting Israel's terrorism that he had to take a retreat from Harvard in the Holy Land, as he wrote in Medium. I guess he needed a front row seat for the slaughtering of tens of thousands of prisoner children in order to recharge his battery. On the way there, someone was kicking his seat a lot and he told them to keep in mind that he's a person. If only people could remember this fact in such devastating conflicts. Remember that people are people, says Avi. As Israel began its never-ending campaign of murdering children, obliterating 75% of the infrastructure in Gaza, bombing hundreds of thousands into oblivion while starving the rest to death, bombing every other country in the Middle East at the same time, all while pretending to be defending itself. While he was there, a tiny little toy rocket damaged a mailbox in Tel Aviv, probably in between Gaza hospital bombings. So, he's no stranger to danger. You guys, you want more? Take a look at another medium piece this nut job wrote. extraterrestrial intelligence and the Jews. There's probably no anti-semitism in space, you guys. That's why space is so awesome because aliens won't hate Jews. Jews have always been persecuted at all times through all of history. Or at least that's a madeup thing we say all the time. And aliens can bring Jews to the promised land, which is on another planet. Earth will be swallowed up by the sun in its red giant phase. So the alien Messiah has to come save the Jews and bring us to the promised land from the Torah. Then Jews can have synagogues on other planets and keep existing for trillions of years free from all the stupid anti-semitism everywhere on this stupid planet. Future space Jews, you guys. We're the chosen people after all. We're better than everyone else. So we have to make sure we go to space and everyone else can come be our subordinates if they want or they can just rot on this crappy Jewhating planet. [\h__\h] hell. What an [\h__\h] Anyway, for everyone who made it through this video, are you surprised? Before pressing play, you may have been like I was a few weeks ago, vaguely aware of who Avi Loe is, that he made some exaggerated claims to sell some books and that's about it. Well, now you know as well as I do the real extent of the matter. The deception, the volatility, the racism, and the damage being done towards public perception of science that all stem from this shameless, unrepentant fraud. So, that's it for Avi Loe, the Harvard professor turned pseudocience hack. What's next for Avi? Will he claim to have found an entire working spaceship at the bottom of the ocean? Or maybe he'll intercept a fabricated transmission from an alien civilization? We'll just have to wait and see. Until next time.