Professor Dave here, let’s learn how Italians do it better. There are many instances in which English uses one word where Italian uses two. This can create confusion, because then English speakers have to figure out when to use which word, where this task didn’t exist before. The word “better” is such a word. Where English uses this word, Italian might use “migliore”, and it might use “meglio”, so let’s learn about the usage of these words now. First let’s identify the two different ways we use the word better. One way is as a comparative of the adjective “good”. French wines are good, but I think that Italian wines are better. Here, better modifies “wines”, so it’s an adjective. But other times, we use better as a comparative of the word “well”. Frank plays chess well, but Jim plays better. Here, better modifies “to play”, so it’s an adverb. These two usages for better translate to two different words in Italian. One problem is that English speakers often use the words good and well improperly in the first place, so let’s repeat the fact that good is always an adjective and well is always an adverb. Now to form the comparatives. Where we say good, or buono, to say better we say migliore. Migliore has a plural form as well, which is migliori. Where we say well, or bene, we say meglio, and meglio is invariable since it’s an adverb. This should illustrate the usage of these words quite clearly, but let’s try a few more examples. If we know how to say better, we should learn how to say worse. Similarly, this will require two versions. If something is not good, but bad, like food that tastes bad, we would say cattivo. But if it’s worse than something else, it’s peggiore. Peggiore also has a plural form, which is peggiori. If someone is not doing well physically or emotionally, or if they don’t perform an activity well, we would use the adverb male. But if they are worse than someone else, we would say peggio. So that’s what we need to do to use these words, for better or for worse. Let’s check comprehension.