Professor Dave here, I wanna tell you about Bill Clinton. William Jefferson Clinton was a politician of extraordinary gifts, but self-control was not one of them. His libidinous impulses would bring the country to a Constitutional crisis, and his lawyerly evasions would earn him the nickname, “Slick Willie.” Despite this, no other politician of his generation had such a grasp of policy details. The man was a natural born politician. Born in Hope, Arkansas in 1946, his widowed mother remarried and she and young Bill moved to Hot Springs, then considered the Las Vegas of the Ozarks. A trip to Washington DC in 1963 led to a meeting with John F. Kennedy, which he later claimed was one of the two great inspirational moments of his life, the other being Martin Luther King’s “I Have a Dream” speech on TV that same year. He attended Georgetown University on a scholarship, and was later awarded a Rhodes Scholarship to study at Oxford. He returned to America to study at Yale Law School where he met his future wife, Hillary Rodham. After his graduation, he returned to Arkansas to teach at the local university, marrying Hillary in 1975. He was elected Arkansas Attorney General the following year, and in 1978, he won the Governorship. Hillary engendered resentment at her refusal to take her husband’s surname, and she was considered “pushy” by some because of her active involvement in state affairs. Nor did her frizzy hair, thick bottlecap glasses, and 70s style garb go over well in the conservative Southern state, and both were viewed with suspicion as a pair of “hippie liberals.” In 1980, Clinton was turned out of office, becoming, as he joked, “The youngest ex-governor in American History.” The pair learned their lesson, and when Clinton ran again in 1982, Hillary had taken his surname, upgraded her wardrobe to that of a Southern lady, wore contact lenses, and styled her hair. Most importantly, Bill Clinton adopted a much more corporate-friendly attitude. Clinton became a leading figure among the “New Democrats,” a group of centrist Democrats who advocated welfare reform, smaller government, and other policies not supported by liberals. This Democratic Leadership Council argued that the Democratic Party needed to adopt a less liberal, more moderate political stance in order to succeed nationally. Clinton served as chairman of the National Governors Association from 1986 to 1987, which gave him nationwide exposure. There was little Democratic interest in early 1991 to run against President Bush, whose approval rating after the Gulf War stood at an astounding 89%. But Clinton felt he had little to lose and began laying the foundation for a presidential run. As Bush began to appear detached from domestic issues, the economy turned stagnant, and Clinton’s chances began improving. Clinton needed to score big in the New Hampshire primary, but rumors of extramarital affairs with a nightclub singer began to hound him. He and his wife went on the CBS program “60 Minutes” to refute the charges, and after plunging in the polls, he was able to claw his way back to a strong second place finish, earning him the nickname “The Comeback Kid.” Sweeping the Southern primaries, Clinton proved that he had more than just regional appeal with wins in California and New York. The election was a three-man race with Texas billionaire Ross Perot running as an independent. Clinton won with 40% of the vote to Bush’s 37% and Perot’s 18%, garnering an impressive 370 Electoral College votes. But it had been a bruising campaign and many of the allegations raised against Clinton continued to haunt his presidency, such as his marital infidelities, shady business dealings in Arkansas, and suspicions about his honesty from both liberals and conservatives. Once in office, there were immediate missteps. Hillary fired the White House travel staff, there was the suicide of an aide that the burgeoning right-wing media began exploiting, and an attempt to repeal the ban on homosexuals serving in the military that wound up as the compromise, “Don’t ask, don’t tell,” which angered both sides of the issue. Clinton had been an avid supporter of the North American Free Trade Agreement, or NAFTA, but in retrospect, it was perceived as another corporate giveaway to powerful multi-national corporations who moved American jobs to lower-paying factories in Mexico. Although many economists dispute its negative economic impact on the American economy, arguing that it benefitted small businesses in the US, its environmental impact was beyond debate. It increased fossil fuel consumption, prevented regulation of Canadian tar sands, and increased pollution in the United States and Mexico. But the biggest blunder was Clinton’s ambitious national health care proposal. Putting Hillary in charge was a political miscalculation that would have ramifications for decades. She lacked the Southern charm that Bill Clinton used to such great effect. Instead, she projected a secretive and defensive nature. Her self-righteousness alienated potential allies on both sides of the aisle. Republican Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole, who had long favored health care reform, due to his own shattered arm from a World War II injury, couldn’t get Hillary to make any modifications or compromises, and even Democrats decried her aloofness and imperious attitude. Tragically, the plan she formulated was a good one. But by completely cutting the insurance industry out of the design of the massive health care reorganization, she doomed its chances for passage. Insurance companies mounted a multi-million dollar ad campaign to defeat the Clinton plan that was extremely effective. The bill crashed and burned and was a tremendous setback for not only the Clintons, but for the entire Democratic Party, which lost control of Congress in a Republican landslide; the first time in decades that the GOP controlled both the House and Senate. One of the major distractions during the development of the healthcare reform legislation was the Whitewater scandal. Back in 1978, when Bill was attorney general of Arkansas, he and Hillary partnered with Jim and Susan McDougal to develop real estate for vacation homes. Their Whitewater Development Corporation failed when interest rates rose, and the Clintons lost money. In 1993 it was reported that as governor of Arkansas, Bill may have pressured a judge into giving Susan McDougal’s public relations company a loan to cover losses incurred by Whitewater. Both Susan and Jim McDougal were later convicted of fraud but the Clintons never faced charges. A Special Prosecutor investigated the matter, but the Republicans demanded a more vigorous investigation, and the right-wing ideologue Kenneth Starr, a former Reagan aide, became the replacement. Starr pursued the Clintons with relentless fury. He was granted near limitless powers to investigate any aspect of the Clintons’ lives, which invariably led into long-standing rumors of Bill’s marital infidelity, as Paula Jones was suing him on charges of sexual harassment. Yet even as he ran for re-election, Bill Clinton was reckless: while Kenneth Starr was conducting his investigation, the President was conducting an affair with a 22-year old White House intern named Monica Lewinsky. Starr uncovered the scandal, but when it was exposed, Clinton went on television and adamantly denied having sexual relations with Lewinsky. Further evidence contradicted Clinton’s claims, and Clinton admitted in taped grand jury testimony on August 17th, 1998, that he had had an “improper physical relationship” with Lewinsky, which he expressed in a nationally televised statement that evening. But in his deposition for the Paula Jones lawsuit, he had denied as much, meaning he had committed perjury. The House voted to issue Articles of Impeachment against him, which was followed by a 21-day trial in the Senate where he was acquitted of all charges. The trial had been an enormous distraction for the Clinton Administration, not only forever tarnishing its legacy but sideling attempts at assassinating terrorist leader, Osama bin Laden, whose organization, al-Qaeda, had declared war against America. In 1999 Clinton finally intervened in the Balkans to bring an end to the ethnic cleansing of Muslims in Bosnia. Additionally, Clinton came close to achieving a lasting Middle East peace during the last months of his presidency. After defeating Bob Dole in the 1996 election, Clinton grandly pronounced, “The era of big government is over,” validating Reagan’s successful overturning of 50 years of New Deal orthodoxy that had been embraced by Republicans and Democrats. Clinton’s New Democrats were essentially a GOP Lite, as Clinton signed off on business-friendly legislation like the Telecommunications act of 1996, which enabled media conglomerates to grow even larger and weakened FCC regulations on media ownership. He also repealed 1933ʼs Glass-Steagall legislation, which had kept the U.S. economy free from the recurring financial boom and bust cycles for nearly 70 years by prohibiting banks from engaging in risky speculation with federally insured money. Clinton delighted Wall Street with the repeal, and set the stage for the financial meltdown a decade later. The greatest tragedy of Clinton’s tenure was his transformation of the Democratic Party from the party of the working class into a corporate-friendly party, liberal on social issues but otherwise essentially Republican in spirit. Clinton’s vigorous support of NAFTA and globalization accelerated the flight of American companies from the United States to cheaper Third World countries. When Newt Gingrich dragged the GOP into right-wing ideological extremism with his take-no-prisoners approach to governance, Clinton saw a political vacancy in the ideological middle ground and claimed it. Yet, by his abdication of New Deal policies, he let the GOP steal the working class base, with the Democrats perceived as out of touch with the workingman. Bill Clinton remains a cautionary tale of how an idealistic, ambitious liberal can become corrupted by the realities of American political life. Chastened by defeat, he lost touch with his core values and became so corrupted by the electoral process that he seemed to lack any fundamental political values at all. Ultimately, Clinton’s most notable accomplishment was in his tax increase that would result in a budget surplus when he left office. But this only proved what many had been saying; Bill Clinton was the best moderate Republican president in 40 years.