Earlier in this series we learned the words buono and bene, as well as their proper usage. But since these two words are so often confused by Italian students, especially English speakers, it will be worth spending some time clarifying the context in which each one is appropriate to use. The reason for this very common misunderstanding lies in the grammatical confusion between the words GOOD and WELL, which is typically tolerated in colloquial English. If someone asks you how you’re doing, it is common and acceptable to say something like “I’m pretty good”, even though technically this is grammatically incorrect. We should say well instead. Unfortunately, in Italian the two words BUONO and BENE are not interchangeable so we should try to avoid making this mistake. BUONO is an adjective, and like all adjectives, it is used to describe nouns. Because BUONO follows the same rules as the indefinite article UNO, it’s necessary to pay attention to details dictated by the word which is being described. The meanings of buono, however, are all the meanings that one can apply to the English word GOOD, from good in quality, to good tasting, to good as in skilled at some activity. Often BUONO is replaced by bello or bravo. Also remember that the antonym, or opposite of buono in Italian is CATTIVO. Now if you don’t remember all the forms of BUONO, make sure to check out this previous tutorial, which explains all the grammatical details. Otherwise let’s just see some examples of proper usage for this word and its antonym. BENE, however, is an adverb and it means well. As an adverb, it modifies a verb and it follows the action. It’s invariable, which means it does not change regardless of the gender or number of the subject. The opposite of bene is MALE. Let’s add one more layer. The comparative of BUONO is MIGLIORE/MIGLIORI. The comparative of BENE is MEGLIO. The superlative of BUONO is BUONISSIMO or OTTIMO. The superlative of BENE is BENISSIMO or MOLTO BENE. With all of this understood, let’s check comprehension.