Professor Dave here, let’s learn about percent error. We talked about accuracy and precision, as they pertain to quantitative measurements we can make while doing experiments. We should also discuss the way we can report inaccuracy as a quantitative value, that is, we should be able to use numbers to say how far off of the true value our measurements might be. The way to do this is by using percent error. As an example, let’s say you look down from a window into a city square and see a large crowd. You do your best to estimate the number of people in the crowd, and you decide that it looks like about 1,000. This is our measured value. In actuality, all of these people brought tickets to enter some event, and there were 912 tickets torn at the gate. That would be the actual value. Assuming all these people showed tickets upon entry, how far off the true value was your estimation? One way to report this error is to say that you were off by 88 people, which is the absolute error, but we need to do more than to simply state the difference between the two numbers, because the magnitude alone doesn’t convey how far off you were relative to the true value. If you guess 89 people when there was only one, you made a horrible estimation, whereas if you guess one million when there are 999,912 you are a genius, or just a very lucky guesser. So these are incredibly different levels of accuracy, even though both of these scenarios involved an absolute error of 88. We need to describe the error as a percentage of the true value, so we can get an actual proportion that provides the context needed to assess the accuracy of the measurement. To do this, we take our estimated value, and subtract the true value. Whatever we get, we take the absolute value so that we can disregard the sign, and then divide that by the true value, which gives us the relative error. And lastly, we can multiply the result by 100. This will express the relative error as a percentage, giving us the percent error associated with our measurement. For example, with the crowd outside the window, we guessed 1,000. From that, let’s subtract the actual value of 912 to get 88. This is already positive, so the absolute value won’t affect it. 88 divided by 912, times 100, gives us 9.65%, so we were less than 10% off with our estimate, which isn’t too bad. This concept doesn’t apply only to estimations. Certainly when doing science, we want our data to reflect the smallest percent error possible, because we want our measurements to be highly accurate, so that they give us the best chance of using the data to make some inference about the physical world. That is why we often make measurements using sophisticated instruments or computers, so that we can maximize the accuracy and precision of our measurements. But no matter what we do, there will always be some tiny percent error associated with any measurement we might want to take, whether we are using a meterstick or a microscope, and we should be able to report this value appropriately when doing calculations. Let's check comprehension.