It’s Professor Dave, let’s calculate volume. We first talked about the concept of area when we learned geometry, going over all the formulas for the area of different polygons. Then when we got to calculus, we learned about integration as a new technique for calculating area where curvature is involved. We learned how to take some region between a curve and an axis, or between two curves, and find its area by integration, essentially finding a length and sending it across the region. But in geometry we also learned about three dimensional figures, like cubes and prisms and pyramids. We described the volumes of these objects, or the amount of three dimensional space that they contain, and we had useful formulas to calculate this as well. But once again, when curvature gets involved, all of these formulas are useless. Luckily, just the way we run a line segment across a two dimensional region to calculate its area, we can run a plane region, or cross section, across a three dimensional region to calculate its volume. This is also integration, just with an extra dimension. Instead of adding up tiny rectangles under a curve in the limit of infinitely thin rectangles, we are adding up infinitely thin cross sections, which we can call disks. Since each of these disks is a two dimensional area, taking the integral of an area function will give us volume. For example, take this sphere. We can think of this as a series of circular disks of varying radii. If we place the center of the sphere at the origin, and we run the disks through the shape horizontally, then we can take the radius of each circle as having the value of y, because it will extend y units from the x-axis to give a point on the sphere. We know that the formula for the area of a circle is pi r squared, and we just said that the radius is equal to y, so that’s pi y squared. But we want this in terms of the radius of the sphere, because that is unchanging. Let’s make a triangle like this, where the distance from the center of the sphere to the center of this circle is x, the distance from the center of the circle to the surface of the sphere is y as we said, and then the hypotenuse is equal to the radius of the sphere, since this point is on the surface of the sphere. So to get the changing radius of the disk in terms of the radius of the sphere, we use the pythagorean theorem, and we get y squared equals r squared minus x squared. So let’s plug this new version of y squared into our function for the area of the circle, and we get pi times the quantity of r squared minus x squared. Now let’s integrate this with respect to x, from negative r to r, as that interval spans the shape. We can pull out pi for starters. Then we can notice that the volume of this half is equal to the volume of this half, so we can just integrate from zero to r if we double our result, by putting a two here. Now we get the antiderivative, remembering that r is a constant, as the radius of the sphere never changes. That gives us (r squared x) minus (x cubed over three). Let’s evaluate for r, and we get two pi times the quantity r cubed minus r cubed over three. These combine to give two thirds r cubed, leaving us with four thirds pi r cubed. Evaluating for zero gives us zero, so this is our final answer, and we will see that we have just derived the formula for the volume of a sphere. So integration will give us a three dimensional volume by adding up infinitely many two-dimensional cross sections, just like the way it gives us a two dimensional area by adding up infinitely many one dimensional lengths. But what are these three dimensional objects, and how can we represent them on the coordinate plane? Well often times, these shapes will be produced by taking some function and rotating it in a third spatial dimension around the x axis. Take something like root x, from zero to one. Let’s fill in this area between the curve and the x axis so we can see it. Now imagine grabbing this little piece with your hand and rotating it 360 degrees around the x axis, so that it never leaves the axis, and we see that it traces a three dimensional shape in doing so. This is called a solid of revolution, because we obtain it by revolving a region about a line. How can we get the volume of this shape? Well as we said, we just add up all the cross sections by integration. So what is the formula for the area of one of these circular cross sections? Well the radius is root x, because that’s how far it is from the x axis to the function, so pi r squared gives us pi x. That means that this is what we have to integrate, and luckily it’s as easy as it gets. We pull the pi out front, and x becomes x squared over two. Evaluating at one gives us pi over two, and since the lower limit is zero, that’s our answer. So while the act of defining the integrand is definitely an extra layer of reasoning, nothing has changed about the way we integrate. In fact, when Newton and Leibniz were discovering calculus, there was no one around to hand them integrands, because no one even knew what an integrand was. It was questions like the ones that we are considering now that led them to discover calculus, so the fact that we are now finding our own integrands, shouldn’t come as a total surprise. Unfortunately this technique does get a little trickier. While rotating one function around an axis gives us one type of solid, if we take the area enclosed between two functions and rotate that around an axis, that can give us a different kind of solid whose cross sections are not circles, but rather things called washers. A washer is like a ring, and it will have two radii, the one from the axis of rotation to where the solid starts, which we call the inner radius, and one from the axis of rotation to where the solid ends, or the outer radius. Just like the circle in the previous example, whose radius changes as it moves through the solid, this washer will also change as it moves through the solid, and both the inner and outer radii change according to these two functions. Let’s take the functions y equals x squared and y equals x. There is an enclosed area here, between x equals zero and one, that we can imagine is filled in. We already learned how to calculate this area by integration, but now let’s rotate this plane section around the x axis. That will give us this solid of revolution. Now the inner radius will be equal to x squared, because that’s the function that’s closer to the axis, and the outer radius will be equal to x, because that’s the function that’s further away. That means that the area of the washer that is a cross section of this solid will be equal to pi x squared, or the larger circle, minus pi (x squared) squared, or pi x to the fourth, which is the smaller circle. Factor out a pi, and we have pi times the quantity x squared minus x to the fourth. That was the hard part, figuring out exactly what it is that we need to integrate. The easy part is the integration itself. Let’s just integrate this area function from zero to one. We can pull the pi out of the integral, and we get (x cubed over three) minus (x to the fifth over five). For x equals one, we get one third minus one fifth, so to subtract we need a common denominator, which means we get five fifteenths minus three fifteenths. When x is zero, everything is zero, so we are left with two pi over fifteen as the volume. The interesting thing about this technique is that we could rotate the same area around a different axis and get a different shape. If we rotated this around y equals two, we would get this, and the radii would be totally different. Or we could rotate it around the y axis instead, which means we will need to things in terms of y instead of x. In each case, we just use critical thinking to figure out the radii of the washer, by finding these distances in terms of the relevant variable, and then we integrate. So as we can see, at its heart, calculating the volume of solids of revolution by integration just involves simple integrals that we have already learned. However, it is the case that we have to use some critical thinking. We must be able to look at a shape and figure out what the formula will be for the area of any cross section, and it might not always be perfectly obvious what that is. We may have to subtract an inner empty area from a larger area, as with the washers, which means finding expressions for the inner and outer radius. We may have to construct figures and solve for missing lengths. But once we have the formula for the area of the cross section, we just integrate it over the specified interval, and that’s all there is to it. For a little more practice, let’s check comprehension.