In the previous tutorial we discussed igneous minerals, which crystallize from liquid hot magma. But in this tutorial we won’t be discussing crystallization at all. This is because sedimentary rocks are not the result of any crystallization process. Rather, they contain recycled minerals. Sedimentary rocks are comprised of sediments, sometimes called grains of sediment. Sediments are naturally occurring unconsolidated materials, like sand at the beach, or silt in your garden soil. Sedimentary rocks are formed when sediments are compacted and cemented together over time. If you were to look at sand from the beach under a microscope, you would see thousands of individual quartz grains, molded into spheroids by thousands of years of waves crashing upon them. This abrasion is part of the recycling process. Sedimentary rocks are diverse in that their constituent materials can be derived from essentially anywhere, any type of rock, and from any era. The minerals in a sedimentary rock could be derived from a one-billion-year-old igneous rock that was broken down and transported thousands of kilometers, or they may be the remnants of millions of marine organisms that died and sank to the bottom of the sea, such as with the White Cliffs of Dover. Another possibility is that minerals are pieces of an even older sedimentary rock that eroded away and was deposited somewhere else. Sediments need not even be minerals. For example, coal is a sedimentary rock made of amorphous plant-derived carbon. To put it more simply, sedimentary rock is a type of rock that forms from the accumulation of material, or sediments, at Earth’s surface. There are many different types of sediments, and they are distinguished by their size, provenance, which means origin, and composition. Let’s deal with size first, because it is simple, and it applies to all sediments. Geologists use the Udden-Wentworth grain size scale to classify sedimentary rocks. The scale goes from less than 2 microns, as in the smallest grains of clay, to large boulders that are meters wide. There are four main categories on the Udden-Wentworth scale: clay, silt, sand, and gravel. Sand is then further divided into very fine, fine, medium, and coarse. Since fine sand and coarse sand are deposited in very different environments, having an accurate measurement of a sand’s grain size is extremely valuable to a geologist. Speaking of sand, its size ranges from 625 microns to 2 millimeters. Smaller than sand is silt, which ranges from about 39 to 625 microns; and even smaller yet is clay, which can be as small as a single clay crystal. Sometimes geologists combine the silt and clay portion of a rock and call it mud. Larger than sand is gravel and its is broken down into several subgroups, those being granule, pebble, cobble, and boulder, from smallest to largest. The grain size of a sedimentary rock can tell you a lot about where it was deposited. This is because most sediments are deposited by a fluid, such as water or air, and the maximum grain size that a fluid can transport is directly tied to its velocity. For example, if you have a rock composed of pebbles and coarse sand, you know that it could not possibly have formed in the deep ocean, because the water is much too calm there. The same logic applies to mud, which cannot be deposited in turbulent water, rather it is picked up and carried away by such water, unable to be deposited until the water slows down. Another important characteristic of a sedimentary rock is where its material comes from, or its source area. Geologists call this a sediment’s provenance. It turns out that the provenance of a sedimentary rock is related to its composition. This makes sense, since a rock that is composed of sediments that eroded from a continent is probably going to dominated by silicate minerals. These types of sedimentary rocks are said to be terrigenous. Compare this to a rock that forms in a warm, shallow sea that is isolated from land. Here, there are no nearby continents to supply eroded sediments, so most of the material accumulated here comes from the local organisms that build shells and exoskeletons out of minerals that they absorb from seawater, namely calcite. This type of sediment, that comes from biologic activity, is called biogenic, and it is primarily generated in marine environments, the most productive being warm, shallow seas such as the Florida Keys or the Caribbean Islands. A subgroup of terrigenous sediment, called volcanogenic, is directly generated by volcanism, and is mainly composed of volcanic ash and other tephra that is spewed into the atmosphere, settling out with time to be deposited at the surface. This type of sediment tends to be rich in microscopic feldspar grains and particles of glass. The climate of a depositional environment also matters, especially when it is abnormally arid, and this is where composition comes into play. In these areas, lakes will evaporate at a high rate, causing salts to precipitate out of solution and fall to the bottom as sediment. The types of salts that accumulate are heavily dependent upon the water’s chemistry. The dominant minerals in these evaporite deposits belong to the chloride, carbonate, and sulfate groups, and common minerals include calcite, or calcium carbonate, nahcolite, or sodium bicarbonate, gypsum, or hydrated calcium sulfate, anhydrite, or calcium sulfate, halite, or sodium chloride, and sylvite, or potassium chloride. Minerals that precipitate from natural waters are said to be chemogenic. In modern times, most evaporite deposits are formed in saline lakes, which may or may not periodically dry up. An example of this is Searles Lake, which is located in the Mojave Desert of the southwest Unites States. The sediment that accumulates in the lake is primarily halite that is interbedded with terrigenous muds that are carried in during the wet season. There are also some layers of borax and trona, which are mined for boron and soda ash respectively. Saline lakes, like Searles, are often mined for their evaporite minerals, but the real money lurks beneath the surface, dissolved in the super salty groundwater of the lake basin. There are certain elements that don’t really like to form crystals and would rather remain dissolved in a fluid; these elements are said to be incompatible. It turns out that lithium is one of these incompatible elements, which can get extremely concentrated in some saline lakes. Almost half of the world’s lithium reserves are located in the lithium triangle, which is a series of saline lakes in the Atacama Desert of South America. To harvest the lithium, all one must do is pump groundwater to the surface and let it evaporate in large artificial ponds. Unfortunately, water is already scarce in these regions so pumping out millions of gallons of groundwater presents a huge problem to the local population and ecosystem. With the basics covered regarding the characteristics of sedimentary rocks, let’s move forward and examine their mineralogy.