Hey everybody, we're here live again with another office hour. Again, I'm partnering with CHEG to bring you organic chemistry 1 office hours. Uh, every Tuesday at 5:00 p p.m. Pacific time. Uh, check the QR code in the top left corner of the screen if you want to see the other topics that CH is offering office hours for. You got math, you got all kinds of different topics. Uh, we're here to help you get through all of your courses this semester. Again, I'm covering organic chemistry 1 content. So, uh if you're watching along uh in the chat, please provide your questions. If you have any questions, keep them organic chemistry 1 related. Uh they can be about the questions that I have prepared that I will go over with you or they can be uh other organic chemistry 1 questions that are not related to the questions that I'm going over. Anything that you have, I'm here to help you guys. Um and uh so yeah, any any Om questions that you have, feel free to throw those into the chat. Um great. Okay, so let's go ahead and get started. So let's go over I put a few addition reactions in this one because we've been doing other stuff uh other types of reactions, but uh addition reactions are a very very large class uh that are important for organic chemistry 1. So let's recall some of these. So we have right here a hydrohalogenation. Uh so we we need the starting material. We we've done this here. Okay. And so we have done a hydrohalogenation. And what do we have here? We have hydrogen peroxide. And we know that peroxides are going to promote antimarovnikov regiochemistry. So if we did antimarovnikov hydrohalogenation that means that the bromine atom went to the less substituted of the two participating in the in the pi bond. Just make some room here. So the question is this was an addition reaction. So the starting material had a pi bond somewhere. Now the question is where was the pi bond? So certainly the carbon that bears the bromine has to have been one of the two carbons in that pi bond. But the question is which one is the other one? So this carbon has to be participating in the pi bond. But is the pi bond here or was the pi bond there? Now if we know that the bromine went to the less substituted of the two that gives us our answer, right? So we're going to go like this and this is a secondary carbon. This is a primary carbon. This is a tertiary carbon. For the bromine to have gone here and for that to have been the less substituted carbon of the two, the pi bond has to have been there. I can do that better. Okay. So, this is a secondary carbon here. This is a primary carbon. This is a secondary carbon. And this is a tertiary carbon. And that's why antimarovnikov hydrohalogenation put the bromine on the less substituted secondary carboation. a secondary carbon. So that's what we're doing. We know that it is antimarovnikoff and we're just comparing the substitutions on these carbons to discern where the pi bond was in the starting material. So turns out it is that one. Uh let me see if I missed anything. Uh, pi trader asks for ar uh aromatic substitution. Uh, I don't know if I have any on this one. Um, if you have a specific one, you can you can toss that in the chat or you can ask for a specific reaction or uh something about different um, you know, orthopera orthomeirectors or something like that and I can try to I maybe I can make up a question on the fly. Okay, let's go to the next one. So, uh, last time we did a couple of Newman projections, and I think it's good to always practice those a little bit. So, let's do a couple more Newman projections here. So, we have this compound, and we have uh we're looking down this bond. So, here's our eyeball, right? We're in we're in the screen and we're looking down this bond right here, right? We're looking down that carbonarbon bond. And so we're going to draw what we see. And so the three groups that are projecting from this front carbon right here, those will go those will uh begin at the center there. And so what do we see? We see straight down we have CH2O. So we can go like that. You can also write CH2O if you prefer. Doesn't matter. So that is in O. So that's straight down because that is in the plane of the screen as well. We're in the plane of the screen from that perspective and that is also in the plane of the screen. Now we have the hydroxil on the wedge bond and from that perspective if we're to the right of the molecule then the wedge bond is going up and to the left. So we have to put an O right here. We'll write HO. Remember it's important we want the oxygen to be on the other side of this bond, not the hydrogen. So we wouldn't put O, we'll put HO. So that the oxygen can be right here showing the coalent bond between oxygen and carbon. And then we have an implied hydrogen up into the right. So that's the front carbon. And now we can also see the groups projecting from the back carbon. So we can't see the back carbon or the bond leading to it. It's obscured by the front carbon, but we can see what is connected to it. And so that's why the bonds on the back right there. So going straight up, we have an ethyl group. So boom, boom. You can also write CH2CH3. Uh so that's straight up because it's also in the plane of the screen along with us. And then if the the wedge bond is going down and to our left from the perspective of being in the screen, it's down and to the left. So we have to put the the florine there. And then we have a methyl group there. So that is our Newman projection for that bond. We can see everything is staggered. We don't have any go interactions between alkalle groups. That's where everything is going to sit. Uh okay, let's do one more. We've got this one here. So we are sitting in the screen right there looking down that uh looking down this bond right here. So what do we see? We are in the plane of the screen. And so we see the bromine straight down also in the plane of the screen. So there is the bromine. And then now see so this is very important. We definitely don't want to memorize wedge bond left dash bond right or something like that because it depends on your perspective. So when we were on the right side of the molecule, the wedge bond is going to our left. But now that we're on the left side of the molecule, the wedge bond is going up and to the right. So it depends on your perspective. These are definitely a lot easier if you have really good spatial reasoning skills. So if you can in your mind's eye place yourself into in the plane of the screen and then just in your head observe, you can see that the hydroxal is going up and to your right. That is a great advantage. Now, not everybody not everybody h has that ability. So, um the whatever tricks you want to come up with, you could do flash cards and say if I'm on the left, then the wedge bond if I'm on the left of the molecule, the wedge bond is to my right. You can do that. There are memorization ways of doing it. Uh but definitely try your best to harness those spatial reasoning skills. See if you can place yourself in the plane of the page or the board. Uh, so we've got the O up and to the left and then we have an implied hydrogen up and to the left. Uh, yeah, hydroxil up and to the right, implied hydrogen up and to the left. Now, we cannot see this carbonarbon bond or the back carbon. They are obscured by the front carbon, but we can see what is connected to that back carbon. So, we have a bromine going straight up. Then, we have the iota group down and to the left, right? If we're inside that screen there, the dash bond is further away than the screen from this current perspective looking down. And so that will be to the left from the perspective of in the screen. So there's the iodine and then we have an implied hydrogen uh going down to the right. So that is uh that's this one. Uh a little bit about some of the uh some of the terminology. Again, this is staggered. If these groups were on top of each other such that the dihal dihedral angle was zero, that would be eclipse that would be an eclipsed formation. The dihedral angles being 60° make it a staggered confirmation. And then just some other terminology, we could say that for example these broines are anti to one another. When you're talking about a 180 degree dihedral angle, that is called anti- uh with respect to one another. It's relative terminology. So just a little review on Newman projections. That is good stuff to know. Um uh data VFX. Why aren't the Br and O 180 degrees from each other? Um let's see. So I I hope I think you're talking about the second one. So you're asking why this O and this Br are not 180 degrees. So we're just drawing the configuration as shown. Uh don't forget that sigma bonds carbonarbon sigma bonds are always rotating. So it's not fixed in this in this configuration in this confirmation right the confirmations are constantly changing. If there's as long as there's sufficient ambient heat energy um it is going to be constantly rotating through these confirmations um and they're not all of the same energy. All of the staggered confirmations are lower energy than the eclipsed confirmations. And you may be right. I'm actually not sure which I I no to be honest. I think that the broines anti to one another is the lowest energy confirmation just because of the the radius of the bromine atom. so so much bigger than an oxygen atom because it's several it's several uh it's several periods down from oxygen but um yeah so that this bond is rotating all the time and it is experiencing each of those confirmations for a discrete period of time it'll spend the the the lower the energy the lower the energy associated with a particular confirmation the more time it will spend in that confirmation a very very high energy confirmation it will spend very little time in it, right? That's why it passes through the eclipse confirmations only on the way to staggered confirmations. But, uh, I believe this is the lowest energy confirmation. Uh, I think that's the case. Brett Rhodess asks, "What is the purpose of doing a Newman projection when standard model already shows angles?" So, uh, I mean it kind of does, right? you the the the angles and the relation the spatial relationship is implied by dash bonds and wedge bonds. But this makes it very clear right here. We can see the difference between the dash bond and wedge bond not just as a symbol but as actual spatial orientation in the direction that the that the groups are pointing. So it's just a it's a it's a different way of depicting something depicting the molecule in three dimensions, right? we're going into the plane of the of the screen and looking at it from the side and depicting what we see when we do that as opposed to a top down view. So, it's just it's just another way of looking at a molecule uh data vxh so the diagram is not a snapshot. It kind of is. It's a snapshot in the sense that it is not permanently fixed into that confirmation. Right? Once again, all these sigma bonds are constantly rotating. So like even over here, like this, this sigma bond is rotating, this sigma bond is rotating, this sigma bond is rotating. It's it's it's ina it's it's sitting in all of these confirmations for a certain amount of time as it cycles through them um in an effort to get to the lowest energy possible. So, okay, that's it. All right, back to uh a couple addition reactions. So once again, we want to provide the starting material that would yield the following product. So now what do we have? These these are the conditions for hydrooration oxidation. And so this is anti-marovnikoff hydration. So that part is memorization right? We have to memorize uh that the that these reaction conditions indicate hydroarration oxidation and we have to memorize that hydroarration oxidation promotes antimarovnikoff hydration. That's all that we have to memorize. After that we're just applying our understanding of what those words mean. So hydration means so once again this is an addition reaction. So this came from uh th this had a pi bond right there was a pi bond somewhere and what we're saying is that uh we added an h and an O to one to each of the two carbons that were participating in the pi bond. Um and we added the hydroxal to the less substituted. Right? Antimarovnikov regiochemistry indicates that the that the the more important group is going to the less substituted carbon that was participating in the pi bond. So in this case that would be this and uh yeah oh and it's the same no matter which way we point that methyl group there. So that's fine. So this makes sense and and you can always check yourself by going in the forward direction. Right? We have a tertiary carbon and a secondary carbon. And then this one's primary just to be clear. And so if the pi bond is in between the tertiary and secondary carbon, then the hydroxil will go to the secondary carbon and we'll get the desired product. Right? That's why the the pi bond cannot have been in between the primary and secondary carbon because if it was then the hydroxil would be on the primary carbon, not the secondary, which is not the indicated uh product. So once again, all we're doing is we're looking at the reaction conditions and we recognize that we're doing hydrooration oxidation. How is what's the tip off hydrooration? Well, we've got BH3 that's got boron in it. That's how we're going to remember hydrooration oxidation. And then how do we memorize that? That indicates antimarovnikoff regiochemistry. That's the peroxides. Peroxides are the classic antimarovnikoff promoters. they're going to cause audition reh cause audition addition reactions to go antimarovnikov regiochemistry. Um so that part is memorization might need to do flash cards but after that we know what these words mean right we know what is implied by these regiochemical terms the stereochemical terms like uh sin and anti etc and we know what hydration means H to one carbon O to the other so uh yeah that's that uh lyric. Yes, these streams are all on my channel. You can go to the live tab and you'll see about a dozen live streams that I've done so far. So, you can check what other uh types of problems I've been uh covering. Uh, Propylene says, "Is Karash effect and antimarovnikoff the same thing?" I have never heard that term karash effect. Uh, that that that is new terminology to me. So, uh, I'm not sure that it would mean the same thing. Uh, antimarovnikov and marovnikov are very particular terms that refer to the regiochemistry associated with a particular addition reaction. So I'm not sure uh that what that means. Um Gish asks if I'll do orgo 2. So actually so addition reactions are pretty firmly orgo one but some of the stuff I've been going over it depends on what course you're in. Uh on some organic chemistry one syllabi you are covering grineyard and enolate chemistry and nucleophile uh or electrophilic aromatic substitution etc. some of the stuff I've been covering. Some uh wait till OKM 2 to do that. So, it really just depends on the particular institution. Um Nikolai asked, can you explain reaction mechanisms? I do have one reaction mechanism on this one. It's uh it's uh for radical chlorination, but if you have another mechanism that you are interested in going over, let me know. I can try to uh toss that in there as well. Um one thing I've uh data vfx one thing I've never understood do these diagrams show bond between single elements or atoms uh so chemical bonds are coalent bonds are between atoms elements are just types of atoms right carbon is an element but in a molecule you have individual carbon atoms uh so a little bit Okay, let's do the next one. So, draw the product of the following transformation. So, we have this uh cyloalkine and we're doing hydrogenation over platinum metal. So this is hydrogenation. And so if we're doing this over platinum metal, this is going to be aromasin hydration, aromasin hydrogenation because we this is an example of heterogeneous catalysis. So you have a solid metal catalytic surface and uh the hydrogen molecules uh migrate towards that surface that promotes the the cleaving of the hydrogen hydrogen bond and now all of a sudden you have hydrogen atoms uh sticking off the metal surface like this. Then what happens is the substrate approaches and then uh the the metal the hydrogen atoms add to the double bond directly from the metal surface. So because of the heterogeneous nature, it has to be sin because both of the hydrogen atoms are they must be added to the same side of the molecule because they're coming from the same solid surface. There's no way for one to add like this and then the other one to come from the top. They're both stuck to this metal. So the substrate approaches and then the two hydrogens's attach like that. So because the two hydrogens are added in sin fashion, they must be cis on the product. And that means that any substituents that are already present on the carbons that are participating in the double bond must also be cyst to one another in the product. And so we get this. Here is our here is our five membered ring. And so we can go either way. I'm just going to put the methyls on the dash bonds. Could also be on the wedge bonds. Identical molecule. And uh if we need to we can we can also draw in the implied hydrogens right just to be clear about what happened. So we don't have to draw them because they are implied but these are the hydrogens that we added and they were added to the same side of the molecule. So that means we went from sp2 carbons trigonal planer sp2 carbons to tetrahedral sp3 carbons. So we had to have dash bonds and wedge bonds. So the the hydrogen atoms that we added are on the on the wedge or the dash either way and then the methyl get pushed to the other side. So that is sin hydrogenation. Hydrogenation over platinum metal is sin hydrogenation. It's an example of heterogeneous catalysis. blood rose. Uh yes. So yeah, antimarovnikov addition reactions tend to proceed by radical by radical mechanisms. That's correct. Cool. That looks good. Okay. So, moving on from addition reactions, let's take a look at some uh electrocycization. So, the classic is the deals alder. So, we want to provide the starting material that would yield the following product. So, we know that deals alder reactions generate six membered rings, right? We know that we're going from a dyen with two pi bonds and a denophile with one pi bond to a to a six-membered ring with that contains one pi bond because uh the two pi bonds in the dyene one of them remains a pi bond while the other pi bond in the dyne and the pi bond in the denophile become sigma bonds to close up that six-membered ring. So when we're doing retroals alder, the first thing we need to do is identify the ring that formed. Okay? And so the ring that formed must be this one, the one on the right because uh it's got the pi bond in it. So it can't be this one over here. We've got to have it be this one. And so let's break these. And so, uh, if we do that, we can, uh, we can let's go backwards with these. So, okay, let me here I'll get rid of this this the squiggles there. So, this sigma bond can go there. This pi bond can go there. This sigma bond can go there. And these are uh this isn't in the forward direction. I'm undoing uh uh the activity of electrons that went in the forward direction in order to go backwards. And so what we're saying here is that we had this that and that. And so this is where those pi bonds were and this. So a couple of things, right? If we're doing this, we're cleaving these bonds and pulling those fragments apart, right? And then one other thing, these methals are cis on the product. So they must be cis on the denophile, right? That is a cis alken. Were they trans, if this was one on the wedge bond and one on the dash bond, then they would have been trans on the denophile, right? this way and this way but uh they were cis so it's like this and we can even test this by going in the forward direction right if we here are some dash lines for where the sigma bonds are going to go we could go like that and like that and like that and we would see that we would get we would get this product in the forward direction so deals alder dealer will always yield a six membered ring so if you're going retro deals alder identify the six-membered ring that can have formed and go backwards. Uh, and that's it. Uh, not related, but Shan asks why is root2 irrational but pi is real. Uh, so they're both real. They're both real and both irrational, right? Irrational means the digits go on forever. So 2 and pi are both irrational and real numbers. Uh, Golden asks, can you learn chemistry from scratch? Uh, you certainly can watch my general chemistry playlist and then organic chemistry and then go from there. Uh, two correct Jimmy says two correct answers. That's actually true, I guess, because Yeah, I guess we could have severed these ones. Yeah, we could have pulled that apart and it could have just been effing. Yeah, that's actually true. Good call. Okay, let's do one in the forward direction now. So, here's our deals alder. Uh, okay. So, this is going to be a little tricky. Put that going over there. Put that going over there. And then we're going to go. This pi bond remains a pi bond right there. This pi bond becomes this sigma bond. This pi bond becomes this sigma bond. So this can get a little bit convoluted, but you just kind of have to work with what you have. So okay the first thing you always want to do when you draw the deals alder product is draw the sixmembered ring that formed right start there and then everything else that's connected to it you can get that next so here's our new sixmembered ring okay now uh so which are the carbons that are participating in that six-membered ring the the carbons that are participating in the new six-membered ring are the six carbons that were participating in the three pi bonds that shuffled So this one, this one, this one, this one, this one, this one. Those six carbons are the six carbons in the new six membered ring every time. Okay. So now what else is there? So this pi bond went right here. And so we have a pi bond there, right? These two pi bonds became sigma bonds. This pi bond became this sigma bond right there. And this pi bond became this sigma bond right there. So now what else? Now we have two methals here. So those didn't go anywhere. Those have to still be there. So those are two methals and we can they can stay flat because these are still sp2 carbons, right? All four the so this carbon became sp3. This carbon became sp3. But these two right here remain sp2. They were each participating in one pi bond. And now they're participating in one pie bond with each other. So they're still they are still sp2 hybridized. These methals are now flat. Now what else? We have these other two carbons. So when the dyen is already cyclic, that ring doesn't break, right? Those carbons have to still be there. So we we make this bridge head there. There's a bridge head carbon leading to a twocarbon bridge. We can make that a little thicker. And so that looks like this. So we're shading this in to indicate that those two carbons are sticking up. They're sticking up out of the screen towards us. Right? So this is a bicyclic product. We have carbons that are participating in more than one ring. Right? We've got this ring here and this ring here. So four of these carbons are participating in two different six-membered rings. So it's a little funky. Now over here we have two caroxile groups. And because the caroxile groups are trans to one another on the denophile, they're going to be trans to one another on the product. So we're going to put a wedge bond here and there's a caroxile group. And then we're going to put a dash bond there. And there's another caroxile group. And we have to acknowledge that we're going to get a rasmate here. We're going to get a recemic mixture because we could have the wedge bond up here and the dash bond down there or the dash bond up here and the wedge bond down there. And those would be different molecules, right? Uh there's no internal symmetry there that would render uh those two the same thing. So those are two different stereoismic possibilities. So once again we for drawing deals alder products there's a lot I I find that a lot of students get confused when there's extra stuff but don't let the extra stuff confuse you. All you need to do identify the six carbons that are participating in the pi bonds that are being cycized and those are the six carbons that are in the new six-membered ring. So draw the six-membered ring. Recognize that those are the carbons that are in the ring. And then just draw everything else that's there. Right? You showed the new chemistry. So now just show what else is there. We had the pi bond. One of the pi bonds remained a pi bond. Draw that. We had these two methyl groups. Those are still there. Draw those. And those are flat. Then we had the caroxils on the denophile. So draw those and make sure they're trans because they're they're trans to one another on the product because they're trans to one another on the denophile. And then of course the most confusing part for some students those bridge head carbons those have to still be there. So they did not participate in the cyization but they are still there. That original sixmembered ring is still there. There's just also a new six-membered ring from these four and these two carbons. That's what the deals alder is. So there's your deals alder product. Okay. Oh, is endo or exo favored for six? So, uh, so yeah, Jimmy asks, so in this case, there would be no difference, right? there's no energetic uh we're talking about uh a pair of an antimemer and so there's no there's no energetically there's no energetic difference there. Um what would be different is if they were both dash or both wedge. Um if they're both dash or both wedge as drawn here more often than not uh both being on the dash I believe is better. So typically the endo configuration is more energetically favorable because what ends up happening is that in the transition state there are pi there's uh pi electron overlap there's interaction between pi electron density that stabilizes the transition state. So that's when you have uh the dyene and then the denaphile uh overlapping under there, right? It's under there. And so as this approaches like this, the there's favorable pi pi interactions as opposed to exo would be like this if it's approaching and the functionality on the denophile is jutting away from the from the from the dyne. And so those end up uh like that. that doesn't give that favorable uh overlap that stabilizes the transition state. So typically endo is favor is favored energetically thermodynamically there are counter examples to that however so okay all right let's go to this the next one here so let's check out some enolate chemistry so we want to draw the product of the following transformation we have uh we have propanal and we have two equivalents compared to hydroxide. So what this is just telling you it's going to react with itself, right? So we're going to enalize and then do some ald doll here. Aldol condensation. So we've got hydroxil. So we've got a strong base means we're probably going to do an acid base reaction. So we want to find the most acidic proton on the aldahhide. So where is the most acidic proton? It's not the one on the carbonial carbon. It is actually the one and there's two of them here. So we'll draw both of them. Um it so remember that the protons that are alpha to a carbonal are are mildly acidic, weakly acidic around pKa19 which is just acidic enough to react with a very strong base like hydroxil. We are going to grab that proton. Those electrons go to form this pi bond here. Kick that pi bond up onto the oxygen and we will get our enolate. So he uh whoops missed a missed a carbon there. So there is our threecarbon enolate and so uh enolates are source of nucleophilic carbon because we have another uh we have another resonance structure there. One of the resonance structures involves a formal negative charge on carbon, right? And so uh if you have negatively charged carbon that's nucleophilic carbon right carbon ion can go and attack something. So uh what is what can this attack? What can a nucleophile attack? Do we have any electrophiles hanging around? Well carbonial containing compounds are electrophiles. So a uh so an enolate can attack an aldahhide and it will attack the carbonial carbon. So how are we going to do this? Let's do it like this. Let's have this. Uh, and so you can go from either. So you can go like this and like this, right? You can you can attack that way. Since the since this resonance structure is right here, I'm just going to use this one. Either one is absolutely correct. And so we're going to go like this. Uh, and we're going to go that hit this and we're going to go like that. So, what did we do? This is the new carbonarbon bond that we just formed. Okay, this electron pushing arrow right here is now represented by this right here. So, what we need to understand is we we had a threecarbon enolate and it was the middle carbon that was doing the attacking. So, the carbonial reforms if you're using this resonance structure, right? This comes down like that. So, we're reforming the carbonal. And then it's this middle carbon that's doing the attacking. But that outermost carbon is still there. So, that has to still be there, right? A lot of times I see students just omit that carbon. We don't want to forget that, right? We didn't we didn't gain or lose any carbon content. We just formed a new carbonarbon bond. So, that carbon's still there. And then we attacked what was the carbonial carbon, right? This used to be a carbonal right here. But that uh this carbon attacking right there caused the pi bond to go up onto the oxygen. So we've got our oxyanion. Uh and then we can this is done. This is aquous. So let's just grab a proton from water and We're here now. And then we've got more hydroxide in solution. So, we can go again, right? This this proton right here is just as acidic as back here, right? It's still alpha to the carbonal. So, let's go ahead and grab it. And now, so this was the ald doll addition product. Now we're going to go ahead and do the condensation. The second step is the condensation. Condensation meaning we lose a water molecule. Not an intact water molecule but H plus O. Right? We lose this hydrogen and we lose this hydroxil. And there is our ald doll condensation product. So a lot of students will ask wait a minute I thought that hydroxil is a terrible leaving group and that's absolutely true but we are in very strongly basic conditions. So we have a lot of hydroxil uh sorry hydroxide ions we have many hydroxide ions floating around in in solution. So one more is not going to hurt in strongly basic conditions. Hydroxide is a perfectly reasonable leaving group. So uh this is the ald doll addition product. Then we did the condensation. So we could a condensation we would summarize as minus h2o. And once again when we say minus H2O what we mean is H plus O that's what that is. So that is the ald doll condensation. So once again we had our threec carbon aldahhide strong base got one of these alpha protons around pKa19 form the enolate take one of these resonance structures of the enolate to attack another equivalent of the aldahhide kick that pi bond up we get our oxyanion this is the new carbonarbon bond we just formed to to generate a larger carbon skeleton protetonate that oxyanion with the water and then another hydroxide can come along grab grab the other proton at that alpha position form that pi bond kick off the hydroxil and there is our ald doll condensation product. So ald doll so ald doll addition product will have a carbonal because the carbonal reforms right the what the the enolate will reform the carbonal when it attacks the other carbonal right so this carbonal was part of the enolate so an ald doll addition product will have a carbonal and then a hydroxal beta to the carbonal right here's the alpha position here's the beta position it will specific have that it will specifically have that spatial orientation because the carbon alpha to the carbonal in the enolate is going to act as the nucleophile and it will attack the carbonial carbon. The carbonial carbon is the electrophile. So that must be the spatial orientation of the two of the two oxygen containing functional groups. They have to be beta. It has the hydroxil has to be beta to the carbonial. And then the ald doll condensation product will have a carbonal and then it will have an alpha beta degree of substitution. So here's the alpha here's the beta carbon that is where the pi bond must be. So if you see a compound that has a carbonal and then an alpha beta degree of substitution an alpha beta degree of unsubstitution relative to the carbonal you know it can have formed via ald doll condensation. Okay, so that's a little bit of enolate chemistry. Sometimes we do ALD doll, sometimes we do Michael addition, sometimes we do Robinson annulation, sometimes we do clin, sometimes we do deman condensation. There's a lot of different ways of doing this enolate chemistry. It just depends on what the enolate is. So like for example for clazin condensation, that's when you form an enolate out of an esther as opposed to an aldahhide or ketone. Um but the actual what mechanistically it's not that different right it's just enalization and then the enolate attacks a carbonial containing compound whether it's an aldahhide ketone estester or whatever um so it's a little daunting at first but once you get just the basics down it's really just that every time let's see if I missed thing. Uh counter examples. Not sure. Counter examples in qu. Oh. Oh. Counter. All I said, oh yeah, I just mentioned that uh sometimes EXO can be favored over endo. I think maybe sterox might be the main reason. Um I'd have to look that up but off the top of my head so I was saying that for deals alder um endo tends to be favored because in the transition state so if the dyene is is is coordinating to the denophile here um and there's there's um there's high electron density that is on the den and the denophile and there can be an overlapping stabilizing effect as opposed to exo where this part of the denophile is sticking out over here away from the dyen. If if the denophile is very bulky, I believe that that will help promote exo just because of the steric hindrance associated with them approaching approaching each other. Um, but I'd have to look that up to verify. I know I know that and uh I'm pretty sure that endo tends to be a thermodynamically favored product whereas if it's exo it's kinetically favored. I'd have to double check that, but I believe that is the case. Devil Mark is asking for some EAS questions. So, I did a bunch of those last week. So, if I don't get to any um check, uh for the past three weeks or so, I've been doing a lot of EAS. Um so, if I don't get to any today, just go to my live tab and check some of the previous uh live streams and you will get a bunch of those. Uh Ra Rotund Rabbit said can you explain counter ions? Um so yeah like uh I mean okay so like so potassium hydroxide right we have hydroxide and then the potassium cation would be the counter ion right and then you know sometimes you can have a situation where a carbonal is uh is reduced and then you have a counter ion hanging out because it's in solution. Uh, I'm not sure exactly what you were asking for, but if you just meant what is a counter ion, we're just talking about an oppositeely charged ion that's coordinated to whatever ion you're talking about. Uh, Jackson asks in the E1 reaction of Whoops. in the E1 reaction of two bromo 2methyl butane uh is TS2 lower for the anti-zaitif alken so I assume you mean the Hoffman um oh whoops sorry butane yep boom uh okay so we're saying that if it's E1 we went like that and Oops. And then we have this. And so you're asking, is the transition state lower for the Hoffman elimination versus the Zaitzif elimination? Um, yes it is. And that discrepancy is magnified depending on how bulky the base is. So if you have um if you have turbtoxide let's say uh then the uh the the discrepancy in activation energy is significant enough to pretty much exclusively promote the Hoffman product. Right? So the bulkier the base, the more likely you're going to go Hoffman. Uh if you had just a hydroxide ion, then it's so small that the steric hindrance associated with approaching the internal section of the molecule as opposed to the periphery. It it's still there. It's still going to have a lower activation energy going to the edge of the molecule. It's just a a difference that's not significant enough to uh dissuade the thermodynamic the thermodynamically favored pathway of going Zaitzif which would give the internal alken there. Uh so yeah, hope that helps. Okay, let's do the next one. Let me erase some stuff here. Okay, draw the complete mechanism for the monocchlorination product. So, uh, radical mechanisms are a little funky for a lot of OKM1 students. So, there there's a few discrepancies between radical mechanisms and the typical mechanisms that we go over. So the first thing we want to understand is that every radical mechanism has uh it begins with an initiation step. So uh the the H hallogen H hallogen bond there's a few types of bonds that readily undergo homolytic bond cleavage. Uh H hallogen H hallogen bonds do this also oxygen oxygen bonds such as those found in peroxides. That's the reason that peroxides promote antimarovnikov regiochemistry. Um but that's not related to this right now. I'm just saying that um oxygen oxygen bonds and halogen h hallogen bonds they're sufficiently low energy that it's it's easy for them to cleave homolytically. You need uh either a photon of a particular frequency or in some cases even just heat. If the temperature is high enough they'll spontaneously cleave. Notice that I used single-headed electron pushing arrows not double-headed. Double-headed signifies the motion of two electrons like the two electrons in a covealent bond or in a lone pair etc. Uh this is this signifies the activi the activity of one electron. So that is going to give us two chlorine radicals. We denote radicals with these single dots kind of like just a le dot structure but we don't need to draw the other the other six electrons. We can just we understand that there's an unpaired electron. So radicals are species with unpaired electrons. Um so the chlorine radical is going to now come over here and um so the thing about this is that it there are 12 identical methyl protons. There's no proton on the central atom. That's on the central carbon. That's a quadinary carbon. There's no hydrogens's there. So a chlorine radical is going to approach this substrate and it sees 12 identical uh uh hydrogen atoms. So it doesn't matter which one we get. Um but so let's take uh a chlorine radical here. And what we're going to say is that that goes there, that goes there, that goes there. Again, all single-headed arrows. So there is our primary radical and we've also made an some HCl byproduct. Okay. Now now that we have an alkaal radical an alkaal radical is is unstable especially a primary alkaal radical and that is going to react uh let's just draw this separately is going to react with pretty much what it whatever it finds first in solution. However, um chlorine radicals are difficult to form. That's the endothermic step, right? That's the um the the unfavorable step, the the homolytic bond cleavage to generate the reat the radicals in the initiation step. So, the most likely species for this to encounter is going to be just another uh molecule of chlorine, diatomic chlorine. So, let's do that. So, we're going to propagate more another chlorine radical. So, there's another chlorine radical. That chlorine radical can go and then prop can facilitate another reaction generating another chlorine radical, facilitating another one, etc. So, uh, these these are the steps to get to our monocchlorinated product. Um, I specified monocchlorination because it wouldn't it it wouldn't necessarily stop there, right? We could chlorinate again. We could chlorinate again on the same carbon. We could chlorinate on a different carbon. We could keep going until there are a bunch of chlorine atoms on this uh on this molecule. But mechanistically, it' be the same every time. Mechanistically, we would be generating another we would either be generating another chlorine radical from another initiation reaction or we would just be taking a chlorine radical that was propagated from an earlier step and then the so the chlorine radical is interacting with a hydrogen atom uh generating HCl byproduct and generating another alkaal radical. So that can just happen over and over again. But what we're understanding is we've got an initiation reaction, right? that is going to be endothermic. Initiation reactions are always always require energy, right? Those are going to be endothermic. Um so that's how we get the chlorine radical. The chlorine radical will react with a particular carbon hydrogen bond uh generating an alkaal radical. Uh so we're propagating that's a propagation step. Propagation steps are always covealent species plus radical species yield some other covealent species and some other radical species. So we have the chlorine radical we're generating an alkaal radical. We have a covealent uh hydrocarbon we're generating covealent HCl. Um so that's how we get the alkaal radical and then the alkaal radical is most likely to react with diatomic chlorine. It wouldn't be wrong if you drew this as a termination step. You could have this interacting with a chlorine radical to just do a termination and just get the product. And that would be exothermic, right? Termination is when two radical species interact to form one coalent species. It's the opposite of initiation. One covealent to two radicals. Termination is two radicals to one coalent. Okay? So you could have drawn it that way. It's just statistically much much less likely. The alkaal radical is way more likely to run into diatomic chlorine in solution than a chlorine radical. So that's it. We've got an an initiation step and two propagation steps to get to the product. That is our monoclorination product. Here we didn't have to worry about regiochemistry because there was nowhere there was no other type of carbon for it to go to. Um but a bit about the regio selectivity of chlorine radicals. The regio selectivity is very low. Chlorine radicals will just go almost anywhere on a hydrocarbon. Bromine radicals on the other hand are highly regio selective. You will almost exclusively get radical bromination on the most substituted carbon because that proceeds via the most substituted radical intermediate. Uh so that is the uh that is the reasoning there. Uh yeah so that's it. The orioritz asks, "Does this problem have a limiting reagent?" Uh, it certainly can. I mean, you could you could provide that information. Um, it you I mean, you could limit it however you want. You could limit it by uh by adding only not that much chlorine if you wanted. um that's not specified here. That's more of a gen concept where you're given actual numbers that you need to uh calculate. Um yeah, so let me know if you have any other questions. I'm I'm reticent to move on to this um to this NMR one because it uh it's going to take more than four minutes. So, I don't really want to start it because I won't be able to finish it. Uh, tell you what, I earlier someone asked for an EAS reaction. So, let's just do one of those. Um, I'll make it up. Let's say that we have we've got this guy and we've got this guy. And we're going to do chlorination. We just did radical chlorination. So let's do chlorination on uh in the context of EAS. So just off to my head here, right? We need to memorize all right there's conditions for chlorination, bromination, nitration, alkalation. There's different types of EAS reactions we can do. And when we do them on monosubstituted ben uh monos substituted aromatic compounds we have to consider the directing effects of the of the functional group that's already on the molecule. So here we have this carbonal containing uh functional group. This is going to be a metadirectionirector. It is a metadirectionirector because it is electron withdrawing because when you have uh so it's by resonance right this pi electron density can get pulled up into that carbonial by resonance. Very important though it's only when the carbonal is adjacent to the ring. If we had a several carbon chain and a carbonal was further down the chain then that would not have that effect right that wouldn't be the case anymore. It's only that it's adjacent. So we have this carbonal here that makes it a metadirecting group. So that means that whatever the incoming electrophile is, doesn't matter what it is, it's going to go meta to the already existing functional group. So we don't care about the identity of the incoming electrophile. It is the functional group already present on the molecule that directs the incoming electrophile to a particular position. So we would end up with this. and we're gonna put the chlorine there. Okay, so remember this is called the ipso position. The carbon that bears the functional group uh is is ipso. Uh this is ortho. This is meta. This is parah. Uh this is also ortho. This is also meta. So there are two orthopositions, two meta positions. one ipso, one parah and uh and metadirectionirectors direct incoming electroiles to the meta position because that pathway avoids placing the uh the positive charge in the arinium ion intermediate directly adjacent to the electron withdrawing group. having a positive charge, a form of electron deficiency next to an electron withdrawing group that withdraws even more electron deficiency away from an electron efficient electron deficient intermediate is the mo is very un unfavorable energetically unfavorable. So avoiding that most energetically unfavorable uh position or or pathway is going to be the best. So it goes meta to avoid that. Whereas uh electron donating groups are orthopera directors because in such a condition they stabilize that positive charge. So I' I I talked about this in a lot more detail in some of the other live streams. So go back and check those if you want more info. Otherwise I believe that is it. Let me see. Uh it specifies monocchlorination. So CO2 is limiting. Um, I mean, uh, yeah, if you have a limited amount of Cl2, it could monocchlorllinate, but I just said monocchlorination to signify just chlorinate once and stop. It could keep going, uh, just for the in the context of the question. It was just asking for uh, for the monochlorination product. Okay, so that's it for today. Uh, thanks everyone for tuning in for my office hours with CHEG for Organic Chemistry 1. We're coming to you every Tuesday at 5:00 p. Pacific time going over organic chemistry 1 uh problems. So I will see you next week.