Hey everyone, welcome back. We are here with yet another office hour with CHEG. Once again, I've been partnering with CHEG all semester long to bring you organic chemistry 1 tutoring. Uh we're doing these office hours here. Uh feel free to check out the QR code on the top left uh corner to see what other courses the uh CHEG is has been bringing you in terms of office hours, other topics, math, and other things. been doing organic chemistry 1 here with me. Last live stream of semester. Hopefully we will be coming back in the fall if you're taking OKM in the fall. Uh but this is the last one here as the semesters are drawing to a close. Everybody's uh looking at final exams coming up here uh if they're not occurring already. So this will be the last one. I've got a few uh problems prepared for you guys. So, uh, feel free to follow along and the chat is live, so I'm accepting questions from the chat. Uh, please keep them organic chemistry 1 related. Uh, feel free to ask questions about the problems I'm going over or feel free to ask questions about any other organic chemistry 1 topic, anything that you want to know about. Uh, I'm happy to take tangents as necessary if there are uh, some good questions to answer. So thanks everyone for joining and let's go ahead and get started. So first up here we've got just a few transformations. Obviously in OKM uh given a starting material and some reaction reaction conditions tell us what you get. This is going to be a very common uh type of question. So what do we have here? uh we have an this methylester and then we have a a fennel griyard reagent in excess. So we have it's a benzene ring. It's uh right this is this right? We have a fennel gineard reagent. So what do fennel fennel gineyard reagents do? The carbon that is bound to the magnesium will act as a nucleophile and it will attack a carbonial carbon. That's typically what a Grineyard reagent is going to do. So, let's have that attack right here. And then this is going to pop up here. But because we have an esther substrate and we don't have a lot of room, so let's just do all this all at once. Let's bring that uh that that pair of electrons back down. Kick off the methoxy. We are going to get this. Right. So methoxy and we can do right methoxy is gone. So the one gineard reagent uh and oh and mgbr will be complexed to that. Uh so the uh uh and we can do that'll be a plus charge right here. So one grineard one grineard reagent attacked but it says we have excess right excess means that a second equivalent can react because once again we know that gineard reagents attack carbonial containing compounds and we have generate we have regenerated that carbonal. So we went from an esther to a ketone. So we can have another uh fennel gineard reagent attack. we do have uh the the appropriate amount stochometrically to let this happen again. So let's pop this up here. Now we have two fennel groups, two fennel rings here. And then we're going to have let's put minus there. And then we have this ethl group there. So this ethyl group is the original ethyl group on that starting esther. We've attached two uh benzene rings to it. Two fennel groups there via the fennel grineyard reagents. Uh and then the last thing here is the aquous acidic workup. Right? We know that uh so you you're doing this grineard. This is all one pot. Right? You've got your substrate in there. You're going to add your grineard reagent probably via syringe. You're going to let this go. Needs a little extra time because we've got two equivalents of the Grineyard reagent reacting. Then once we believe that all the substrate has reacted uh efficiently, we can go ahead. We're going to toss in some uh ammonium chloride or you know a weak acid to do some aquous acidic workup because we want to proteinate we want to proteinate our our oxyanion there, right? We want to isolate the alcohol product and uh that will be this. So granards make alcohols. We know that uh and we know that with an esther substrate we can add two equivalents of the same griyard reagent. So that is that one. Um let's do the uh let me just check here if anyone had had any questions. Uh Bucky asks if I'm going to be doing Orgo 2. Uh I don't know. I'm available if Chag wants to do these again in the fall. I'm available for Orgo one or Orgo 2. Uh I will say, however, Grineyard reagents typically taught in Orgo one. Uh sometimes Gilman reagents as well. Um if not, certainly in Orgo 2, they have to be covered. Uh but Grineyard tends to be on the earlier side. Um so oftentimes in Argo one, but it does it does depend on the institution, but um yeah, I'm available for for all of these topics. In the meantime, here we go. We just did some gineard right there. Uh okay, going on to uh this. We have this alken and we have MCPBA. This is metacchloropy benzoic acid, right? So we have uh it's a peroxybenzoic acid. So instead of a benzoic acid with a O there, it's got another oxygen. Right? This is what is meant by peroxy. It's o peroxy refers to an O coalent bond. Two oxygen coalently bound and then metacchloro. So at the meta position we have a we have a chlorine atom. So, we don't have to, you should maybe be able to draw the structure of MCPBA, but you don't really necessarily have to. All we have to do is memorize what it does. And what it is is MCPBA is the classic uh uh epoxidation uh reagent, right? This is how we make epoxides or one of the ways, but it's a it's a very simple way to make epoxides. And so if we're going to make an epoxide here, we know that the two bonds going to the new oxygen atom have to be cis to one another obviously because they're leading to the same atom, right? You cannot have you cannot have a wedge bond and a dash bond going to the same oxygen atom. That doesn't mean anything that doesn't ma make any sense. They're leading to different places in threedimensional space. So we have to have that. And then what that also means is that those methals must be pushed back like this. Um you could have done the oxygen on the dashes and the methals on the wedges. Doesn't matter. Same molecule. It's just the flip side. Right? If you pick this up and put it on the other face, you'd have the other version. So that's all it is. Right? When you see MCPBA, you know that we're making an epoxide. And then just be aware that we're going from sp2 uh hybridization, right? This these are trigonal planer sp2 carbons. We're going to sp3 tetrahedral carbons. So you do have to now show dash and wedge bonds. So that's important uh as well. Uh great question Ryan. So uh in this case there are no there's no there's there's no stereochemistry to speak of because there's no um right if we had let's say like this let's say there was that now you'd be talking about a mixture of stereo isomers right because now this would be different if you have the methals on the d on the wedge and the and the oxygen on the dash that would be a different molecule and you so you would certainly have a mixture of stereoisomers you might be able to favor one over the other uh due to sterics but you would certainly have a mixture but in this case we're not worried about that because that's not there right there's no we have not generated a chyal product so uh that's that's the only one there is but yeah good question always be thinking about always be thinking about stereochemistry right especially if you're going from sp2 centers to sp3 centers you have to be aware are you generating chyro centers and if so do you are you getting a recemic mixture Right? Or is there some stereo selectivity to to discuss? So, very good. Okay. Going on to this one here. Now, what are we going to do? We've got an alcohol and we're reacting with PBR3. Right? So, we have this sequence, four four steps here. PBR3 is our classic compound for converting alcohols to alkaalle bromides. So, we're just swapping out that hydroxil for a bromine. That would occur within version of stereochemistry. If this were a stereo center, it is not, right? If this were instead on one of the other two car one of the internal carbons, that'd be carl center and we'd have to invert the stereochemistry. But as it is terminal, it is not. So we don't have to worry about it. And so that's that one. And then now we're going to react with elemental magnesium. So obviously we're generating a griyard reagent here. and uh magnesium will insert itself into that carbon bromine bond thereby reversing the polarity. Right? This is the first example of oompolong chemistry that we uh that we typically learn in organic chemistry. Right? And so what what that means is that it's it's where we're uh reversing the polarity of a particular uh bond or functional group. So normally with alkaalhalides the carbon that bears the H hallogen is partial plus and the and the the hallogen is partial minus typically right but by inserting magnesium in there. So metal atoms do interesting chemistry. If you go on to take inorganic chemistry you'll learn about oxidative addition reductive elimination things like these different kinds of mechanisms that metal atoms can do. But uh just for now we just need to know that magnesium is inserting itself in that carbon bromine bond. And because magnesium is less electrogative than carbon that now means that the carbon is the partial minus in that coalent bond. And so what that means is a gineard reagent is a source of nucleophilic carbon. We have a carbon atom with electron excess. It can act as a nucleophile and it can attack it can attack carbonial containing compounds uh like this one like benzaldahhide right we have a fennel ring and a carbonal right means this right this is benzaldahhide and so this is going to attack right here so we go from the carbon itself right here and then pop that up. And let's draw it like this. We have this guy and then we just added a four carbon grenine reagent. One, two, three, four. And now we have this. Uh yeah. And so uh so that's what we did, right? We added a four carbon group here. That's going to be this. So, right, those four carbons, that's those four carbons, right? This carbon right here is the one that used to be connected to magnesium. This is the new bond right there. And when we made that bond, we we kick this pi bond up onto the oxygen to get the oxyanion. And now we do our aquous acidic workup. And this time we do have stereochemistry to speak of. So let's be very specific and show both of these possible products and this will be a rasmate, right? Because when when the grineard reagent attacks benzaldahhide, the benzaldahhide is a completely planer molecule. It is 100% uh uh planer, right? And so when the gineard reagent attacks, it can attack from this side or that side. There's nothing differentiating one face from the other. The the the activation energy is absolutely identical approaching that carbonal from this direction or this direction. So it will do so in equal proportions. Statistically speaking, when we zoom out, macroscopic amounts of of collisions in in the flask there, you're going to get exactly 50/50. And so this one is the S, this one is the R, and we're going to get 50/50 rasmate there. Okay, let's see if I missed anything. Congrats on the MCAT group 141. Okay, so uh moving on here we've got this hydrogenation. So this compound has one double bond and two triple bonds. And so we need to think about when we do hydrogenation, notice that we it says excess here. So we're going to try to hydrogenate as many pi bonds as possible. Um and this is being done under Lindler's catalyst. Lindler's catalyst. So what can this do? Um we have uh we we have what what does H2 access do to double bonds and what does it do to triple bonds in in the presence of Lindler's catalyst. Okay. So, uh we know that for uh for let's see, how do we want to do this? Um yeah, let's have these be wedges. So, for the double bond, we're just going to get rid of that, right? If you hydrogenate, we're just going to get rid of that. Uh and then over here, we're going to go Oh, wait. You know, actually, with Lindler's, never mind. with Lindlers. We're going to just leave it. We're going to leave that one. But we have the triple bonds and Lindler's is the way to go to the Zalkine. Okay. So, we're going to go up here. And now we're going to go We have two more carbons and we're going to go Whoops. Let's do that. Zalken. Zalken. Okay. So Lindler's catalyst is the way to go. We're going to stop at the Zalkan. So that prevents us from going all the way to the alkan. If Lindler's catalyst were not present and we were just uh we were just hydrogenating as much as possible until it was fully saturated, we would be getting rid of all of the pie bonds. But because of Lindler's catalyst, we're going to the Z alken uh from the alkyes. So the alken we don't touch. We can't go further than the alken. And then over here we go to the Z alkenes. And uh it does look a little funny right here with the with the wedge bonds, but these are sp3 centers. So we do want to show that right there are uh implied hydrogens right here. So it's just a way of showing the stereochemistry around this carbon. But then once we get to this one, we are sp2, sp2, and then sp3. So that's that one. Okay. So I want to do a little bit of spectroscopy because this is a very you know if you guys have final exams coming up there it's very important to be able to do spectroscopy uh stuff and uh especially there are problems like this where we are given combined IR and NMR data and we need to be able to glean uh information from each in order to make an assignment. So we have IR data, N proton NMR data and we have a formula C5H10, right? And we we need to find the structure of this. We have we have the molecular formula, but we need the structure, right? And so where let's look at the IR first. Okay, the IR first. What can we get from this? Now remember from around here to the right, this is the fingerprint region, which is a little bit harder to get info from. You can do it and you will later, but uh for now we're looking over here. This is just the saturated CH stretch and uh that's going to be present in almost any organic compound. So that's not really too interesting. But over here we have a carbonal stretch. So it's it's right around 1,700 uh right this is where it shows up and it's always a very long and thin peak a long and thin peak at this frequency uh indic is a CO stretch. It's a carbonial stretch which simply indicates that there is a carbonal in the compound. Okay. So that helps because we know that there's an oxygen atom but we need to know what kind of oxygen atom. So is it a hydroxal oxygen? Is it an ether oxygen? Is it a is it a aldahhide or ketone? So by by identifying the carbonial stretch we are eliminating certain possibilities. It's not a hydroxil. It's not an ether. It's got to be either aldahhide or ketone because it's got to be in a in a carbonal. Right? And uh and then the other thing we need to understand is that is the degrees uh the the degrees of unsaturation. And so if we have C5H10 that equals one degree of unsaturation, right? Because uh normally if it's totally saturated, that would be CN H2N + 2. So CN H2N = 1. Uh CN H 2N minus 2 would be two degrees of unsaturation. A degree of unsaturation means a pi bond or a ring. And so that's dictating, right? We're learning something. The number of hydrogen atoms present tells us also something about the structure, right? And so one degree of unsaturation makes perfect sense with the carbonal because there's a pi bond in the carbonal. That's our one degree of unsaturation. So other than that, we have hydrocarbon and a carbonal. That's all it is. We know we have a carbonal and that carbonial represents the one degree of unsaturation that we just said. So if we have a fivecarbon molecule um what what are the possibilities here in terms of the structure if we know that we have a carbonal? Well, okay, we could have this uh aldahhide, right? We could have uh we could have this ketone. We could have this ketone. That's about it, right? I guess you could put a methyl over there. Let's just see where we get with these three because now we want to look at the NMR spectrum. Okay, so let's take a look at this. Now, there's many ways to do this. You there the there the two most common ways to do this would be to look at possible hypothetical structures and make predictions about what the spectrum ought to look like if the structure were true. Or you can look at the you can look at the spectrum and identify fragments from the spectrum because we have integrations. We have splitting patterns. Right? Look right here. We have a we have a triplet sing we have a sorry we have a a singlet integrated to three. So that means that we probably have a methyl group and we probably have that methyl group uh that it's those protons are not split by anything. So that methyl group is probably next to the carbonal, right? So we that alone kind of already helps us make our decision here because in any other case you're going to have protons on these carbons that are being split by adjacent uh adjacent uh sets of protons. So why don't we do this? Let's just go here first. Let's say how many peaks we would expect, right? If if we if this was the structure, we would have one uh let's call that one, two, three, four, five peaks, right? Because we'd have the aldahhide proton, which would be quite a bit downfield. Then there's no implied hydrogen here. We'd have two protons there, uh two protons here, a little more upfield, two protons here, a little more upfield still, and then a methyl there. So, five peaks. That looks like that's not a match because we have four peaks, right? What about over here? We would have one there, one there, one there, one there. Four peaks. So that looks like that makes sense. Uh what about this one? Well, there's a symmetry here, right? And because of the symmetry of the molecule, those methals would generate the same resonance and then these protons would generate the same resonance. So that one probably doesn't work either, right? Because we're that would have two peaks. So based on based on number of peaks alone, let's let's go ahead and assume it's going to be uh this guy. So let's get rid of the other options. And now let's let's make our assignments here, right? Let let's make predictions about what the spectrum should be. Uh and then and then verify, right? So, we've got three protons there. And this should be split into uh here, let's just draw them all first, and then I'll make the assignments. So, these guys should be integrated to three and it should be a singlet, right? Because there are no neighboring protons. These guys should be integrated to two and it should be a triplet because we've got two protons next door. Two n plus one rule. So 2+ 1 is three. Should be split into three smaller uh uh smaller peaks. Should be a triplet. These guys should be uh 2 h and this should be a multiplet. It's got three next door over there, two next door over there. So that's should be six smaller peaks. Let's just call it a multiplate, right? Very heavily split. And then right here 3H and this should also be a triplet. Okay. So let's see what we have. Uh and then also which should be the most upfield and which should be the most downfield. Definitely this one should be the most upfield because it's the furthest away from the oxygen. Then going slightly more downfield would be this one because it's a little closer to the oxygen but not next to it. And then over with these two, this could be a toss up. Maybe we don't know, right? And it's not that important to know to know. We don't have to flawless be flawlessly be able to predict every single chemical shift or anything like that. We know that these two sets of of protons will be the most downfield. We don't know necessarily one over the other, but these will be more downfield than the other two. We know that because they're adjacent to the oxygen. So they're closer to the oxygen than these other protons. So let's see if we have that. Right? So here uh let's call here let's let's call this uh let's go uh A B C D. So we have a we have a 3H triplet and it's the most up field. So that's got to be D, right? That's these ones. These are the most upfield. They're the furthest from the oxygen split into a triplet integrated to three. That one works just great. Then we have here's a multiplate. So this is just a little zoom in of here so that you can see there's 1 2 3 4 5 six smaller peaks which is perfect. That's what we said, right? It should be integrated to two and we have three. We have 1 2 3 4 five neighboring protons. 5 plus 1 is six. So it should be integrated to two split into six smaller peaks. That's great. That matches just right. Then over here we have a uh we it's a singlet integrated to three that matches perfectly with this methyl over there. Three protons no neighboring protons integrated to three singlet. That is going to be peak A. Then we have the remaining uh 2 H integrated to two. It is a triplet. We can see that. Um and it is it happens to be the most downfield. So we're learning that this that this set of protons is more downfield than this set. So that if we didn't know that, we know that now. And there's our assignment. So what did we do? Right? It's very important to be able to trace the logic here because we are given a molecular formula C5H10. And we know that we could draw a bunch of different structural isomers without looking at any of the data, right? And you there could be 10 of them, right? Because we're talking about it could be a hydroxil. All the way places the hydroxal could be. It could be an ether. Where's the ether oxygen going to go? But that's why we look at this data, right? You look at the IR first for one reason and one reason only. You look at the IR spectrum to know that there is a carbonal in the compound. There is the carbonial stretch right here. And again, it is this long and thin peak uh at this very particular wavelength 1700 1800 around there. Um we look at that go there is a carbonal done with IR. We don't care about IR anymore. That's the only thing that we were trying to get from it. Now that we know there's a carbonal, that dramatically narrows down the number of structural isomers that are possible. That will be the answer here. And we drew a few. We drew the aldahhide and we drew two possible ketones because you could have the the carbonial on carbon 2 or carbon 3 of the of the straight chain pentane. And then honestly all we did was predict the number of peaks that we would expect for the three structures. Remember that we got five, four, and two. And already doing that, we didn't even have to go in and check for the integration and the splitting um of every single structure. Just by predicting the number of peaks alone, we figured out probably and and we weren't positive, but we said, "Okay, we're very we're pretty confident that this one is it." If we went in there and then we found discrepancies that the that the uh integrations and the splittings and the chemical shift weren't lining up, then maybe we'd go back to the drawing board. Okay, what if we take one of what if we take uh something and move it around? I don't know, maybe there was another answer possibly, but um it looked pretty good and then we matched everything up for each resonance. We saw that splitting, integration, and chemical shift all agreed. So all of the data corroborate this structure and so that's the answer. Two pentanone, two penton was the answer. Uh all right, let's see. Let's see. Did I miss anything? Whoops. Well, a lot of uh a lot of questions here. This is going to take a second. Okay. Uh Uh oh, Bucky asks about complex splitting with cy trans double bonds. So the thing about uh al so alkenes uh the pi bond restricts rotation right because with a pi bond the sigma bond is direct overlap of those orbitals and as long as those orbitals are overlapping the bond exists so they can rotate freely but the pi bond is about the lateral overlap of the unhybridized p orbitals and so those can only overlap if they're parallel right if they start if if one of the if the bond starts rotating they're no longer in a configuration where they can overlap. So the pi the the pi bond restriction is uh rotation is restricted. And what that means is that if you have two groups right if you have a proton here and a proton here they're actually fixed with respect to the two groups over here. So let's say you have an oxygen atom right here. The proton right here is objectively closer to that oxygen than the one on the other side than the one that's trans to it. Right? And so uh that will actually generate a discrepancy in the chem che chemical shift of the two alkenal protons. So when you have an alken so almost always this the protons on the same carbon exper experience the same chemical environment and that's pretty much due to the rotation of sigma bonds. But when you have an alken you introduce the possibility of two protons experiencing a different chemical environment because the the the rotation is restricted around the pi bond. it can't rotate otherwise the p orbitals won't overlap and you won't be able to have a pi bond. So very good question. Uh TFA Lazarus this is organic chemistry one. Uh yeah typically organic chemistry 1 will get to this point in um spectroscopy. If we can block this uh frost to you guy, that would be great. If that hasn't happened yet, Okay, all caught up. Let's uh Oh, Arcana says, "Yes. Will this recording be available on my channel?" Yes, it will. If you go to the uh live tab on my channel, it has all of the live streams that I did for CHEG uh for these organic chemistry 1 office hours. So, those will be available if you want to go back to the beginning. I start with nomenclature and uh stereochemistry, right? The really easy stuff and then we uh and then we get more complicated from there. Uh okay, moving on. All right, so which of the following compounds is chyro? And we have a few uh disubstituted cycllohexanes in their chairs. And so this is an interesting one because the uh the easiest way to assess whether they're chyro is from the top down view, right? So why don't we convert all of these from chairs to top down line notation. So here we have this guy here. So let's just draw uh the cycllohexane. And now these chlorines, these chlorines are two apart and they're trans to one another, right? This one is up and this one is down. So let's draw this one up and let's draw this one down. Okay. Now B, we have them. It's 14. And sorry, there's like an infestation here. Some bugs. Jeez. Uh4. And that it's cis. So let's put a chlorine here and a chlorine here. Then we have 13 again, but it's cis. So, let's put them both up. And then we have one for trans. So, this one is up and the other one is down. So, let's start with the ones that have no chyal center. uh this the this one does not have any chyro centers because the two directions around the ring are identical right because of the symmetry of the molecule there there's no chyal centers if there are no chyro centers it can't be chyro that's actually not entirely true there are some very interesting exceptions there it is possible to be chyro with no chyal centers but they're very weird molecules that we typically don't go into in and certainly Definely not in OKM 1. So from the perspective of OKM 1, let's just pretend that what I said is true. If there's no chyal centers, it cannot be chyro. Same with here, the two directions around the ring are identical. So there are not four different groups. So there are no chyro centers here. So these cannot be it. There are no chy centers. Those are not chyro. Now these ones do each have two chyro centers. There are two chyro centers here. The only the only difference here is that this one is miso. There is an internal symmetry plane here. If we reflect half of the molecule across that mirror plane, we do get the other half of the molecule. And so that makes sense, right? If you took the mirror image of the molecule, you'd get the the the same molecule. And so, uh, it cannot be chyro. So a miso compound is an example of a compound that has two or more chyro centers but is achyal overall. A chyroal or not chyal overall. So remember if there are no chyal centers it's not chyal at least for from our perspective in OKM1. If there is one chyal center it definitely is chyal. And then if it has two or more chyal centers it may or may not be chyal depending on if there is any internal symmetry. And if there is internal symmetry like a miso if it's like an internal plane of symmetry generating a miso compound or if there's an inversion center which is a point of symmetry a central point of symmetry then it has chyal centers but is achyal overall but a this is chyro right we have two chyro centers and there is no internal plane of symmetry because if we tried to do this right if we tried to do the dashed line down the center that doesn't work because the the wedge chlorine would be reflected onto the dash chlorine or vice versa. And so that's not the same. So that actually is different. So this has an anantimer, right? This has an ananti which is the mirror image of it which is not the same. So that would be if you put the dash here and the wedge there that actually is a different molecule, right? structurally the same but but in terms of in terms of stereochemistry it's the anantimer it's the mirror image so A is the chyro one okay let's move on let's just do a quick uh nomenclature because if you guys got finals coming up, you may have to be doing some nomenclature. So, we want to review a little bit. So, what are we going to do with this here? We have two we we have a hydrocarbon. We have two bromo groups and we have one hydroxal group. So, we know that this is alcohol, right? The the hydroxal group is the highest priority functional group on here. It alters the properties of the molecule such that we consider it to be the most important functional group on the molecule. So it will determine the numbering of the parent chain. Right? So there is a hierarchy here. So if with hydroxil and then alkaal and h hallogen alkalle and h hallogen are lower priority hydroxal is higher priority which means that we will number the parent chain. uh number one the parent chain has to contain the hydroxil. It has to contain the carbon that bears the hydroxil even if there's a longer chain elsewhere in the molecule. And number two, we will number that chain so as to give the hydroxil occurring soonest even if numbering the other way would give some other substituent sooner. So in other words, we've got uh we've got this parent chain, right? This is the longest carbon chain that contains the carbon that bears the hydroxil that has to be in there. So we would not do these, right? It would not be these ones. It's got to contain this carbon. So that's the longest chain. And now we are going to number so as to give the hydroxil occurring soonest. Even if right, if this bromine was on the terminal carbon over there, we still would number from the left, right? Because it's because the hydroxil beats it, right? If it was if we were comparing alkaalle and h hallogen then it's just whichever is soonest but hydroxal takes priority. So that means we are going to number it this way. It's going to be 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8. That's the numbering scheme. Not the other way. Even if we had a bromine over here which would make it on carbon one numbering the other way doesn't matter. Hydroxil takes priority. We number left to right. So we've got the parent chain. We've got the numbering scheme. Now we have to list the substituents. We have two bromo groups on carbon 6. So we have six comma 6 d bromo. So remember it's two bromo. So we include the prefix d. The d is not included in alphabeticity but these are the only substituents right now. So it doesn't matter. So 66 dybr octenol uh can also be octin 2 all equivalent doesn't matter I prefer this two octenol looks cleaner to me uh but this is also equivalently valid um so we so we identified the parent chain which has to contain the carbon bearing the hydroxil we numbered left to right because it gives the hyd hydroxal specifically occurring soonest. Then we list the uh substituents followed by the parent molecule indicating where the hydroxil can be found. It's on carbon 2. So two octinol. Let's see. Ker Plunk asks, "How would you know it's inantiomemerically pure?" Uh, just in general, how would you know if something is anantiamerically pure? You could do optical analysis on it, right? You could see if it's optically active. Um optical activity will tell you whether you have uh whether it's chyal or recemic mixture or something in between. Uh Bucky asks about some enolate chemistry. Uh sure you can have an enolate can attack an aldahhide or a ketone as well as an esther. That's true. So you can have mixed clasins just like how you can just like how you can have mixed ald dolls. Right? If you have an ald doll where you have an aldahhide and a ketone. The aldahhide can enalyze and attack the aldahhide. The aldahhide can enalize and attack the ketone. The ketone can enalize and attack the ketone. The ketone can enalize and attack the aldahhide. So when you do ald dolls right usually chemists will be be very strategic and make one of them not enalyzable like benzaldahhide or something so that that can only be attacked it cannot become the enolate. Uh same with clazin right there can be crossed clazins as well. Um and then also demans right there could be the intramolecular uh version competing depending on how many carbons are in the molecule. Uh, oh my gosh, I Wow, I completely missed these other substituents. Wow, talk about brain fart. That's ridiculous. Uh, okay. Thank you for alerting me to that. Let's just go ahead and erase this then. Uh, okay. So, we have a we have a methyl on four. We Whoops. Stop it. We have an ethel on three. Okay. Now, let's actually name it. So, what comes first alphabetically? You have brmo, you have ethl, and you have methyl. So, brmo is going to come first. 66 dB bromo. Uh then we have to do ethl three ethel then we do four methyl and then we do two octenol. So that should all be one line. I just ran out of space. Uh thank you for that. I can't believe I just totally spaced on that. So we found the parent chain. We identified all of the uh all of the substituents. We had two bros. We had one methyl. We had one ethel. And then uh and then we listed them uh alphabetically. So remember dybrmo is B for bromemo. If we had chloro as well, it would still be dromo before chloro because it's B for brmo, not D for dybrmo. That's just a it's a very common error. So, dy bromo and then the ethel and then the methyl and then octinol. Thank you for that. Uh, okay. Uh okay, Aisha asks about the acidity of aromatic molecules. So normally, so it depends what you're talking about, but like for example, um if we're comparing tuine and phenol, right? There's there's a big difference here. Uh or or even even how about this so that we're not comparing. So let's compare the same uh atom, right? we're going to an oxyanion. Um, if we have this, right? This versus now I'll draw all the bonds here. We when whenever we're looking at aromatic compounds, we have to be aware of the possibility of resonance. So, right, there's so much resonance that can happen here. That's why phenols are pKa like what is it? I want to say 10 something like that. It's uh you double check me on that but I think it's somewhere within a couple orders of magnitude of 10. Um but that means it's about a million times more acidic than water. So why is that right? Because if water deproinates you're left with an oxyanion. If phenol deproinates you're left with an oxyanion but the difference is the incredible amount of um of uh of resonance. Right? So this negative charge can can be distributed around the entire molecule. it's quite diffuse. So that's just what I think of off the top of my head, right? I don't know what examples you're thinking of, but usually it's ones where the uh neg the resulting uh conjugate base is heavily resonant stabilized through the aromatic ring versus not. Something like that might be uh might be that might be what you're looking at. Okay. All right. Let's get rid of this. Okay. Now, we're going to do it's very similar to the other one that we that we just did, right? Let's practice another one here. It says given the following IR and NMR data. So it's the same thing, right? But now we have this formula C4 H10O. C4H10. So what did we do last time? What did we do? We looked at the IR data to find a particular functional group that will tell us what the oxygen atom is doing. Right? Because right now we don't know. Uh and then also another important thing here is that we have uh no uh no degrees of unsaturation, right? Because this fits the CN HN +2 formula. So there are no pi bonds. So that already we're thinking oxygen probably is not a carbonial oxygen. But we can go ahead and confirm it here because apart from the uh the saturated CH stretch, right? We have the saturated CH stretch, but again that's going to be on almost any organic compound. But over here, we have the O stretch. So this is important. Even just from the molecular formula, we probably were ruling out carbonals and we saw we see that there's no carbonial stretch. So if there's no carbonial stretch, there's no carbonal. But seeing the hydroxal stretch tells us this is an alcohol, not an ether, right? Because an ether could also fit, right? Without the IR data, if we're just looking at degrees of unsaturation, there's no degrees of unsaturation. An ether oxygen does not generate any unsaturation. That's just right there in between carbons. Um, but we're ruling that out. We're saying there's got to be a hydroxil. There's one oxygen. There's a hydroxal. The one oxygen is in the hydroxal group has to be right. So if we have a fourcarbon molecule with uh with a hydroxil let's see we could have this. We could have this. I think that's it. That I'm pretty sure that's it. That's the only ones that come to mind. So, we have the straight chain uh we can have two straight chains. The straight It's only four carbons, right? So, with only four carbons, you can have straight chain hydroxal terminal, straight chain hydroxal internal, right? If we move this to this one or this other one, it's the same compounds again. Doesn't matter. Um, then you can have uh you can just move one carbon over, right? We can have uh the three we can have the this uh the isobutal version and then we can have uh the one here with uh with the the there's only one possibility for a tertiary uh alcohol. So that would be that one. So these are the four that come to mind. So let's do what we did. Let's the this I think this is the easiest way to do it. I if you if you use IR data to come up with all the possible structural isomers that could potentially fit then then what you could do is predict the number of resonances. That's it. We don't have to look at splitting or chemical shift or integration. Just how many peaks are you going to get? That's it. Um and let's figure it out. right here. We're going to have uh we're going to have one 2 3 4 five. Right. So, that doesn't look too good. Uh over here, how how many are we going to have? We're going to have the hydroxal proton and then we're going to have all of these methyl protons together. Right? These are all equivalent. we would have uh we would have a a singlet integrated to nine. So this would be very obvious if if it was the tertiary alcohol, it would be an extremely simple spectrum. Um it's almost certainly cannot be this one. Uh over here we've got one, two, three, there's one implied hydrogen there. Four, five, again, five peaks. So maybe there's something wrong with our analysis here. Five instead of four. It could work, but probably not. But then over here, what do we have? We have one, two, there's two protons there, three, and then two identical methals make four. Okay, so this now let's just go ahead and assume it's this one, right? And let's go ahead and assign the peaks. If something goes wrong, we can always go back. We can always go back and say, "Oh man, did I did I make a mistake?" Like, did I miss some equivalent uh groups of protons, right? Did I did I mess something up there? Did I miss a possible structural isomer? Maybe I forgot one possibility. But from this first analysis, it seems like it has to be this. So, let's just redraw it. Let's get rid of all this and redraw it with all of the implied hydrogens. So, we've got two hydrogens's here. We've got one hydrogen there. We've got these methyl, these methyl hydrogens, these methyl hydrogens. So, what are we going to expect? Okay, this one we're going to expect it is going to be a uh 1H singlet. Uh that just happens to typically be the case for uh hydroxal protons. Over here, we've got a 2H dlet, right? We've got one proton next door. So that's going to end up being a dlet. Um then we've got a one H multiplate. This is going to be exceedingly having heavily split, right? We've got three, six, eight neighboring protons. So we're looking at upwards of nine smaller peaks. It begins to become not even that discernable. All we know it's we're just going to call it a multipl. It is a heavily split resonance. That's good enough. And then over here we have a 6H dlet because all of these are split by the one neighboring proton. So let's call these uh A, B, C, and D. And now let's make our assignments. Uh let's also talk about chemical shift. The hydroxal proton should be the most downfield because it's directly bound to the to the oxygen atom. Right? Uh next should be this 2 H double it because it's right next to the oxygen. Then would be this guy, this the 1H. And then the most up field should be these six methyl protons. They are the furthest away from the oxygen. So let's see if this assignment works out. We have uh look at this. We do have a double. It is integrated to 6H and it is the most up field. That looks great. That's going to be D. Then we have this uh very heavily split uh uh 1H there. And so that makes perfect sense, right? That and it also makes sense that it is the it is the next one going downfield because we're moving closer towards the oxygen atom. So that is going to be C right there. Then we have uh the integrated to two the dlet that is quite a bit more downfield because now we're immediately adjacent to the oxygen atom. Uh so that is going to be B and then we have our singlet uh integrated to one that is our hydroxal proton. So that is going to look like that. So that that is that is important to note that um that uh hydroxal protons they don't really they don't really participate in splitting the same way that that that the ones on carbons do. It's a little bit funky. It becomes different. So you can just get used to hydroxal protons usually. They're appearing typically as singlets there. So that's it. Right? We did our assignment once again. What did we do? We looked to the IR. Okay. First, we looked at the molecular formula to figure out the number of degrees of unsaturation. Fit the CN HN plus2 rule or or you know format. So, no degrees of unsaturation, no pi bonds, no rings. Then we looked at the IR and we said there's a hydroxil in it. This is an alcohol. We drew the four possible fourcarbon alcohols, right? That was all the ones that we could think of. We figured out on the basis of predicting how many peaks they're going to produce alone. We didn't look any further than that. We only had one that was going to create four resonances. Then we expanded. We did our assignments. We did our predictions of integration, chemical shift, and uh splitting. Then we looked and we saw that all the data agree with that assignment. So that was it. Uh okay, let's see. Got it. Okay. Uh time for one more really quick super fast here. Draw the most stable confirmation of trans 1 ethyl 3 methylhexane. So let's draw two chairs. We'll draw both the chairs and then we'll see which one is better. So there's one chair, there's the other. So, I'm going to take uh So, when you put the first substituent on there, you can put it on any carbon and you can put it up or down. That is arbitrary. Then from that point forward, the rest is not not arbitrary. You do have to know what's going on. So, um trans one ethyl. So, let's do uh up and then then that means if we go clockwise one, two, three, now we have a methyl going down. So there's our methyl down. Uh then over here if we do the ring flip that means or the chair flip this was the ethl on the leftmost carbon going up. Here is the uh leftmost carbon going up. We get the ethl now on the equatorial. And then over here we have the methyl going down. So we're going one two carbons over. And here's our methyl going down. Uh so what's the difference here? We have uh we have an ethyl axial and we have a methyl equatorial. And then over here we have an ethyl equatorial and a methyl axial. So the bulkier the group is the higher the premium there is on getting that in the equatorial position. And so this is more energetically favorable. Right here we've got the ethyl equatorial and the methyl axial. That is better than having the ethyl axial and the methyl equatorial. That will be a lower energy confirmation. Okay. So uh that's it. Um thanks again everybody. So that was a great uh semester here. Once again this was the last of these office hours with CHAG for organic chemistry 1. Uh but hopefully we will see you next semester. If everybody uh informs CHE how informative and helpful these sessions were, I'm sure they will bring them back. So hopefully I will see you in the fall semester for organic one or organic two or whatever.