Hey everyone, we are back with another live stream. We're doing another live office hour uh brought to you by CHEG. I'm working with CHEG to bring you organic chemistry 1 office hours this entire semester every Tuesday at 5:00 pm PST. Um and so uh we've got just a few more of these. I know that most of you guys are are wrapping up your semesters very soon and so there's going to be a few more. I just wanted to let you know that next week the organic chemistry 1 session with me is going to be exclusively on the CHEG website. So it will not be livereamed on my channel or any other channel. It will be exclusively on the CHEG website and you will have to log in to the website in order to view it. So if you've been enjoying these uh these uh study sessions uh and would like to study with me next week, go ahead and go to the CHEG website and log in for that. And uh also check out the QR code on the top left if you want to see what other subjects CHEG is covering. They're doing all kinds of different topics with different instructors. And so uh definitely coming into final season here. Need all the help you can get. So I'm helping you with organic chemistry 1 as always. And we are live in the chat. And so I'm taking any questions you have. Please keep them organic chemistry one related. They can be related to the questions that I prepared and will be going over for you. They can also be unrelated to these questions. You can ask me any question about any organic chemistry 1 concept and I will uh be scanning the questions and uh doing my best to answer all the questions that you have. So let's go ahead and get started. I have a bunch of different things here. So we're we're we're reaching final season. So I want to do some review. Uh I want to try try to mix it up do as many topics as possible. So let's start with this first one here. draw the product of the following transformation. And so we have this hydrocarbon, we have an alkan and then we have bromine and then HV light. Uh this is light and then you uh wavelength. And so what we're saying is that this is radical bromination. And when we do radical bromination, what do we end up what do we end up doing? What ends up happening is we're placing a H hallogen. We're we're placing in this case a bromemo group on the on the alkan and then we want to know where it's going to go, right? What is what what do we have to say about regio selectivity? So it turns out that chlorine radicals are not particularly regio selective but bromine radicals are. And so when we're talking about radicals, what we mean here is that the bromine bromine bond is pretty low energy. And so it can have a tendency to homalyze rather easily. And so that's what the light is for. If this bond is struck with a photon of a particular wavelength of UV light, uh it is going to homalize and we get our uh our bromine radicals. Now without going and doing the whole mechanism here because last week I believe it was we did the radical chlorination mechanism this is absolutely identical just with bromine instead of chlorine. So the bromine radical is in is going to interact with a particular carbon hydrogen bond and in doing so it will grab a hydrogen radical to become HBr and it will leave an alkaal radical. But what kind of radical will it leave? It could leave a primary radical. It could leave a secondary radical or a tertiary radical depending on which CH bond it interacts with. And as it happens, because the bromine radical is much more stable compared with the chlorine radical, it's going to be much more regio selective and go via the pathway that yields the most stable uh alkaal radical intermediate. So what that means is that we're going to end up with this as an intermediate, right? We're going to have a radical either here or here. Uh, and so what that what that means is that there was an implied hydrogen right here on that tertiary carbon, but the bromine radical interacted with that got a hydrogen radical and left the tertiary alkaal radical, right? And so then this alkaal radical is going to interact with another equivalent of bromine of diatomic bromine and get the uh and get the bromine on there. So this is what we're going to end up with. So now we could we don't have implied hydrogens anymore. So we have to uh you know in fact why don't we just go ahead and put this as a wedge too. Right? This could be a wedge or a dash. Doesn't matter because we have two identical methyl groups. But we're going we have want to depict the sp3 nature over here. And the bromine also we can put on either the wedge or the dash because we have two identical methyl groups. So it doesn't matter if we were to rotate around that uh sigma bond we would get the other uh confirmation it would be identical. So when you are doing radical halogenation right we can do this with uh well you can do it with florine but it's very explosive. uh chlorine and chlorination and radical chlorination and bromination are common right radical florination is uh is dangerous so it's not done as much uh radical iodination is difficult to do because the iodine radical is not very uh reactive it's quite stable but radical chlorination and radical bromination are very common and then we want to understand that if we were doing radical chlorination where the chlorine ends up would be a tossup right the chlorine radical is so uh is so reactive that it will react with the first carbon hydrogen that it carbon hydrogen bond that it that it collides with, right? It's just going to collide with a random part of the molecule and then grab that hydrogen radical and you'll get either a primary or a secondary or a tertiary alkaal radical and then that will then go ahead and get a bromine radical and uh and and become the alkaal bromide or sorry alkaal chloride. But for bromine, it's much more regio selective because of the stability of the bromine radical, right? And that has to do with size, right? It's just that that bromine has another shell. Bromine has one more shell than chlorine, right? And so it's similar with like how the broomemide ion is more stable than the chloride ion is more stable than the fluoride ion. It's about ionic radius. So here it's the same concept, right? It's just the radius of that radical. It's so much larger. and uh and we're talking about a form of of electron deficiency here. So, it's going to be more stable. And so, uh we proceed via the most stable alkalle radical intermediate. And so, that's where the broine ends up. So, all of that is to say, right, hopefully all of that made sense. But if you just want the take-home, if you just want the quick one-s sentence take-home, if you have a if you have an alkan and you're doing radical bromination, all you do is you stick a bromine atom on the most substituted carbon. That's it. Right? So here, not primary, not secondary, tertiary. We've got two identical tertiary carbons because it's a symmetrical molecule. So all we're doing is we're taking a bromine atom and sticking it on the tertiary carbon. That's it. That's the whole reaction there. So uh that's a little bit about radical halogenation in general and radical bromination in particular. Let's see if I missed any questions. Uh lesson notes. Danny says, "Is it starting from next week everything will be done on the CEG website?" I believe it is only next week. So next week May 6th will be on the CHEG website. uh I believe the week after we'll be back to being live streamed on my channel. I I can uh double check on that. Uh and then he asks substitution reaction. So no, this is not a substitution reaction. This is actually radical halogenation. So it's it's a different class of reactions. Um, and so Minecraft player asks, why does the bromine go on that one? And so, like I said, uh, it has to do with the stability of the bromine radical over the chlorine radical. Because the bromine radical is so much more stable, this is going to be able to proceed by the lowest energy pathway, which means the lowest energy intermediate. The lowest energy intermediate is the most substituted alkaal radical intermediate. Right? Alka radicals are more stable as they're more substituted. Right? The methyl radical is very unstable and then better is the primary alkaal radical and then secondary and then tertiary. Right? And so if the tertiary alkaal radical is the most stable possible uh intermediate for this pathway, the bromine radical is going to promote that pathway. So it's going to wait until it collides with a tertiary carbon hydrogen bond get that hydrogen radical to become HBr and then you're left with the tertiary alkaal radical intermediate. So the reason for the regio selectivity has to do with the the chlorine radical and the stability of the more substituted alkal radical over the less substituted alkaal radical. So those are the two reasons in conjunction why that goes that way. Uh what is halogenation? That's when you put a h hallogen on the molecule, right? Halogen being group seven uh florine, chlorine, uh bromine, iodine, and aine, which we do not really use much in chemistry. Um Minecraft player, is there a way to select one of the regions like temperature or pressure or something? Uh so no not really right we're just we're talking about the relative stabilities of the intermediates. Um yeah that's really all there is. Uh so Danny asked why don't you add another bromine and the other carbon. So yes you could uh you could do successive brominations right chlorination is hard to stop because chlorine radicals are so reactive. Bromination is slower because broine radicals are more stable. So it is actually possible to isolate the mono brominated product. So you could do a mono bromination and then isolate the product. But you're not wrong, right? If you let this go for a long time, you will get the dromination product. You would get another bromine right here. Right? If we just let this sit around for long enough, you're going to get uh another broine radical interacting with the other tertiary carbon bromine bond. But usually on an exam if you're looking at radical bromination, you're probably just uh being asked about the mono bromination product. Oh, JA asks for Michael edition. Uh okay. Yeah, I can probably throw in some Michael edition at some point. Uh let me see where where I end up having room for it. Okay. Okay. Moving on to the next one. I'll put Michael addition in the back of my head. See where I can fit that in. Uh, okay. So, draw the product here. So, we have uh a secondary alcohol and we're reacting with tossel chloride in pyodine. So, what is tossel chloride? Tossil chloride looks like this. So here's tossel chloride. This is a tossel group and then this is the chloride. And so what we need to understand is that uh this will interact with a hydroxal group to make it a good leaving group. And here's why that is the case. So, the oxygen, a lone pair on oxygen, it's going to attack the sulfur, uh, kick this pi bond up here, and then, let's just save some time. We're going to bring that back, and then we're going to kick off the, uh, kick off the chlor the chlorine. And so, what we end up with is we have retention of stereochemistry and then that is now otosal. So this this can be written like this. I'm going to write it like this. I'm just writing it like this to help explain what's going on. But if you were what you would probably do is just this, right? It's tossel chloride. So tossel. So tossel is this. That's a tossel group. Okay, so it's tossel chloride. Tossel and then chloride. So it's a tossel chloride. And this is this is a a way of making a leaving group derivative. So the purpose of this is that the hydroxal group is a bad leaving group, right? Unless you're in extremely basic conditions, you're not going to get a hydroxal group to leave because if it leaves, you have a hydroxide ion. A hydroxide ion is very reactive. It's very unstable. And so things right the leaving group ability depends on how stable something is once it leaves. So a water molecule right O H2+ is a very good leaving group because once it leaves it's a neutral water molecule. Uh a broo group is a great leaving group because the broomemide ion is very stable right. So but the but the hydroxal group is a bad leaving group because once it leaves it's hydroxide that's unstable. But if we have it react with tossil chloride, if we tossillate it, right? This is a tossillation because we're putting a tossel group on there. Now look what happens, right? We can do this. Let's react with KCN. So potassium is just the counter ion. CN minus is the nucleophile. Now this can do SN2. So whereas this could not whereas an alcohol could not be an SN2 substrate, this can be. And I'll show you why. So we get our SN2 product and remember with SN2 we have inversion of stereochemistry. So the the ottosal was on the dash. So CN is on the wedge now. And then what we also have is we have this. And the reason this is now a good leaving group is look at all this resonance, right? We've got resonance over here. We've got resonance over here. We've got resonance all over the place. And so resonance, the fact that there's all this resonance stabilizes that negative charge, right? We have a lot of resonance stabilization. So this illeal is a good leaving group because of all this resonance stabilization. That's not there for hydroxide for hydroxil, right? The hydroxil if it leaves its hydroxide, right? Uh O minus there's no there's no stabilization, right? This negative charge is localized on that oxygen atom. It has nowhere to go. But illeal, there's tons of resonance stabilization. This is perfectly fine. This is an excellent leaving group because it's so resonant stabilized when it leaves. Right? So this is a leaving group derivative, right? This this uh when you see tossillation, we're talking about generating a leaving group derivative. We're talking about turning a hydroxal group into a good leaving group for an SN2 reaction or something else. Maybe for an elimination, I don't know. But the point is that hydroxil won't leave, but if you tossillate it, it will. So, we also could have done an elimination. The case CN minus happens to be a classic SN2 nucleophile. So, we knew we're going to do SN2. But let's say we got some turttoxide on there. Then we'd be doing E2 elimination, right? Because this would all this would be right. A leaving group is a good leaving group. Whether it's substitution or elimination, it's got to leave. Whether you're replacing it, substituting it with another group or forming the pi bond and kicking it off when the pi bond forms, doesn't matter. Leaving group has to leave. And essel is a good leaving group where hydroxil is not. Okay. So tossillation where it's so we tossillated this oxygen attacked the sulfur. We got the tossel group on the oxygen. Now it's a leaving group derivative. It's a good leaving group. So the SN2 nucleophile attacked. Kicked that off. We got an inversion of stereochemistry and there is our SN2 product. So we did SN2 on an alcohol, right? We did SN2 on an alcohol which you wouldn't be able to do. you have to do this uh leaving group derivative method here. Okay. What is tennessine? Oh, uh no. Uh tenn ts is tossel. Tennosine is tien I believe. Yeah, TN. Uh, Colorado asks, "How do you know what is stable and what isn't as far as leaving groups go?" So, the uh leaving group ability is proportional to the stability of the group once it has left. So if it leaves, how stable is it once it has left? Hydroxil is not stable. It's got a formal negative charge that is localized entirely on one atom. Right? Oscil is a great leaving group because that negative charge is resonance stabilized. So the more stable the the leaving group is once it's left, the better leaving group it is. Right? placating content. Uh, this is just typical OKM1 content, but that's all it is. ALD doll condensation mechanism. Okay. So, so we're we're being we want to do ALD doll and Michael. Those go together. So, maybe I'll just do that next. Uh, Burlios asks, "What happened to potassium? Was it used?" So, no. Potassium. So, it's just we have to get really good at recognizing ionic compounds, right? Because we're going to be given KCN, but the potassium is is is just the counter ion to our SN2 nucleophile. It's just a spectator ion, right? It we say KCN because that's what it is. When we go to the stock room, right? You we can't store CN minus uh ions, right? Ions form ionic compounds with counter ions. So the cation, the potassium cation is the counter ion to the CN minus nucleifile that we want. But so we say KCN because that's what it is. We go to the stock room and we get the KCN pellets, right? And then we weigh how much we need and then we put them in there. But the potassium ions don't do any anything in solution, right? I mean at best they complex with the uh with the oxyanion on the leaving group, right? that they may have an interaction there but in terms of mechanistically they're not doing anything important but we just they're there right but so I do find that this is a confusion for a lot of students make sure that we know the difference between between KO and RO right KOH is ionic RO is covealent right so this is strong and this is weak Right? Because potassium hydroxide we have a hydroxide a negatively charged hydroxide ion. With an alcohol it's totally covealent. Right? There's no negative charge there. So that's a very it's a much weaker nucleophile or base. So uh yeah let's make sure we can recognize counter ions when we see them. H. Okay. So, I had a question about or somebody wanted to go over ALD doll and Michael Ald condensation and Michael edition. So, let's do that. So let's say we have a we have propanel and benzaldahhide. So and then we have uh and then we have strong base. Okay. So what we need to understand is that when we have a very strong base in solution with ketones and aldahhides, we have the potential to be doing enolate chemistry. There's a bunch of different kinds of enolate chemistry. Aldol condensation, Michael edition, Robinson annulation. Not right now, buddy. Uh Robinson annulation, uh clazin condensation. We got a bunch of stuff and there but they all proceed via uh enalization. we're going to form an enolate. So we have to understand that protons that are alpha to a carbonal are mildly acidic. Mildly acidic. So this is around pKa19. Uh and it is because it is alpha to the carbonial, right? Carbonial carbon alpha means one over. So here's the alphaarbon, right? That's the alphaarbon. So let's take uh the hydrox hydroxide and let's get that proton and let's go right here. And then let's kick that up there. We've got our enolate. Now, so here's our threecarbon enolate. And so remember, right, we got this alpha proton. We made the pi bond there. Kick that up there. Now enolates are sources of nucleophilic carbon and they attack other carbonial, right? because there's another uh I'll just draw the uh the other resonance structure here right the other resonance structure has a formal negative charge on the carbon on the alphaarbon right and so uh you can use that one in the mechanisms if you want I like to use the other one because it's more strongly contributing right the resonance structure with the oxyanion is more strongly contributing than the one with the carbanion because the oxygen can better accommodate the negative charge because it's more electrogative but that doesn't mean the other right the other uh the other resonance structure is contributing to the composite. So we have uh we have a situation where we have nucleophilic carbon and so the nucleophilic carbon can attack a carbonal and we've got benzaldahhide over here. Now I should make it clear that we enalyed the propanel not benzaldahhide because benzaldahhide is not enalyzable. There is no alpha proton. So this carbon right here is does not have any implied hydrogens, right? This is this is a benzene ring. So we've got uh three we have four bonds to other carbons. A single bond to one of them, a double bond to another, and then a fourth bond to the carbonial carbon. So there's no implied hydrogen on this carbon here. And then the aldahhide carbon is not acidic, right? It's an alpha proton, not the aldahhide proton, right? So this proton over here, that's that one is not acidic either, right? It's alpha proton. So um so that attacks there and we get so we did this. We made this bond. This is the new carbonarbon bond right here. Okay. And so a couple of things. Number one, we want to make sure when we are assembling the larger carbon skeleton, right? One fragment attacked another fragment. We don't want to gain or lose any carbon content, right? So we had a threecarbon aldahhide. One, two, three. And it was carbon 2 that did the attacking. One, two, three. Carbon 2 was the nucleophilic carbon that attacked the carbonial carbon. But we didn't whatever other carbon material is there, it better still be there. We're not going to break any carbonarbon bonds. So here's carbons 1 2 3. So this third carbon is tucked out of the way over there, but it we can't lose it, right? This is a very very frequent error that I see with students is that they'll forget that third carbon. They'll just lose it. Uh but make sure it's still there. Right? So count, you can number your carbons if you need to. But then carbon 2 attacked the carbonial carbon. So, this was the carbonial carbon. Carbon 2 attacked. And so, there's our new carboncarbon bond. We have a larger carbon skeleton now. Uh, and then let's just get uh we'll grab a proton from water. This is all aquous here. And uh we're in strongly basic conditions, so we can produce another hydroxil. That's fine. Uh we'll do that and that and get the hydroxil there. And then we can do uh base again. And if we heat it up a little bit, especially it's going to go this way. So we'll just we'll raise the temp a little bit. And the reason we're doing this is we have another alpha proton there, right? There were two alpha protons here. There were two implied hydrogens's over here. We got one of them, but there's one left. And so let's take this and get that last proton, that last alpha proton, and then we'll go here. And then we'll kick off the hydroxil because again in strongly basic conditions hydroxil is a legitimate leaving group that does work. And so that gives us our ald doll condensation product. So with al so this is the ald doll addition product right here where we have a beta it's a beta hydroxy aldahhide. So we have the carbonal and then in the alpha beta position, right? So here's the alpha position. Here's the beta position. We have a hydroxil on the beta position. That's the ald doll addition product. But the ald doll condensation. Condensation meaning we lose a water molecule. And by a water molecule I mean a proton plus a hydroxide. H+ plus O minus altogether is a water molecule. Right? The hydroxide grabs a proton. It'll produce a water. Right? And so the the the product of an ald doll condensation is uh we have a degree of alpha beta unsu alpha beta unsaturation here right here's the alphaarbon here's the beta carbon and here's a pi bond between the alpha and beta carbons relative to the carbonal. So this is what an ald doll condensation product looks like. Whatever carbonal was involved in enalization that carbonal reforms. So we that carbonial better be in the product and then we have a pi bond between the carbons that are alpha and beta with respect to the carbonial carbon. Okay. So if you're doing ald doll condensation there better be a carbonal in it because we're reforming the carbonal uh that was part of the the enolate. And then there has to be an alpha beta degree of unsaturation. Okay. So that's that. Uh yeah that's that's like a standard ald doll condensation. Let me see uh if I missed any questions. Oh yeah, Tommy has asked a pretty good question. So why does the alpha carbon act as the nucleophile? So um the thing is you would be like the product isn't as stable right if you had an oxygen attack you would have it would be uh like a it would be an acetal and uh an acetal right because you'd have oxygen carbon and then that carbon bound to another oxygen and so that's less stable because what can happen is it can it can then go in reverse right so probably in solution you might have that you might have the oxygen attacking the carbonial carbon but then when you produce the when you produce the acetal we have a strong tendency to go back right we can go back towards the uh the enolate whereas if you're producing a carbonarbon bond thermodynamically speaking that's much more stable so uh it's it's thermodynamics I think that drives it that way I I would I would go with Okay. All right. Okay. So, uh, and then somebody asked about Michael edition. So, let's just quickly do that, too. Okay. So, let's use the same one here. And then let's use this guy. And let's give that a benzene ring too. Why not? So notice now we have uh two carbonial containing compounds. One of them already has an alpha beta degree of unsaturation on it. So uh again we can enalize and we're not going to enalize over here because yet again we don't have a situation. So on one side there is no alpha proton. Over here there is an alpha proton but it's not enalyizable because if you were to grab this one and try to put a pi bond there you would end up with accumulated dyene. You'd have a carbonarbon double bond adjacent to a carbonarbon double bond and that's not really a good situation. So it's much much more favorable to enalyze over here at the uh at the propanel. So let's go here. Let's go here. Let's go here. And so here is our uh enolate. And now this is where it's different. This is where Michael addition is different from ald doll condensation uh because it is a 14 addition. And so what that means is now uh without going and drawing the resonance structure just imagine there's a resonance structure where this is like that right and that would leave a formal positive charge on this terminal carbon and so think about the electron deficiency of this terminal carbon that electron deficiency makes it a very electrophilic site also because of sterox right it's more accessible because it's the edge of the molecule so electronics plus sterox makes this this the best uh spot to for the enolate to attack and so we get this. So the enolate reforms and that goes there that goes there. Okay. So here is the bond that we formed in the Michael edition. So once again we had a threecarbon aldahhide one two three one two three. It is the alpha carbon that attacks. So the third carbon better still be there. And then over here it attacked this edge carbon which pushed the pi bond here which pushed the carb the pi bond in the carbonal up there. Okay. So, there's the new pi bond. Now, let's go ahead and uh protetonate. Let's get water in there. Stop it. Uh, yep. This is going to get that and and I'm going to draw this like this so that you can see what I'm going to do next. And then the last thing here is called uh I'll write it Let's go like this torization. So the last step in the Michael edition is torization. And a tomization is a kind of enalization where we are converting between what are called the enol and keto forms. So this is the enol form because it it's an enol because it's an enol, right? We have a hydroxil on a carbon that is also participating in a double bond in a carbonarbon double bond. So it's an alken alcohol enol and we're going to convert it's going to isomerize to the keto form because of thermodynamics. And what that means is that uh this pi bond will get that and then this will form the carbonal and uh this happens. It's concerted. It's totally concerted. And so we'll end up with this. We end up with the die own. And so a couple things here. We have it's a a one one two three four uh a one four addition. And so one4 addition meaning that carbon one is the carbon that did the attacking and the new oxygen containing functional group is on carbon 4 1 2 3 4 and so uh alpha beta gamma delta we have uh it is on the delta carbon so it's a don we're going to have uh we have to have two carbonals and they have to have precisely this spatial relationship okay so they can't be this other ketone can't be on carbon 2 can't be on carbon 3. It's got to be on carbon 4. And the reason for this very precise spatial relationship is because of this alpha beta degree of unsaturation. Right? There's an alpha uh sorry that's not the right alpha here, beta here. Uh this alpha beta degree of unsaturation relative to the original carbonal. That is what makes this terminal carbon, the beta carbon, the electrophilic site, the site that the that the enolate is going to attack, right? That is the most electrondeicient site. It's more readily accessible than the carbonial carbon even, right? It's going to be more better to attack there. So the enolate attacks at the beta carbon and that that is where this regiochemistry is locked in, right? That's where we end up with this new carboncarbon bond and then we protetonate to get the enol and then torization to get the the keto form. And so that's really just about bond enalpies. So what we're saying is that um the uh uh covealent bonds between uh so polar covealent bonds are more energetically favorable than non-polar coalent bonds. So more uh CO bonds brings it to a lower energy. There's a premium on getting a carbonal over a CC pi bond. So here we have a CC sigma bond and a CC pi bond. But it'll be better thermodynamically if we have a CO sigma bond and a CO pi bond. That ends up bringing the system to a lower energy. So this is thermodynamically driven. Uh almost always the the keto toimer is favored. There are exceptions. uh there are situations where like say if the enol toimer is aromatic then uh the ketoimeter would break aromaticity so that's not better so in in such a rare exception the enol toimer actually is more energetically favorable um and will dominate but uh but this is not that case so it will torize to the keto form this is your standard Michael edition product it is a4 edition and it is a die own it is a die own so we two uh well actually no this isn't a dione because this is a this is an aldahhide on this side so it's but it's two carbonial right so this could be an aldahhide or a ketone this could actually also be an aldahhide or ketone but we have two carbonial in with this spatial relationship and that's your Michael addition so ald doll condensation you have uh you you get back that first carbonal and then you have an alpha beta degree of unsaturation in the Michael edition there is no unsaturation because that pi bond gets becomes the CH sigma bond and we get the keto toimer. So you have the the dicarbonal you have a dicarbonial compound as the Michael addition product. Okay. Um okay let's see what I missed. Uh, where am I? Where am I? Tommy assessed, what is the percent yield of this reaction? Uh, this is totally hypothetical, right? You'd have to measure you'd have to measure your product at the end, right? You'd have to know the mass the mass of your starting material and the mass of the product that you collect. Uh uh leaving group question. Yeah, I I did uh I did cover that uh a little bit earlier. Um okay. Uh Jay asks if this is AP level chemistry. No, this is uh uh organic chemistry 1. So typically sophomore year undergraduate uh chemistry. Okay, cool. Uh, all right. So, let's erase this. Uh, hopefully that was helpful. Uh, I am absolutely happy to cover any reactions or mechanisms that you guys want, even if they're not on the material that I prepared. So, I hope that was helpful. Now, let's do the one that I have here. The one that I was planning on doing. Uh, let's erase all this. Okay. So, going back a little bit here. Um, let's go back to uh substitution and elimination as well as cycllohexane chairs. So, we want to draw the product of the following transformation. Now, what are we what are we thinking here? We've got uh we've got ethoxide which is strong. So if it's strong, we're thinking E2 or SN2. Right now, can we do substitution? We're probably not going to get a lot of substitution here because the uh the ethyl group is providing a little bit of steric hindrance and then we have a secondary substrate, but there is beta branching on both sides. So sterically there might be there might be trace SN2 but I don't think we're going to be getting very much SN2. So we're going to do E2. Okay, this is going to be an E2 reaction. Now the thing is when you're doing E2 on a cycllohexane derivative, you must must must draw the chair. You have to draw the chair so that you can see which protons are available for beta elimination. So let's draw this out here. Now I'm going to take this edgemost carbon here as being the one with the bromine and the bromine is up. So there's my leaving group and I'm doing that. Uh now you could draw both chairs. Uh I'm just going to draw the one the relevant chair. And the relevant chair is the one that has the leaving group in the axial position. Right? You h the leaving group must be axial. uh and so must be the proton being eliminated. Uh so let me finish drawing this chair. Uh so if we go clockwise we have a methyl down. So one carbon clockwise we have a methyl down and then counterclockwise we have an ethl up. So here is our here is our ethl up. I'll just do that. Now where where are the beta protons? So we have a beta proton here and we have a beta proton here. Now as I was saying the uh the in order for for beta elimination to proceed we must have the proton being extracted and the leaving group they must be anti-parplaner. they must be anti-paraplaner because what is happening is you we're forming a pi bond and pi bonds occur when you have lateral overlap of unhybridized p orbitals. So if we're going from sp3 hybrid hybrid atomic orbitals to sp2 hybrid atomic orbitals we're liberating some p orbitals and then those have to be parallel. They have to align and overlap. So they can't, right? A a pi bond can't happen if the loes of the p orbitals are not are not parallel, right? If they're pointed like this, they can't overlap. They have to be like this. And so the only way that's going to work is if they are antiparaplaner. And in order for two groups on a cycllohexane ring to be antiparaplaner, they have to be axial. Right? And so I I won't draw the Newman projection, but if you were to look down that bond, the bromine and the proton would be would be anti, right? The bromine would be here and the proton would be here. 180° bond angle. They're anti- with respect to each other. They have to be anti- because the because the electron density that is going to form the pi bond, those p orbitals need to be parallel, right? So that's the only configuration that works. And so the reason that we had to draw the chair was to realize that this proton is not going to work. That proton is not available for beta elimination because it is not axial and it is not anti- to the leaving group. So we are not going to get the proton here. We're not going to get this proton. There's only one proton available for beta elimination and it's going to be this one. So let's go ahead and get that proton. And then these electrons will form the pi bond and then kick off the leaving group. And then now going back to our top down view. We have uh the pi bond here. We have the ethyl group is now planer. And then nothing happened to that methyl group. No chemistry was done there. It is still an sp3 carbon. The methyl is still on the dash bond. And that is going to be our product. So what did we do? So now if we were over here and we were just looking top down, we would think, all right, I have two protons available for beta elimination. And we might even lean towards getting this one because it's a little bit more available sterically. It's it's on a carbon with a methyl rather than an ethyl. So we might have gone that way but that would have been wrong. We will get none of that product. So this is not even about a distribution. This is not about regious selectivity one more than the other. We will get none of the product with this proton being extracted. It's not going to go because there's no way to get that proton antiparaplaner to the leaving group. So we we cannot form the pi bond there. It won't go. So, we had to draw the chair and we and again, if you drew both you it I encourage you to draw both chairs. Um, but if you can just draw one, that's fine. I just drew one because I knew I was going to put the bromine up and axial because I know that that I need my leaving group axial. And then once I have the bromine, I know where the other groups are going to go, right? The methyl was down and the ethl was up. And so that showed me that I had just one beta proton available. Uh, and so we extracted that one, put put in the pi bond, kicked off the bromine, and that's that. So this is sp2. This is an sp2 carbon. So that ethel is planer in the plane of the screen. Uh, this one's sp2, right? This one is sp3. So we do have to still show the tetrahedral geometry there. No chemistry occurred there. It was the methyl was on a dash bond. It remains on a dash bond. No chemistry happened there. So that's a little bit E2 on cyclic systems, right? E2 on cycllohexane derivatives. There's just a little bit more work to do because you have to check the chair to see where what is going on, which protons are available, that sort of thing. Okay, let's see what I missed. Uh so Jakamo asks why does it have to be axial? So a proton that is uh that is uh that is um that is equatorial is is anti to the rest of the ring. So the the reason that the cycllohexane chair is so stable, right, or why the equatorial position is stable, right, we're looking if you you could draw a Newman projection for any carboncarbon bond. And so the point here is that you need the leaving group to be anti- to the proton being extracted so that the p orbitals can overlap to form the pi bond. And the equatorial positions can the equatorial position can never be anti to to any other substituent because it's anti to the ring itself. Right? So we're not going to be able to form a pi bond from that position. Uh because it's not going to be able to do that. Uh yeah or actually sorry would be this. Yeah. It's anti to the rest of the ring. uh gammaite this is organic chemistry one sophomore year undergrad uh Sanj yes it's beta hydrogen it is uh so it's uh so if this is the group in question then we're saying this uh yeah this uh yeah this is alpha and then this is beta this is alpha to the broine this carbon is beta to the bromine and the hydrogen is on the beta carbon. So, it is beta beta proton. Okay, let's uh move on. A little bit of nomenclature. Why not, right? So, we have an alken and uh there are no other substituents other than alkaalle. And so, we're going to number the carbon chain so as to give the double bond occurring soonest. So, should we First of all, we have the longest carbon chain. That's very easy because we just have one methyl group there. There's nothing to really think about there. Now, are we going to number this carbon chain left to right or right to left? Well, we want the carbon ch the the double bond occurring soonest. So, we're going to go one, two, three, four, five, six, 7. So, we have a heptine. Um and then all that's left is we have to name uh this any substituents and here we only have one. So this is going to be three methyl right first we list the substituents and then we need to uh say where the double bond is occurring otherwise it would be ambiguous right we need to state where the double bond begins. So this is three heptine. Uh also acceptable is three methyl hept three. Uh I like to do it the original way. I think I think more and more classes are going this way uh these days. But I don't know. I just like three heptine, right? We know that I I like to keep heptine together. Anyway, they're identical. They're both acceptable. Uh so we identified the longest carbon chain, numbered it right to left to give the uh the double bond occurring soonest. It begins on carbon 3 as opposed to 1 2 3 4 starting on four if we numbered from the other way. Uh we found that there was a methyl on carbon 3. List the substituent first. three methyl and then three heptine or heep en uh yeah visual says it can only happen on the ethyl carbon because of the paraplan or hydrogen yes so uh this is the only proton that was available for elimination because it's the only one that's axial when the bromine is axial right when the bromine is axial this pro this proton is axial This one's equatorial, so not available. So that's why uh Okay. Uh McKenzie, no. It could not be two ethl 2 hexene because we need the longest carbon chain, right? We will always look for the longest carbon chain. the longest carbon chain possible will be the parent chain. And so if we have a sevencarbon chain possible, the sixcarbon chain will not be the parent chain. Okay. Uh okay, let's do probably one more. Yeah, let's do one more. Oh, E or Z. Ah, thank you. Yeah, Jakamo says, "Are we going to add E or Z?" Yeah, why not? Right. So, uh how do we do that? We have um if we want to do absolute configuration, here are the two bonds participating in the uh in the uh in the pi bond. And now uh there are two groups connected to each carbon participating in the double bond. We need to assign the higher priority uh which one of them is higher priority over the other. And so over here uh that will be this over the hydrogen. And then over here that will be this over the methyl. And so that's done by coningled pre-log convention just like when we're assigning RNS. And so uh the carbon beats hydrogen. So that wins already. So again, we're not looking at a whole group. We're just looking at one atom at a time. So carbon versus hydrogen uh by atomic number. Carbon wins. So that goes. Then over here, carbon and carbon tie. So we have to see what carbon the each carbon is is attached to. This carbon is attached to hydrogen hydrogen. Hydrogen. This carbon is attached to hydrogen hydrogen carbon. Carbon beats hydrogen. So this direction wins. Now uh then you take the you think of a line going through the pi bond and then if the two higher priority groups are on opposite sides then it's e. Uh so here right this is the higher priority group. This is the higher priority group. They're on opposite sides of the plane containing the double bond. If they were on the same side it would be z. And you would remember that because z same side. So this one's e. But if let's say the methyl was here and the ethl was going up that way, it would be Z and we would just put a Z there. Uh, yes, thank you for reminding me. EZ, absolute configuration. If you are naming an alken, you're going to want to put that in there. Okay. All right. One more. Let's do this. What reagents will achieve the following transformation? So this is something that students a lot of students panic on right and so uh what what do we want to talk about here? We've got a fourcarbon uh no five carbon alkine and then we have a 1 2 3 four five six sevencarbon alken. Okay. So how did we go? There's no other functionality here. These are hydrocarbons. There's no hydroxils. There's no uh H hallogens. What did we do? How did we do this? Okay. Now, there's one reaction that we need to keep in mind when we're looking at uh alkyes. Okay. With alkyes, we have to understand that the terminal proton is just barely acidic enough to be extracted. um it's pKa around 25 I believe which is certainly not acidic but if you have a very strong base like sodomid so nanh2 NH2 minus is a very very strong base it's so strong a base in fact that its conjugate acid NH3 ammonia is a base right so it's a very very strong case and it is so strong that it will grab this terminal proton and we're going to leave the carban ion on that alkyal carbon. So that gets us to here. Okay, so it doesn't look any different except that the implied hydrogen is not there anymore. There is no implied hydrogen and we have a negative charge. So that that terminal alkinal carbon is has a formal negative charge. It has three bonds to uh this other carbon in the triple bond and a lone pair right so five five electrons one more than typical veence of four formal negative charge now this is a great SN2 nucleophile and if we have a carbon nucleophile we can add more carbon content so it's easy to make a carbon containing electrophile right all you need to do is make something make an SN2 substrate something that can be attacked by a nucleophile It's harder to get a carbon nucleophile. And so if we want to add two carbons, what should we do? Let's just have this attack ethyl bromide. That's a very easy standard uh thing here. So let's go boom boom. And after that we will have this. The triple bond is still there, but we added two carbons, right? Uh plus broomemide. So uh now we have a 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 carbon alkine and we want to go to the sevencarbon alken but is the alken E or Z? It's an E, right? So we're we know that we can reduce alkyes to alkenes but there are different sets of reactions, right? If we want to do a hydrogenation of an alkine, there's a few different things that we can do. We can uh do hydrogenation over platinum metal, but that's going to go all the way to the alkan. We don't want that. We want the alken, and we want the e alkine. You can do Lindler's catalyst, but that goes to the Z. So, that's no good. Uh, but what if we do uh sodium and liquid aluminum? That is going to get us to the E. So, that you kind of have to have memorized. It is important to have memorized your conditions for reducing an alkine to either an alkan or an Ealkkan or a Zalkine. Uh so that's hydrogenation over platinum metal. Uh yeah, hydrogen gas over platinum metal, Lindler's catalyst or sodium and liquid ammonia. Uh in this case, the third is the one that we wanted because we're going from the alkine, the alkine to the E alkine. So we uh we looked at our terminal alkine. This only works with a terminal alkine, not an internal one because you it has to have that proton on there. And then we used a very strong base, extracted that terminal alkyal proton, got the alkinal nucleophile, the carbanion there, had that attack just ethyl bromide, simple SN2 uh so that we could attach that additional twocarbon fragment on there and then we did our reduction to get the E alen. So that is that one. We will stop there. Let me just make sure there's no other questions. Yeah, that's fine. So, uh yeah, that is it. So, for today, uh we've got just a couple more of these. Once again, I'm I'm uh working with CHEG to bring you Organic Chemistry 1 office hours every Tuesday at 5:00 p. p.m. Pacific time. uh next week only we are going to be live exclusively on the CHEG website. So it will not be livereamed here. If you've been enjoying these uh study sessions throughout the semester, please join us next week on the CHEG website. It will be exclusively there and you do have to log into the website to view it. So uh that will be next week. After that there will be a few more over here on my channel live streamed just as all the rest have been. But otherwise uh I will see you on the CHEG website next