Uh hi everyone. We are back with uh some more office hours uh with Czech. We are going over organic chemistry 1 uh every Tuesday at 5:00 pm PST. And uh and uh so yeah, go ahead and check out the uh the uh QR code on the top left. You want if you want to see uh all the different uh topics that CHEG is offering office hours for. Uh there there's all kinds of math and other things uh right here. We will be focusing on organic chemistry 1. We've got the chat open. So if you want to uh ask some questions, I'll be happy to try to address them. Uh please keep them organic chemistry 1 oriented. Uh you can ask a question based on the problems that I've brought uh to to uh to review with you guys or you can feel free to ask something else uh organic chemistry 1 that's not what I'm talking about. if it's something that I can uh that I can address, uh I will do so. Uh so let's go ahead and check this out. There's uh something's looking a little bit funny. I'm not sure why this is red. Um can you guys I don't know why that's is that showing up red there. If that's showing up red to everybody, maybe I will actually just really quick quit this and relaunch it. Uh hopefully it will show up better at this time. Uh yeah, let me do that and share again. Let's make sure that pops up. That is showing up red. Um I have no idea why that looks that way. Uh let me just kind of correspond. Okay. Uh can just uh everybody in the chat are you seeing this uh does this is this showing up normally for you guys? Can everyone just let me know if you're seeing it? Uh, as we tend to uh see everything on my screen, it's just looking uh just like bold red and very difficult to read. So, if I can just get confirmation from people in the chat that it is looks normal. Okay, if it looks normal to you guys, then that's fine with me. Okay, so let's go ahead and get started. Now uh for a few weeks now everybody has been asking me uh to look at some spectroscopy and obviously that is a very big topic. So the first time organic chemistry 1 students uh are are exposed to NMR it's incredibly confusing. It just you see these spectra and it's just what is this? What am I looking at? What's going on? So let's do a really quick introduction to NMR. I'm going to give you just the very basics of how you're going to interpret an NMR spectrum. So when we're looking at an NMR a proton NMR spectrum, so this is H1, right? We're talking about proteium nuclei are forming these are are generating this data, these resonances. And so there's three things that we're looking at on the NMR spectrum. So we're talking about uh chemical shift. So that is the position on the horizontal axis of the spectrum. So uh ppm right we're looking at one two three four five to the left is downfield to the right is upfield. So where the resonance sits on the horizontal axis. That is one bit of information there. Then number two we're looking at integration. How tall is the peak? Or technically we're talking about the area under the peak. It's exactly like integration from calculus, but just crudely speaking, how tall is the peak? That gives us some information. And then third, we're talking about splitting. So, you have a resonance. How many smaller individual peaks is that resonance broken up into? So, for example, so this is a this is an overlay. This is this one blown up here. So, right here at around 2 ppm, this is just uh this is this right there, right? And it's just blown up. So, we can see the splitting pattern. This is a dlet because it's two smaller peaks. And then over here we have a quadruplet. Okay. And so uh that is some other information. So chemical shift where it is on the x-axis, integration, how tall it is, and splitting pattern, how many smaller peaks is it is it broken up into. So that's the information that we're going to be looking at here. And what we need to understand is that we have sets of chemically equivalent protons. and chemically equivalent protons which are typically the protons on the same carbon. Sometimes protons on the same carbon will be inequivalent but usually and certainly for these examples they are equivalent. Those will contribute to a particular resonance that will be integrated to however many protons there they are. So if one proton is generating a resonance it'll be integrated to one. If two two three three etc. So the taller the peak, the larger the peak, the more protons are going towards generating that resonance. For chemical shift, we're talking about how close those protons are to an electronegative group. So electronegative groups like hallogens and oxygen atoms are dshielding. So they withdraw electron density towards themselves. So they're withdrawing electron density away from the nuclei of of of those hydrogen atoms of those protons. And that is a desshielding effect. And that causes that resonance to show up further down field. So the closer the groups, the closer the protons are to the electrogative element, the farther to the left they're going to show up on the spectrum. And then finally, the splitting pattern has to do with neighboring protons. So however many protons are on carbons next to the protons in question, you add those up and plus one. It's the N plus1 rule. So for uh doulets, if you if you have a doulet, that means those protons are adjacent to one proton because 1 plus 1 is two. If you have a quadruplet, it means that those protons are adjacent to three protons because 3+ 1 is four. Quadruplet. So those are the three things that we need to us to to examine the most simple NMR spectra. And this is just the ground floor, right? Once you get this, then the rest is just additional rules on top. But this is all you need to go from the total confusion of what the heck am I looking at to just a very general like okay I think I kind of understand this. So we want to understand which alkaochloride matches this NMR spectrum. So what we can do is we can show all of the protons on these compounds and we can make predictions about what kind of uh what kind of a spectrum we ought to see. So for example here we've got two implied protons. We've got two implied hydrogens's here and we've got two implied hydrogens's here. So, how many how many uh how many resonances would we expect to find? Where where are the chemically equivalent protons? Well, due to the symmetry of this molecule, these ones all four of those are one uh are one uh resonance and then this these two are another one. So we would expect to see two peaks. Uh these ones would be split into a triplet because these protons are are all adjacent to a carbon with two protons on it. So So what it is is this hydrogen right here we sees two protons next door. So N is two, N + one is three. So the resonance would be split into a triplet. And then this proton sees the same thing. So that it's integrated higher. This proton sees the same thing. So it's integrated higher. This proton sees the same thing. So it's integrated higher. So we would expect to see a triplet that is integrated to four. So we would expect to see let's call this a 3H triplet. And then over here we would expect to see uh we would expect to see a quintet or honestly around splitting into five or more peaks. We start to just call it a multiplet. And uh we would expect to see have that integrated to two. And so uh so we're going to have a 2H multiplate. Okay. And uh which one would we expect to be more downfield? Uh the one that is closer to the dshielding group, the more electrogative group. So these protons are closer to a chlorine atom to different chlorine atoms, but still they're adjacent to a chlorine atom. So that is going to be more downfield. And then this one is going to be more upfield. Okay. So that is what we would expect to see. Multiplate up field, triplet downfield. So that doesn't seem like it matches too well, but let's keep going. Let's keep let's see what else we have here. So what about this one? We've got one, two, three protons on that methyl. And then right here, we have just one implied hydrogen, right? So what are the groups? Well, obviously it's just going to be these three will be one. And then this guy will be a different resonance. Now what will we expect to see? So these guys will be integrated to three because there's three of them. And it will create a dlet, right? Because they see one proton next door. 1 + 1 is two. Double it. So integrate to 3H and double it. Okay. And uh and uh so we'll talk about the the the chemical shift in a second. This one we will expect a quartet because we've got three next door. And so 3 + 1 is four quartet and it'll be integrated to one. So we have a 1H quartet. And which one will be the furthest the the one that's further down field? That will be this one here because it's right immediately adjacent. It's on the same carbon that is bound to these two chlorines. Not one but two. So it's actually going to be quite dshielded. So that will be downfield and then this one will be more upfield. Now I'm just putting D and U. I'm just saying that one is more downfield and one is more upfield. I'm just comparing those two. That's all I'm doing with that. Okay. So now let's check this out. We've got H. We've got H. And then we've got just one implied hydrogen right there. So here all of these methyl protons are equivalent right and then just this oops just this one proton will be the second one and so here we'll have six this one is integrated to six and it'll be a dlet so that's a 6H dlet and then this one will be a very very it'll be a messy multiplate, right? It'll be split into many many peaks because this proton sees six protons next door. 6 + 1 is seven. So about seven tiny peaks and it'll be integrated to one. So a 1H multiplate and the this one will be more downfield and this one will be more upfield because this one is immediately adjacent to the chlorine atom. So that's that one. And then lastly, we have uh H. Sorry, it's getting a little it's getting a little crowded there. Uh, we've got three protons there. We've got one proton there. We've got two protons there. We've got three protons here. Now, these will all be different actually. So, we've got this methyl here. We've got this individual one there. We've got these two here. And we've got these three here. So this is the only one that even just by looking at the number of peaks, we know it doesn't work. This one would have four peaks. There's two peaks there. We don't even have to go over the splitting and all that stuff. We know that this is definitely not the case. The other ones all have two peaks. So now we have to compare what we the predictions we just made to the data that we have here. So first we have uh we have a double and we have a and we have a quartet. So, well, that already is going to tell us that it's probably this one here. Let's make sure that the integration and the and the chemical shift also match though, right? Because what we're doing is we're building a case for the identification, the charact the characterization of this molecule, right? All of the data must agree. So, if you have splitting, that looks good. Great. Chemical shift, that looks good. Awesome. Uh integration, that also looks good. If all of that data agree, uh, then that is a very strong case for that being the right structure for the molecule. So, uh, so the splitting pattern looks good. Let's look at chemical shift. We're seeing that the dlet is more upfield and the quartet is more downfield. Well, that looks good, right? The quartet is more downfield and the double is more upfield. That looks good. And then how about the integration? Uh, this the quartet is integrated to one and the double is integrated to three. So the double should be much bigger. should be a bigger peak and it is right. The double is much bigger. This is a smaller peak. So that all looks good and definitely this is going to be the right one. So uh so this is this is the uh this is the structure. It got a little crowded over there. So uh so that's it, right? Um, and so once again, hopefully if you are very very confused by even just the first step of how to look at an NMR spectrum, once again, this is it, right? We're looking at chemical shift, integration, and splitting pattern. Those are the three things that you're going to do to identify to, you know, to to correlate a particular organic molecule to a spectrum. And this is sufficient for organic chemistry one, right? It's not going to get to it definitely gets much much harder as you go further in chemistry. uh gets dramatically more complicated to interpret, but it's all based on these same principles, right? There's some other coupling constants and some other things that that crop up, but this is kind of the basics here. So, uh that's it for NMR. Um let's see if we missed anything. Uh Jordan asked if I can explain optical activity at some point. Uh so just very very briefly optical uh something that is opt uh something that is optically active is chyal. So if it is chyal it is optically active. So if a molecule is chyal it has an anantimer it is optically active that means it rotates plain polarized light. So if you have a recemic mixture a recemic mixture is not optically active because plain polarized light will pass through the sample. Half of the molecules will be rotating it one direction. The other half will be rotating at the other direction because they're mirror images. So the net effect is that there's no rotation of plain polarized light. So that sample is not optically active. It's also not optically active if it's not chyal. So if something is not chyal, it won't rotate plain polarized light. It won't be optically active. Or if it is chyal but it exists as a recemic mixture, then it will be not optically active. If instead it is chyal and it is inantiomely pure uh then it will be optically active and it will rotate plain polarized light to some extent and we can use that angle to make assessments about the optical purity of a sample. If we know that an optically pure sample will rotate plain polarized light clockwise 60° or whatever it is and the optical activity of a sample is 40° or something like that. That's information that we can use to tell us about the the distribution of of isomers in there. We can tell that it's most that it's it's more of one isomer than the other. It's not a recemic mixture, but it's not an anti-meric pure. Otherwise, it would be all the way to 60. So, a little less means some of the other inantimer is in there. So, uh that's just really briefly what optical activity means. Thanks all you guys for letting me know it's normal. It still looks weird on my end. I don't know why that is, but uh as long as you guys see it, that is fine. Um uh yeah. No. Uh not Strand asks, "How do I determine chyal centers in a molecule?" So chyal centers in a molecule, we're just looking at carbon atoms that have four different groups attached to them. So for example, this right here is a chyro center because that carbon has uh CH3 CH2CH3 O and H four different groups it's a chyal center and if there if a molecule has only one chyal center it is certainly a chyal molecule. Uh, okay. Let's see. Oh. Uh, Joofi says, "Can we look into pKa and pH and p?" Uh, so that's that's really gen material. Um, so we tend not to focus too too much on that. But yeah, I mean pKa, we can talk about like the pKa of individual protons on a compound. So the lower the pKa, the more acidic a proton uh, and the more likely it is to be extracted in an acid base reaction. pH and pH pH and p are the negative log of the hydrronium concentration and hydroxide concentration respectively. That's just telling you the acidity or basicity of a solution. So, uh just really briefly, the one takeaway is that pKa corresponds to an individual molecule and actually in particular a particular proton on the molecule. Different protons on a molecule have different pKa. Uh, and pH and p correspond with solutions, not molecules. So, a molecule can't have a p ph pH. A molecule has a pKa. A solution can't have a pKa. A solution has a pH or a p. So, that's maybe the main that's the key distinction there. Um, Val asks, "How do I identify what is a strong nucleophile and what's a strong base? I know they're related, but I don't know how or why." So yes, obviously basicity parallels nucleophalicity. So things that are good nucleophiles tend to be things that have formal negative charges or at least lone pairs. And those are things that uh can can pick up a proton in an acid base reaction. So there's different reasons why something might be uh a better nucleophile than a base. For example, uh if you're looking at uh oxyan ions, if you're looking at minus versus s minus, S minus is still a very good nucleophile because uh it has a formal negative charge, but it's not a very strong base because it's so much bigger than minus. It's it's one down. It's an analog. It's one down in the group of the calcens. And so because it's so much bigger, the negative charge is more stabilized. it's diffuse diffused around a larger volume. So, it's not as basic, but it remains a good nucleophile because it has a formal negative charge. So, things like ionic radius, right? That's that's one factor that would start to nudge something more towards nucleophilic behavior than than acting as a base. But in general, nucleophilicity parallels basicity. So, that is true. Uh uh lesson notes. Danny asks about mass spectrum and IR spectrum. I do have an IR spectrum in this presentation, so we'll get to that. Mass spectrum. I don't have one on here, but I'll try to remember that for next week. Uh Jen, Jupiter, uh chair and boat. Uh so chair and boat uh and half chair and a few others. Those are all different uh those are all different confirmations of cycllohexane. So cycllohexane looks like this from the top down view. Uh but from the side view the most energetically favorable uh confirmation is the chair. And so the reason this is the most favorable confirmation is because it allows uh number one for all of the uh for all of the uh bonds all of the carbons exhibit perfect tetrahedral geometry with 109.5 degree bonding angles. whereas other confirmations uh tend to uh tend to put some strain on it. Uh and then second all these are all staggered interactions. All of the carbon the the carbons in the in the ring uh are are they have staggered confirmations with respect to each other as opposed to eclipsing confirmations as they do in um in some other ones. So the boat is sorry the chair is just the lowest energy confirmation for cycllohexane. Uh I have uh some questions on that, a bunch of those in the first two, three, four weeks of these. So if you go to my live tab and go a bit earlier, uh I do a bunch of stuff on cycllohexane chairs because those are super important. Uh uh hard to Yeah. Uh I says I think a pH is the number of hydrogen atoms in a given solution. Uh kind of it's so it's pH is the negative log of the hydrronium concentration. So hydrronium is H30+ and pH is the negative log of that. So it's a way of expressing hydrronium concentration which is kind of like proton concentration just in numbers that are are easier. So instead of 10 to the6 it's just six. So it's easier to express and talk about uh and so no it's actually a wandering traveler. It's the opposite. A higher pH means a lower hydrronium concentration because of the way that logs work. Uh so yeah, the lower the pH, the greater the hydrronium concentration. Yeah, that's how pH works. Uh Andrew asks, how do you determine if an ion is a better leaving group compared to another ion? So uh there would be a couple of different trends. Number one would be ionic radius. So f the fluo group, fluoride is a bad leaving group. Chloride is better. Broomemide is even better. iota is even better uh because of the radius right as you go down the the H hallogen group they're you're adding shells and so as they get bigger right when an iotto group leaves it becomes the iodide ion the iodide ion is very stable because it's so big relatively speaking compared to the other h hallogens so it's a much larger volume it can diffuse that negative charge it can spread that negative charge around a greater volume so it can very easily accom accommodate that. So the I the iodide ion is so stable that an iodo group is an excellent leaving group. It's also the same reason that hydrootic acid is such an incredibly strong acid because the iodide ion is so incredibly stable on its own. So that would be oh and then there are other things like uh if there's resonance involved if a if a fragment leaves and then the charge can be uh distributed around by resonance that is it. um the mathematician, how do you determine that is the lowest energy? I assume you're talking about the chair confirmation. So, we're talking about uh uh chemical potential energy. So, the more that you push like charges together, the higher that goes in potential energy. It's like taking two magnets of like charge and pushing them together, right? If you it takes energy to push them together. So, you're you're you're supplying the energy and that brings the system to a higher energy. If you let go of the magnets, they go like that, right? They push each other away. And as they're pushing each other away, that potential energy is being converted into kinetic energy of motion. So, uh, higher in potential energy, when you let go, they go like that. And the and the so the potential energy comes down, right? Same with molecules. That's what dictates molecular geometry. When you have a central atom and a bunch of groups sticking off that uh they're spreading out as much as possible in threedimensional space because that's what brings it to the lowest potential energy. Right? The they all have electron clouds. Every atom has has an electron cloud surrounding it. Those are all repelling each other. So they all spread out as much as possible. And then it's the same with cycllohexane chair. It there's other confirmations for cycllohexane but it involves pushing the electron clouds closer together. And then there's torsional strain, angle, you know, angle strain, all these different things. But, uh, yeah, so that's that's what we're talking about. We're talking about potential energy there. Um, do we get into uh, yeah, wandering travel? Do we get into other NMR like cozy spectra, cozy and nosy spectra? So, that's very advanced. uh that would be studied in like a thirdyear uh spectroscopy exclusive spectroscopy course. So uh I won't talk about that here. We're doing organic chemistry 1. So we're not going to get any more complex than this very uh entry level NMR here. Uh yeah. Okay. So yeah, that's good. So NMR is a big topic. It's one of the topics that students panic the most about with OKAM. Um so just but just getting your feet wet getting the basics down about chemical shift uh integration splitting that is going to go a long way. Okay so let's move on from NMR. Uh last time I said that we were going to dive into electrophilic aromatic substitution. This is another extremely important class uh uh reaction class here. There are many different um uh EAS reactions and so we need to know them. Uh many many of them are just kind of uh flashcard reactions. So you need to uh you need to be able to do two things. You need to be able to look at the reaction conditions and know what is happening what the transformation is. So for example these are the conditions for nitration by electrophilic aromatic substitution. So what that means is you have an aromatic molecule like benzene. Benzene being the classic aromatic molecule and we're nitrating it means we're adding a nitro group to it. So NO2 is going to get on the ring. But here's the thing. We've got a hydroxal group. This is a phenol. This is phenol. So if we have a hydroxil on there, where does the NO2 go, right? Because we're going to get there are different structural isomers that are possible depending on the spatial relationship between the hydro the hydroxil and the nitro group. So are there is there a preference? Is there any regio selectivity here? Is is there regio selectivity? There absolutely is. And so we have to uh understand that some groups are orthoperarirectors and some groups are metadirectionirectors. So hydroxils are orthoperadirectionirectors. So what does that mean? So here this is the ipso position. The the ipso position is the carbon that bears the group in question. So the ipso the ipso position bears the hydroxal. Adjacent to that is ortho. Uh let me do this in red. So this is the ortho position. This is the meta position and this is the para position. So an orthopera director a hydroxal group is an orthoperad director. It's going to direct any incoming electrophile to the ortho or para position. So we will get very very little meta substitution. But the nitro group in this case is going to go there's the hydroxil. We are going to get some at the ortho and we will get a mixture here. We're going to get a fair amount of both ortho and parah substitution. Uh we will probably this will probably dominate the ortho will dominate simply because there are two ortho positions and only one para position. So purely statistically speaking the number of collisions that occur there will be more collisions occurring at the ortho position than the parah position because there's two of them and there's only one parah. Um steric sterics are another factor but here the hydroxil is not does not provide a lot of steric hindrance. Uh if it was a big bulky alkaalle fragment then you would start to see a dramatic shift towards the paraproduct in the distribution but here it's not. So this is going to be I don't know 7030 something like that. I'm not sure exactly what it is but it's probably going to be more of the ortho than the parah. So what did we have to do? We have to know this is EAS. We have to look at these conditions nitric acid and sulfuric acid. We know those are the conditions for nitration meaning we're adding a nitro group NO2. And we have to know that hydroxils are orthopera directors. So the orthopera director is going to direct the incoming electrophile to the ortho and or para position. Now really quickly one thing that we have to understand is that when we're looking at orthoparadctors we do not care what the incoming electrophile is. It does not matter that the incoming electrophile is a nitro group. It doesn't matter what kind of director the nitro group is. It's not doing any directing. It's the one that's being added to the ring. It is the group that is already on the molecule that is going to be providing the directing effect. The hydroxil is already on the molecule. It is an orthopera director. It will direct the nitro group or any other electrophile to the ortho or paraposition. Okay. So that is that is one confusion I see a lot with students. So just to nip that in the bud right there. Uh so now we have nitroenzene and these are the conditions for chlorination. So we're going to add a chloro. We're going to add a chloro group to the benzene ring. Where are we going to put it? We are going to we have to understand that the nitro group is a meta director and so it will direct any uh incoming electrophile to the meta position. So here we're going to get almost exclusively meta substitution. So here is our nitro group that is still there and we will get the chloro group at the meta position. So um we just recognize that this is chlorination. We recognize that the nitro group is a metadirectionirector. So we go ahead and we chlorinate at the meta position. That's what we do. Uh and so last one here this is uh Fredalcraft's alchilation. Fredelcraft's alchilation. Stop it. Fredelcraft's alkalation. So that's when we have an alkaalle chloride and aluminum triricchloride. Those are the conditions for freecraft's alkalation. So we're adding this alkaalle fragment without the chlorine. Right? So again we really we have to understand what the what the reaction conditions mean what what we're attaching to the benzene ring. We're going to be attaching this ethyl group not the chlorine atom. The chlorine atom will go away but the ethyl group will be on there. And the iota group is a hallogen. H hallogens are orthoparadirectionirectors. So let's go ahead and add the ethl the ethyl group to the ortho and also to the paraposition and once again probably the ortho substitution will dominate in the product mixture or will be the main product because of the two ortho positions as opposed to one paraposition but you will get a significant amount of both. So we say it's right we say right there would be even a tiny amount of meta but it's so insignificant that we don't count it as a major product. These are both major products you know 7030 whatever it is something like that. Um okay so those are the basics well the very basics would be unsubstituted just on benzene but then the second level is we have substituted benzene rings. All we have to do is we have to memorize which uh which groups are orthoparadctors and which groups are metadirectionirectors. If you forget the rule is that uh groups that are electron donating will be uh will be orthoperadirectors and the reason is that they stabilize the uranium ion intermediate when substitution takes place at the ortho or para positions but not meta. So basically the intermediate for the ortho and parasubstitution pathways is more stable than the intermediate for the meta pathways. So it dominates kinetically by a lot. Uh so you get dramatically shifted towards orthopar substitution. Uh so uh that would be something like uh a hydroxil or an amino group something that has a lone pair to to donate by resonance. Also alkaalle groups alkalle groups are weakly orthoperidirecting because they don't have lone pairs but they do uh hyper conjugation. So hyper conjugation is a weaker inductive effect uh that uh that can stabilize the positively charged arenium ion intermediate. So those will also be orthoparadirectors although more weakly orthoparadirecting than hydroxil uh or amino uh electron withdrawing groups like NO2. So the reason that NO2 is withdrawing is because it looks like this. uh it's got a plus charge there and a minus charge there. So it's withdrawing because the nitrogen has a formal positive charge. So with the arinium ion intermediate there's a resonance structure where one of the pi bonds gets pulled out of the ring onto the nitrogen and kicks the pi bond here up to get a second oxyanion. So if it's withdrawing electron density from an already unstable positively charged intermediate um that is going to be worse for orthopera. So basically the the metadirectionirectors make orthopera substitution less uh less energetically viable right it makes the the intermediate less stable whereas that destabilizing effect does not occur through through the meta substit substitution pathway. So meta will dominate there. So electron donating uh electron donating is activating it happens faster and is orthoparadirecting. The electron withdrawing are deactivating. They make the reaction slower and are metadirecting. The only exception is H hallogens which are deactivating uh through the the withdrawing effect from the polarity of the bond. The carbon hallogen bond is withdrawing electron density. So it's destabilizing and slows it down. But because of the loan pairs it is orthopera directing. So donating activating orthopera withdrawing deactivating meta but the exception is h hallogens uh withdrawing deactivating but orthopera. That's so that's all you have to memorize uh right there. So that's a little bit of eas. Let's take a look if I missed anything. Excuse me. Looks like PTOM was uh following along. Joffi says how do I know whether it's ortho or like parah? Uh so orthoperadirectionirectors you will get a mixture of ortho and parasubstitution. Uh once again there are reasons why one might dominate over the other. For example if the directing group is a very large alkaal fragment you might get almost exclusively parasubstitution. Um but just get used to the fact that in organic chemistry a lot of the times you have a mixture of a mixture of products. That's just how it goes. Uh Tajir says did you cover RS configuration already or will I cover it later? Yes. So I did do uh I'm like second third fourth week of this. We did all the kirality stuff. So coningled pre-log convention to assign RNS absolute configuration of stereo centers um E and Z of alken configuration uh an antiimer diyisterimer all that stuff. So if you go to my live tab and go back to some of the first ones, the live streams I did for CHEG, uh you will see that content if you want to study those. Okay, I think we're almost caught up. Yeah, that's it. Okay, so that's EAS. Okay, a little more EAS, but let's do a related thing. So um we can attach bromine atoms not just by bromination through electrophilic aromatic substitution but we can also do radical halogenation on on alkanes or cyloalkanes. So here draw the starting material that would yield the desired product. All we need to understand here is that when you do bromination uh uh with UV light or and or heat um you're attaching a bromine atom to the most substituted carbon in the alkan or cyloalkine. So all this is is this. Okay. So uh in the forward direction all we did is if we do radical bromination we're attaching a bromine atom to the most substituted carbon uh so so radical uh radical bromination is highly regio selective. So we'll get almost exclusively the tertiary alkaalle bromide. So in other words we're going to get the bromine there almost exclusively and almost nowhere else. radical chlorination is a lot less discerning radical the the chlorine atom can end up almost anywhere on the molecule. Um and that has to do with the comparing the stability of the chlorine radical and the bromine radical. Uh the radicals are uh the radicals are unstable for the same reasons that uh that that that annions are. And so if the bromine uh the broomemide ion is more stable than the chloride ion, the bromine radical is also more stable than the chlorine radical. So that explains that. That was just kind of a random one in there. I just thought I'd throw that in. Maybe we'll look more closely at the mechanism next week, but uh that one is in there. Uh okay. Oh, um lesson notes. Danny says, "What does HV and the triangle symbol mean?" So the triangle symbol means heat and HV means light. Uh H it's actually so uh the energy of a photon is H plank's constant times it's actually new. It's the Greek letter new but it looks like V and sometimes we just say V. E equals HV. Uh it's the frequency of the photon. So the energy of the photon is plank's constant times the frequency of the photon. Uh it's just a fancy way of saying light. And so what the the reason that we need either light or heat is that radical reactions always begin with homolysis. So just to give I mean we're not going to look at the whole mechanism here but the way that it works is that normally when we do organic reactions we're looking at heterolysis where a covealent bond the two electrons in that coalent bond go to one atom and not the other. But in homalysis, you got to have these single-headed uh arrows uh because they denote the movement of one electron, not two. A regular electron pushing arrow always denotes the movement of two electrons, a lone pair, a bond, whatever it is. But single-headed arrows denote the the activity of a single electron. So that gives us uh two bromine radicals. So that is called that's the initiation step. That's the initiation step of any radical reaction is you have some uh compound that will undergo homolytic bond cleavage to generate radicals. Then the radicals propagate through other reactions and then eventually there's termination or there can be termination. Uh so that's what HV and uh and the triangle mean. Uh oh and and the reason is that uh particular photons of UV light uh will be what promotes that uh the homalysis. It's either UV light or heat will promote homalysis. So that's how you get the uh that's how you get these radical reaction reactions to start. Okay, let's move on here. Let's do a few more. So we want to devise a synthetic pathway for this target molecule starting from benzene. So we have two groups that we want to get on here and we know that each of them can can be attached to a benzene ring via electrophilic aromatic substitution. Right? We know that we can nitrate benzene to get nitroenzene. We know that we can do uh fritocraft's calculation to get ethylenzene. So we're going to do a nitration and we're going to do an alka a fritocraft's calculation. But what order are we going to do them in? It matters right because these groups have directing behavior. Some of them are orthoperidirectors, some of them are metadirectionirectors. So we'll get different products depending on what order we do them in. Right? So uh the nitro group is a metadirectionirector and the ethyl group is an orthoperadirector. Now what is the spatial relationship of the groups? They are meta to one another, right? This is right where they're two apart, right? Next to each other is ortho. Two apart is meta. Three apart is parah. On opposite sides of the ring is parah. So if they have a meta relationship, then it is clear that the meta director directed the other group to where it is. Right? So what that means is if we do our big fat retroynthetic arrows, this means back in time, not forward. We're saying what came before this. When you see this arrow, we're saying what came before this. So what came before this must be nitroenzene, right? Because nitroenzene is a metadirectionirector. So it directed the incoming alkal fragment to the metaposition. It can't be ethylenzene because ethylenzene is an orthopera director. So if we nitrated ethylenzene, we would get the nitro group in the in the ortho or para position. That's not what we want. We're trying to get this one with a meta relationship. So we have to go back to nitroenzene and then from there we can go back to benzene right starting from benzene we're good. Okay so when you're doing synthetic pathways uh it's good to do retroynthetic analysis. This is obviously a very very simple and very primitive example of retroynthetic analysis but it is retroynthetic synthetic analysis nonetheless. It is a good exercise in beginning to start to think retroynthetically. We are thinking what can I undo? What can I transform retroactively to get the thing that can have come before this? Because if I can undo some reaction to get the thing before this and then again and then again and then again until I get to some allowed starting material or some starting material that's very readily accessible from the stock room. Uh then we have a syn then you all you have to do is play the movie in the in the other way in the forward direction and you have a synthetic pathway. You have a you have a strategy. You have a strategy for the synthesis. So we did this retroynthetically and uh and so now what are we going to do for now? We have to know what reagents we're going to use. So we said that we went from we're going to we got to go from benzene to nitroenzene. So that's HNO3 H2S04. That will give us nitroenzene. And then we want to do Fredelcraft's calculation. That will give us the desired product. Uh because the nitro group is a meta director. So we're only going to get pretty much only going to get the uh the meta substitution on that second reaction there. So we had to we had to know that we had to know first of all what the conditions for for nitrating and alkalating a benzene ring. Then we had to know the directing behavior. We had to know that the nitro group is a metadirectionirector and that the or the the alq group is an orthoperidirector. Then we had to recognize that they have a meta relationship with one another. And then that was enough information to figure out what we're doing going backwards. We had to go back to nitroenzene because the nitro group is the one that will direct the other group to the metaposition. And then from there back to benzene and then you just list the conditions going forward and you're all set. So that's a very good these are good ones for introducing students to the concept of of thinking retroynthetically. What do I do? What came before this? And then what came before this? Sometimes it's very simple like just pulling a functional group off the molecule. Sometimes it's more complicated like unraveling a ring into a linear fragment or cyclizing something or you know there's different uh there's there's uh you know you have to retroynthetically cleave a carboncarbon bond that was formed via gineard or vidig or whatever. Uh so but that's that's the introduction there. Um let's see uh Omar question please professors 1.8 1.9 polar or non-polar I think what you are asking is if the discrepancy in electro negativity between two uh elements is 1.8 8 or 1.9 will that result in a polar or uh non-pol actually I think what you're asking is if it will be polar coalent or ionic uh that's that is a case by case basis uh non-polar uh caps off at around 0.4 4 0.5 for electro negativity difference. 1.7 to two is kind of the gray area between polar coalent and ionic. That's case by case. You have to look at um things like orbital mismatch, right? The uh uh what are the what's the relative size of the atoms? That's a factor. uh Joofi the sec the if the the first is nitration the second step is Fredelcraft's calculation right this is Fredelcraft's calculation Uh okay, let's do one more of these. Devise a synthetic pathway for this target molecule starting from benzene. So once again, this is exactly like the last one. So take just a minute and stare at this. This is just like the previous question but with different functional groups. So what are we going to do? Once again we know that these are two groups that can be attached to the molecule uh by electrophilic aromatic substitution. So what is the directing behavior of the groups? Uh this is orthopera and this is meta. So this one is let me do that in pink. Uh this is meta because it is electron withdrawing because we have a carbonal adjacent to the ring. So the carbonal accepts electron accepts pi electrons by resonance. Right? So in the intermediate, one of these pi bonds can go up here and push that pi bond up onto the oxygen. So that's electron withdrawing. So that means it's destabilizing and therefore metadirecting. So these are the two groups. This is orthopera and this is meta. What is their spatial relationship? They're parah, right? So if they have a par para relationship that means that the chloro the chloro group must have directed the other group to the paraposition. It was not this group on there first because that would have directed the chloro group to the meta position. It's not meta, it's parah. So we got to do so the chloro group must be on there before uh before this uh other group here. So we're going to go back in time with our retroynthetic arrow to here. and then to benzene. Okay, so it's not going to go back in time to uh with this group on there because that would not give us the uh the regiochemistry that we want. So now in the forward direction, we got to go from benzene to chlorobenzene. That's very easy. We're just going to do Cl2 in the iron tricloride catalyst. That will give us the chloro group there. And then we're going to do Fredocraft's asilation. So Fredcraft's ailation is this uh ail chloride uh again aluminum triricchloride catalyst and that will give us uh that will give us a mixture of ortho and parah uh which we can then separate chromatographically. Uh so this is what we wanted. We will also get some Whoops, that's not a good benzene ring. We will get some ortho substitution uh but we can separate that out by chromatography. So um once again we recognize that this group is orthoparadirecting. We recognize that this group is metadirecting. We recognize that they have a para relationship. Therefore, it is the orthopera director that directed the other group to the paraposition. So, we went back to chlorobenzene and then benzene. And then in the forward direction, we did chlorination on benzene. Got our chlorobenzene can go anywhere. It doesn't matter. And then we did the fritocraft. The fritocraft's all right. Alkalation puts an alkaalle group on there. Acilation puts an ail group on there. Both with the aluminum tricloride catalyst. Uh very similar mechanisms. And that gives us our die substituted product. So that's that one. Let's see what we missed. Uh ENS. Yes. So uh alkalation and the only difference there is just the presence of this carbonal. Right? If you took this carbonial off and you just had a chloropropane one chloropropane uh then it would be fritocraft's calculation. uh so um definitely very uh similar uh mechanistically what what's happening on both I I don't I don't have room to write out the whole mechanism but whether you're doing alkalation or ailation it's the chloro the chlorine atom on that fragment or on that on that molecule that is interacting with the aluminum atom on the on the catalyst and then uh the electrons uh so what happens is that the the electrons in the chlorine carbon bond leave and neutralize the chlorine. So you get uh in the case of the alkaalation an alkaal cation uh and then the alkaalle cation is un is so unstable that a benzene ring will react with it kind of like an addition reaction whereas the alkaal chloride is too stable for benzene to react an alkaal cation uh that will react with benzene and then similar here uh the chlorine uh leaves and we just uh we have a similar fragment just with carbonial there. So that's what that is. Whoops. Uh, Vector's gym trainer. Uh, I'm in college taking chem. Do you recommend just memorizing OKM structures or would you recommend trying to dig deep and understand the more fundamental nuance moving parts? So I would heavily advise against just memorizing structures. Right? Memorizing molecules won't do anything. Right? What you have to what you have to understand is what's going on mechanistically such that you can apply it to any substrate you are given. Definitely when I was teaching, what I would see the most often is that students would memorize the the example in the practice in the practice quiz or in the study guide and they would just put that molecule on the quiz which had nothing to do with the question, right? They would recognize what reaction it was and they had memorized a molecule and put it in there. So no, you have to you have to understand what what transformation is occurring, right? when you do an elimination reaction, you get a pi bond in between the proton and the leaving group that are being eliminated, right? That's what you get. So if you understand that, you can apply that to any molecule you are given to any substrate you are given. So it's about yeah, you definitely want to go for the deeper comprehension such that you can apply it to whatever you are given. Um, uh, Anna Shawi says, "Dave, can you actually synthesize these molecules easily in lab reliably with these processes or is a little more nuanced in reality?" Uh, obviously it is harder than just drawing on a piece of paper. Uh, it's definitely harder and more nuanced than that, but um, yes, absolutely. This is stuff that you would do in an under in an undergraduate laboratory course, right? in an Om2 lab, the lab component of your Om2 course, you would do, you know, um maybe not a Grineyard because that's strictly anhydrris, but like a Grineyard like uh when I was in undergrad, we did a Grineyard like uh thing or you can do vidig, you can do um yeah, you can do all kind Yeah, most of the reactions that you learn, you you do them, right? You carry out some kind of enolate chemistry or something like that. Um, it's obviously, you know, doing chemistry in the lab is not the easiest thing in the world, but um, you do it as an undergrad, so you just practice and you get better at it. Uh, okay, we got time for one more real quick. So, let's just do this one. Uh, we're remember we did we we introduced ozoneis previously, so we're just going to keep bringing back little one-offs just to make sure we have all these uh in our bag of tricks, right? We don't want to forget any of these. So, we're looking at these reaction conditions, right? We want to draw the product of the transformation. We look at this. We see ozone. You see ozone, we know we're doing ozoneis, right? If you're studying organic chemistry and you see ozone, we know we're doing ozoneis. So, what do we do when we do ozone? Ozonalysis cleaves pi bonds, carbonarbon double bonds. And the carbons that were participating in the double bond are now carbonial. Okay? So we take these fragments and we're going to pull them apart. All right? And so what do we end up with? We have this threecarbon fragment and the carbon that was participating in the pi bond is now carbonal. And then we have a cycllohexane moy and that is now uh a ketone as well. So here we had reductive workup uh but it didn't end up mattering because when you when uh oxid oxidative versus reductive workup only matters if you are deciding whether you are left with an aldahhide or a caroxyic acid here these are both secondary carbons right for a secondary carbon it doesn't matter because you're going to get a ketone either way right we're not going to break carbonarbon bonds to heavily oxidize and get the and get the caroxilic acid. So when the carbon's participating in the pi bond, well not secondary actually, I mean they're secondary after the fragments uh technically they're tertiary uh because three but um if we if we pull them apart they would be secondary, right? And so you get uh ketones here. Um, and so, uh, if they were primary though, well, technically secondary, but like for example, if this methyl wasn't there, if that methyl wasn't there, um, then then we would have, then we would figure out whether this carbon here that bears the carbonial, would this be an H or an O on that side. And that would depend on reductive versus oxidative workup. But here, it doesn't matter. We're good. We got our two products. We got acetone. We got cycllohexone. And so that's ozenolysis. cleave the pi bond, cleave the double bonds, pull the fragments apart, stick carbonial on those two carbons, the the ones that were in the in the double bond. So that's those analysis. Uh we I had a few more here. Oh, so next is IR. We'll start there next week. Somebody asked for IR. So uh IR and NMR. And then sometimes you get questions with IR and NMR together. Uh and so that's a good thing to learn about. So once again, uh go ahead and check out that QR code on the top left to see all of the different office hours that CHEG is offering through the semester. They got all kinds of subjects to help you uh with all of your classes. Uh and uh of course, as you know, uh I will be here Tuesday at 5:00 p. p.m. Pacific time. Uh every Tuesday for the next, I don't know, seven or eight, right, the rest of this semester bringing you organic chemistry 1 review. Uh next week we'll do a little more spectroscopy. Uh, I got a few other things planned. Maybe I'll throw in some of the earlier stuff just for people who maybe aren't as far along in the semester as this, right? I'm trying to kind of aim for something that will be that will help everybody. Uh, so I'll keep diving back to the other stuff, but otherwise uh thanks again for tuning