Hey everybody, coming to you live yet again. I'm here with CHEG bringing you organic chemistry 1 office hours all semester. Um that's every Tuesday 5:00 pm PST. Please check out the QR code on the top left if you want to see what other courses CHEG is covering. They're doing uh math and all kinds of different uh courses so you can get help on all of your uh classes this semester. So once again, we're covering organic chemistry 1 here today. If you are watching, you can feel free to ask me questions in the chat. Uh, keep them organic chemistry one related as much as possible. Um, they can be pertaining to the problems that I prepared and I'm going over or they can be unrelated. Honestly, any organic chemistry 1 question uh I will be scanning the questions in the chat and we'll try to answer uh every single one of them if if I can. So, um, yeah, let's, uh, let's go ahead and get started and, uh, take a look what we've got here. So, uh, first up, we've got this one here. Given the following NMR spectrum and empirical formula, propose a structure for the compound. So, this is a little bit different, right? Usually, we are given a structure and a spectrum, and we are asked to assign the protons in the compound to the peaks in the spectrum. So, that's one type of NMR question that you could be expected to answer. Um there are a few other ones too but this one is an interesting one where you're given an empirical formula or actually well a molecular formula in this case um and asked to uh and asked to propose a structure right we want to figure out what is the molecule that this spectrum represents so we've got C4H9BR now that's a small enough molecule that a decent way to start might be to just go ahead and draw all the possible structures right what are the different structural isomers that have this molecu formula and so let's see so the the best way to do this would be there we know we have to have a fourcarbon skeleton so how many ways can we arrange a fourcarbon skeleton and how many ways can we place a bromine atom on that fourcarbon skeleton so obviously we can have a straight chain right we can have a fourcarbon straight chain now where can we put a bromine on the fourcarbon straight chain we could put one on the end or we could put one on one of the internal carbons, right? So, if we put it on either end, it would be the same. And if we put it on either internal carbon, it would be the same. It's either one brooane or two brooane. You can't have three brooane or four bromeropane. That's redundant. That's not uh it would just be the same as one of the first two. So, that's all we can do with straight chain. Uh wait, did I said no, butane? I meant butane if I said propane. Sorry about that. Uh so, we've got one bromelutane, two bromelutane. You can also make the carbon skeleton isobutane. Okay. So, if we make it isobutane, now where can we put the bromine? We can put the bromine on uh on one of the methals on any of them, right? They're identical methyl. So, we can put them anywhere. Or we can put it on the central carbon and have this uh the tertiary alkaalle bromide. It's hard to do the dash bonds with these things. Okay, so these are the only possible structural isomers pertaining to the molecular formula that we've been given. So one of these has to match this NMR spectrum. Okay, what it's going to be? Well, there's a few different ways that we could do this. We could acknowledge that uh that that these different compounds would produce a different number of peaks. we can take a look and then once again obviously we can look at uh splitting integration and chemical shift. So there's no right way to do this. So let's just start interacting with the data and see what it brings up. So for example, we've got a uh we've got a dlet here or actually well appears to be a dlet. Maybe if we zoomed in it would be it would be a little bit different. But um uh what what can we say about this? We it's integrated to six and uh in its and it's relatively up field. It's upfield. So it's the furthest away from the bromine, right? The the protons that pertain to this resonance ought to be the furthest away from the bromine atom on the molecule. And now when you have a peak integrated to six, usually what that is is two identical methyl groups. Not always, but you often it is going to be two identical methyl groups which indicates some symmetry for the molecule. So that's one bit of information. Honestly, with that alone, we probably could could make the assignment, but let's just keep going here. Then we have uh a resonance that's integrated to one and it's highly it's it's a it's it's a multiplate, right? it's split quite a bit. Okay, so that means that we have a one proton that is being split by many other protons, right? We don't even have to count exactly how many, but this is split into at least seven peaks. So probably six, seven, eight, right? There's a lot of neighboring protons. So we have to have one proton that has a lot of neighboring protons. And then we have another peak that is integrated to two. And this also appears to be a dlet, right? From this vantage point, it looks like a dlet and it is the most uh downfield which means it is uh it is probably the closest to or adjacent to the bromine atom. Okay. So that okay so with that we can now you can go either way right. I chose to do it this way. What you also could have done was looked at the structures and made predictions about the spectrum that you would see based on those structures. Right? And then you could just see which one matches your prediction. Or you can do it this way, right? It doesn't even matter. I didn't even decide which way I was going to do it until I was doing it, right? I just said, "Okay, let's look at the data." And so we're looking for two identical methyl groups probably that are up field. And then we've got one proton split into a multiplet. And then we've got two protons split into a dlet that are right next to the bromine. So which structure matches that over here? This doesn't this uh this linear one bro one brooane doesn't seem to work right because we would have a resonance for these two protons a resonance for these two protons a resonance for these two protons and a resonance for the three methyl protons. So we ought to see four peaks and uh and uh so none of the integration works. Certainly nothing is going to be integrated to six. That doesn't make any sense. Um we're going to say we don't even have to look anymore. That's not going to that's not going to work. Okay. over here. This also would probably have four peaks, right? Because we would have the methyl protons would be the most uh these methyl these methyl and these methyl protons. So, at first we might think, okay, we have two methyl, so we could have six identical methyl groups, but they're not identical, right? It's not symmetrical. If we had another if we had another carbon here, then the two terminal methals would be identical, but it's not. The protons on this methyl are closer to the bromine than the ones out here. So they would offer two different resonances and the one over here would be more downfield because it's closer to the bromine. So here again we're going to expect four peaks. We're going to expect one for the uh the the most upfield would be this methyl and then somewhat tied would be uh one integrated to two and one integrated to three for the CH2 and the methyl there. And then the most down field would be uh one integrated to one and that would be heavily split be split into a multiplate. But we don't see four peaks. We say we see three. So that doesn't really work here. So let's say no to that one. Now how about this guy? Okay. So we've got two identical methyl groups. Right? This this carbonarbon bond is constantly rotating. Right? So those two methals see the same chemical environment as this carbonarbon sigma bond is spinning. So we do have two identical methyl groups that would be uh integrated to six. Now would they be a dlet? And yes they would be a dlet because we have just this one proton uh on the on the adjacent carbon. Right? So this one proton here is splitting the resonance associated with all six of these protons into a dlet. So that works. And this would be the most up field, right? This would be the most up field because it's farthest away from the bromine. So that checks out. This peak works. Now we've got the one in the middle. So we go a little bit closer to the bromine. We've got one proton and it's heavily split into a multiplate. So that that again works, right? Because we have this one proton. Uh it's closer to the bromine but not the closest. And uh it should be split. It's heavily split. It's split by these three protons, these three protons, and the neighboring two protons over there. That's eight protons next door should. So, the N plus1 rule dictates it should be split into nine smaller peaks. And we don't even have to count, right? It starts to get very small towards the edge and and maybe difficult to discern, but it doesn't matter. It's a multiplate. We see that it is indeed very heavily split. That's good enough because the integration and the chemical shift also serve to corroborate this peak. So, we've got that. That one looks good. Then lastly, we have uh integrated to two uh and so that would be these protons here and oops. So these two protons here and they will be the most downfield because they're immediately adjacent to the bromine. Uh and it should be split into a double because they're only split by the one adjacent proton. So that also makes sense. So all of these all of these data agree right all of these data agree it is the chemical shift and the splitting uh and the integration for all three peaks agree with this structure. So there's just no way that it's not going to be this one, right? It's not like, you know, this has some data and the other one has some data, correct? It's going to be all or nothing, right? At least at this level here where we're we're approaching it with very easy uh you know, simple compounds, it should all agree. So that one's that. And then just to be thorough here, uh this guy would have only two peaks, right? All of these methyl groups would join together to make a 9H dlet. Right. It's nine protons. So, it would be integrated to nine very very very tall peak. Uh and no, sorry, I was totally wrong. That would be a singlet actually. Uh nine protons and that would be a singlet because there is no uh no hydrogen on that central carbon, right? That's there's a bromine there, no proton. So, it would be that's it, right? That was you would only have one peak. So if we had if we had a spectrum that was one peak, we would take a glance at these options and know immediately, oh, it's got to be that one, right? We have nine ident chemically equivalent protons generating one 9H singlet. That's a dramatically different spectrum than any of these other possibilities. So, uh, that can be ruled out pretty easily. So, this one's not right. So, this was a this is a really good one. I like ones like this that that force you to use critical thinking. Right? The first thing you had to do, now you didn't have to do this, right? I I went and exhaustively drew out all four possible structural isomers that pertain to this molecular formula. You don't have to do that, right? One thing that you could do is just start piecing together fragments like a puzzle. You might look at this and see, okay, we got this integrated to six. I think I have two identical methyl groups. All right, here's my methyl groups. Okay, they're going to be connected by a carbon in the middle. Then what happens? And then you can start building the molecule from there. That's it. Any way you want to approach this is fine as long as what you arrive at the the data has to match, right? All all of these the chemical shift and the integration and the splitting patterns for these three resonances have to match the structure flawlessly. So I chose to draw all four and then we went and made predictions and then and then matched the peaks and then we were very confident that that was the structure there. So that's that isobutane with the bromine on the on the on the methyl and that's going to be that one. Okay, let's take a look and if I missed any questions here, Fineman's technique of integration. I'm not really sure what that is. Uh, it sounds like it could be math. Uh but if it pertains to NMR, it sounds like it would just be a way of calculating the area under the resonances, which honestly uh in in in this day and age, we don't have to do that, right? You you take a sample and then the program in the computer, right? You highlight a peak and it automatically uh it goes by the number of pixels under the peak and it tells you the relative integration. Actually what you do is you take the smallest peak and you highlight that and assign it the integration of one and then it calculates all the other integrations relative to that one that you assigned. And so it's not absolute integration but you know it'll tell you all right if if you're saying that's one proton then this has to be six this has to be two etc. So you we really don't um calculate anything with the integration these days. Oh okay. Uh, draw the line structure. Um, okay. R133. Try. Okay. Okay. Uh, all right. Yeah, we can do that. Um, okay. I'll do it right here first before we do number two. Uh, so we have a cyclopentane and we have a pentenol. So we have one all. So we'll call that there. And then we also have 133 dimethyl. Uh okay. So we have that and let's hope that I did the stereochemistry right otherwise I'll switch it. Let me just double check. So 133 trimethyl cyclopenten one all uh okay. Yeah. So we've got one and 133. Okay. So I think that I did do it properly. Uh so let's uh so the answer is either this or the O and the methyl flipped on there. Let's just make sure I'm correct. So there's uh this is the only stereo center, right? There's one stereo center here. So uh well okay going back to the beginning just it's a cyclopentane so we know we have a five membered ring and then one all means that we have a hydroxil on carbon one uh and then we have 133 trimethyl and so on this same carbon we have a methyl and then on carbon 3 we have two methals so one on the dash one on the wedge and we're making sure that this is our stereochemistry so what are the priorities here uh number one is certainly going to be uh the oxygen right and then the uh other three are tied. We have carbon carbon carbon carbon all tie so we have to go to the next uh step after that. So this one is is attached to hydrogen hydrogen hydrogen. So that's definitely going to be number four. This one is attached to carbon hydrogen hydrogen. So I'm going to assume that's number three. Uh oh. Well actually this one is also uh bonded to carbon hydrogen hydrogen. But if we go again this is bonded to carbon hydrogen hydrogen. This is bonded to carbon carbon carbon. So that's a little confusing but remember with the coningled pre-log convention we're going one atom at a time. Okay? So oxygen wins without a question. But then carbon carbon carbon these three are identical carbon atoms. So we have to see what they're connected to. This carbon is attached to hydrogen hydrogen hydrogen. This carbon is attached to carbon, right? This next carbon and then the two implied hydrogens's. This carbon is connected to this carbon and the two implied hydrogens's. So we know from that we've assigned four for this uh but these two are still ambiguous. So we have to keep going. So now we we go further, right? And now we say this carbon is attached to this carbon and then the two implied hydrogens's and then this carbon is attached to carbon carbon carbon. So we had to go uh we had to go two points of difference away to figure out that this direction is priority 2 because carbon carbon carbon beats carbon hydrogen hydrogen right and carbon hydrogen hydrogen beats hydrogen hydrogen hydrogen. So we've made our assignments there and so uh the luckily the lowest priority group is facing away from us. Priority four is that methyl so it is facing away and so we are already in the privileged position to assign RNS and uh and so with the with the lowest priority group away we go we trace from one to two to three and we're going around clockwise. So that is R. So we were right. If it ended up being that as drawn it was S and the question said we have to draw it R, we would just flip that stereo center, right? We would just flip the hydroxil and the methyl. When you invert any stere when you when you swap any two groups on a stereo center, you invert the chyality of that stereo center. So take any two groups. If it's R, if you swap two groups, you get S, no matter which two groups they are. So uh yeah, I hope that helped. Um okay. Uh Nim says wait. So a dlet means two H friends next to him. So um no a dlet would mean that there is one neighboring proton right because of the because of the n plus1 rule. So uh like for example on the compound that it was th this resonance integrated to six uh is split into a double it because there is one neighboring proton. So you have one neighboring proton n equals 1 and then n + one is therefore two. So the resonance is split into two smaller peaks. So one neighboring proton splits it into a dlet. Two neighboring protons splits it into a triplet. Three neighboring protons splits it into a quartet. uh and so forth. Uh okay, seems like you asked that there. Hope that hope that helps. Uh Poninka asks, can there be multiple valid solutions uh if you met the NMR one? uh no that this is the only this is the only structural isomer pertaining to this molecular formula that matches this NMR spectrum. There's no other answer. Uh maybe you meant this but that too there would not be any other uh valid solution there. Um you can soup chicken says uh the concept of catalysts is so bizarre to me. How can something be part of a reaction and have no change? Uh so it's not that a catalyst does not undergo change it's that it just returns to its original form once uh so like if uh if like um you know aluminum tricloride promotes a Fredocraftraft's alkalation reaction it interacts with the chloroalkcan the chlorine attacks the aluminum it forms this larger complex but then at the end of the reaction that fragment leaves and aluminum triricchloride is returned to its original status. So a catalyst will interact with the substrate, promote some reaction, right? It'll lower the activation energy of a particular pathway, but then it is restored to its original form once the reaction is complete, which allows it to then go and promote another reaction and another and another and another and another. So a catalyst um does interact often in covealent fashion with the substrate. It's just not consumed in the reaction, right? It's not used up um it's not it's not used up stoometrically in the reaction. So uh Ram to the future says if we had an alcohol would the piece be further down field because of the electro negativity or is there something else that causes it to shift more? Very good question. Yes. Uh I I'm pretty sure that if this had been a hydroxil instead of a bromo group uh these peaks would be further downfield because an oxygen atom is more dshielding than a bromine atom because it is more electrogative. Oxygen is more electrogative than bromine. So the dshielding effect would be greater which would cause the the chemical shifts of these resonance to be uh further downfield. Very good question. I believe that would be the case. Uh Joofi says, "Why does a nitro group located on the meta position act differently than the nitro group being on the orthone pair positions?" Uh so I'm not sure what you mean. That's that's ambiguous. Uh meta to what? or ortho and para to what um so a nitro group is going to be a meta director no matter what. Uh there could be other substituents on the molecule also that have their own directing abil uh abilities their own directing behavior that may compete with the nitro group but the nitro group will always be a metadirectionirector. Okay, a lot of comments here. Very cool. Injecting Al3. Uh, just don't do it. Um, Dave, how do you name a caroxilic acid as an alken group based on IUPAC? nomenclature. Um four chloro2 meth uh so uh so not methoxy right methoxy an aloxxy group is part of an esther not a caroxyic acid right so it would be um so take out the methoxy that you have there it would be something the rest of it works right 4N right for that that part is indicating where the double bond is but you don't need one oic acid because that's implied Right? With a caroxyic acid, the carbon that bears the caroxil is implied to be carbon one. Right? We already know that by the IUPAC rules of caroxilic acids. So you can indicate the position of the of the pi bond, but you do not have to indicate the position of the caroxile group. That will be uh carbon one for sure. Okay, let's get back to this. Um, okay, let me erase this because I wanted to do a question here. So okay, which reaction mechanism which reaction mechanism could be represented by the following energy diagram? SN1, SN2, E2, none of the above. So let's look at this. Let's look at this here. So X is a X is the reactant. Y is what do we call that? That is an intermediate and Z is the product. And then we have we have transition state one and we have transition state two. So the transition states are the highest energy moments so to speak. they're the the highest part of the hill that if you achieve that uh transition state, it will proceed to the next uh intermediate or product. Um and so then we have uh right here this is delta H or actually uh if this is potential energy well it could be delta H or delta G, right? depends if we're displaying enthalpy or uh Gibbs free energy. So it depends uh could be either. And then right here we have activation energy one and then starting from the intermediate to transition state two we have activation energy 2. Okay. So we clearly have a two-step reaction, right? Because of that intermediate, we know that we have one reaction that yields that intermediate which will exist for some discrete amount of time and then a separate second reaction will have will happen to give the product. So intermediates are species that exist for some amount of time. Transition states are not cannot be isolated, right? Transition states are achieved instantaneously, right? There's an instant in there's an infinite decimal instant in which a transition state exists along the way to becoming the next species the intermediate or the product right but an intermediate is formed and then will sit there it will float around in solution until it reacts with something else. So we clearly have two steps here X to Y and then Y to Z. So which of these right how many steps are do we have for these? So SN1 is two steps, right? But SN SN2 is one step and E2 is one step. So those don't work. So clearly this is going to be SN1, right? Because SN1 the way that works is uh okay. So we have let's say we have uh this here um and uh what's going to happen first is the leaving group's going to leave, right? And that gives us our carboation intermediate. And so that's going to be the rate determining step. That's the one with the very large activation energy because we're producing an unstable intermediate. A carboation is an unstable species, right? The electron deficiency makes it unstable. Uh and then some nucleophile coordinates and that is going to be very fast. Right? That's a quick one. because this is stabilizing, right? We're going from we're neutralizing a carboation, right? We're neutralizing the carocation. So, there's a very low activation energy, right? This is not an energetically unfavorable step. It's going to be very easy to get to that that transition state where the nucleophile is coordinating to the uh to the carocation. the the very slight hill is just about the steric hindrance associated with the nucleifi the negatively charged nucleophile approaching that electron density on the neighboring alkalle. Um but it's it's a very low activation energy because it's a negative charge coordinate. Well, it could be it could be a neutral it could be a lone pair, but uh it it let's say it's a formally negative, you know, let's say it's an annion. We have a negative charge approaching a positive charge. That's going to be that's going to release a lot of energy when that bond forms, right? So, this is very exothermic. It's very exorgonic. Uh so, e exothermic is negative delta H. Exrogonic is a negative delta G. Either way, we're releasing energy upon forming this bond. So, that's uh going to release a lot here. very small uh activation energy. And so uh SN1 is the only one that works here. SN2 and E2 are all concerted reactions. They just happen like that, right? You have some substrate and as the as the nucleophile is approaching, the leaving group is leaving. So as the as the bond between the nucleophile and the substrate is materializing the bond between the substrate and the leaving group is dematerializing to the point where you have a transition state that's trigonal by parameal where we have almost half a sigma bond uh between a planer substrate and each of the two the one coming in the one going out so it's all concerted happens all at once it's not piece it's not uh peacemeal it's not stepwise so this must be uh for the SN1 reaction action. It also could have been an E1 reaction which is why I didn't give that as one of the options. Then it would have been ambiguous. So that is something about energy diagrams. Remember with any any energy diagram we're identifying reactants, we're identifying products. We're we're identifying intermediates if any. If it's if it's a one-step reaction, it'll just be one little hill. And then we are identifying transition states. And the transition states tell us what the activation energies are. Right? The activation energy is always from the reactant to the transition state. So this first step had a very big one because that's the unfavorable that's the rate determining step to yield the unstable carboation intermediate. Second one has a very small activation energy because this is very favorable. We're going to the product there. So that's a little bit about energy diagrams. very very very important in in organic chemistry to understand how energy diagrams work. Um to be able to um describe reaction mechanisms with energy diagrams, match steps in a mechanism to to the pertinent energy diagram, that kind of stuff. You would definitely see a lot of questions uh pertaining to that. Uh okay. Uh Laura says, "Can we do some acid and base pH chemistry review?" Bronstead Lori. So that's really gen. Um yeah, I mean I'll just, you know, pH is the negative log of the hydrronium concentration. uh and so a lower pH means more acidic. So it's just taking something like if the hydrronium concentration is 10 to the -7 molar, taking the negative log of that just turns it into seven, which is just an easier number to to work with. And so um as the um as the as the concentration gets higher, right? 10 the 7 molar 10 the -6 molar 10 the five molar that's increasing right the the the number on the exponents going down but it's a negative exponent so as that decreases the number is actually getting larger right 10 the -2 is 01 10 the -1 is 0.1 um and so uh it's just a way of of of communicating the concentration of hydrronium in a solution right more hydrronium more acidic lower pH. Uh that's all it is. And Bronstead lower refers to proton donation, right? Uh H HCl is a Bronstead Lori acid because some base can go and take the proton, right? So donating a proton Bronsteadi acid uh accepting the proton Bronstead lower base. So that's uh that's it. Um okay. Uh Laura, so the Iranius definition is very outdated, right? Irreanous defined it as just that which increases hydrronium or hydroxide concentration, right? uh he said that uh I'm pretty sure this is the case but he said that an acid increases hydrronium a base increases hydroxide which is actually very limiting because number one you're you're uh you're limiting yourself to aquous solution right if something is a bronstead if something is an acid if it can donate a proton it should be able to donate a proton to other solvents not just water so aranius is like a precursor to bronad li um so it's useful to know the definition of it but it's not right in organic chemistry we deal with Bronstead Lori definition and Lewis definition usually Bronstead Lori definition usually when we're talking about acidbased chemistry we're talking about the Bronid Lauri definition we're talking about proton transfer but we also use the Lewis definition because there are like luis acid catalysts that are not proteic like aluminum triricchloride where something can coordinate to the aluminum atom and it is acting as a l acid there's no proton though so Okay. Let's see. Uh yeah, Ryan just went ahead and pasted that in there. Okay, let's do the next one. Okay, so we have this uh alkaalle broomemide and we achieved it with these reagents. So what did we start with? So what we need to understand is that this is going to uh promote anti- marovnikov hydro hydrohalogenation. So the peroxides are going to are going to promote antimarovnikov regiochemistry. So we know that we did an addition reaction. So we have a substrate that must have a pi bond in it. But the question is where was the pi bond to yield the bromine in this location. And so when we do an antimarovnikoff addition reaction the the the relevant group in question in this case the bromine atom goes to the less substituted carbon that was participating in the pi bond. So we know that the one the carbon bearing the bromine has to have been participating in the pi bond. But was the pi bond there or was the pi bond here? And the point is that if it was the one that if it if the bromine went to the less substituted carbon, that means that the pi bond must have been here, right? Because we have a primary carbon, a secondary carbon, a tertiary carbon. So with the pi bond here, the incoming bromine atom will go to the less substituted. That's the secondary. That's where we want, right? If we had put the pi bond on the on the terminus on the end of the molecule then the bromine would have had to go on the end on the last carbon on the terminal carbon but that's not where that's not what happened right so we know the pi bond must have been here because between a secondary and tertiary carbon the bromine going to the to the less substitute less substituted carbon would be the secondary carbon which is where we want it okay so we just have to know this means hydrohalogenation so it's an addition reaction. We came from an alken. And then the peroxides, the presence of hydrogen peroxide promotes antimarovnikoff regiochemistry. Uh and uh and that will tell us where the pi bond must have been. Okay. Uh okay, let's see. Abdullah says, why does giving an electron to another atom create a bond? Uh that's uh not sure what you mean there. Um you can have a you can have like a like you can have uh an annion you can have like a negatively charged nucleophile attacking a carboation and then the two electrons in that lone pair that are doing the attacking. One of them gets donate donated to the carbon which neutralizes it and in doing so you form a covealent bond. Uh that's the only thing I can think of that sounds like what you asked. Uh, okay. Let's try this one. So, we're doing deals alder. Um, and uh, so the the reason that's written there is because if it just said heat, that'd be a little bit ambiguous. But the point of a dealer is that there's no reagents other than the dyne and the denophile, right? You get the dyene and the denophile. You get a little bit of heat and it'll they'll snap together. So remember, deals alder reactions always form six membered rings. If you're doing deals alder in the forward direction and your product doesn't have a six-membered ring in it, something went wrong. It's got to have a six-membered ring. Likewise, if we're doing retro deals alder, if we're looking at a product and trying to figure out what the dying and the daphile were to yield that deals alder product, we have to we have to undo the six-membered ring that was formed, right? And so with the six-membered ring, there's going to be a pi bond in there. Um because remember, we're cyclicizing. We've got three pi bonds. One pi bond remains a pi bond, but the other two become sigma bonds to close up to to form that six membered ring. So it's going to be these ones, right? We have to retroynthetically cleave this bond and this bond. Okay? And go backwards from there. So if we pull that apart, right? If we if we in our minds dematerialize these two sigma bonds and pull those fragments apart, what do we get? Well, we're going to get Whoops. How did that become a circle? We're going to get this dyen and we're going to get this denophile. Okay. So, the point is the we the if when the product is a bicyclic structure, it means you typically the case is that the dyene was already cyclic. So this makes sense in the forward direction. If the dyene is already cyclic and then it does deals alder, we're forming a new six-membered ring, but this ring doesn't go anywhere, right? So this fifth carbon, right? If we if we want to go in the forward direction, right? This pi bond becomes this pi bond, the one that's in the product. This pi bond becomes this sigma bond. This pi bond becomes this sigma bond, right? But what about this carbon? this carbon is still there. This carbon is not participating in the cyization, but it's it doesn't go anywhere. It's still got to be there on the product. So that's why we get a bicyclic structure on the product. Um so that's that explains the bicyclic product. Then uh these methals on the product, those are still going to be there or or sorry, they were there on the on the on the dying. And because these these were sp2 carbons, they're sp2 on the product and they were sp2 on the dyen. Those can be flat. We can put them flat in the plane. Those are not going to be wedges or dashes because these are sp2 carbons trigonal planer. Um and then the last thing we have to understand is that on the denophile these methals were cis on the product and so they must be cis on the denophile. Right? So we would not draw this. This would not be the right. We don't want the transdophile because that's not what we got. Right? When you have right the stereochemistry on the denophile is is conserved. You get uh if you have a cis denophile you have the methyl or whatever groups they are cis on the deals alder product. So retrodals alder, we're just identifying the six membered ring, identifying the two sigma bonds that we have to retroynthetically cleave. Then pull the fragments apart, right? You pull them apart, what do you get? You get this, right? You get this fragment as the dyen and you get this fragment as the denophile. So then you just draw them with the with the pi bonds shuffled the the back the backwards way, right? Uh so right this one went here this one went there that gives us the dyen and then this one went here to make the pi bond on the denophile. So that is uh that's your retro deals older. Uh Nasim says, "Wouldn't addition of radicals always yield another radical unless it reacts with a halogen?" Uh so we're actually going to do if we get to it today, I have the mechanism for antimarovnikov hydrohalogenation that we're going to go over. Um so to answer your question, yes, a propagation step. If a radical interacts with a with a covealent species, then you're always going to propagate a radical. you're going to get a new radical and a new coalent species. Um so that that's what a propagation step is in a radical reaction. Um so but the the thing is that uh yeah so if you if you not add but if you if a radical reacts with a coalent species you will get a new radical and a new coalent species. That's true. You can also have termination steps where two radicals react and give a uh give a coalent compound. OL, I love deals aler reactions. Yeah, they're I like them, too. One of my favorites. Uh, Gibb says, "Wait, so when is it that you would you would begin to use wedges and dashes? Is it based on Vesper? And if so, how do you know when to bring them in?" Okay. So, yeah. So, I do find that there's a lot of confusion at times. Um, so like for example, right, why are why are these why are these methals on wedge on wedges while these are not? Right? And so the point here is that we have to understand the difference between an sp2 and an sp3 carbon. Right? These guys are sp2 Right? Those are sp2 carbons because there's a pi bond here. Right? So there are no implied hydrogens on these carbons. Right? This carbon has four bonds to other carbons. This methyl, this carbon, and then two bonds to this carbon. This carbon also has four bonds to other carbons. This methyl, this carbon, and the two bonds to that one. But these guys are sp3, right? These are sp3 carbons. there are implied hydrogens there. Right? So when you have an sp3 carbon substituents have to be on dashes and wedges because that's right sp3 um right sp3 like okay here's methane right sp3 carbons when you have a central atom that is bonded to four other groups you're going to need four atomic orbitals to hybridize to make the sp3 three hybrid atomic orbitals. Um, and they're going to orient themselves in space uh in in tetrahedral fashion. Right? This is right. We've got 109.5 degree bond angles. That's the furthest away that four groups can be while all connect while all bound to the same central atom. And so that's different, right? With sp2 that's trional planer, that's flat. That's 120 degree bond angles, right? These are 120 degree bond angles because these carbons only have three uh electron domains. When you have three electron domains, carbon carbon carbon, that makes a trigonal planer geometry, right? But when you go from three electron domains to four electron domains, right? So this carbon has methyl, carbon, carbon, implied hydrogen. So we definitely have to know where the implied hydrogens's are because we don't draw them in on on on these structures when we draw in line notation to save time. We don't draw all the hydrogens. So we have to know where the implied ones are. And so for an sp3 carbon like this we have to go okay carbon carbon carbon implied hydrogen four electron domains. This carbon here methyl carbon carbon implied hydrogen four electron domains four electron domains. sp3 hybridized tetrahedral geometry 109.5 degree bond angles. That's when we got to use wedges and dashes. Okay. Uh I hope that helps. Amir says, "How do you differentiate SN1 and 2, E1 and 2, and if it is elimination, how do you know if it is Hoffman or Zites?" Okay, excellent question. So yeah, we we went over this a lot in previous weeks, but um but we can totally uh we can totally take a look. So let's say SN1, SN2, E1, E2. So if we have a very strong base or nucleophile, if we have a very strong base or nucleophile, it's going to go ahead and do something, right? It's it's going to react with the substrate. It's going to push it around. It's going to replace a leaving group. It's going to grab a proton, do elimination. Uh so we only see SN1 or E1 if it's a weak base or nucleophile, right? Um, so that'd be something like so strong would be like hydroxide, weak would be like water, right? So if it's very weak, it can't react with the substrate. It has to wait until the leaving group leaves producing a very unstable carocation intermediate. Then even the weak nucleophile can can interact. Weak nucleophile, weak base, right? So that's the first thing probably that you look at. Strong base or nucleophile, we're going SN2 or E2. weak base or nucleophile or going SN1 or we or E1. Um then there's some other factors. Um sterics right steric if if the um if uh if the base is very sterically hindered uh we would we would go elimination. Um also temperature right uh hot tends to favor elimination cold tends to favor substitution. That's because of the Gibbs free energy equation, right? Uh we know that elimination is entropically favorable because you're going from two uh two two particles to three particles, two compounds to three compounds. Um and so the entropic favorability is magnified at higher temperatures. So higher temperature takes the entropic favorability, magnifies it and make makes delta G more likely to be negative and therefore the reaction spontaneous. So um check my previous live streams. The first three or four weeks I focused a lot on SN1, SN2, E1, E2 because that's kind of the first stuff that you go those are the first mechanisms you learn and I talked a lot about this kind of stuff and and predicting which mechanism would occur. So, go ahead and check out my previous uh live streams on this. Um, okay. Uh, Gibb says, "So, as soon as hybridization enters sp2 range, it is no longer able to have implied hydrogens." Uh, no. I mean, it could have implied hydrogen still. So like for example uh here here's a pi bond there are implied hydrogens's right here's an implied hydrogen and here's an implied hydrogen but there's only one implied hydrogen so you all of the carbonarbon bonds are depicted but carbon hydrogen bonds are often not depicted right so all you have to do is count up the carbonarbon bonds and you know how many implied hydrogens's there are so for this carbon has three bonds to other carbons right 1 2 3. It's got to have four bonds. So that fourth bond must be to hydrogen. This carbon here is showing one two three bonds to other carbons. So there's got to be one there. This carbon is only showing two bonds to other carbons. So it's got to have two bonds to implied hydrogens. That one's sp3. Right? Now we have wedges and dashes over here. This methyl, right? This one is is showing one bond to other carbons. So we have to have three implied hydrogens. Right. Same with this methyl group. Implied hydrogen. Implied hydrogen. Implied hydrogen. So sp also sp hybridized can also have implied hydrogens's. Right? Here's the implied hydrogen. Right? We're not showing that terminal proton, but it is there. Uh sometimes it's drawn in, but you don't have to. So the point is carbonarbon bonds are always depicted. Carbon hydrogen bonds are typically not depicted. So, you have to count up the carboncarbon bonds that are shown and however many are missing to get to four bonds for carbon, carbon's almost always going to have four bonds unless there's a formal charge present. Um, if it's a neutral carbon, it's got to have four bonds. So, any missing bonds have to be to implied hydrogens. Okay, I hope that helps. Uh yeah, Caitlyn says it's like you're supposed to immediately know whether to put something on a wedge or dash. So it's it's got to go on a wedge or dash if it's an sp3 hybridized carbon. Um so like for example what I just did here, right, this carbon right before I drew in those hydrogens, we we saw that there were two bonds to other carbons. So to get those other two bonds, we have to have bonds to implied hydrogens, right? And so that means that it's sp3 hybridized. And so we it's got to be tetrahedral. So one is going to go on the wedge, one's going to go on the dash. That's got to that's got to be it. Caitlyn says, "How do you reconcile a compound that is trans using sin addition just imagining it in 3D?" I not sure I understand here. Let me just erase some stuff. So I think what you mean is if we have a transalkine and we're going to do uh sin addition, let's just let's just say it's AB. We don't care what it is, right? Um so that's fine, right? We can do this, right? So the alken is flat, right? And so if A and B are adding to the same side, right, sin addition means that the two groups, excuse me, are adding to the same side of the molecule. So that means that they'll be on the same side of of the of the product, right? So this is less confusing on a cyclic substrate where sigma bonds can't fully rotate. But as long as we do this, right, we can see they're both on the wedge or both on the dash, right? could be the other way, but clearly if they're on the same side of the product, then they were they were added to the same side of the of the alkine, right? Uh, okay, cool. We caught up. Uh, yeah, we got time for one or two more really quick. Okay, so let's do this organo couprate one. So, I haven't mentioned organo couprates yet. Not all organic chemistry 1 courses get into organo couprates but some do. So let's just uh it it depends on the on the professor if they like to use the you know use these or not. So we've got this alkaal bromide and we've got an organo couprate. So what is this right? We've got we've got two ethyl groups. We've got a copper atom. We've got a lithium atom. What is this? What's going on? So we got to understand what an organo couprate is. We've got the two ethyl groups that are bound to the copper atom. The copper atom has a formal negative charge and then the lithium uh cation is the counter ion that's that coordinates to the copper. And so what these are organo couprates are sources of nucleophilic uh carbon nucleophilic alkaalle groups right because what happens is if one of these alkaalle groups leaves with the electrons in the carbon copper bond then copper will lose an electron and it'll be neutralized right so we've got we've basically got an alkaalle annion we've got a carbanion nucleophile and then this is just like an substrate like a normal one that we would normally So this is what we need, right? One of these alkal groups is going to be the nucleophile. And we're going to go boom boom. Right? Now notice that right my arrow started in the middle of this bond. Right? And what this signifies is that the elect this carbon is leaving with the electrons in this carbon copper bond. It's taking those electrons, right? And so that's why carbon is losing uh sorry that's why copper is losing an electron which is favorable because then it neutralizes. So this ethyl this uh ethyl carbanion nucleophile is going to attack this carbon just do a regular SN2 kick off the bromine and we're going to get uh so here's the product here is the carbon that was attacked right and so that means we need an additional two carbons. So these two carbons are these two carbons. Those got tacked on there because they attacked this carbon right there. So we just get that uh we just get that hydrocarbon. We get that alkan product uh because of the organo couprate addition. Um, okay. Following up on what we did before, Caitlyn says, "So, it's still in the plane of the paper, so it's on the same face of the molecule." Um, okay. Yeah, that kind of makes sense. So, uh, if the if the alkan was in, uh, so this is planer, right? We're saying that's planer. And so, uh, the two groups being added add to the same face. So, they either both add to this face. So, I'm taking that molecule and now I'm looking at it from the side. I'm looking at the alken from the side. They're either adding to this face or they're adding to this face. And whichever face they add to, they'll end up on that side of the molecule together. That's what sin addition is. Um, Gibb asks, "Sorry for my very basic questions, but when you're drawing resonance structures of more complex organic compounds, what is the process that you use to find them?" Um, I mean, there's not really a process. It's just um okay for example that right so how how many resonance structures can we can we make right we can we can take this and we can form a pi bond here and we can push this pi bond up onto that carbon and put the carban ion there. Or we can push this pi bond here and put this uh and put this uh and get the carb carban ion there. Or we can push this pi bond here and we can push this pi bond and get the carbanion there. That would be another one. Or we can push this pi bond here and then we can push this pi bond up here and get the oxyanion. So that would be another one. So um it just depends how much conjugation there is. Where are the formal charges um which which bonds can can gain or sorry which atoms can gain a pi bond and lo and which ones can lose a pi bond. You're just pushing pi electron density everywhere it can go. Right? There are places where it can't go. For example, this methyl. There's no pi electron density that's going to get to that methyl because that methyl is not going to lose any bonds. it's not going to lose any of those carbon hydrogen sigma bonds. That doesn't work. So that that's there's no resonance there. But everywhere else we had all this conjugation, all these pi bonds. So you take you take all the pi electrons which are pi bonds and lone pairs and just push them around wherever they can go and anywhere they can stop along the way would be a valid individual resonance structure. Andrew says, "How would you write out the breakdown of a hydrocarbon molecule with that of water plasma?" Uh, that doesn't really sound like organic chemistry. Okay, cool. Yeah, that's all the questions. Maybe like 30 seconds if anyone's got one real quick because we don't have uh time to to get into the next one. But that was cool. Uh that was a lot of questions. Thanks guys for all your questions. Uh I love answering questions on the fly. I have my stuff prepared so that we can go we have plenty to go over, but I like when we only get to do five or so because we have so many questions uh to talk about. So um yeah, that's the time. So uh once again, uh I'm coming to you live every Tuesday at 5:00 pm Pacific. Uh partnering here with CHEG to bring you Organic Chemistry 1 office hours. And so we have a few more. We have, I don't know, four or five more of these, I believe, uh, to round out the semester. And, uh, check out that QR code if you want to see, uh, what other courses they're offering. Uh, Chad and I want to help you with all the courses that you're taking this semester. And uh tune in next Tuesday, 5 Pacific time uh to uh to