Hey everyone, we're back with yet another uh CHEG office hours for organic chemistry 1. So once again, I'm coming to you every Tuesday at 5:00 PM Pacific time uh with CHEG to do some uh study sessions here for organic chemistry 1. So check out the QR code on the top left if you're interested in seeing what other office hours is offering. They're doing math, all kinds of other stuff, so you can get help on all your courses this semester. Once again, uh here we're focusing on organic chemistry 1. We're in the live chat. Uh we're I'm taking questions. So, uh feel free to uh ask questions in the live chat. Please keep them oriented on organic chemistry 1 content. Feel free to ask questions about the problems I'm going over, but also feel free to ask uh any other question pertaining to organic chemistry 1 content. I have some stuff that I'm that I like to cover because I'm sort of targeting where I think most of you might be in your semester right now, but um I'm totally happy to take uh other questions that are not related to the exact practice problems I'm I'm looking at. So anyway, let's go ahead and get started. Uh so remember last time we started doing some uh some spectroscopy stuff and that is something that a lot of students have a hard time with. So I definitely want to go over the basics of spectroscopy more than once here. And so um definitely NMR is probably the most confusing I would say for for many students. So here's a question that says match the protons to their respective on this NMR spectrum. So once again we last week and for just getting into this topic it can be very daunting. You're looking at this thing you've got lines you don't know what you're looking at. the the the simplest way to look at this is that there's three pieces of information that we're looking for when it comes to assigning resonances on an NMR spectrum. Number one, you're looking at chemical shift. And chemical shift is where the resonance sits on that horizontal axis. So where is the peak here, more left or more right? That's called chemical shift. That has to do with how close protons are to an electronegative element. If they're very close to something like an oxygen or H hallogen, they'll be more downfield. That's downfield to the left. If they're not as close to those elements, they'll be more upfield. Uh so back up that way. Uh right. Uh the second bit of information is the integration. So that's how tall the peak is. Uh more literally, it's the the area under the peak, just like integration in calculus, but we can also just think of it as how big the peak is, how tall it is. Uh and then the third would be the splitting pattern. You can see that these peaks are split up into into into groups of smaller peaks. This one looks like three little peaks. This is like four or five. This is another three. And so um those are the three criteria that we're looking at. We're looking at chemical shift. We're looking at integration. And we're looking at splitting patterns. So we're going to assign these protons. And uh I'm actually just gonna ask a question here because I'm not seeing anybody in the chat, but uh maybe just nobody has left a comment yet. But anyway, so we've got three sets of chemically equivalent protons. Now, generally protons that are on the same carbon are chemically equivalent. There are uh exceptions to that. Like for example on alkenal protons if two protons that are on the same carbon participating in a double bond those may not be chemically equivalent depends on uh what else is there but um more but generally speaking uh these are all going to be the the protons on the same carbon will be chemically equivalent and that's because they see the same chemical environment right so as sigma bonds rotate those groups like this CH3 group is rotating so those three protons are going to be able to see all all the um all the the same environment here um from Boch. I just want to make a comment here that uh I'm not seeing any of the comments in my feed for some reason. Uh maybe that will start really soon. Anyway, let's go ahead and do this one in the meantime. So, what would we expect to see? Let's call let's see let's say that these protons are group one. These protons on the CH2 are group two and these ones are group three. Let's go like that. So for number one there, what would we expect to see? Well, it's three protons. So we would expect to see them integrated to three. It's a peak integrated to three. And we would expect to see it uh relatively upfield, right? Because it is nowhere near the bromine atom. And then we would expect it to be a triplet because the splitting pattern has to is uh is based on the n plus1 rule. So what you do is you figure out how many protons are on neighboring carbons and then you add one. So for these protons here those see two next door. So the the the resonance generated by these three protons is split by these two protons. 2 + 1 is three. So the resonance pertaining to this methyl group or the three protons on the methyl group should be a triplet. Uh then for number two uh we're going to get that integrated to two and uh and we're going to see that kind of in the middle. Let's just call it in the middle because it's closer to the bromine than the methyl but not as close as this CH2 right here. And that will be that will be heavily split. We're going to call that a multiplate because it's very it's uh split quite a lot, right? We've got three protons on this side, two protons on that side, 5 + 1 is six. It'll be split into six little peaks. And once you have that many peaks, we just call it a multiplate. Uh and then number three there is again going to be integrated to two. And we should see that the most downfield because it is the closest to the to the bromine atom. And that should be uh that should be a triplet as well, right? Because these two protons see these two protons next door. That is a triplet. And so now it's time to make our assignments. So do we have a a a 3H upfield triplet? Yes, we do. right there. It's the only one integrated to three. It is a triplet and it is the most upfield. So, that's certainly going to be number one. Uh number two, do we have a 2H multiplate in the middle? And uh we do. We have two H. It's in the middle of the other two peaks. And it is a multiplate. It's hard to see, right? With a multiplate, it gets hard to be able to count all the smaller peaks, but we'll we'll trust that that's that that's six there. Um, and uh, yeah, unfortunately I still can't see the chat. Uh, just saying if I can't see them and perhaps they can be pasted into this private chat, but maybe they'll show up soon. Uh, and then lastly, number three, we have a 2H downfield triplet. So, here's 2H. It's the most downfield, and it is a triplet. So, that looks good. So, when when you're doing these assignments, you you really want to try to uh corroborate the peak assignment with all three of these data, right? You need integration, you need uh chemical shift, and you need splitting pattern. And if all three of those agree on the assignment, then you can be really confident that you got the right assignment. And obviously, this is a very very simple example, right? We're talking about a three-carbon molecule. But these are the same principles that dictate uh assignment on on NMR spectra for even much more complicated examples. There start to be other factors like uh coupling constants when it gets really tricky, but this is really the name of the game. Chemical shift, integration, and splitting patterns. It's going to get you pretty far. So as long as you understand these principles, we can we can uh use them uh to look at uh other stuff other spectra. So that's NMR. Uh we'll do a little more NMR in a little bit. Let's move on here. So number two, draw the product of the following transformation. We have this uh substituted benzene. We have isopropyl benzene. And um and uh these are the conditions for nitration. Okay, so we are going to nitrate this substituted benzene. So that means we're going to put an NO2 group on there. Now the question is where? If this was simply benzene, we could put a nitro group anywhere. It wouldn't matter. All the carbons are equivalent anyway. But we have this alkaalle group and this alkaalle group is uh it is an orthopera director, right? Alkalle groups are weakly electron donating and electron donating groups are orthoperadirectors because they uh that is the pathway that gives uh the the plus charge in the arinium ion intermediate directly adjacent to the electron donating group. So when it goes by the ortho or para pathways it's the most energetically favorable because the carboation can be directly stabilized by that by that uh substituent that's already on there. So remember ortho this is the ortho position this is the methos position meta position this is parah also here's ortho and here's meta over there so ortho means next to actually this is called ipso the the group that bears the substituent is called ipso one away is ortho two away is meta and on the other side of the ring is parah and so going by either the ortho or parap pathways we're going to get that better uh that that more stabilized arenium ion intermediate so that's why this is going to be an orthopera director and so we're going to get the nitro group at either the ortho or the para position and so let's draw both of those. So there's our isopropyl group and then we can have the nitro group there or here's our isopropyl group and we can have the nitro group at the meta position. Now you are going to get a mixture of these. uh chances are well it's actually a kind of a tossup. You you'd have to do this and see what the distribution would be because uh ortho is favored statistically simply because there are two orthopositions and only one paraposition. So if collisions are occurring randomly when there's two orthopositions that makes it twice as likely to get ortho substitution. However that probability is diminished because of there is some steric hindrance going on with this isopropyl group. So the isoprop isopropyl group there's some bulk to it there. It's a little bit of a bulky group. Um not as bulky as tbutle but still and so actually that might be enough to skew it towards favoring parah. That would be what I would predict. But again you do get a mixture and you never know until you go in the lab and you do it. So we're going to get our ortho and our parah substituted uh diubstituted products and uh so that's what that's going to be. So the first part was recognizing that these are the conditions for nitration. The second part was recognizing that this is an orthopera director because it's an alkaal group. And then the third part was drawing the correct uh product. That would be it. Okay. So moving on here we've got label the following compounds as aromatic, anti-aromatic or non-aromatic. So what are the conditions for aromaticity? This is very important. We need to absolutely memorize uh these criteria. Number one, the molecule has to be cyclic. Linear molecules are not aromatic ever. Uh they have to be cyclic. They have to be fully planer, right? So they can't uh they can't, you know, like cycllohexene, right? They're they have to be all um pretty they have to basically be sp2 hybridized. Now we have to understand that we're looking at the composite resonance structure. So there can be an sp3 carbon on there but uh because of the deoization of the pi electron density when you look at the composite it's basically flat anyway. It it the the sp3 character is distributed around so it's not localized on there. Number three fully conjugated. So there has to be pi electron density that is deoized around the entire ring. There cannot be any portion of the ring where the deoized pi electron density does not go. And so by pi electron density we're talking about pi bonds obviously and we're talking about lone pairs. Lone pairs are also considered pi electrons. So it has to be fully conjugated. There cannot be a part of the ring that it where where all of the electrons are localized. And four, it has to satisfy Huckle's rule where whereby the the the number of deoized electrons in the ring has to equal 4n + 2 where n is any integer. So if n is zero, we get two. If n is one, we get six. If n is two, we get 10 and 14 and so forth going up by multiples of four indefinitely. And so any of these numbers is an allowed number of pi electrons that will yield aromaticity if all of the other criteria are satisfied. So with that understood, let's take a look at this first one here. So this is cyclic obviously. Uh is it fully planer? Yes, it is because even though so these all in in this individual resonance structure which once again remember that individual resonance structures do not exist. only the composite resonance structure exists. We write discrete resonance structures for ease of describing the molecule, writing mechanisms and so forth, but they're actually not real. So these in this resonance structure, we have almost all sp2 carbons and then one sp3 carbon because we've got a carbanion, right? If it was a carboation, it would also be sp2. Uh but this is deoized, right? Because we can do this. We can put this there and then that can put the annion there or we can uh Whoops. Or we can push this here and put the annion there or we can push this here and put the annion there. Right? There's a we're going to be able to deocize that all the way around. And so in the other resonance structures, this carbon will be sp2. So in the composite, we're looking at essentially almost entirely sp2 character for every carbon. So it is fully planer. Um it is fully conjugated, right? There is no part of the molecule where uh where the where the pi electron density doesn't go. It goes all the way around with by resonance. Um but does it does it obey Huckle's rule? Right? Uh so what h how many pi electrons do we have? We have 2 4 6 8 right? We have eight pi electrons. Uh let's put it up here. eight pi electrons. So that doesn't satisfy Huckle's rule. Um instead if we have uh if we have uh if if if it obeys 4N uh then that then that makes the molecule anti-aromatic. And so anti-aromatic is a situation where all of the criteria are met except that it does not obey Huckle's rule. It has 4 N pi electrons instead of 4n plus2. And so if n is two we get eight. So 4 8 12 16 right like that. So eight is an example of a number of pi electrons that yields anti-aromaticity. And so this one is indeed anti-aromatic. So this is a this is a specifically destabilizing situation. Whereas aromaticity is stabilizing brings the system to a lower energy. Anti-aromaticity brings the system to a higher energy. it is destabilizing. So that that annion there makes it anti-aromatic. If there was no formal charge there at all, if this was just a neutral carbon, then it would be nonaromatic because it would not be fully conjugated, right? This carbon would not be participating in resonance. There would be no pi electron density getting to that carbon. So it would be non-aromatic. And then finally, if it was a cation, if it was a plus charge, then all of a sudden it would be aromatic because then everything would apply. It would be fully conjugated again because the pi the pi bonds would be going over there to neutralize the cation. But then having a plus charge instead of a minus charge, that brings the pi electron count down by two. So we would have six pi electrons. So that would be aromatic if it was a if it was a plus charge right there. So seven membered rings can be aromatic just in certain circumstances. just there. Um and so uh yes anti-aromatic. So now let's move on to this one. So this is cyclic. This is planer. Uh it and once again even though in this resonance structure we do see four sp2 carbons and then one sp3 oxygen. Remember we're that resonance structure does not exist. We have to look at the composite where uh let me just draw in some lone pairs. this oxygen has two lone pairs, right? When oxygen has two bonds, it has two lone pairs and one of these can be uh can be deoized, right? So, we could put that up there. Now, the other resonance structures are not quite as strongly contributing because they have formal charges, right? If this lone pair goes there, then this oxygen will have a cation and then one of these carbons will have to have an annion. And so we know that uh resonance structures where all the where all the atoms are neutral are tend to be more strongly contributing than ones with formal charges. Nevertheless, we do have other resonance structures. So you have to look at a composite and the composite involves pi electron density being deoized all the way around. It is fully planer uh and it is fully conjugated. Right? There's no part of the ring where pi electrons don't go. Uh so now we look to Huckle's rule. How many pi electrons do we have? Two in this pi bond. Two in this pi bond. And then here's the trick. So a lot of students get tripped up here. It is actually the case that only one lone pair is going to be deoized. Right? One lone pair needs to be used to achieve deo to achieve complete conjugation of the ring. The other one does not participate. So this I admit can be confusing. Right? Students will say well that oxygen has two lone pairs right? So that's uh that's four pi electrons plus the other two bonds it's another four that's eight but it's only this huckle rule involves only the pi electrons that are deoized to achieve complete conjugation right so we don't have to count those and so this is actually going to be six pi electrons and therefore it is aromatic and so these ones the heterosycles you end up just kind kind of memorizing five membered ring with an atom, two two pi bonds and something in there with lone pairs. It could be sulfur, right? If it was sulfur would be aromatic, too. Um, these ones you just kind of see over and over again, that one is aromatic. Okay, moving on to the last one here. This is a three-membered ring, so it is cyclic. It is planer. uh this one this one is fully planer even just looking at a singular uh even just looking at a singular uh resonance structure because they're all sp2 right sp2 sp2 sp2 because of the cation there we have only one implied hydrogen not two so this is fully planer even just looking at one resonance structure um it is fully conjugated right because you could put the pi bond there and then you'd have the plus charge there and then you could also put the pi bond here and get the plus charge there and in each case you'd be neutralizing that one. So you can have a pi bond in each of the three positions and you can have the carboation on each of the three positions. So it is fully conjugated. Now does it satisfy Huckle's rule? How many pi electrons do we have? In this case we have only two uh just the two in that pi bond. Remember this carboation indicates a lack of it's electron deficient right? So there that's not pi electrons that's electron deficiency. So we have only two pi electrons and therefore that does satisfy Huckle's rule. It's this it's the smallest number that satisfies Huckle's rule. So this is actually the simplest aromatic system possible is this uh is this cyclop cyclopropenol cation is what you would call it. It's a cyclopropene but it's got a cation there that makes it uh that makes it fully conjugated and therefore aromatic. So, uh, that brings the system to a lower energy. That's the aromaticity part. So, that's that one. Okay. Let's see if I missed anything. Uh, Kelsey asks, "When do we use heating under reflux?" So, that's just a that's a laboratory technique. when you're uh when you're just doing a reaction and you uh are getting vapor and then you want the vapor to recondense and fall back into the reaction flask, that's when you use a reflux condenser. So, you're you've got something on a hot plate, it's boiling, you're getting vapor, and then it hits those cold that uh that the cold area that's got uh cold water running through it, cools that vapor back down, brings it back into the uh reaction vessel. That's what heating under reflux means. Uh Lily asks, can you do an explanation of spherical harmonics and what quantum numbers are allowed with a radial solution? So that's either if you want to talk about quantum numbers in a simple manner, that's going to be gen uh and then if you want to get really in-depth, that's going to be in your quantum chemistry course, which is hard and I don't remember that stuff off the top of my head. But uh in terms of quantum numbers, remember we've got um we've got n, l, m subl, and m subs. So n is the is the shell, right? So you've got the n equals 1 shell, n equals2 shell, n= 3 shell, etc. Uh L is the uh L is the type of orbital. So when L is zero, you've got spherical orbitals. When you've got L equals 1, you've got the P orbitals, which are lobes extending on the three axes. When L equals 2, you've got the d orbitals, which are a little stranger looking. And then uh L equals 3 is F orbitals, which are even stranger looking. I can't mimic them with my hands. uh m subl refers to an individual orbital among the set of degenerate orbitals. M subs is the spin number. So you can fit two electrons in each orbital. One spin up, one spin down. That way uh does not violate the uh polyexclusion principle. So we uh every uh electron in an atom has a unique set of quantum numbers. So orbitals are are crazy. They're just uh basically three-dimensional standing waves. uh it's essentially proves wave particle duality for electrons, right? These are these are threedimensional waves of probability density that represent regions in space where electrons can be which is how we we got to that from the bore model where we thought we kind we kind of viewed electrons as corpuscles corpusles that are that are orbiting the nucleus like planets around a star. It's actually not like that right there. An electron is so small that it's quantum mechanical behavior. It cannot be ignored. Electrons have a wavelike behavior. And so that's where you get all those. So uh hopefully that helped a little bit. Um uh Kelsey asks, "Can we do reaction mechanism?" Oh, sorry, Ryan. Not Yeah, Ryan asks, "Can we do reaction mechanisms?" I have one mechanism on here, so I'm going to get to that one and then let me know if there's a particular mechanism that you're having trouble with. I can try to address that after that or uh I can include that in next week's uh in next week's uh presentation. So let's uh move on for now to the next one. So more spectroscopy. We are talking about IR spectroscopy as well. So this is something that is not as powerful as as NMR, right? You can't use IR to uh unambiguously assign a complete uh structure a complete structure to a compound. uh maybe in certain cases but only very very simple molecules it's not like NMR instead IR is used to discern the presence or absence of particular functional groups right particular functional groups the bonds in those functional groups will uh interact with IR light in a particular way they'll stretch bend all these different ways of motion that are induced by the photon and then whether that gets to the dete detector or not it tells us whether that particular functional group is present or not. And so with an IR spectrum, so here is the fingerprint region and it is harder to parse information out of that. Although you certainly can and you do later on in your studies, that's more of like an advanced uh advanced laboratory techniques undergraduate course. When you first learn IR, it's just about memorizing a small handful of functional groups. um where they show up, what the what the what the peak looks like because they often have very distinct shapes. Uh and so here we're looking at a few things. This right here is a saturated CH stretch. And so by saturated CH we're talking about alkyal alkan protons. alkan protons. So, uh these are protons on carbons that are not participating in pi bonds, right? Protons on carbons that are part participating in only sigma bonds, right? So, sp3 carbons and so obviously most organic molecules have that. So this is a very very common peak because anything that has it would have to be like you know benzene wouldn't have it but uh anything that has alkan carbons alkan protons will have that. So that will be there more often than not. Then right here this is a carbonial stretch. So when you see this it is it is it is quite distinct because it is long and thin. So it's very thin and very long. it reaches almost all the way down here. Uh meaning no no transmittance, right? So it's a lot of absorption there of that frequency. Um and it's at this very particular wave number which is around what would you call that? 1700 something along those lines, 1700 um inverse centimeters. And so when you see a carbonial stretch, it's very simple. You just know that there's a carbonal. And if you don't see a carbonal stretch, you know that there's not a carbonal, right? It's it's simple one way or the other. So we know that our that our compound has to have a carbonal and so which of these has that? Well, that would just be this one, right? So the presence of the carbonal uh tells us that it's cycllohexone. Now we should be very clear that it would it this it would be very very difficult to discern between cycllohexone and say cyclopentanone, right? That that would be very hard to tell because all this is telling us is that there's a carbonal. And so this and then another molecule with a very similar carbonial like another ketone, another cyclic ketone even. Um it's going to be very hard to tell from an IR spectrum. You'd need NMR for that. But um this one is going to have the carbonial stretch. It's going to have the saturated CH stretch. So it's not that having this stretch means it is a fully saturated hydrocarbon, right? There can be other functionality on it. All this says is that this functionality is also present. So every functional group is going to show up. if there are other functional groups that will also show up. Um, and then the other one that we sometimes see is the O stretch and that usually shows up here. It's very uh broad and smooth, this kind of rounded peak. And so that's generally in this region. It's always to the left of the saturated CH stretch. And if we had that, we would know it would be an alcohol. But we do not see that. So we know that there's not a hydroxil. We see the uh the carbonial stretch. So that's the one we're going to go with. So that's kind of the extent more or less at least in most courses for organic chemistry 1 for most professors um probably going to be enough to just be able to identify five or so of these uh functional groups. Uh lesson notes Danny is the part below 1500 centimeters in wave number in IR spectrum useless. So no, it definitely is not useless. And uh you know laboratory chemists if they were actually working in the lab, if they were if they were using IR for one reason or another, it's a little bit outdated, but you can still get get something out of it. Um this is not useless. It's called the fingerprint region. And so um things like if you're distinguishing between orthometa and parasubstitution, that'll show up here. uh if you have like a dub substituted benzene ring um whether it's orthometa or parah d substituted you can you can get that kind of information from this region. So, it's not useless. It's just goes beyond the scope of a typical organic chemistry one course. You're probably going to come back to that in more like a thirdyear uh spectroscopy course. So, we won't talk about that now. Um, all right. Match the protons to their respective peaks on the NMR spectrum. So, let's do one more NMR. Um, actually, I think I have another one too after this. But uh so once again uh we're talking about chemical shift, we're talking about integration, and we're talking about splitting patterns. That's all we need to worry about right now. So the best thing to do is to predict what kind of peaks you would find based on the protons that are in the molecule. So we have uh remember the protons on the same carbon are almost always chemically equivalent. And so let's uh let's say that right here. Okay, let's call this one. We'll call this two. And then we'll call these ones three. And so one is going to be a 3h. It's going to be integrated to three. Uh it is going to be uh we'll call it pretty upfield, right? Because it is the furthest away. So the the electronegative atom here is the oxygen. The closer the protons are to the oxygen, that oxygen is pulling electron density away from neighboring atoms. So if it is if it is pulling electron density then it is pulling the electron density around each proton away from the nucleus of that proton which is called dshhielding. It's a dshielding effect when protons are near electronegative atoms. So the more dshielded it is the farther left it shows up on the spectrum. Downfield is to the left up field is to the right. So near more electronegative stuff more downfield. Farther away from electronegative stuff upfield. Um, so this is the fir these are the furthest away from the oxygen. So those will be the most upfield and we will expect that to be split into a triplet because we see two protons next door two and then remember it's the n + one rule. So 2 + 1 is three. These protons the resonance corresponding to these protons on the methyl group will be split into three smaller peaks or a triplet. Now two is going to be integrated to two. So 2 H uh and it'll be and uh comparing this and this it may be difficult to predict which will be more downfield and you know what sometimes you don't need it so let's just skip it right you don't have to have every single datam perfectly predicted sometimes it's enough to just go by integration or splitting or whatever it is so these protons and these protons they're both on a carbon that is adjacent to the carbonal so we might not expect a dramatic difference in chemical shift and in fact we might not be able to predict it or we or yeah so we just we can ignore that for now but uh the splitting we know this is going to be a quartet. So let's call it a quartet and then let's move on to the third one. So this one is going to be integrated to three. Uh, and then again, we said that we're going to maybe not even worry about predicting chemical shift because we aren't immediately sure which one is going to be more downfield. And then we know that this is going to be a singlet. It's going to be a singlet because there are no neighboring protons. The protons on this carbon, if we go next door, that's this carbon. And this carbon does not bear any hydrogen atoms. There are no protons next door. So, n is zero. 0 + 1 is 1. So it'll remain one peak, a singlet. Okay. So now we're ready to do our assignments. Do we have a 3H upfield triplet? Yes, we do. This one is integrated to three. It is the most upfield and it is clearly a triplet. So that is peak one. Then do we have a 2H quartet? Uh and remember, we didn't know where the chemical shift might put it. But it turns out that being a two-h quartet is more than enough information to make the assignment. Here is a 2H quartet right here. As it turned out, it was slightly more downfield, slightly more dshielded than the other peak, but that's okay. We're going to call it two. Um, and then we have a 3H singlet. Here's the only singlet. It is integrated to three. It's right here near the other peak. And so that's going to be three right there. So there is our completely unambiguous assignment of this NMR spectrum which we achieved by figuring out which which protons are chemically equivalent and grouping them. So we figured out we have three sets of chemically equivalent protons which which would cause us to expect three peaks and there are three peaks. Then we assigned the expected integration roughly the uh the position due to chemical shift if possible. If not it's not important and then the splitting pattern. So we made those predictions based on those three criteria and then we saw that the assignment was very easy. So that's uh that's another simple NMR one. Okay, let's do one more because we're hot on it and uh and oh let me check for questions here. No. Yeah, same. And uh and so uh so so you'll get asked NMR questions in different ways, right? You may be given a structure and asked to assign be asked to assign the peaks. But you may be given a spectrum and asked to determine the structure, right? From options or not, right? You could be given the spectrum and an empir uh well either an empirical or a molecular formula. Maybe a molecular formula, right? You could be given a molecular formula and a spectrum and asked to uh draw the structure. Or you could not even be given a molecular formula. That would be a little hard. you'd have to probably probably be given uh IR data or something else uh in there as well to to get an idea of what the functional groups might be. But um here we have some options and we're going to we're going to go between them. So the first thing we can do is see that we have two peaks. So this looks a little funky but so these are insets right? This is this peak uh expanded and then this is this peak expanded. So we see that we have a triplet and we're not even sure what the integration is. We're not even given the integration. So we're going to have to rely on chemical shift and splitting to make this assignment. But we have a triplet that's more downfield and then we have a multiplate that's more upfield. We'll call it a quintet. Looks like a quintet to me. Um and so let's so first of all we're we sometimes you can eliminate possibilities just based on the number of peaks without even looking at where they are, how tall they are, what the splitting patterns is. uh splitting patterns are it's just about the the number of chemically equivalent protons. How many resonances should we expect? So here we have uh these are chemically equivalent and then that one. So we would expect two peaks there. That works. Here we would expect this uh there's three protons there, two protons there and two protons there. So those are three distinct sets of chemical equivalent protons. So we would expect three peaks if this was the compound. So, this is not good. We don't even have to look at splitting or any of that stuff. We know it's not going to be that one. Um, over here, these are chemically equivalent and then that one. So, that looks good. We would need two peaks on that. So, we're not we're undecided, right? Uh, as of now, right? We now now we have to go into looking at chemical shift and splitting. And we don't even have to worry about integration because we're not given integration data, right? It looks like this uh the the 3H is uh is integrated higher but it is genuinely hard to tell right because the more the more smaller peaks you have uh it gets broader but so when it gets broader it gets shorter but it is wider and integration is actually uh area under the curve. It's not height. It's literally the area under the under a curve and therefore under the resonance. So the broader it gets, the more area there is under there, which can be misleading, right? It's it's it's not just peak height. You can't just look at that and determine integration that way. You actually assign it on the computer. The the the computer does it for you. You highlight it and it gives you the relative integrations um based on pixels. And so uh so let's let's do the assignment. Let's assign uh chemical shift and splitting. So here we would expect these guys um this is going to be more downfield. We can say that we would expect it to be integrated to four. So just to get a relative uh value there just to just to get a sense of it. Um, and then we're going to expect this to be a triplet, right? Because and so this is a little tricky, right? The the protons the it's so the protons here see these two these two next door. The protons here also see these two next door. So we don't count it twice, right? The the way that we want to think about this is take take any of these four protons. If you take one of these protons, it is it sees two protons next door. So it's split into a triplet. Then the other hydrogen there sees the same thing. So it yields the same resonance uh but but it amplifies it, right? And then these protons over here see that uh make the exact same resonance and so it amplifies it further. And then the fourth one. So each proton is yielding a resonance that is being split into a triplet by the two protons right there. And it's just that four of them amplifies it to a 4H integration. Right? So that's how that's how we want to count that, right? Because because of the symmetry of the molecule, you can have protons on different carbons that are chemically equivalent. So we want to bear that in mind. Uh if this chlorine weren't there or it was something else like a florine, then we then it wouldn't be uh chemically equivalent anymore. We'd have we'd have three peaks. But this is uh symmetrical. So we've got a downfield 4H triplet. And then we've got uh an upfield 2H multiplate and we'll call it a quintet, right? Because these two protons each see 1 2 3 4 next door. So here we do count them all because the proton really does see four protons next door. The two on that one and the two on that one. Four plus one is five. It's going to be split into five smaller peaks. So that's our prediction there. Over here we've got uh we've got this will be more upfield. It'll be integrated to six, right? We've got two methyl groups. So three over there, three over there. Uh and it'll be split it'll be split into a dlet, right? Because each of these protons sees only one implied hydrogen next door. That's it. So now we want to do this one. This is going to be more downfield because it is closer to the chlorine. Right? Here's the chlorine. That's the electronegative element that is doing the desshielding. So if the proton is on the same carbon that's very close to the chlorine, it'll be more dshielded. It'll be more downfield. But it is integrated to one. And this will be a very messy multiplate, right? It sees six protons next door. So it's going to be split into seven smaller peaks. Once you get to about that, it gets harder to discern the individual smaller peaks. Uh, we just call it a multiplate at that point. So, which of these compounds matches the spectrum? So, do we see a downfield triplet and an upfield quintet? Yes, we do. This is a downfield triplet and this is an upfield quintet or it looks that way. Uh, over here, do we see an upfield dlet and a downfield multiplet? No, we don't. Right? The upfield one is not a double. It's clearly split more than a double. And then the downfield one um is not a multiplet. It's it's pretty clearly a triplet, right? A triplet is easy to discern. So the the splitting patterns don't work for this one here, but they work perfectly for this one. And also, even though we're not given integration values, it does look pretty good, right? The the triplet is bigger than the multiplet. And that does correspond uh with or the quintet the the 4 H versus 2 H does seem to fit that as well. So chemical shift looks good. Uh splitting looks good and the integration even though not given values does seem to look pretty good. So definitely this is going to be this is going to be the structure there. This uh 13 dchloropropane. So that'll be that one. Uh Nikolai asks, "When it comes to nucleophilic electrophilic reactions, how do I know where the nucleophile electrophile will attack?" So, so nucleophiles do attacking. And um so, okay, let's let's say where do I have more room? Yeah, let's just do it up here. So, uh if we're just doing kind of like an SN2 reaction and let's say we've got hydroxide. So hydroxide is the nucleophile. So nucleophiles have electron excess and electrophiles have electron deficiency and the nucleophilicity and electrophalicity will be in specific sites. And so here the nucleophilicity is clearly due to the negative charge. And so nucleophiles attack electroiles. Where's the electrophile? That's going to be right here. It's that uh it's that carbon, right? The carbon is electrondeicient because the electrons in the carbon bromine bond are being polarized towards the bromine or at least they will be when the nucleifile approaches. They are of roughly similar electro negativity but it is a very polarizable bond due to the orbital mismatch. The the bromine is much larger. So uh so hydroxide can attack the electrophilic site which is the uh partial positive uh carbon kick off the bromine and you get the alcohol product. So that's the story of chemistry, right? The story of chemistry is electron excess meets electron deficiency and they interact minus meets plus right to understand why that's a question for the physicists right we to understand why fundamentally electromagnetism causes attraction between opposite charges we're going to let the physicists worry about that as chemists that's a fundamental assumption that's an axiom that we can that's axiomatic right we don't we know that it happens and all we have to do is then apply that to compounds. So you whenever there's a chemical reaction, we're we're identifying electron excess in the form of a lone pair, a negative charge, a pi bond, and that is going to be interacting with some electron deficiency, which could be a formal positive charge, could be a partial positive charge due to a polar coalent bond, whatever it is. Uh, and then you just make them go. So hopefully that uh helps. Okay, let's do a couple Newman projections. Right, if we're getting some questions about just basic nucleophile, electrophile stuff, it sounds like maybe some people are not quite as far uh through the curriculum. So, let's revisit some of the older stuff and uh we're going to draw some Newman projections here. So, um we want to draw the Newman projection about that bond. So, let's draw the front carbon here. The front carbon, we're going to see the three. But we see the front carbon and we see the three substituents. We do not see the the bond here and we do not see the carbon behind it. But we see the three substituents here. So we see a methyl going straight down. So remember this this works a lot better if you if you can visualize yourself in the paper and look at the molecule from the side. And so if we're in there, right, our eyeball just imagine your eyeball right in there. And the methyl is going straight down. So we've got a CH3 there. This wedge bond is going out of the page, out of the screen. And so if you're in the screen, you're seeing that up and to your right. So there's the methyl there. And then we have an implied hydrogen up and to the left. Now looking at the back carbon, so we can't see that back carbon. It's obscured by the front carbon, but we can see the three substituents that are connected to it. And so since it's obscured, these bonds are going to are going to originate at the side at the edge of the circle to indicate they're connecting to the carbon behind the front carbon. And so we're going to see the methyl going down and to the right. We're going to see florine on the dash bond. Remember the dash bond is going further away from us uh than the screen if we're looking at it top down. But if you're in the screen, you're seeing that down and to your left. So there's the florine there. And then here we see uh uh CHB CH3 right you can either draw that I mean we don't have to do it that way right we can we can say we can do this too we can draw it like that uh however you want to do it as long as the connectivity is very clear that is going uh straight up in the back so there's our Newman projection it is a staggered confirmation it's a staggered confirmation because all the dihedral angles are 60°. Uh we've got a go interaction right there. We've got a go interaction right there. Right? These are these alkal groups are uh adjacent. So there's your new projection. Uh all right, let's do one more. So now the our eyeball is right there. We're looking right down this bond right here. So here's the front carbon. Here's the back carbon. So the front carbon is the circle. the back carbons behind the circle. What are all the substituents we see? So, here we see the methyl going straight down. So, there's that methyl going straight down. We see uh the bromine. Now, if we're on the right side of it, so it's very important. Don't memorize um wedge is left and dash is right or wedge is right and dash is left because it changes depending on your perspective. It depends on which side of the molecule you're on. So really definitely try your best to imagine yourself in the screen. If I'm in the screen right now, that bromine on the dash bond is going up and to my right because it's further away from the screen uh from this perspective uh further away from us than the screen from this perspective. So uh bromine is going up and to the right. Then we've got an implied hydrogen going up and to the left. Then on the back carbon, what do we have? We've got methyl going down and to the left from this perspective, right? If the wedge bond is protruding from the screen, then if we're in the screen, we see it on on the left. Down and to the left there, H3C, uh, you want the carbon connected, so that's why we flip that sometimes. Uh, then we've got the florine going down and to the right. And then we've got an isopropyl group going straight up. Don't have to worry about the stereochemistry there. it is this carbon this sigma bond is always rotating so it doesn't matter. Um so that that is that one there. We've got one go interaction. Again this is also a staggered confirmation. Eclipsed would involve the groups right on top of each other. Uh so that's that one. That's a little bit of Newman projection review. No more questions there. Okay let's do a dealer. So, uh, if we're going to do a retro dealer, we know that deals alder makes, uh, six-membered rings. And so, if we're going to retro dealer, we got to break the six-membered ring. And so, we are going to break these bonds and we're going to pull it apart. We're going to pull them apart. So, how are we going to do that? We're going to do it like this. Let's put the Let's put that. So remember, deals alder takes three uh three pi bonds and you get one pi bond and two sigma. So we're going to have to shuffle around two sigma and one pi to go back to the original situation. So this sigma goes back here to make a pi bond. This pi bond goes back here to make the first pi bond. And then this sigma bond goes back here to make this to make a pi bond there. So if we pull those apart, what do we get? we end up with this as our dyen and then this as our denophile. So uh yeah, let's uh yeah dyen denophile. And so a couple things here. If you have just one six-membered ring, you know that you had two uh right, we're going to pull that apart and we're going to have uh two different uh we're going to have the dyne and the dapophile. The dyene was not cyclic, right? If it was already cyclic, we'd have the bicyclic system. Number two, the confusing thing here though is that if we take this sigma bond and we put it here in between these two carbons, this is already a double bond. That's going to make it a triple bond. You put a you put a bond on top of a pi bond, you get a second pi bond. So you get this uh this butine here right one two three four it's a four carbon alkine it's a two butine uh and then the dyene there and we can always check right we can always go in the forward direction right we can always take these and then imagine the the electrons cycling in the forward direction and we can see that we will get that product right this pi bond goes there that's that one this pi bond goes goes here to get this sigma bond. Right? Here's the new sigma bond. And one of these pi bonds, only one, goes to make this new sigma bond, which leaves a pi bond, right? That leaves one of those pi bonds there. So, here are the two new sigma bonds that form. And uh let's just erase this. Yeah, we don't need those. Okay. So, there's your deals alder. Not too hard once you get the hang of it. Okay. Let's do one mechanism. We got asked about mechanisms. So let's do the complete mechanism for the following transformation. What is this? This is antimarovnikov hydrohalogenation. Antimarovnikov hydro halogenation. We know it's an addition reaction because we've got an alken substrate. We know it's hydrohalogenation because we have HBr. This is a hydrogen and a halogen. And we know it's antimarovnikoff because of the peroxides, right? Hydrogen peroxide is going to promote the antimarobnikoff region specificity here. So how does this work, right? Because students will learn u will learn this in the absence of peroxides. And that's a very simple mechanism, right? The pi bond grabs the proton broo broomemide attacks the more substituted carboation. Done and done. Very simple. This one is a little more tricky because of the it's going to proceed via a radical mechanism. So the radical mechanism goes like this. We've got uh hydrogen peroxide and uh and light and heat uh will cause this to undergo homolytic bond cleavage. And homolytic bond cleavage means that one electron uh the the two electrons in the bond they cleave so that one goes to each uh atom that was participating in the bond. So that's typ that's the opposite of heterolytic bond cleavage where both of the electrons in the bond go to one atom and not the other. Uh and so we're going to get two times the hydroxal radical. So we denote a radical with a dot like that. It signifies an unpaired electron. Now the hydroxal radical is going to interact with HBr. And again we're going to get oh and so this is uh initiation. This is an initiation reaction. Initiation reactions are always endothermic. It's going to require energy to promote that homolytic bond cleavage. Um now here the hydroxal radical is going to interact with this HBr uh HBr bond and we're going to get this. And so these two arrows, remember they're single-headed arrows. Single-headed arrows denote the motion of one electron, the behavior of one electron. Double-headed arrows indicate two electrons. So we need the single edited the single-headed arrows there. And what these two arrows mean is that this electron from the radical and one of the electrons from this bond meet and form a new coalent bond and then the other one stays there. So that'll give us water, right? HO radical plus another H. That's going to be H2O plus we're going to get a bromine radical. Now here's where the regio specificity comes in. this bromine radical is going to interact with the substrate and it is going to do so in such a way so as to yield the more stable radical intermediate. So here is this and one of those pi bonds one of those pi electrons and then the other pi electron in the pi bond is going to stay with that secondary carbon. So this is the key here. This is where we get the regio specificity. This is going to go to the less substituted carbon. so as to leave the more stable possible radical intermediate. Carbon radicals are a form of electron deficiency just like carboations. So they're they're going to follow the same stability trend. A secondary carboation is more stable than a primary carboation because it's more substituted. It's more stabilized by hyper conjugation. So a secondary carbon radical is also more stable than a primary radical for the same reason. So that's why the bromine radical goes to the primary carbon and not the secondary. If the bromine radical went to the secondary carbon, you'd be left with a primary carbon radical. That's not good. That's not the more favorable pathway. The bromine radical is going to go to the primary carbon because that leaves the secondary carbon radical, which is better. It's a more energetically favorable pathway. So, it's going to go that way. Um, and so these are called propagation steps. Propagation steps can be um can be endothermic or exothermic. It depends on the bond dissociation energies. You have to tally them up. And so uh initiation steps uh are always uh go from covealent species to radical species. Propagation steps go from one radical and one coalent to another radical and another coalent. It's propagating the existence of radicals. You're getting new radicals. Then we can have a termination step, right? Because this is going to go until you get a neutral compound. Um, well, this is neutral, but it's going to extinguish the radical somehow. So, let's have this interact with HBr again. And we're going to go boom boom. We're going to get that hydrogen radical. And that is going to give us our product. Uh, we don't need to the the hydrogen is implied, the one that we just got. So, that's there. Um, and then this is going to propagate another bromine radical. So this is why radical species are so harmful because they um it it propagates right these in these break bonds and then propagate more radicals which go and break other bonds. Uh and so you could have a termination step here. Uh it's it's much more statistically plausible to get this product here. Right? Here's our product. This is our antimarovnikov hydrohalogenation product. It's antimarovnikov because the bromine went to the less substituted carbon of the two that were participating in the pi bond. Primary versus secondary bromine went to the primary and it did so for this reason. Right? When we look at the mechanism now we understand the regio specificity. It's because it proceeds via the more stable radical intermediate for the ex in the exact same way that the that the marovnikov hydrohalogenation proceeds via the more stable carboation intermediate. uh and so statistically speaking it's more likely to get this through a propagation step because there's a lot of HBr floating around in solution and a lot less hydrogen radical or something like that but you could get a termination step um and then a termination step is always two radicals joining to form a coalent species and it is always exothermic right when you form coalent bonds that's releases energy so you form bonds they go to a lower energy you're releasing that energy to the surroundings so Um, yeah, that's Yeah, and we're out of time there. Let me just see if I got any questions there. Uh, does it matter which side the eye is on? Uh, so I guess going back to the Newman projections, I think. Uh, yes, it does because the the arrow is telling you where you need to be, right? If if we're looking down this bond, you're sitting right here. You're looking right there. Uh, I think hopefully that's what you meant. Um, so yeah, that's the end of that mechanism. I'll try to put in one or two mechanisms next time, some different ones. And uh so yeah, that's it for this week. Um I don't know what happened with the chat. Hopefully next week the chat will be able to show up for me and I can get all of your questions, but this ended up working just fine anyway, filtering the more important ones. And um so yeah, once again, check out that QR code if you want to see the other office hours that CHEG is offering. Uh, and I will be here for the next, I think, five or six weeks or so doing Organic Chemistry 1 review at 5:00 PM Pacific time every