Hey everybody, we are back with more organic chemistry 1 study session. We've got some some more office hours with you. I'm coming to you live with CHEG. Uh once again, we are doing these every Tuesday at 5:00 p. p.m. Pacific time. Uh please check out the QR code on the top left of the screen if you want to see what other subjects CHEG is covering with different office hours. You can get help with math and all the other classes you're taking this semester. over here. Once again, we'll be doing organic chemistry 1 review. I've got some questions that uh I have that I'm going to review for you, but as always, feel free to chime in. We're uh I'm taking questions in the live chat. So, uh, definitely keep it organic chemistry 1 related, but feel free to ask questions about the problems that I'm going over or something unrelated, uh, if it's something that I can answer, uh, pretty quickly, um, without having any kind of, u,, you know, materials to reference, uh, I will gladly answer any and all of your organic chemistry related questions. So, uh, let's go ahead and get started. Uh remember last time we started um we started doing a lot of uh spectroscopy stuff because definitely a lot of students uh tend to get confused uh certainly with IR massspec that kind of stuff but definitely NMR. So I wanted to make sure we covered the basics of all those spectroscopic techniques. So let's go ahead and start with one question on IR. So identify the compound that matches this IR spectrum. So when we're looking at uh when we're looking at organic chemistry one level knowledge of IR spectroscopy, there's only a few things that you need to be able to do. So what's going on here is infrared light is interacting with the different kinds of covealent bonds in a compound. And so um and if they are being absorbed by a particular type of bond, they don't reach the detector. So this information is telling you what types of bonds are in the uh are in the compound whether it's uh CC, CH, O, CO, right? All those uh uh the information that shows up with respect to those bonds have a distinct shape and a distinct wave number. So they show up at a particular position on this horizontal axis, right? there's a characteristic place on this axis where that functional group will show up and then also some of them have a very distinct shape. One or two in particular are the most obviously recognizable resonances on on an IR spectrum. So let's go over what they are here. We want to understand if this spectrum is isobutine, three heptinone, dethyl ether or two bututinol. So let's just draw them. Isobutine looks like this, right? It's like isobutane, but it's isobutine. We actually don't have to specify where it is because the double bond anywhere will be the same molecule. So that's isobutine. How about three heptone? 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 uh 1 2 3 4 5 6 7. So that's uh seven carbon chain with the uh carbonal on carbon 3. Uh dethyl ether of course just looks like that. And then tbutinol will look like that. So we have a few different functional groups here. We've got alken, we've got ketone, we've got ether, we've got uh we've got alcohol. So what is the information that we want to gleam here? So first the first thing we need to understand is that this this region over here is called the fingerprint region. It's a little bit more difficult to parse information out of this region. You certainly can. And in upper level chemistry courses, you do start to learn how to get information from the fingerprint region. When you are first looking at IR spectroscopy though, it's really this stuff over here that is going to give you uh the information that you need. So, what is the first one that we're very obviously going to need to know? This this one here, we've got a very a very broad round smooth peak at right around this wave number here. So that's about 3,300 3,400 3350 somewhere around there. Uh this is where we have this and this is an O stretch. So uh O meaning it's the the light is interacting with an oxygen hydrogen covealent bond and it is causing it to stretch. Right? Is you've got the the two atoms here and the they're actually uh the the the interuclear distance is is is shifting. It's stretching and contracting uh due to being excited by that uh in infrared light. And so yeah, O stretch, that's what that is. And you just can't miss it. It's really the most recognizable peak on an IR spectrum because of how rounded it is. It's down. It goes all the way down here. Very smooth and very wide. Okay, so that's an O stretch. The other one we want to know about is right here. Uh let me do that in red. And this is a saturated CH stretch. So CH stretch same as the O stretch. It's just CH bonds that are stretching. And saturated means that the the carbons that bear that those hydrogens are fully saturated. They're not participating in any pie bonds. So basically it's just it's just alkaalle, right? there's alkaalle content on the molecule. So those are the two things that we have to work with here. Um so let's look at these molecules. Well this okay we need an O stretch. So that already is going to give it away. Really this question is very easy because it's just asking if you can recognize the O stretch. If you recognize the O stretch, you know that it is going to be tbutinol, right? This is the only one that has a hydroxal group. So that's it. Now a couple of of other things that I want to uh talk about here. Uh first the first one being that the carbonal stretch. So this C double bond O also is going to stretch when radiated with with light of a very particular frequency. And that gives a very distinct resonance as well. And that's going to be it's right around here. I forget the exact wave number but the the the CO stretch would show up here. And we don't see it. there's no data right there which means there's no carbonal. So there's no carbonial in our in the in the compound in question. Um the other thing that I want to talk about is that uh some students the the the main confusion that I see upon first being introduced to IR spectrum is uh IR spectroscopy is they will identify something like a saturated CH stretch and they will say okay saturated CH stretch that means it's an alkan and then they'll try to look for an option that is an alkan and say that's it and then they'll ignore all of the other data. So that's not what's going on, right? This this compound tbutinol has a saturated CH stretch because it has saturated CH bonds, right? It has uh there is uh O there's O there and then there's H there and then there's three H's here and there's two H's here and there's three hydrogens's here. Right? So there are these are all saturated CH stretches. Those are bonds that are present in the compound. Uh the hydroxal group is also present in the compound. So that will give its own data. So you get data for all of the different functional groups that are in there. So as you can imagine, if you have a compound with many many many functional groups, the IR spectrum starts to look very messy because there's a lot of data. There's a lot of different kinds of bonds. The simplest IR spectra are the ones that have very few functional groups, very few different kinds of covealent bonds that are going to be interacting with light in different ways. Right? That's what spectroscopy is. It's the study of the interaction of light and matter. We irdiate compounds with light of a particular type particular frequency and then we see what kind of data we can get on the other side based on what light it absorbs. So IR spectroscopy, NMR spectroscopy, they're all doing something like this. So all you're doing once again you're just identifying the types the types of functional groups that must be in the compound by virtue of which what kind of data is on the spectrum. O stretch there's got to be an O in there. Saturated CH stretch there must be saturated CH bonds right and so a compound can have multiple functional groups. So you will see multiple resonances on there. So IR is nowhere near as good as NMR in terms of identifying the precise structure. It's really more about just identifying which functional groups are present or not present. Right? No CO stretch, no carbonal. But it's very very difficult to assign the precise molecular structure of a compound from an IR spectrum. That's not really something that we do. It's an older spectroscopic technique. It's for characterization. If you're doing a Grineyard and you know that Grineyards make alcohols and you get a product and you do a IR spectrum of your product and you don't see an O stretch, then you know something went wrong because you must you were supposed to generate an alcohol and an alcohol would give an O stretch. So this one's pretty straightforward, but it's just an introduction to the various functional groups, the various types of data that we're looking for. Tbutinol, that's that one. Uh, okay. Let me see if I missed anything. Okay. Nothing yet. Uh F USA says Fineman's technique of integration. Uh I can't I'm not sure if you're talking about something relating to integration on an NMR spectrum and I just haven't heard of that or if you're talking about math. If you're talking about uh calculus, then we will not talk about that. We're doing organic chemistry here. Uh let's see. Yeah. Okay. So, that's it for now. We'll come back to uh more spectroscopy in a little bit. Okay. So, here's something else that's important. Last time we were doing a lot of uh electrophilic aromatic substitution. We're going to do some more of that today, too. But in terms of aromaticity, we have to be able to identify compounds as being aromatic, anti-aromatic or non-aromatic. So what are the criteria for being aromatic? To be aromatic, something has to be cyclic. First of all, uh linear molecules cannot be aromatic. Has to be cyclic. It has to be uh it has to be fully planer, right? It has to be a flat molecule, right? or at least the portion that's aromatic has to be completely flat. Uh it has to be fully conjugated. So uh it it has to have pi electron density. Right? Aromaticity is about a deoization of pi electron density. So we're talking about a combination of pi bonds and lone pairs. Those are those qualify as pi electrons. And they must be fully conjugated all the way around the ring. There cannot be any portion of the ring with where upon which the pi electron density does not go right there cannot be any part of the the ring that is isolated from the from the conjugation from the pi electron density. Uh and then lastly it has to satisfy Huckle's rule. And Huckle's rule states that the number of pi electrons that are that are conjugated that are gener that are potentially generating aromaticity uh must satisfy 4n + 2. Uh it must be an amount of electrons that uh that satisfies 4n plus2 where n is any integer. So if n is zero we would get two. If n uh let me write that better. If n is one we would get six. If n is two we would get 10, 14, 18 etc. And you can have very very large aromatic systems this way. They're usually polycyclic. But these are the numbers of electrons that are deoized in the ring that will yield aromaticity. So with that in mind, let's take a look at these. So here's this first one. We've got the cyclopentadienal annion. So it's it's a cylo it's a cyclopentadiene but it's an annion. One of the carbons has a has a formal negative charge. So is this aromatic? Is it cyclic? Yes, it is cyclic. Is it fully planer? It is fully planer. Now this one's actually tricky because a lot of students would say now wait a minute Dave. This is not fully planer because we've got an sp3 carbon here. Right? That's an sp3 carbon. However, we have to consider the composite resonance structure. The composite resonance structure looks like this because that negative charge is deoized. It uh it's shared around every single carbon uh in the ring because we can draw right we can push we can put this uh negative charge here and then push this over there and then we could push that up there, right? And so now all of a sudden we'd have a double bond there and a double bond there and a negative charge there. And we could do that for every we could do that five times, right? So we could have uh we could have every uh we could have five different resonance structures. So when you look at the composite, you can see that they're all almost entirely sp2. So they're sp2 with a tiny bit of sp3 character, but essentially it is fully planer. So it is cyclic, it is fully planer, it is fully conjugated, right? We can push this uh pi electron density all around the ring. And now lastly, does it satisfy Huckle's rule? We have six pi electrons because there are two in each pi bond and two in a lone pair. 2 + 2 plus 2 is six. Uh so yes, we do uh have uh we satisfy all of the criteria and this one is aromatic. Uh now going on to this one here we have this 1 2 3 4 5 6 seven membered ring. We have a seven member it's a cylo uh cyclloh heepa trienine. It's a cyclloheprien and the three pi bonds are conjugated. However, what do we notice here? This one does not have any pi electron density. So we have to understand that it is it is cyclic and there is some conjugation but it's not fully conjugated. There is no resonance structure. There's no resonance structure that will yield any pi electron density on this carbon. Therefore it does not qualify even though it satisfies Huckle's rule. Right? There are six pi electrons. We don't even care about Huckle's rule because we're establishing prior to that that it's not fully conjugated. So this is So now here's the important thing that we need to understand. This is non-aromatic. Let me do that in pink because I did the other one in pink. Non-aromatic and that needs to be distinguished from anti-aromatic in the following way. Anti-aromatic is something that satisfies the first three criteria for aromaticity. It is cyclic. It is fully planer. It is fully conjugated. Um but it uh it's the the number of pi electrons is actually 4n instead of 4n + 2. So that would be like uh 4 8 12. All the ones in between here, right? In between two and six is four. In between six and 10 is eight. In between 10 and 14 is 12. Uh so all the multiples of four basically. Uh so if it is if it looks like it's if if it's satisfies everything all the criteria for aromaticity except the number of pi electrons uh follows 4n instead of 4n plus2 that would be anti-aromatic. It's specifically a destabilizing situation. uh so and in fact cycllo octa tetetraine adopts a puckered tub shape in because it's actually uh le more energetically favorable than being fully planer and achieving um anti-aromaticity. So uh aromaticity is a stabilizing situation. It brings the molecule to a lower energy. Anti-aromaticity aromaticity is a destabilizing situation um for various quantum mechanical reasons that we don't need to get into. Um so aromatic non-aromatic now let's look at this one here this is a parole and parole uh has so is it uh is it cyclic uh yes it is it fully planer it is and then for the same logic here as with the cyclopentadenal annion you would be telling me hey but Dave that's that nitrogen is sp3 hybridized right so that's tetrahedral that's not planer but we have uh we have a lone pair here. What happens if you start drawing resonance structures, right? You could put an antion on there. You could keep you could push it the other way. So you when you look at the composite resonance structure, you realize that uh that it is fully planer and it is fully conjugated. That pi electron density is going all the way around the ring and it is 246. We have two from each pi bond and then two from the lone pair. That's six pi electrons. So this one is aromatic. So it's actually extremely similar to the cyclopentadional annion. It's just that instead of C minus we have N with a lone pair. So really the same logic on on all of the above. So that is so it's very important to understand th that set of criteria here to to establish aromaticity. Cyclic fully planer fully conjugated satisfies Huckle's rule. And then we want to be able to to distinguish between aromatic and then also between anti-aromatic and non-aromatic because at many students at first confuse the two as well as well you might right because anti-aromatic non-aromatic they both sound like the same version of notaromatic but they actually mean slightly different things and anti-aromatic specifically means that uh that the number of pi electrons satisfies 4n rather than huckle's rule 4n plus2 so That's uh aromatic, non-aromatic, aromatic. Uh, okay. Let's see if I missed anything. The Golden Geek. Yes, I do love bagels quite a bit. Actually, I am a big bagel guy. Okay, so moving on here. We need to uh we need to periodically review some of the reactions that we've already gone over. So we spent a lot of time with Grineyard. So let's review some Grineyard. Let's make sure we remember how to do these. So we have this Esther substrate and then we have an excess of ethyl Grineyard reagent in dethyl ether. So the ethyl griard reagent looks like this. So what do grineyard reagents do? Grineyard reagents attack carbonals, right? We know that. And uh that's because remember this carbon right here is partial minus. This is an example of oompolong chemistry. We have uh it's an inversion of polarity. So when we have the alkaalle broomemide uh the carbon that bears the bromine is partial plus because of the polarity of that bond. But then when magnesium inserts itself into that carbon bromine bond, it inverts the polarity of that bond. Now all of a sudden carbon finds itself more electrogative than magnesium. So now it is partial minus. So, Grineyard reagents are a source of nucleophilic carbon. That's what a Grineyard reagent is. And nucleophiles will attack carbonial carbons. Remember, carbonial carbons are electrondeicient. The electron density in that carbonial is being pulled towards the more electrogative oxygen atom. That leaves the carbonial carbon electrondeicient. Partial plus. So, partial minus meets partial plus. That's uh that's the name of the game. So, let's push that up here. Uh uh let's have that attack carbonial carbon push the pi bond up there. We could We don't have a lot of room here, so I'm just going to skip a step. I'm gonna have that come back down, reform the carbonal, kick off this methoxy group. Okay, so we're going to end up with this the butinone. So this right here is the new ethyl group, right? This ethyl group is from the ethel griard reagent right and then to be thorough we will say plus3 minus right that left too. So now what are we going to do? We know first of all it said that we have excess ethyl gineyard reagent. That's important because when we do gineyard on an esther substrate we can add two equivalents of the grineard reagent. We can't add two different ones. We don't have that level of control. whatever's in solution, any gineyard reagent will attack. So if you add more than one Grineyard reagent in there, it's going to it's impossible to control what happens. But if you want to add two equivalents of the same alkaalle fragment, this is an excellent strategy because uh Grineyard reagents attack carbonial. And when the first Grineard reagent attacks the esther, you're reforming the carbonal. When the aloxxy gets kicked off, we've reformed the carbonal. Here's butinone. And we have more Grineard. We have more ethyl Grineyard reagent in there, right? It's at excess. So, we've got more of that. It's still in solution swimming around. Sees the ketone and it's going to attack. So, let's get another one on there. Let's do this. So uh you can have drawn this a different way but uh now we have uh this right we have got that ethl uh group and now this one are the two ethyl groups that came from the two ethyl griyard reagents. Uh and then this methyl right here is this methyl right here that got pushed back when the other one attacked. You also could have had you could have left the methyl there and put an ethl on the dash bond or wedge bond, right? The you can draw it different ways. That's fine. I like to draw it this way. I just like to have the longest carbon chain in the plane of the page. That's just how I like to do it. Uh and then we have aquous acidic workup. So the grineard is done. We we the the reaction is done in the flask. We're going to toss in some ammonium chloride or something to quench the reaction. Uh, and that all that means is we've got oxyan ions in solution. We want to neutralize them. So, we need a pretty soft source of protons like the ammonium ion. And that will give us our product, which is going to be this. We've got three methyl, three pentanol. Uh, and we do not have any other stereoisomers because of the symmetry of the molecule. Two identical ethyl groups. Uh, that's the one that's all we get. So once again, Grineard reagents are sources of nucleophilic. They tend to attack. They can attack other things, but usually we're attacking carbonial. We're talking carbonial, be they aldahhides, esters, aldahhides or ketones or esters. When we have an esther substrate, we have the opportunity to attach two of the same alkaalle fragment via two identical gineard reagents. So we have this methyl and then and that's still there. And then we tacked on two uh ethyl groups. So that's Grineyard. That's that. Uh okay, let's see what I missed. See what I missed here. Uh speed tumbler says, is there an example where you have a lone pair but can't draw a bunch of resonance structures? Certainly. Uh if there are no if there are no if there's no conjugation. Uh so like parole if you took away the the pi bonds right now you just have that cyclic amine there's no resonance here right where is the lone pair going to go nowhere it has nowhere to go that lone pair is localized exclusively on that nitrogen there's no resonance so uh sure good question um citizen CJ says how often do you do these I do these every Tuesday at 5:00 p.m. Pacific time. Every week uh HH says remove the kyality from that alcohol. There's not meant to be a chyal center. I have not drawn a chyal center, right? I'm just showing the accurate geometry of the molecule. You do have to show the tetrahedral geometry at that center there. Right? That is sp3 hybridized tetrahedral 109.5 degree bond angles. That doesn't mean it's chyal. And you're correct that it is not chyal. Cool. Okay. Uh moving on. Which of the following reactions will proceed with a greater rate of reaction? So these are two uh electrophilic aromatic substitution reactions. So first of all, let's go ahead and draw the products, right? What are we going to get? We have analine. So analine is uh is amino benzene and we're going to do chlorination, right? Cl2 with iron tricloride catalyst. These are the conditions for chlorination. And we know that uh that an amino group is an electron donating group. Therefore, it is an orthoperadirecting group. So we are going to get two products. We're going to get the ortho product. Whoops, not NH3, NH2. And we're going to get the ortho product and the parah product. So there's your ortho there's your parah and once again that is because this is orthoperadirecting and almost all orthopera directors right the exception would be the hallogens orthopera directors tend to be activating right because they're donating electron density into the ring when you have the arinium ion intermediate you have positive charge in the ring and so if there's a lone pair on that substituent that's don donating pi electron density into the ring that is stabilizing that arenium ion intermediate and so the intermediate the generation of the intermediate is the slow step because you're generating the least stable thing right we went from something neutral to something with a formal positive charge so we're going up in energy right so if you're going up in energy the more stabilized that intermediate is the lower that sits on the energy diagram the the the the lower the lower the lower the activation energy is right the less kinetic energy is required to get that first step to go to get that uh rate determining step to go. So activating so the im the ortho the electron donating groups are activating and almost always uh ortho or orthopera there or no actually yeah all the donating all the donating ones are are orthopera the hallogens are withdrawing but also orthopera. So now let's look over here we've got nitroenzene and we're going to do a bromination. So it's the same it's right chlorination bromination exact same conditions we just swapped out every chlorine atom is a bromine atom now and uh we know that this guy is a meta director right nitro the nitro group is electron withdrawing right it's electron withdrawing because uh it's got a positive charge on that nitrogen atom right so if we have a positively charged nitrogen that's going to be withdrawing electron density from the ring in an effort to stabilize the positively charged nitrogen atom. So if you have a positive charge on the arinium ion intermediate, that's going to even further destabilize that intermediate. You're draw withdrawing electron density away from a positively charged species. That's going to be further destabilizing. Um and so uh that is going to be deactivating. And what are we going to get if it's a metadirectionirector? Whoops. This color. If it is a meta director, it is going to direct incoming electrophiles to the uh meta position. So there is our there is our uh there's our product there. Uh that is going to be meta substitution. So we definitely want to know the products we're going to get. This says which one is going to have a greater rate of reaction and uh and so it's going to be the activating one, right? Because the activating one uh it brings the intermediate to a lower to a lower energy. Therefore, the activation energy to get to that intermediate is lower. When you're talking about rate of reaction, you're always looking at the activation energy, right? Because the activation energy dictates how much how much energy is required in a collision to get the reaction to go. And the higher that activation energy is, the lower the proportion of molecules uh that is that will that will collide with sufficient energy to get the reaction to go. Right? If imagine you're trying to roll a ball over a hill, right? If you're trying to roll a ball over a hill like this one, uh you no matter how how wimpily you throw it, right? If you roll the ball over this tiny little hill, you really don't have to roll it that hard. So almost every single time, even if you just go like that, or almost every single time, you're going to get over that hill, right? But what if you've got this huge hill now? You're really going to have to roll that one hard. And you have to roll it so hard that nine times out of 10, even though you rolled it your hardest, you can't get it over, right? And so what that means on a macroscopic level, if we're saying that we have a reaction that is trying to happen and only 10% of the collisions result in a successful uh reaction versus 95% of of the collisions resulting in a successful reaction. The macro on the macroscopic scale, what we see that as is going faster or slower, right? One in 10 collisions makes the reaction go. It's going to go slow because there's so many quadrillions and quintilions of molecules that have to react. Almost all the collisions make the reaction go. It's going to go really fast because every time it collides, it goes, right? So that's the connection that we need to understand kinetically between the molecular level and the collisions um and the activation energy versus the macroscopic level, which would be rate, right? That's just we're watching to see how how long it takes the reaction to go. So greater greater rate of reaction that would be this one. The one with the activating group. The one with the donating electron donating group is the activating group stabilizes the intermediate makes the reaction go faster. Okay. What did I miss? Uh, okay. Great. So, Jack Brown says, "In brief, what makes activators orthoperidcting?" So, let's say we have uh NH2. Okay. So, um, and so let's say, uh, we're going to react with some electrophile and we're going to get, let's say we have, uh, let's say we get ortho substitution. So that will leave the positive charge there. versus meta substitution. Ah, stop. So, E is just any electrophile. We don't care, right? And so, there's that. There's NH2. Uh, that would leave the plus charge there and another pie bond there. So, what do we notice here? Right? This uh nitrogen atom has a lone pair. So let's put this lone pair right there. Let me do red. Let's put this lone pair right there. We can draw another resonance structure. that pulls the positive charge up to the nitrogen atom. So what we're saying is that when we have uh and so uh the par para substitution yields the same resonance structures as ortho substitution. So what we're saying is if we have ortho substitution so some electrophile doesn't matter what went to the ortho position that left a positive charge there or if we could draw two other resonance structures right we could push this pi bond there and get the positive charge here and then push this uh pi bond here and get the positive charge here. So when you have ortho and then with paras substitution it'd be the same. So par uh ortho or parasub substitution puts the positive charge in the intermediate in these three positions and if it is in these three positions one of those positions is immediately adjacent to the electron donating group which we saw here by resonance that nitrogen atom can donate the lone pair onto that carbon and and stabilize it. Right? So this is a sta anytime you are further deoizing a charge you're stabilizing the charge. So you're adding another resonance structure to to the set of resonance structures and you're stabilizing that positive charge. So this is uh this intermediate is lower in energy than if the amino group were not there. Right? If the amino group simply were not there and we were doing this EAS reaction on benzene on unsubstituted benzene the intermediate would be higher in energy than this one. The fact that the amino group is there it is stabilizing that arenium ion intermediate. It's bringing it to a lower energy by donating electron density into the ring that bears the formal positive charge. And what we especially need to understand is that that only happens when the substitution is ortho or parah. When or substitution is ortho or parah the positive charge is in these three locations in the three resonance structures for the intermediate. If we do meta substitution the positive charge is only here or here or here. It will never be in that position that is adjacent to the to the substituent. Right? So uh meta meta substitution almost never happens because the intermediate is at a higher energy than the ortho or orthopera pathway. The orthopera pathway has a lower energy intermediate because it's being stabilized by the adjacent electron donating group. Conversely metadirectionirectors go meta not because they're stabilizing any any intermediate but instead imagine NH2 here is NO2. uh NO2, you'd have a positively charged nitrogen adjacent to a positively charged carbon. That's extremely unfavorable, right? You don't want adjacent positive charges. They're further destabilizing one another, right? So metadirectionirectors go meta not because it's a stabilizing pathway, but because it's the least destabilizing pathway. If you go metadirect, if you uh have a metadirectionirector NO2 here and the positive charges are the positive charge is never adjacent to the NO2, that's the best situation you can have, right? It's the best pathway available. So, uh electron withdrawing groups are metadirectionirectors because it avoids the specifically least energetically favorable possibility, right? So, it makes it even worse by the presence of that substituent. So uh the rate the rates of reaction here the the activating group would be the fastest unsubstituted benzene would be next then nitroenzene is the slowest because it's even worse the presence of the NO2 group makes it worse makes the intermediate even higher energy. Uh so I hope that helps. I do have a tutorial that explains all that with all of the resonance structures uh drawn that that if if that was confusing um check that one out. uh Iraq Lee. So uh so that's yeah that that's what I said what determines if it is an orthome or paradirector. So uh if it is electron donating it's going to be an orthoperadirector for this precise reason right because you have an electron donating group that is stabilizing the adjacent cation in the ring uh which brings the energy of the inter uh intermediate down. So that lowers the activation energy that's favorable. Uh once again the only uh exception is H hallogens which are uh electron withdrawing by virtue of the polarity of the bond but orthoparadirecting because of the ability to put a lone pair in by resonance. So that's the one that you have to uh memorize. Yeah. Okay. So that's it. Caught up. All right. Let me just erase some of this because uh we need some room here. Oh, let me here. I'll erase just this. Okay. So, draw the potential crossed ald doll product. So, enolate chemistry is very important. There's a lot of different kinds of enolate chemistry. The first one we usually learn is ald doll condensation. Usually start with a very simple one. Um, one compound doing ald doll on itself. But you can also have a cross ald doll product. So draw the the singular potential cross ald doll product. So sometimes when you have two carbonial containing compounds like say an aldahhide and a ketone. There are two potential crossed ald doll products. You can have the aldahhide attacking the ketone and you can have the ketone attacking the aldahhide. Here we've got two aldahhides but there's only one potential crossed ald doll product. Why is that? Let's see if we can figure out why. So, we've got sodium hydroxide. Um, where where is it? Here we go. Uh, so we've got hydroxide. Which proton is it going to get? Remember, it is the protons on the carbon that are alpha to the carbonal that are mildly acidic, right around pKa, pKa19. Um, so where do we have protons that are in the alpha position? Well, we've got two right here. So these guys are around pKa19 because of the situation where the resulting annion would be conjugated with a carbonal. Uh benzaldahhide does not have that. Benzaldahhide does not have any alpha protons. Right? Here's the alpha position. This carbon has four bonds to other carbon. There are to other carbon atoms. There are no implied hydrogens's here. This carbon does not is not does not have any hydrogen atoms. So there are no alpha protons. So we can't do it. So, we can only enalyze the aldahhide or the the the uh uh propanel. We're going to enalyze the propanel. Get that proton. Push that up there. Push that up there. And so, save some space. Let's go all the way over here. We're going to get this enolate, right? We got the pi bond there and then the oxyanion there. So now this could admittedly attack another equivalent of of propanel but it's asking it wants the potential cross ald doll product right we specifically want to get the cross ald doll product so in reality you're going to get a mixture right it enolate chemistry can be very messy because everything's attacking everything but for the purposes of this question what is the potential cross ald doll product so let's react this with benzaldahhide So that's going to come back down and for reform the carbonal. This pi bond is going to go over here and then kick that up there. Okay, we have to be very deliberate with these arrows. This one goes from the negative charge to the center of the CL bond indicating that we're reforming a pi bond there. This arrow goes from the center of that pi bond indicating that the pi bond is attacking that carbonial carbon. So it ends right on the carbonial carbon. This bond in the carbonal and lands on the oxygen indicating that those electrons remain with the oxygen to form an oxyanion. So what does that end up looking like? So the carbonial reformed. Now here's the tricky part there. This carbon right here is acting as the nucleophile. This carbon right here is acting as the nucleophile. But there's another carbon there. Right? There's one more. So we don't want to lose that one. Very important. Make sure that that carbon is still there. But here is the new bond. Here is the new bond there. So this one this is the carbonarbon bond we just formed. So this is the crucial part. This is the most important part. And this is where students most often get confused. Right? And you you can number the carbons if you need to. Right? You can go ahead and go hey look at that. We got one two three. Carbon two did the attacking. But carbon 3 is still there. Carbon 2 did the attacking, but carbon 3 is still there. Right? So we've got that lonely methyl over there. But from carbon 2, carbon 2 attacked the carbonal. So here's carbon 2. Here's what used to be the carbonial carbon. Now it bears the oxyanion. That's where the new bond is. So make sure you didn't gain any carbons. Make sure you didn't lose any carbons. Go ahead and sit there and count all the carbon atoms if you have to. Right? You got to make sure. Uh so there's that. And then we have uh we're an aquous uh solution. So let's just go ahead and protetonate that oxyanion. And we're going to get this and then uh a little bit of heat here. What happens? Because this is a we're doing an ald doll condensation. This is the ald doll addition product. But when conditions are hot, we can go ahead and get the ald doll condensation product. Condensation means we lose water, lose a water molecule. And we lose a water molecule in the sense that we lose a proton and a hydroxil. Not a literal water molecule just combined. So let's go ahead and get this guy. This will form the pi bond there. And this will kick off hydroxil. Now a lot of students will say, "But Dave, hydroxil is a terrible leaving group." And you're right. However, we are in strongly basic conditions. When you're in strongly basic conditions, hydrox uh the the hydroxide ion can be a leaving group because solution is full of hydroxide ions. If solution is full of hydroxide ions, one more is not going to hurt. So in strongly basic conditions, hydroxil can be a leaving group. uh and that will give us our uh crossed ald doll product with the pi bond there. So we lost H2O. We lost an H and an O. Uh no sorry uh uh this is the H and this is the O which together make H2O. So that's why it's condensation. So uh that's the that's the product there. There is our crossed ald doll product. You can very clearly see the fragment which came from um where's the uh oops not that what's this uh where's my highlighter here we go this is the fragment this is the fragment that came from propanel and this is the fragment that came from benzaldahhide uh And this uh and this is gone, right? That oxygen atom is gone. That was lost in the condensation. Uh so we made carbonarbon bonds twice from the same location. It was this carbon 2 that made that first carbonarbon sigma bond. And then it was that same carbon the the same two carbons formed a pi bond between them in the condensation step. So there's your ald doll condensation. It's a cross ald doll in this case and uh that's going to be our product there. See what we missed. Uh Naylor says why is that why is that one the one that attacks uh if you mean the propanel if the the pro the propanel enalizes and attacks because benzaldahhide is incapable of enalization uh there is no alpha proton on benzaldahhide so it can't enalize it's impossible so propanal will enalyze and it will attack it can attack itself it can attack another equival equivalent of propanal but it can attack benzaldahhide as well. Hopefully that is what you meant. Okay. All right. Now we want to draw the mechanism for the following reaction. This is a Fredelcraft's calculation. So typically in an organic chemistry course you are responsible for a certain number of mechanisms. You have to be able to draw the mechanism explicitly and accurately with all electron pushing arrows. Um, and this would be probably a go-to for electrophilic aromatic substitution. If I was giving a test, this would probably be the one that I would pick uh for you to have to show the mechanism for. And uh so let's go over it. So when we are doing electrophilic aromatic substitution, we've got a we've got uh some aromatic compound often benzene or a benzene derivative. We have some electrophile and then we have some catalyst, right? The reason that we need the catalyst is that this reaction won't happen wi without it. Right? The the benzene ring is not going to do an SN2 on this carbon. Right? If we had a really strong if we had a good SN2 nucleophile, it could attack right here, kick off the chloro group, and we did SN2. But that's not how this one's going to go. So, we need some catalytic complex to prompt the benzene to react. we need to create something that's so unstable that even benzene will react with it uh to bring the system to a lower energy overall. So uh here's the chlorine atom, right? Chlorine's got three lone pairs here. Excuse me. One of these chlorines is going to attack aluminum, right? Aluminum triricchloride uh is a l acid because Whoops. because we have partial minus partial minus partial minus and partial plus right so remember this is the lewis definition the lewis definition is an electron pair acceptor that's very different from the Bronstead Lori definition where we're talking about proton transfer right in the Bronstead Lori definition you you can't be an acid unless something can't be an acid unless it has a proton if it if it doesn't have any hydrogens it can't be a bronid lori acid but Something without protons can be a Louis acid if it has an atom that is electrondeicient that electron density can coordinate to. So the aluminum atom is electrondeicient and a lone pair from the chlorine is going to attack and that is going to generate uh this intermediate here. So we have boom boom boom boom and then three more of these. And so what are the charges here? We've got a formal positive charge on the chlorine, right? Because chlorine is now showing uh six electrons in this leis dot structure. It's got two lone pairs. So two lone pairs and then one per coalent bond. Six electrons is one less than its typical veence of seven. Right? Halogens have seven veence electrons. So when they're showing seven in a le dot structure, they're neutral. Here it's showing six. So it has a formal positive charge. And then this guy here uh the aluminum now has a four mole negative charge, right? Because uh it's aluminum has three uh veence electrons. Now it's showing four. It gained an electron from chlorine. Chlorine gave it an electron, right? The two electrons in this bond used to belong exclusively to chlorine. Now they're in a covealent bond. So it we count it as one for chlorine, one for aluminum. So aluminum gained an electron that's got a a formal negative charge. So what's going to happen here in an attempt to neutralize this uh chlorine this carbon chlorine bond will break. Okay. And that is going to give us this uh this uh this alkaal cation and then uh Al C4 which still has a formal negative charge by the way. The aluminum atom still has a formal negative charge. So this carbon chlorine bond breaks uh these electrons go to the chlorine to neutralize it but we're left with a carboation. So this is why this catalyzes this alkalation because uh benzene is not going to react with the alkaal chloride. It's too stable. But it the al the the secondary carboation is so unstable that benzene will react with it. So now we've got benzene and we've got this uh cation here. So let's go ahead and attack, right? That's that pi bond is going to go and attack. So we've got uh let's say it went like this and now we've got uh a plus charge there. So that pi bond went like that. Grabbed that alkaalle fragment. So this top carbon didn't lose any bonds because it was in that pi bond and it lost that pi bond. But now it's got another sigma bond to that cat that fragment. Uh but this one right here, this one lost a bond because it was participating in that pi bond and then that pi bond left. So we've got a cation there. Uh, and now we've got, remember, we've got Al4 and we still have a negative charge here on the on the aluminum. Put that right there. So, what's going to happen here is this everything wants to neutralize. So, what if we take uh let's let's draw it this way just to be very specific. What if this the electrons in this bond leave with chlorine and then this chlorine grabs that proton and then boom. Okay. And so what do we end up with? We have our uh we have our isopropyl benzene. We have HCl and we have regenerated our aluminum triricchloride catalyst. Right? So that's an important distinction. Right? With a catalyst, catalysts are not used up stoometrically in the reaction. So uh it's going to participate, right? Aluminum triricchloride interacts with the electrophile to generate the catalytic complex and then the cation the the the cation that fragment that interacts with benzene. But then at the end of the reaction we this chlorine leaves and we get our our catalyst back. So then it's going to go and facilitate another reaction and then another and then another and then another. That's what a catalyst does. It lowers the activation energy of a reaction, but it is also not used up stoometrically. So a small amount uh can can facilitate hundreds or thousands or millions of reactions or whatever. Um so that's the mechanism. Let's just go over one more time. Uh the chlorine is going to attack the aluminum atom because it's electrondeicient. We get this complex here. The electrons in this carbon chlorine bond uh go to the chlorine to neutralize it yielding the secondary carboation and Al4 with the negative charge on the aluminum. Now we have a carboation. Benzene can react with that pi bond goes and grabs the uh the cation that's going to put the isopropyl group on there but it leaves a positive charge. Right? This is typical EAS. Right? We've got our arenium ion intermediate. Uh we could draw three resonance structures for that if we wanted to. We don't have to right now. Uh you could um but so there's that. And then this complex is going to come back and re and uh and uh restore aromaticity. So the electrons in this uh chlorine aluminum bond go to chlorine so that aluminum can be neutralized. Right? If aluminum if aluminum loses this electron, it'll be neutral again. So that's good. And so these go to chlorine and then a lone pair on chlorine grabs this proton to form HCl. The electrons in the carbon hydrogen bond go to form the carbonarbon pi bond thus neutralizing the positive charge in the ring and restoring aromaticity. So that gives us isopropylene HCl and aluminum triricchloride catalyst is restored. So that's the full mechanism. That would be full credit on a on a test. And uh and that's it. Uh let's see. Uh Pagan Beef says, "Are all carboncarbon bond lengths identical?" Uh no. So uh certainly they differ if if it's a single double or triple bond, right? The more bonds between them, the the bond length contracts. Triple bond is the shortest, then double bond, then single bond. Uh Fallaku says, "Could you please share tips on learning organic chemistry reactions?" Um, you know, there's no secret, right? The the only thing I would say is, well, there's a couple things I would say. Number one is just do as much practice as possible, right? Do practice problems. Do the practice quizzes. Make sure you're not just memorizing structures. Make sure you're understanding what is going on mechanistically. What is attacking what, why, where is the electron access? Where's the electron deficiency? Can you replicate that on any substrate, right? Not just the one in the example. You have to be able to do that for any substrate that that's given to you. And then number two, sometimes you do need to do uh flash cards. I would say flash cards are good simply for memorizing the reaction conditions. So you want to memorize, okay, these are the conditions for hydroarration oxidation, right? That's you have to you have to memorize that. These are the conditions for ozoneis and then what that does right so if you memorize that then you can apply that to any substrate that you're given. Um Jan asks is this Fredelcraft's calculation? Yes that's correct. It is Fredelcraft's calculation. That's exactly what it is. Um the oriorit says is this boat or chair confirmation? Uh neither. So benzene is fully planer. you're thinking of cycllohexane. Cylo, excuse me, cycllohexane will tend to adopt a chair confirmation, but not if it's benzene, right? These these are all sp2 uh carbons. These are all sp2 carbons, 120 degree bond angles, trigonal planer. Benzene is flat. Benzene is flat like a piece of paper. uh even the even the uh right even the right it's like this and then all the hydrogens are even the carbon hydrogen bonds are in the same plane as the benzene ring totally flat molecule um pagan beef all carbon bond lengths are identical and and this equivalency can be exploited by catalyst forms not sure what that means but yes I mean all carbon hydrogen uh or carbon yeah all carbonarbon bonds sure if all bonds bonds are ident if if a particular type of bond is identical in every instantiation of that bond then it looks identical to whatever catalyst it's reacting with. Sure. Uh Fire King asks about proton NMR and carbon 13 NMR. Uh I'll try to find a carbon 13 NMR. I did have one or I did have two more proton NMRs on this uh sheet. So obviously we'll pick up here next time and we'll do some more NMR. I'll try to remember to put a carbon 13 NMR on there or even better yet conjunction C13 and proton to uh to figure it out. Uh okay. So yeah, that's uh that that's the time today. So once again, please check out the QR code on the top left if you want to see what other types of office hours CHEG is offering in different uh courses so you can have help all semester long, all the classes you're taking. Otherwise, uh I'll be back again with CHEG next Tuesday, uh for the next six or seven Tuesdays, I believe, at 5:00 PM Pacific time. Just like this week, we will be going over more organic chemistry