hey it's professor Dave, let's look at chemical equilibria. sometimes chemical reactions are not unidirectional, they are reversible. the reactants create the products which then go right back and create reactants. this means there is both a forward and reverse reaction. when the rates of the forward and reverse reactions are the same this system is at dynamic equilibrium. chemistry is happening but because the reactions are happening at the same rate there doesn't appear to be any activity. there is a balance. we learned how to use stoichiometry to discuss limiting reagents and how much of the products to expect but these were for unidirectional reactions where we assume that all the reactants make products and then the reaction is over. with equilibria it's a little more complicated to calculate what the concentrations of each substance will be at equilibrium so we're going to have to do a little bit of math to be able to describe the system. for example let's look at this equilibrium let's say we start with one mole of PCl5, allow the system to reach equilibrium, and then once at equilibrium we measure that there are 0.135 moles of PCl3. so how much of the other two things are there? to answer this we can make something called an icebox. these letters stand for initial, change, and equilibrium. we set them up like this. for initial we put the initial amount of each thing we started with, just one mole of reactant so we put one there and zeros for the products since there wasn't any of those at first. then for the change we don't know exactly how much the change was to get to equilibrium so we call it x. for the reactant we put negative x because that is being depleted and in this case all of the stoichiometric coefficients are one so as x moles of reactant are being depleted x moles of each product are being formed. we would make these two or three x as necessary if the coefficients were different. and for the products x is positive because these are being formed. then lastly we add up the initial and the change to give the amounts present at equilibrium. for the reactant this is 1-x and for the products it is simply x. we measured the final concentration of PCl3 as 0.135 which here will correspond to x and we therefore know all the other concentrations by plugging in x simple, no? well it can get trickier as we will see but first let's learn about equilibrium expressions. every equilibrium has an equilibrium constant Kc. it will be given by the concentrations of the products each raised to the power of their stoichiometric coefficients over the concentration of the reactants each stoichiometric coefficients. this is called the equilibrium constant expression. one thing this constant tells us is whether the products or reactants are favored in the equilibrium. if Kc is much greater than one that means the numerator is bigger so we are creating more products. if Kc is much less than one that means the denominator is bigger and we are creating more reactants. when we write this expression we only take into account gases and aqueous species solids and pure liquids will not be included in the expression. for example here notice how carbon is not included in the expression since it doesn't make sense to discuss a solid in terms of a concentration. sometimes we may want to predict which way a mixture will go given some non equilibrium quantities. to do this we plug in non equilibrium values into the Kc expression to calculate the reaction quotient, Q. if Kc is bigger than Q, Q is more on the reactant side so it'll make more products to equilibrate. if Kc is smaller than Q, Q is more on the product side so it'll make more reactants to equilibrate. when Kc equals Q the system is at equilibrium. let's try a more difficult icebox. given the following information calculate the equilibrium concentrations of each substance in terms of molarity remember that molarity is moles per liter. so we set up our icebox and calculate the concentration of our reactant. that'll be the initial value and zero for the products. now here the change will be different for each substance because of the stoichiometry for every two moles of reactant we get one mole of each product so we have to subtract 2x here and add x here. then equilibrium is just the sum of initial and change plug them into the equilibrium expression and solve for x. luckily on the right both the numerator and denominator are squared so we can take the square root of both sides. if it wasn't this convenient we may have had to use the quadratic equation. but as is we can solve for x and use that to determine all the equilibrium concentrations. let's check comprehension thanks for watching guys, subscribe to my channel for more tutorials and as always feel free to email me