Professor Dave here, let’s look at complex matrices. Up until now, we’ve been focusing a lot on real matrices, that is, matrices where all of the entries are real numbers. Now it’s time to consider complex matrices, which are matrices in which some of the entries contain complex numbers. If you need a little review regarding comlex numbers, what they are and relevant operations, check out this tutorial from earlier in the series. Otherwise, let’s dive right in. We can simply recall that complex numbers are numbers with a real part, a, and an imaginary part, bi, where i is the square root of -1, and as we said, we can find complex numbers in matrices. Just the way we can separate complex numbers into a real component and an imaginary component, we can separate matrices into a real matrix A and an imaginary matrix iB. For example, let’s consider the 2 by 3 matrix 2 + 3i, i, 6 - 4i; 7, 2 - 3i, -i. We can split this complex matrix up into a real part plus an imaginary part by keeping in mind that matrix addition works element by element. First for the real part we just take the real part of each element and put them in a matrix of the same size, so for the first entry, we take the 2 from 2 + 3i. Continuing in this manner will give us 2, 0, 6; 7, 2, 0. Then we do this again for the imaginary part of each element, so this time we take the 3i from 2 + 3i. That will give us i times 3, 1, -4; 0, -3, -1. We could distribute the i and add the two matrices together to get what we started with. Now that we know what complex matrices are, we must consider the complex conjugates of matrices. Recall that for ordinary complex numbers, we learned that the complex conjugate is the same as switching the sign on the imaginary term, so a + bi would become a - bi. Similarly, the conjugate of a complex matrix A + iB is simply A - iB. We actually don’t even have to take the step of splitting up the real and complex parts, the conjugate of a matrix can be found immediately by switching the sign on every i term in the matrix. So with our previous example, 2 + 3i, i, 6 - 4i; 7, 2 - 3i, -i, the conjugate will be 2 - 3i, -i, 6 + 4i; 7, 2 + 3i, i. So this is certainly simple enough. However, when it comes to matrices there is another operation that is much more important than taking the conjugate, and this is taking the “conjugate transpose”. Finding this is not too difficult, you simply take the conjugate as we just did, and then take the transpose of the matrix, which as we recall, involves making the columns into rows and the rows into columns. The reason we want to do this is so that we can multiply the matrix and the conjugate transpose. Simply taking the conjugate will not give us matrices we can multiply if they are not square. For example our 2 by 3 matrix cannot be multiplied by its 2 by 3 conjugate, because of the way matrix multiplication works, which we recall from a previous tutorial. But if we take the transpose of the conjugate we will get a 3 by 2 matrix, and now we can multiply them with no problem. We’ve already seen that the conjugate was 2 - 3i, -i, 6 + 4i; 7, 2 + 3i, i, so taking the transpose we will get 2 - 3i, 7; -i, 2 + 3i; 6 + 4i, i. This is our conjugate transpose, also referred to as the hermitian transpose. Given a matrix M, the notation for taking the conjugate transpose is MH, or in some fields, an M† with this symbol, read as M dagger. Now that we understand the conjugate transpose, let’s look at a special type of matrix called Hermitian matrices. These are square matrices whose conjugate transpose is the same as the original matrix. For example, consider the matrix 2, 1 - i; 1 + i, 3. Taking the conjugate first, we get 2, 1 + i; 1 - i, 3. Now taking the transpose we end up with 2, 1 - i; 1 + i, 3, which is precisely the matrix we started with, meaning this matrix is Hermitian. Finally, recall two things. First, that real matrices are considered orthogonal if the columns form an orthonormal basis, and second, that the inverse of an orthogonal matrix is the same as its transpose. For complex matrices, if the columns form orthonormal vectors, the matrix is said to be “unitary”, and the conjugate transpose of the matrix is the same as the inverse of the matrix. It’s worth noting that a real unitary matrix is just an orthogonal matrix. Let’s consider the matrix U = i over root 2, -1 over root 2; 1 over root 2, -i over root 2. To check if this is unitary, we can simply take the conjugate transpose, UH, and see if UH times U gives the identity matrix. The conjugate of U will be –i over root 2, -1 over root 2; 1 over root 2, i over root 2. Then taking the transpose we get UH = -i over root 2, 1 over root 2; -1 over root 2, i over root 2. We will now multiply UH and U and see what we get. Doing the matrix multiplication we get -i2 over 2 + 1/2, i over 2 minus i over 2; -i over 2 plus i over 2, 1/2 minus i2 over 2. Recall that i squared is equal to negative one, and then simplifying we get UH times U equals 1, 0; 0, 1, which is the identity matrix. Thus this matrix is unitary. Complex matrices come up a lot in fields like physics, so it’s important to know how to work with them. To make sure we have this under control, let’s check comprehension.