This is not just a couple of cooks on a street corner ranting into a megaphone. This is a broad social shift and it's not occurring in a vacuum. There is a science denial mind virus. There's an anti-intellectual mind virus that is poisoning our society and causing people to instantly distrust as a knee-jerk reaction anybody who has any clue what they're talking about. Right? If we don't course correct here and get the public a little bit more in reality, um this is going to continue to spiral until there's no money for science left in the country. Okay, so today I have a very special guest with me, Dave Fina, also known as Professor Dave. I don't believe you need much of an introduction, but for the uninitiated out there, uh Dave is the creator of the hit YouTube channel Professor Dave Explains, which has amassed over 3.8 million subscribers, and hundreds of millions of views. He's produced more than a thousand free lessons on university level science, math, philosophy, logic, even ancient history. It's a pretty substantial list. But he has also developed in recent years a bit of a reputation for being a formidable force against conspiracy theorists like flat-earthers, antivaxers, creationists, and science deniers in general. He is also the author of the book, Is This Wi-Fi Organic? A guide to spotting misleading science online, especially needed in today's age of misinformation. So, thank you again, Professor Day, for joining me here. Sure. Thanks for having me. Awesome. So, I just want to begin briefly by your backstory a bit. You started as a straightforward science explainer and then you had a pretty strong pivot towards debunking conspiracy theorists. What pushed you? What was the moment that kind of spurred all of this? Yeah, totally. It It's a roundabout kind of a thing. I I started my channel in January 2015. Um, and it was just Yeah. tutorials for students. Uh, and then I I want to say it was 2019. It might have been 2020, but right around there, uh, I made um, uh, an astronomy series, just Astro 101, what you learned freshman year in college, right? And I I just thought it'd be fun to close it off by doing a couple fun, silly little pieces. One debunking astrology and one debunking flat earth. Um, and I thought I'd get more heat for the astrology one if I'm being honest, but uh, didn't really seem to piss too many people off. But, um, it was the flat earth one that it just rose to the top search result for the flat earth keyword the day it went out. And so, some flat-earthers called the Globe Busters decided all. They're going to tear apart this stupid video and this stupid Professor Dave guy. Um, and they just did this really insane 3-hour live stream where they were just saying the most ridiculous things. And I I I was very offended. I was not used to people talking about me on the internet. It had not happened until then. Occasionally people would be, "Oh, look at this Professor Dave guy. He's making these chemistry tutorials. Really cool." But no one had ever been like, "This guy sucks." And I didn't like it. So, uh, and I'm pretty vindictive. So, I I made a 45minute little piece chopping up their live stream, just making fun of them. And, and it's kind of funny to look at now because it's very it's timid. It's very mildmannered by by my current standards. Current standards. Yeah. Yeah. So, I started out, you know, the fairly nice guy, but but definitely giving it to him. Um, and uh, it's to this day my most viewed ch video on my entire channel by a lot. And, um, and so I caught the bug. Uh, people loved it. I found out that I immediately found out that I am good at it. Um, and so I just thought, well, this is interesting. Maybe I should play with this a little more. And it was very slow. Actually, I didn't do another one of those for a few months later. I made another flat earth one. And then like 6 to 8 months later I made another flat earth one. But then eventually I thought all right flat earth is ridiculous. Uh let's see what else I can debunk. So um probably electric universe was the first one I did. But then quickly got into different flavors of creationism and you know antiaxers and whatever just then it was off to the races. Right. Whatever I can sink my teeth into. Right. Right. So that debate between Dave Weiss and was that that was that was after the Globusters debunk. Yeah. The Globusters was the first thing I ever did that catapulted me into like, oh, Dave de is a is a flat earth debunker, right? And then all of a sudden I was this shill and all, you know, I have all the flat-earthers attacking me. It was very surreal, but uh I embra fortunately I embraced it and leaned into it and Right. Right. Do do you have experience with debate? I mean, did you have that back in school? None at all. It's precisely zero. Um, yeah. And in fact, I I have become more argumentative and and, uh, and confrontational, let's say, as an adult, as a kid, I was not at all. But, uh, yeah, here we are. Right. Right. I guess yeah the reason I asked so just about 10 years ago or more now there was I watched this debate between Bill Ny the science guy and Ken Ham the founder of the creation museum in Kentucky and they were debating evolution and versus intelligent design and it was a pretty lengthy debate over two hours and I just remember at the end of that thinking you know he he could have been a more aggressive he kind of gave too much slack I felt like there was something missing and then when I watched your debates it was just night and day different and I was like this is kind of what is needed for treating these kind of people. Thank you for saying so. I think so. I I get a fair amount of I I get push back and support right on this. And so, you know, with Bill, I I didn't watch the entire debate. I watched highlights, but I I definitely agree with you that just if you left thinking that like people left thinking that Ken won, a lot of people, some people, and that's not excusable. Um, so I try not to criticize other science communicators for the tone that they use, but Sure. And everyone has different styles. Yeah. Yeah. And so I'm not going to be like, "Bill sucks and he did it wrong." But but just there's something to be said for the pros and cons of each approach. And I think that the cons of that approach are are striking. Um, and that's why my tone is completely different. So how would it retain catalytic activity? Even if they could even if they could even if they could duplicate the whole thing is baslessly denying a body of work and pretending that no one will notice and pretending and hoping you'll just believe him. Is there any one community in particular you've had like a pretty strong impression upon or like you just total rugpulled or I mean I definitely did a big number on flatearthers. I mean, from the first I I mean, uh, from that Globusters video and then the couple after it, and then I did a four-part series, destroying flat Earth without using any science, that just such utterly basic uh visual evidence, you know, observational evidence um that a lot of people reported to me like, wow, like this is like 5 minutes like undeniable like this just really stupid. Um, and then from debating Weiss and then from uh um Witset and then the whole Antarctica trip thing. I did a piece before they went and then a piece after they went and they both got a ton of views. I mean, it did you get I'm sorry to interrupt, but did you get invited to that trip or I did. So, when he uh when he was setting it up, he was emailing all the all the flat earthers and all the flat earth debunkers, but he was doing it in a secret secretive way. And so I got those emails and was like, "What is this crap?" I didn't even reply to them. Um I just was like, "Yeah, I don't care about this." Um and so definitely if I had uh if I had really been interested, I'm sure I would have been in that uh I believe that they did like a a poll. I think he did a poll to see which flat earth debunker should go. And I may or may not have won that, honestly. Um uh Dave McKean maybe would have still won that because here's the thing, like I I I debunk flat earth as a hobby. like it's not like my there are channels that are really interested and dedicated and and go in depth into it. So anyway, after all of that just the community is in shambles like it's just a joke. It's a shell of its former self and you know Jiren left and is now debunking flatearthers and I don't know. Yeah, it's probably that one. But uh also uh I've definitely done a number on like uh Discovery Institute and certain propaganda mills uh Christian propaganda mills in the in the biological sciences space. Um they are people like James Tour and Discovery Institute people are just very very commonly publicly known to be complete jokes not exclusively because of me but me probably more than any other individual person uh just because of the content I made on them. So that would probably be another one. I don't know there's a few other handful in there. Sure. Well, we can dig into some of that as well, but u just out of curiosity, I know you've I mean some of these comments are pretty vile and can be kind of threatening. Have you ever gotten into hot water with even legally with some of these or uh any anything that you've kind of gave you second thoughts about tackling this problem? No, I mean certainly nothing legal because nobody has any legal recourse against me. I'm just telling truth about the lies that people tell, right? Um, but obviously incessant perpetual trolling every minute of every day. Every minute of every day on every platform. Uh, to the point where like Facebook, I might just delete because like I go on there once a month and find all these troll comments. Instagram, I get it a little bit, but I don't really use Instagram that much. But then obviously on the YouTube channel, every minute of every day, troll comments. Um but the thing is that uh the YouTube channel YouTube is a wonderful platform for manicuring and maintaining your your community and so it's very easy to identify and block trolls. Uh it's it's not it's not that big of a problem. I think that for other people it would be too much. For me, for whatever reason, I have just the right amount of emotional detachment and not giving a [\h__\h] kind of attitude that it just doesn't it like it's it's like a having mosquitoes, you know what I mean? Like it's like, all right, well, we're still having fun outside. I wish the mosquitoes will go away, but whatever. Um, so, you know, that's not a big deal. Very on very rare occasion, I do receive physical threats. Way less than you would think, but I do get them. uh they're not really ever even remotely credible. They're still, you know, it's still it's weird. It's weird to get physical threats threatening your life or your family's safety or anything like that. Um right, but it's not enough to like make me stop doing what I'm doing. Not by a long shot, you know? Oh, that's good. That's good. Yeah. Um so would you label any of these conspiracy groups as like more pernitious than others? Uh, I mean, you know, yeah, flat earth is pretty ridiculous and Alex Jones even rejects it, but that's saying something, but I I know like some of these would you could you label like maybe like a top three pseudoscience movements that are probably the the worst for society at the moment? Oh, okay. In terms of like how much damage they actually cause to society? Yeah. I Yeah. I mean right now the just the perception in the public towards public health obviously primarily surrounding vaccines but around the medical establishment in general is catastrophic. Um fringe conspiratorial beliefs have been have become completely mainstream. Um so this is people distrusting obviously all vaccines but just any like the concept of modern medicine in general. Um, it's an enormous threat to public health, uh, to to the safety of every individual. Uh, that would obviously be number one with a bullet. Uh, so much so that I I fail to even think of anything else that would be comparable. Yeah. Or worth mentioning. Yeah, that that makes sense. Yeah. And it's not just isolated to just co vaccines. This is like all vaccines. And yeah, it's Yeah, they they try to use I'm not an antivaxer. I am just against uh co vaccines and the the the justification will be I'm against experimental gene therapy or whatever ridiculous things that are just completely not rooted in reality. But then they'll turn right around and then do the whole you know Andrew Wakefield MMR causes autism and then this other thing and the aluminum and the and the and the thyarisol and the whatever. Um it's just like your traditional antivax playbook from that's been around for 30 years. um they're just using co vaccines as sort of a gateway into this broader vaccine hesitancy. So, right. Yeah. And you've made comments about this before, but this this idea that uh co or the vaccines cause autism? Uh what was the origin of that uh claim? Yeah. So, uh, I actually just put a piece out on this last week cuz Andrew Wakefield, the guy responsible for this, went on, uh, Michael Nolles's, uh, channel, is, you know, one of the grifters at the Daily Wire and just had this lie parade of just lie after lie after lie. Um, so that's the guy, this guy named Andrew Wakefield. He's a disgraced former gastroenterenterologist from uh from England. And um around the '9s, early '9s, mid '9s, there was um a lot of parents were looking for excuses for recent autism diagnoses because autism wasn't commonly diagnosed until I want to say around the 80s or even the '9s. Um and so it was kind of this new thing for a lot of parents and they're looking for something to blame and you know vaccines came up as maybe we can blame these and uh so personal injury lawyers started circling like sharks and they're like we need somebody uh credible to give us uh the grounds to sue and uh so they hired they I mean they would have hired anybody a gastroenterenterologist. What does that have to do with with vaccines or autism or anything like that? Yeah but doesn't matter. He's a doctor. Any doctor will do. So they p they bribed him somewhere in the vicinity of half a million pounds to pen a fraudulent study. Uh the the study was it was it was 12 kids all of whom were uh all of whom were were clients of this particular injury lawyer, most of which were known to have autism prior to receiving the vaccine, some of which didn't have autism at all. Uh it was a fraudulent study. He fabricated the data, all of that stuff. on top of it being highly unethical. He gave colonoscopies and lumbar punctures to children go for no reason. Yeah. So the guy is just like absolute human garbage. Um but anyway did this study published in the Lancet in 1998. Um was quickly found to be utterly fraudulent was later retracted by the Lancet once the editors realized it was a fraudulent study. Um and that is it. That's the one thing because since then in direct response to the public fervor on this topic many many many studies uh and metaanalyses have been performed to prove conclusively that autism cannot be caused by vaccines. Uh certainly that there's no correlation and furthermore autism is genetic anyway. It's it's genetic. It's a neurological situation, right? It has it's brain development in uterero, right? It has nothing to do with vaccines or toxins or anything like this, but people still to this day, nearly 30 years later, are exclusively referencing this one exposed, fraudulent Andrew Wakefield study, and he himself is still making the rounds. He kind of has had a resurgence lately. I was actually surprised to see him show up again. not too surprised, but just in this postcoavid uh environment where people are very very receptive to charlatans in this space, he has managed to claw his way out of the the depths and uh become relevant again. So, I had to do a piece on him that I put out last week that I was hoping would get more views, but um I I don't I don't think I've actually seen it yet. So, but uh I have heard you talk Yeah, I'll have to check that one out for sure. I uh you're very prolific. It's it's uh I got to do it, man. There's just too much too much stuff out there. I'm trying my best. I'm just one guy. No, it's it's it's amazing. Yeah, it's it's something to aspire to for sure. Um I I guess I also like to address a bit on the science is broken narrative. There's a a video where you address Sabina Hosenfelder, a physicist, science communicator. And I didn't actually think about this much until you brought it up. So, uh, there was a comment that said like flat-earthers and other big academia bad people are not getting in the way of real science. And again, I think I would have agreed with this sentiment a few years ago, but why why is this why is this a really a wrong sentiment? Yeah. No, it's very shortsighted and I I had to make follow-up uh content addressing how how misled it is because in the current political climate. So, it's like look, this is the problem. People, especially people who are entrenched in academia sometimes are sort of insulated from what's going on socially. And this is not just a couple of cooks on a street corner ranting into a megaphone. This is a broad social shift. And it's not occurring in a vacuum, right? it's doing be it's happening because very wealthy people are causing it to happen for with with nefarious intent they have a very specific economic and political agenda in influencing the society against science and against academia um and it has been so successful that it is influencing who comes into power politically namely this current administration which then turns around and slashes funding for science so NIH budget cuts NASA everything else. Um the the the anti-science fervor and in general anti-intellectual fervor that has captured the American public as well as several other uh industrialized nations uh as of late which has been uh part of the global move towards fascism that we are witnessing. Um it it is directly linked to scientists being able to do science, right? uh it's not just uh yeah they're they rely on these these uh sources of funding that are now being pulled uh from and um so I I think it's actually very interesting in the past go ahead. Well I just I just wanted to add some numbers to that just to give people it's not some theoretical idea but I mean it it's this is not speculative. Yeah, it's uh 57% of NSF, the National Science Foundation, 40% to the NIH, and NASA's getting pruned by a quarter. So, it's it's pretty bleak. Yeah. And so I it's actually the one thing that I I I've witnessed a little bit of a change in the willingness and eagerness of the scientific community to do science communication work with science communicators. Um I did a third piece responding Sabina where I got act where I got three particle physicists to lend commentary and I think that a gigantic motivating factor was them thinking like look enough is enough like my career is being threatened here. um we we need to start speaking up. And so more and more people in various communities, the archaeological community, the medical community, etc. are realizing if we don't course correct here and get the public a little bit more in reality, um this is going to continue to spiral until there's no money for science left in the country. And between what Trump is doing and what RFK is doing, many many scientists are are looking to move to other countries, um this this legacy of America leading the world in scientific research is being obliterated by one orange fascist and that and the people who elected him, right? It's it's not it's it right. This anti-intellectualism and and anti-science mentality has been cultivated deliberately. It's not happening in a vacuum and it's happening on the internet. It's an information war. It's all about optics and the fight has to happen where where it's happening, right? It needs to be fought in the same way that it's being dispensed. So, right. So yes, previously you had mentioned this kind of war on science and um and I I this has sort of been a long time coming has it not? I mean it's I mean Trump has certainly spurred this movement and reared its evil head but I mean has it really just Trump or has it been kind of No. Yeah, he he kicked it in faster dry but he didn't invent it. I mean this has been happening for I mean you could trace it back to a hundred years or so. uh if you really want to. Um and then you know sort of intertwined with um you know intertwined in a legitimate way with environmental concerns but then redirecting those to be displaced um to just be angry about generalized establishment. Right? Anybody who's an expert of any kind if they work at a university universities are woke indoctrination camps. So you can't trust anyone that works at a university or a doctor's. They're all in the pocket of pocket of big whatever. So you can't trust them, but you can trust this unqualified jerk on the internet. So listen to them instead. Um it is a very very deliberate uh campaign that has been enacted by oligarchs with very with a very specific agenda to continue the transfer of wealth from the middle class into the uh very narrow elite class. And the way you do that is by manipulating public opinion, manipulating voting behavior, getting people into office who will continue to erode um regulatory bodies that have any ability to regulate the private sector. Um and so that's that's what Trump is. That's what Elon Musk and Doge is, right? All of that is just an effort to continue the transfer of wealth into the hands of oligarchs at this alarm at this incredibly alarming rate. Right? If you look at the if you look at the net worth of um you know Musk and Zuckerberg and and uh and uh Basos and all these guys uh it's it's it's ridiculous how their wealth has grown and that money is belongs to all of the other people. Right. So Right. Yeah. Right. It doesn't come out of thin air. That's for sure. Uh I mean what what is really like the anecdote here? I mean it I mean what I mean to me I mean it's it's just it's coming so fast and I mean with these sort of cuts it's it's like what I mean and then the banning of international students from other other countries I mean it's it's certainly going to lose the science edge especially in the US but that's going to be worldwide science that's uh really that suffers shut shut down and uh and this is all in the sake of basically a control I I suppose scientists or someone that those empowered or it's challenging to control those the independent researchers or like what what they find on certain things and um it just seems like it's a it's a it's a control issue and let's let's shut it down. What what would like scientists do how to how to combat this? Do you have any ideas or thoughts on that? I mean, yeah. Unfortunately, it's hard. Like, I don't know how to fight the bureaucratic machine, right? I I I'm in the business of swaying public perception. I make content to help people understand who's lying, how they're how we know they're lying, why they're lying. Um, but I don't have any tools to fight government bureaucracy, right? I don't know how to reinstate grants and things like that. But I know that it's the the public perception is the ship that's steering everything else, right? Public perception is what gets particular people into office who then are the ones who enact these changes. So, uh that that's all I have that's all I have to go on is to help people understand what's true and then hope that the rest slowly sorts itself out. Um I don't obviously I'd rather have political power. I don't have any though. So, um, this the I'm doing what I can with the tools that I have. Sure. And I'm hoping that that if enough people do the same that we can start to cure this uh mind virus, to borrow a term from science deniers, right? It's uh there there is no woke mind virus, but there is a science denial mind virus. There's an anti-intellectual mind virus that is poisoning our society and causing people to instantly distrust as a knee-jerk reaction anybody who has any clue what they're talking about. Um, and immediately trusting grifting frauds, unqualified grifting frauds on the internet. Um, it's astounding. Uh, and it has to be dealt with. Right. So, Right. Right. Right. I I I just Yeah. I It is It's upsetting. Um because you know this isn't these everything getting destroyed is sort of like it can happen very quickly but it won't it's not like an election cycle fix you know this is it's like a science is like uh I don't know like planting seeds and not all seeds produce fruit but all fruit comes from seeds you know the harm being done to the scientific community by this administration is irreparable and will have generational effects um hopefully enough people will see that that we can course correct uh in terms of public opinion within within one term. Um and I'm not entirely convinced that that's going to be the case either. Uh you're right. Right. So I don't know what happens post Trump 2. Um if we can even get him to leave in the first place, right? whether whether someone beats him and he refuses to leave or he invokes some kind of FDR loophole and insists that he deserves a third term because the first two weren't consecutive. Um I mean not that that has to do with FDR but whatever. FDR got elected four times. So he'll say other presidents have done this I get to do this. Um how long is he going to be in there? Is he going to be in there? Is he going to be assassinated this calendar year or is he going to install himself as a dictator and we'll be dealing with this guy until he dies which could be who knows when you know I don't know what's going to happen but um yeah yeah yeah well I I I saw on your channel you've created like this sort of playlist on your channel for scientists or people that are actively researching at the moment they can submit videos of their day-to-day you're trying to break down some of the mysticism or some of this uh this sort of ivory towerness maybe people you know point at at academics and science. Um do you want to make a few comments about that just for people to Yeah, I do know like I have several working scientists that follow my channel and things like that. Yeah, I have AI have a playlist called get to know a scientist. I actually started it a while ago and then stopped because I just stopped getting submissions. But I recently put out a video saying calling all scientists to remind them that I have this uh that I have this playlist and that any working scientist um whe whether you're a PhD holder or a PhD candidate, a lot of my submissions are PhD candidates. So grad students, you're they're actively doing research and so they qualify as scientists and um and so they can submit and uh really the goal is as you said to to demystify what a scientist is and what they do, right? I think the general public really genuinely has no idea what a scientist of any kind does, what their day-to-day is, where they work, what they do, what kind of instrumentation they're using. And so when I get people inquiring, I say, "Look, just we just show us what you do. This is my lab. These are the instruments I use. This is the project I'm working on. This is why I'm working on it. This is why it's important to me. This is why it could potentially be important to you." Um, and just look this. They're just people like the rest of They're just they're just people, right? Yeah. They're not uh this cabal of uh of nefarious evildoers trying to poison babies and things like that, right? It's just people doing a job and and they're and uh you know, often times their enthusiasm shows their passion for their the the knowledge that they're trying to ascertain and um you know, any uh any any beneficial aspects for for the public. Um, and uh, so it's just, yeah, and people submit them. Um, and I, and I put them up. I actually have two ready to go, maybe three ready to go that I'll start putting out soon, and I hope that they just continue rolling in. I'm happy to put out one a week if I get that many, you know. Yeah. Yeah. No, I think that's an excellent idea. And I I had tried to feature some some of my colleagues that that I graduated with in school and just talk about what they do on a daily. It's it's it's really what I find especially on the smaller channels it's very hard to get this kind of traction on that sort of topic because it's um it's sometimes a little bit uh you know sometimes it's it's it's uh it's kind of high level and breaking down the the terminology to a general audience um but having a large channel like yourself it's like great opportunity to get these out there although what you say is true and and I expect that these profile pieces will get 10, 20, 30,000 views as opposed to, you know, me making fun of Terence Howard gets 3 million views, you know. Um, so look, yeah, I understand the uphill uphill battle we face and, you know, the kind of entertainment value that that things have or don't have, but whatever. It's a start, right? You know, it's something. Absolutely. Absolutely. No, I think it's a great opportunity for people to take advantage of, for sure. Um, would you have some advice for the non-scientists out there, the or the ones that are not uh maybe stop taking a science in high school and if they're just scrolling on social media, Tik Tok, YouTube, and they see some sort of slick slick sounding YouTube science uh some some title that's like making some kind of scientific claim. Sure. What's like the red red flags like they need to look out for here? I mean, uh, the first red flag is is any kind of like everything we know about science is wrong. Everything we knew about physics is wrong. Everything blah blah blah is wrong because this one thing I'm showing you. That has happened pretty much zero times in the history of science. I mean, maybe in the 1600s or something, but um, that's not going to ever be true. That's not going to be true that one thing is going to make all of physics wrong because physics is right. We know because we use it to create technology that works. So physics is right. We can uh amend certain details and expand into new areas of understanding. Um but that kind of hyper sensationalist uh uh language rhetoric is is your primary red flag. Um and uh it's it's clickbait. It goes beyond simple clickbait. It started as clickbait. I think that kind of approach was like hey this will the urgency created by this will make people click on it. But it has transferred over into fueling science denial because the impression that people get is that oh it's very very easy and and regularly happens that all of science becomes wrong. So uh number one I don't have to learn it because it'll all be wrong tomorrow. I can just look at the latest Tik Tok and that'll be you know replaces all of physics. Um but yeah that would be the primary red flag. And then just in general anyone who disparages the entire scientific community as a whole. You can't do that. One scientist could be a fraud. That is absolutely true. And you could have a video that says this scientist is a fraud and it may or may not have legitimacy. You can watch it with with with skepticism in mind and you can then look at other sources and go, "Wow, a lot of people are calling out this one scientist." Or or if this is a coordinated attack on a public health official or something, right? could go either way, but anyone who says all scientists are wrong, it's insanity, right? They are definitely a fraud. Whoever says that, you can assure that and and you've highlighted some examples like the uh like uh Brett and Eric Weinstein and uh actors like this, they have PhD holding. Do you think they they need to be attacked just as much as like a someone pushing flat earth? Oh, more more so. Yeah. I mean, I I almost see them as like a gateway drug or something. I mean, you know what I'm like the Weinstein's both Eric and his brother are specifically gateways to conspiracy. And it's and and that the architecture of that is very clear, right? We know we know who pays Eric. It's Peter Teal. And we know what his agenda is, right? His agenda is very regressive. It's very anti-intellectual. He funds uh paper. He funds journals uh that post all kinds of intelligent design propaganda and all this stuff. the dumbing down of America and the sewing the seeds of distrust in in expertise and in academia in particular, academic institutions in particular, there's a very clear track record of that. And that guy pays Eric Weinstein. That's why Eric is rich is because Peter Teal gave him money to do all this stuff that he does. And that is by design, right? He is trying to introduce people. He's trying to act as a whistleblower from within the community, right? You can trust me cuz I I'm part of academia. Forget the fact that no, he absolutely isn't right. He does have a doctorate. I don't know how he fumbled through a doctorate. He didn't even He didn't even publish his dissertation. Do you know how rare that is? I didn't know that. Nope. It did not. He has zero publishing credits because even his dissertation does not qualify. So, you know, I didn't I didn't I didn't realize that. Yeah. Does the guy have have a reasonable understanding of physics and math? Yes, we'll give him that, right? But not really any more than any secondyear graduate student in in a similar program. Um, so you can use that language to convince people that he's the world's premier hypergenius. Um, but um, right here I am and I'm whistleblowing, right? That's the same reason. It's same grift as Sabina, which honestly I think that Eric has been so thoroughly humiliated lately that I feel I don't have any proof of this, but I feel like Peter Teal is bankrolling Sabina at this point. Um, because the narrative is so identical, right? academia is communism and I don't trust scientists and most research is [\h__\h] and all this crap. Um I think he's paying her but um she hasn't she hasn't improved as since you're you've pointed this out. I mean she's almost ramped up. Well, I think that the immediate response was to attack me and then ramp up. And that's why I had two additional videos because she just kept saying more and more insane things. As of extreme late, like the past few months, I've noticed that it's been almost entirely just just popsai fluff. And so, I think that there's a chance that that like mainly my content, but then some other people chimed in and were like, "Oh, yeah, Sabina is totally a fraud." Dave was right. Um, that has kind of had an impact on her on the optics on her and so she might be kind of taking a step. I I don't know. I don't really follow her closely. Just her new uploads kind of pop up in my feed and I'm like, "All right, this one's just like a like she has filler because she can't just be constantly spewing this crap. Otherwise, it's just blatantly obvious what she's doing." Um, so it's been a lot of fluff lately. But but anyway, this whole narrative um uh academia can't be trusted and you can trust me because I'm a former academic, right? Or or masquerading as a current academic even in the case of Eric trying to pretend that he had has a seat at the table. Um is so like that whistleblower narrative is so alluring, right? people want to believe it so badly and then through Eric or Brett or Sabina or you know dozens of these other types of figures they then find their way to the Robert Malones and the Andrew Wakefields and then oh look at this all the vaccine stuff and the CO stuff and then they find their some go all the way down to flat earth right this is the bottom of the barrel but whichever whichever rung you get off on the ladder you're still a science denier of some of one degree or another you know that's right so yeah that's right no I mean I applaud you for having the optics to see this because I mean I I I was a long-term viewer of Sabina and I was a little skeptical when you released the video, but then when you pointed it out it's like it's like yeah actually this is like kind of the beginning of eroding the trust of of general of all of science and and again and you pointed this out as well like she's not she can't speak for all of science. He has like this very subd disccipline and it's and then to say that science hasn't progressed in the last 50 years it's ridiculous right even to say theoretical theoretical physics hasn't progressed in 50 years is insanely ridiculous but then extrapolate that to all these other fields that she knows nothing about and she does do that and I had to play right because there were there was push back from my first video there were people who just didn't want to see it and uh didn't like that I made that first video so then in the second video I got way more direct will frontloaded the video with all the problematic statements and go see do you get it now like this is what she does right she's lambasting the entire scientific community very clearly and the script is one we've seen before we know where this comes from you know right right so I mean yeah no that's that's a very very good thing to watch out for um I uh well I mean I yeah you you've done tremendous work on this and uh I uh I hope that you you continue in your full force. Oh, I it's only getting it's only getting worse for these people. Yep. Definitely looking forward to that. Um like do you have any like advice for like people that are trying to enter into science communication or things that you've learned over the years, skills, things that tricks of the trade that you would like to I mean one find your voice, right? Like you can start out by emulating people but it's like being a good standup comic or something. It's a you first you you do your George Carlin impression or whatever it is, you know, whoever you like your hero and then and then you kind of you find your style, right? So just find your style and it it doesn't have to be like my style and it doesn't have to be the polar opposite of my style, right? Everybody's going to have their tone because we need everyone to have their different tone speaking to a particular demographic on a particular platform in a particular language, right? Whatever it is, we need you all. So find find the one that's that's natural to you and and uh because that's that that's the kind of authenticity that's going to bring a following. Um you know integrity and stuff. This this is the currency that Sycommerce work with integrity and authenticity because we're trying to get people to trust us more than frauds that they've fallen for. Um, so there'd be that and then the other thing would be just um you may have to I it's very irritating to have to learn new skills and have to learn new software and stuff, right? I had to learn how to use Adobe After Effects and I had to learn, you know, I didn't like I'm not super duper savvy with all this stuff, but you know, you sit down, you learn it, it's easier than you think. Um, and then you this world opens up to you of how to make content the way that you want to make it and and then get really efficient at it, right? I'm ridiculously efficient with with my content creation now. Um, I turn because I'm doing this basically alone over here and I'm I'm really turning them out. But it's 10 years of kind of doing the same thing. Um, yeah, that's why I see. I mean, yeah, it's it's amazing how fast that you're able to turn this stuff out. It's uh it's very impressive. Um, thank you. Yeah. Yeah. I don't sleep much, so that's fine. Well, yeah, it's uh it's pretty pretty impressive. I mean, like it's like slides and Well, I guess you don't have to get into full detail. Usually, it's extremely simple. That's why honestly it's gotten simpler over time because when I started out and I was doing um biology and astronomy tutorials, a lot of that stuff had had some more element of motion and and what you could arguably call graphics, right? I was trying to get more elaborate with it. Um but then over time it just became slowly more just image, text, image, text, image, text. So now I mean I can really fly through this stuff a lot faster. Uh yeah. Yeah. No, it's it's it it flows very nicely and yeah I know it takes a lot of time but so uh I guess final things uh do you do you think every scientist has an obligation now to speak publicly through social media or do you think it's better to leave it to professionals like yourself? Like what what are your thoughts on that? I think obligation would be a strong word but I think every scientist should be encouraged to do it. Um many or most won't and that's fine. Um but if you are one who is not interested in doing cyclom I would I would say at the very least please make yourself available to science communicators. lend your expertise either um if a science communicator is contacting you about some of your research, if you could just be available by email to help them understand a particular paper of yours or whatever it is. Um and even better if you are willing to appear in their content. It lends a tremendous amount of credibility particularly to generalists such as myself who do not have the highest level of expertise in any particular area. Right? I don't have a terminal degree. I don't have a doctorate. So, um I I should not be regarded as the world's foremost expert on any academic field. That's obviously true and I would never pretend otherwise. But the way I get around that is first of all by just being a good generalist and just understanding the science that I'm trying to uh explain, but then also handing it over to requisite experts. Right? If I'm talking about archaeology, if I'm talking about origin of life research, if I'm talking about, you know, very niche molecular biology, whatever it is, here's a 10-minute conversation with somebody who is an expert in the field. And here is them corroborating what I'm saying, explaining it to you with greater depth, reinforcing the things that I've said, thanking me for taking this on on their behalf, right? Um, it just adds a very strong layer of credibility to the content. And so I totally get it. You you're a researcher. You don't have time to have a podcast. You don't have time to sit there like I do and make YouTube videos ready. It's very timeconuming. Don't worry about it. Just appear in in in our videos, please. That's all we're that's all we ask. Yeah. Yeah. No, I think that's that's terrific. I mean, yeah, it it takes a lot of the burden of the production off of Yes. of someone that's trying to I'll do that apply for a grant or whatever. Just do a Zoom call. Yeah. and lay out the facts. Right. That's it. Right. That's awesome. So, uh do you have any other like final takeaway messages or things foods for thought that you'd like to get people to think about? Um not really. I mean, uh, you know, I I I've regained a tinge of optimism really genuinely like the last month just because I'm seeing so much, um, anger and push back from the academic community uh, due to Trump's policies. And so, it's just making me feel like, all right, all right, well, just let's we're getting this brewing. like let's let's hang on to this anger and channel it in in productive ways and make some content, change some minds. Let's do it. Yeah. I I think like as you mentioned like speaking with integrity and and trying to just kind of get your voice heard. I mean, it's uh it's challenging, but that's I think the way that this is going to win. Yeah. And I managed against all odds to amass this platform over the last decade. uh and uh I'm going to use it, you know. So, right, everybody hop on, you know, whether you want to do a, you know, uh explain your research in a video or if you want to just, you know, be part of a debunk. Yeah. Uh yeah. And and and actually, it's actually really great just as of the past year or so, like a lot of academics contact me and are like, can you please debunk this person? like I just we need you your your fury on this particular person who's just wreaking havoc on in our on our field and I'll type you up some notes with you know videos and timestamps and you know the the skeletal responses and uh you add on that and it's like great it's like that's that lowers the activation energy of me making the content and right so yeah people feel free I really like how you don't give these people an inch I mean you really every single statement you sort of dissect And uh I think that's a very that's what's needed because they kind of go off of these sort of uh yeah over overreaching statements or kind of hypo I don't know you really call them out. So Mhm. got to do it. That's awesome. Um well u I don't want to take too much of your time. I know you're very busy but I I really appreciate this. This has really been a uh a great discussion and I think people will uh have really learned a lot from it. So, I anything up in the pipeline that you're going to come out with soon or uh the the RFK video is coming soon. People have been asking for that for a long time, so I'm going to get going on that soon. Right now, today I'm just combing through uh Brett Weinstein went on Tucker Carlson's show, so I'm just That's going to be a fluff. I don't know if I saw that, but uh yeah, he it's got close to a million views, so it's like, all right, let me just There's a lot of just frauds having a conversation. Let me just watch it one time on 1.5 speed, pause where I need to react and and then just give it a pass. It's just it's pretty quick. Like I'll write the whole thing today. I'll produce the whole thing tomorrow, maybe one two days max. Yeah. And then that'll be out, you know. So, do you like record yourself and then and then uh like I mean you you watch it record yourself in real time? No. And then I watch and I type. I see. I see. I watch and I type out my script in a word document. So, for these kind of reactiony videos, they're not quite a reaction. It's it's I'm I'm only going to watch the video one time and I'm going to watch it on a higher speed because I don't have time for this crap. But, um I just type what I'm thinking as I watch it. I give it one more pass just to tighten it up really quick. Um record it, animate it. Um and, uh those pieces are pretty quick. There's no research required, right? RFK, that's a deeper dive. I need to go into a lot of stuff. So that takes me more time to do. But um so I try to blend it. Um people have noticed an uptick in in the frequency with which I release reaction or uh debunking videos. That's because I've started to blend, right, these deeper dives with a little more shallow, right? Do you know how easy it is for me to watch Terrence Howard say dumb things for two hours type reactions and then I can do that in two days? Yeah. Three times. You had a turnound very quickly on that. I I almost wanted to address it myself, but uh I don't know. At that point, it was already kind of old news, but uh Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I've got it dialed in. So, yeah, that's terrific. Well, thank you again, Dave, for doing this. I appreciate it. Happy to do it. No problem. Well, thank you.