Today I'm going to talk to a friend and science educator who has strong opinions about the anti-science that is infecting like a cancer not just the United States but the world. Dave Herina, glad to see you again, man. >> Howdy. Thanks for having me. >> For those who are just now being introduced to you, let's do our due diligence. Who are you? What do you do? Yeah, I run AI'm a science communicator and uh I focus mainly on a YouTube channel called Professor Dave Explains. Started out mainly uh doing academic tutorials for high school and college students uh in a variety of topics, mainly science, but then branching out. Uh but for the past 5 years or so have developed an audience with debunking content where I really aggressively go after these bad faith actors that are pedalling lies and pseudocience um and exposing them to the best of my ability. So yeah, >> your channel is an interesting mix because there's a lot of deep dives into hard science for kids. I say kids, >> 30 year olds, >> you know, who are undergoing masters and PhD types programs and the sciences. So when I say kids, maybe I just betrayed my age. No insult intended. But on top of that, then you go after, I don't know, some of people like Eric Weinstein. So I guess we'll start there. Who who is he and what's your problem with him? >> Oh my god, how do we even begin? Um, Eric Weinstein is a pseudointellectual fraud who is paid by Peter Teal to spread anti-science and anti-establishment uh rhetoric on the internet. He's basically a propaganda mouthpiece. He's a guy who who goes on podcasts and pretends to sound as smart as possible to trick gullible lay people into raging against the university system and peer review and um all of these uh institutions that are the way we gather knowledge, the way that we substantiate knowledge. >> Hang on. Hang on, Dave. I'm sorry. He's going hard against peer review. >> Oh yeah, he does it all the time. He did it uh on the first Piers Piers Morgan segment that I was supposed to be on uh that I was kicked off at the last minute I think because Eric uh said he didn't want me uh to be part of it. He went on this whole tirade with Brian Keading like whining about how peerre is like only very recent and it's just like a gatekeeping method and all this stuff. I mean you you know the drill. Like if if you're like if if if peer review is keeping your pseudocience out of real journals, then it's corruption, right? It's not just the system working the way it's supposed to and you know and uh and highlighting bad science and preventing it from getting published in real journals, you know. So that's his that's one of his many uh shticks. Yeah. >> Yeah. But I mean the guy's got a PhD from Harvard. >> Yeah. >> Uh you know I now granted it's mathematics not biology but when somebody throws out the degree like that someone in my position is like oh [\h__\h] PhD Harvard. What do I do with that? >> Yeah, look, I mean, it's true. He fumbled his way through through a doctorate at Harvard. Uh his, you know, he's never published anything like he's not an he's not a scientist, right? Now, the problem is that he is educated. So, he it's it's not he's not Terrence Howard, right? He does have the have the language and he does understand what these words mean, which enables him to better craft his script. So, I mean, the takeaway is yes, like you don't just go PhD, therefore they're right. You never do that. There are Nobel Prize winners that that descend into crack pottery. Luke Montany won the Nobel for isolating HIV and then for a decade or longer has been pushing water memory and all this other crap like he's like the quintessential Nobel disease crackpot. Um so yeah, that someone has a doctorate makes them more likely to be to be correct. But people with PhDs can be lying frauds. They can be disgusting lying frauds. Eric Weinstein is one such person. Um, so yeah, it's it's and people who who play the the credentials game will all will only do it in one direction, right? They'll do it for, you know, for Eric, but then anybody like I just I I recently did a piece covering he had a spat with Shawn Carroll on Piers Morgan as well. >> Now, who who is Sean Carroll? Forgive me. Go ahead. >> Sure. Yeah. Shawn is is a real physicist, right? He uh he it's not like he's the most prominent physicist in the game or anything. He's a working physicist, a respected working physicist who is also an extremely popular science communicator. So his his he has tremendous contribution with with science communication but is also a working physicist. So if your big thing is oh look at all you know look looking for a PhD but you ignore all of the working physicists who step up and expose Eric right which has been happening increasingly. I've had several on my channel, working physicists, go through his geometric unity, which is his incredible theory of everything, which uh he released on April Fool's Day in 2021, saying this is a work of entertainment. It's not supposed to be taken seriously, only to then go on the podcast circuit for years whining about how academics won't take him seriously, and he's being, you know, uh pushed out of the conversation. um you know it it it just serves his whole anti-establishment paranoia conspiracy pedaling. But really what he was doing was just avoiding scrutiny as long as possible, right? Nobody educated actually look at this thing so I can go on podcasts and use all of my jargon and look as smart as possible so then I can then spew my ridiculous uh Peter Teal funded agenda. Um uh and uh but then you know it caught up to him. people started actually looking at it and going, "Wow, this is a gigantic piece of crap. What are you doing?" Pretending that this is something that anybody educated should be looking at. And so he's really descended in the past 6 months or so. I want to say it's been a joint effort. I did a huge piece on him and his brother last year, but then the Shan Carroll thing and then the blowback from that. Uh he's pretty universally recognized to be a complete fraud now. And the blowback in the teal sphere is compounding because people like Sabina Hosenfelder are going to his defense and then by proxy people are going, "Oh wait, okay, so she's a fraud, too." Um, it's incredibly hilarious. Kurt Jimal, Brian Keading, all these sickopants are being exposed one by one simply, not simply, but but largely due to their willingness to defend the blatantly fraudulent Eric Weinstein. It's quite delightful. Well, you mentioned Peter Teal. This is the billionaire oligarch puppeteer behind much of the [\h__\h] that's been happening in the United States. Extremely wellunded and dangerous. You want to speak specifically to Teal before I move on? >> Sure. I mean, he has his hands in Palunteer and uh the Orwellian surveillance systems that are that are being put into place. Uh he basically handpicked the vice president. He was like, JD Vance, you're vice president now in in so many words. That's essentially what happened. Um, I mean, yeah, he's just an he's he's a billionaire wanting to do billionaire things, which includes uh just put uh like a huge part of it is control, right? If if you want to when you have a situation when you have a wealth in inequality like we do today with just this rampant unfettered capitalism where we're seeing the 0.001%, 01% right the the top handful richest people getting wealthier and wealthier and wealthier at this alarming rate while more and more people right the middle class is shriveling and so many people are below the poverty line how do you maintain that transference of wealth right nobody's willingly going to going to coalesce with that so you have to manipulate them requires propaganda and all of the propaganda is centered around getting people to distrust scientists uh institutions of higher learning Basically, anybody that's telling the truth has to be demonized so that people's behavior can be controlled. Their consumer behavior, their voting behavior, they want to keep people in office that are basically just completely subservient to the oligarchy, which is epitomized by the Trump administration obviously and um this is the name of the game. And so Teal needs mouthpieces, right? He needs pawns to disseminate his propaganda on the internet. Eric Weinstein number one, right? And that's not even speculative. Like he's been on the teal payroll on paper for, you know, 15 years or whatever. So others I've speculated Sabina Hosenfelder and I've made a lot of content about that. I can't prove it, but um that to me is clear as day. But these are this is the currency he deals with, right? He he it's all it's an optics game and he needs people on the internet spreading this message and and manipulating and twisting public perception against real scientists and against universities and against federal institutions that regulate the private sector right EPA and uh HHS right we're going to talk about RFK and um in a minute all of these all of these institutions must be gutted their ability to regulate the private sector rendered uh obs obsolete. Um, that's that's the playbook essentially. >> Well, I mean, as far as the power player with too much power, far too much power. I read in the Independent that Elon Musk has control over 2/3 of the active satellites in space right now. I mean, how much power? And of course, many people are like, ah, you know, boy genius, Elon Musk. And I'm just thinking, Jesus, you know, really. >> No. Yeah. I mean, Elon is I it's like I don't it's hard for me to comment on that guy because I don't really I I'm not good with tech. So, it's like I don't understand what's on the horizon and it's hard to get a read on him. I know that he I know that that he's just interested in himself and and ballooning his wealth and his influence. Um and the whole Doge debacle uh was a farce. And then it's been really hilarious watching the fallout between him and Trump um on Twitter and things. >> He's wanting to go to Mars for a while. I'm just like folly with so much suffering on this world. And he's like, "Well, now we need to go colonize Mars." And I'm like, "Well, why not?" You know, we we colonized Earth and we totally [\h__\h] it up. So why don't we fix it here instead of looking at this really impaired that humans are going to relocate. I know that's not your field either, but I wondered if you had an opinion about it. >> Well, look, I mean, why not? I mean, sure, colonize Mars. Set up a Mars base and send people like, there's nothing wrong with spa. Space colonization is cool and we should totally do it. But when when this kind of rhetoric is being pushed by oligarchs that are that are part of this cabal that are that are throttling any attempt at regulation of fossil fuels or this is all activity that is ruining Earth and ruining human society. So you can't on the one hand be like, "Oh, we needed this escape hatch. We're going to go live in Mars because everything is going to be bad here." When you're the people who are ruining it here. you're specifically the ones that are uh that are making it impossible to to uh to institute regulations to save the climate and um and just in general are are worsening wealth in inequality. So, it's it's not it like he obviously wants to make it sound like he's a champion of the people, but it's he's just the richest guy alive trying to get way richer by whatever means possible. Um so, >> okay. You mentioned the actor Terren Howard. >> Oh, he's a piece of work. >> Yeah. >> He's he's on Rogue and and he now he's he's been in some amazing films like Prisoners and and the first Iron Man film, >> but he also said he could build the Milky Way galaxy with gravity and a bunch of just wacky stuff. Tell me about Terren Howard, would you? >> Yeah. Uh uh Terrence Howard is a genuinely mentally ill, delusional narcissist who has convinced himself he's the greatest genius in human history and has revolutionized physics and mathematics and chemistry and all this uh stuff. And I think he really believes it on some level. Um and so he had a moment of virality about a year ago and uh I I kind of usurped it. I took advantage of it and got my own little viral moment because the I've done a few pieces on him, but the first one that I did based on his first Rogan appearance, I don't think Rogan will touch him anymore because the backlash has been like, "Dude, what what is going on?" Like, who is falling for this stuff, but um he's just completely insane. Spews utter nonsense word salad with science buzzwords that he does not he doesn't know what they mean and pretends to be a genius. And um I mean he it's interesting because the second piece I did on him was when Eric Eric Weinstein went on Rogan with Terrence to talk about all this stuff that Terrence says. And it's fascinating because they're basically the same except that Eric knows what he's talking about a lot more than Terrence does. Obviously he understands math. Um but they're both just trying their hardest to sound intelligent to generate a cult following. They're exactly the same in their intent and they're relying on the same anti-establishment, anti-academia narrative. So, it I my second piece was dunking on Terrence somemore, but also dunking on Eric trying to navigate this uh this terrain of simultaneously putting himself way above Terrence, which he is, but also lambasting the academic community. How dare they? How dare Neil Degrasse Tyson insult Terrence by responding with this very polite video response, you know, critiquing the his gibberish and, you know, how dare they uh, you know, uh, ice him out of peer review. Peer review. The guy can't do second grade math. Like, what do you mean peer review? There's nothing to talk about here. So, it's just a it's a weird uh, yeah, I mean, Rogan in general is just a complete circus side. just having conversations and you and I bang our heads against the wall. >> You know, you talk about these PhD types which brings me into the Discovery Institute and these aren't people who like Ken Hovind got his degree from a shack in Colorado. I mean, you got Steven Meyer, you got Dr. Michael Beehey, you got Demsky and a few others. You don't see them in peer review, but you certainly do see them online and they're writing and selling their books, etc. You have spoken about often the discovery institutes. You want to tell everybody what the issue is there? >> Sure. Yeah. Eric Weinstein is to Terren Howard as Meer and Beehey and those guys are to uh Kent Hovind, right? You have your bottom level raving lunatics that most people can tell are full of [\h__\h] But then you have this elevated version where look at me. I'm, you know, I'm speaking uh, you know, I'm dressed a certain way and I'm speaking very clearly and in a scholarly sounding manner and uh, yeah, there's uh, you know, oh, there's problems with evolution and uh, you know, the the the the evolutionists don't want us there's corruption in the journals and so we can't publish in the peerreview because it goes against the orthodoxy of the No, it's just [\h__\h] You're just lying. But you're doing so with this with this terminology that is difficult to penetrate, right? It's whereas Kent Hovind, if you if you if you got a B or better in nth grade biology, you can go, well, that that sounds ridiculous. With the Discovery Institute stuff, you have to have a certain level of understanding of whatever topic they're lying about. And they lie about molecular biology, anthropology, geology, all of it, right? And so I've definitely made quite a stir with them. I'm kind of on a my face is on a dart board over there somewhere. Uh because I just have taken them to tasks so hard. I have an entire series where I just go down the roster and nail every single one of them. And just very undeniably here's what they say the paper says. Here what's here's what the paper actually says. Here's the primary author of that paper acknowledging that they're lying about his paper. just really very clearly outlining how everything they say is a lie and outlining the agenda, right? It's they're they work for wealthy Christian nationalists. The idea is to get religion taught in public schools as a move towards the erosion of separation of church and state. Um very nasty theocratic intent uh type stuff which is very much in line with the uh move towards fascism that we're seeing from this administration. So >> you know I was given I don't people give you books because people like to give me books. They're like, "Here's a book. Just read all of this and we'll explain why you're wrong." kind of thing. And uh I think one of the more uh memorable ones, I was given the book The Dawkins Delusion by Alistister McGrath. And I asked, "Okay, fine. What's the angle? What's the book say?" And they said, "Well, I haven't actually read it, but I know that it's true." >> And so they gave it to me. And then I was given Steven Meyer's signature in the cell saying that well within our very cellular structure there is evidence that an intelligence put it all together. You familiar with the book? >> Yeah, I did a piece 90minute piece on uh on Meyer and went through his books. Um mainly yeah he he has one that's mainly on the Cambrian explosion where he lies all about that and then signature in the cell is just him fumbling high school level genetics concepts. Yeah. Let me throw another name out, another entertainer, comedian. And of course, we want to congratulate Russell Brand on his recent conversion to Christianity. >> Oh, yeah. >> Uh, you want to talk about Russell Brand and what the hell's going on? >> Russell Brand, it's very easy to explain. Uh, the right wing is a haven for sexual abusers, pedophiles, all that kind of stuff. He got caught with a lot of sexual abuse allegations. Uh he's been uh yeah he's been a cheeky naughty little monkey for quite some time and um yeah I kind of caught up to him and so he pivoted to become an ALT-right grifter and now he's selling magic healing amulets and he converted to Christianity to really drive it home and u now he's just some jerk with a podcast that spews conservative talking points all kinds of antivax crap and uh uh is now like pro Trump and everything and it's uh it's really >> embarassing. Come on, Dave. I mean, he met Jesus. He was baptized last year in the River Temps. It's almost like someone a murderer or, you know, someone guilty of domestic abuse or some heinous crime and they go to prison and they find Jesus and then that's the story they tell the parole board, right? That's the vibe I get, Dave. >> Pretty much that. Yeah. Like look at how th this fabricated morality to divert uh to distract from all of the blatantly immoral things that I do. >> I'm speaking here with science educator Dave Fina. You published or produced a video called the grifter tier list. >> Who's the biggest scumbag I've debunked? Now, I'll admit I just saw the title and didn't have time to watch the video before we chatted today. You want to spoil it for me? I mean, who's the who's the bottom of the barrel for you right now? >> Give you the number one. Yeah, I went through the whole list. I I realized after the fact and from a lot of comments that I actually missed like five people. I thought I went through the list and got everybody, but um but no, the it was a resounding win for Andrew Wakefield. Andrew Wakefield is the biggest piece of [\h__\h] I've ever uh debunked. That would be the one. >> Now, this is the guy uh who is behind the pseudo documentary Vaxed. Is that right? Was it Wakefield or Malone? One of those two. >> No, not Yeah. Uh Wakefield had a hand in it. I think it was Dell Big Tree. There was some people a number of people. >> I think it was Wakefield who was behind it and it's a complete antivax smear job on pretty much the entire scientific community. It's a horror show. >> Absolutely disgraceful. Yeah. I mean, what he's the most famous for is penning the uh late '9s uh study in the Lancet. Uh it's the it's the first attempt at the MMR vaccine autism link. So, everything that you see, every time you hear people talking about vaccines causing autism, it all stems from this one fraudulent study. Uh you had these injury injury lawyers that wanted an excuse to sue vaccine manufacturers. So, they bribed this guy Andrew Wakefield. who was a gastroenterenterologist into uh into making this study. It was incredibly unethical. uh lumbar punctures and all and and uh co and uh uh all kinds of invasive procedures on children that were known to have autism prior to getting MMR fabricated all the data just complete [\h__\h] study was later retracted but uh it stuck and just decades later he's still heralded as this champion that that that whistleblowing hero that now is just Yeah, He's just put uh purely an antivax character on the internet. >> It's a lose-lose because the more he's debunked, the more he's like the rogue whistleblower going up against the system. He's the hero we need. There's almost nothing you can do with that, Dave. >> Yeah, I mean that's that's obviously a valid point. I think that it just depends how thoroughly you eviscerate them. So, uh I think that if you really really do a good job, the information gets out there and then you have people that two things happen. Number one, you have people who are not familiar with what's going on and they're ready to be influenced by whatever media they see. So, you better make sure they see yours first and not theirs because theirs is manipulative and full of lies. So, if they see mine first, they're going to go they're they're inoculated, ironically, to uh whatever they're going to see from them. Um, and then number two, you arm the populace with the correct talking points and the correct way to rebut these ridiculous antivax talking points so that they can have a small amount of influence in their personal circles and and you know, fight it on the ground in the trenches, so to speak. But it has to be done. I mean, it's just you can't you can't just do nothing. You know what I mean? I wrestle with this too. But um doing nothing for so long is what got us to where we are today. Academics saying this is not this is beneath me. I don't have to pay attention to this. This is just idiots, you know, raving on a street corner. It doesn't affect me. Yes, it does. public perception of science and the resulting voting behavior that is tethered to a growing anti-science science mentality brought us the Trump administration who is slashing funds for science across the board. The ability to do science has been dramatically dampened and it is specifically due to public perception of science. So it cannot be ignored. We have to be doing this. We have to be aggressively exposing these frauds. And I'm seeing in the past couple months this very slight shift in a in in what I view to be the correct direction. I'm a bit biased because it's my way of doing it, but just every like it's epitomized by like the way Gavin Newsome is trolling the hell out of Trump right now using his style of tweeting to to combat what he's just like the the disgusting toxicity of these figures. It needs to be mirrored back to them. it needs to be reflected back to them. They need to be treated the way that they treat other people. So, I've been doing that for a few years and I'm starting to see a little bit of uh of uh that kind of activity from others and they're they don't know what to do with it, right? They can't handle being treated that way. They're used to very, you know, oh, that's actually incorrect because if you look at this paper, doesn't work. Does not do anything. >> No, I like that. But I mean, I think we call that demonstrating absurd or exposing absurdity by being absurd. Yeah. You know, I buy that. I also like the idea of pre-bunking, not debunking. You get in front of it and you sort of uh prep people, give them a [\h__\h] detection kits. Let me ask you, I brought up Robert Malone, physician, who has some very, very problematic opinions on COVID and the COVID vaccine. I don't understand this, but uh Malone had said vaccines damaged TE-C cell responses and caused a form of AIDS. Can you tell me what that means and whether it's right or wrong? >> Well, it doesn't mean I mean it's just completely fabricated, right? He's This is a guy who got famous spreading the lie on podcasts that he developed the mRNA vaccines. No, he didn't. the people who did won a bunch of awards for that because they saved millions of lives. He had some very tangential affiliation with some research that had something to do with mRNA, but uh he did absolutely did not develop these vaccines. He's just another lying fraud going on the podcast circuit pretending to be a whistleblower and the establishment is silencing me. And uh no, it's just a bunch of it's just a bunch of [\h__\h] to uh to generate this cult following. That's it. >> Which uh brings me back to vaccines, which means RFK Jr. I spoke to cell biologist Dr. Ken Miller about RFK. I don't want to cover too much familiar ground, but I can't ask I I can't not ask you >> about RFK Jr. and the war on science and scientist and the unbelievable Everestsized mountain of [\h__\h] that he has been spreading. >> Yeah, >> he's getting people I think he's getting people killed. You know, not he will, but I think it's already happening. What are your thoughts? >> Already happening. He the first of all, the num the the the magnitude of the layoffs at CDC, FDA, it's insane. He's just getting rid of anybody that is going to that that has any intellectual integrity and is going to stand in the way of his state sanctioned pseudocience. He got rid of the entire vaccine safety panel, filled it with Robert Malone and these other guys that are that are just antivaxers. Um just like the EPA is now full of climate change deniers, right? It's just this insane situation of the Trump administration where everybody in every department is directly antithetical to the purpose of that department. So, the vaccine safety panel is full of antivaxers, which means they no longer recommend certain vaccines. And if those vaccines are not officially recommended by this by the federal institution, then certain programs that previously offered those vaccines for free to low-income children because they're recommended by the government are no longer able to provide them. Right? So poor kids cannot get these vaccines that they were supposed to get before going to school. Can't get them anymore. And so people will die. Children will die. No two ways about it. And this is not new. Blood is already on his hands. There was a there was a measles outbreak in Samoa not too long, less than a decade ago. 83 people dead. All his fault. He went over there, met with antivaccine activists, convinced everybody that um that there was an issue with a batch of vaccines. fueled vaccine hesitancy, big measles outbreak, 83 people dead, his fault. He murdered those people. So, it's uh he's ramping up to do it here. >> What are your thoughts on the claim that CO is just a big money maker for the hospitals? You know, the hospitals, they're calling everything COVID so that they can fill their pockets and big pharma and all of that. Do you want to speak to that at all? I mean, how are you going to like how are you going to pull off a conspiracy like that? A global conspiracy? Every single health care provider in every single country like what like like what degree are we talking here? Like like there's the bottom of the ladder is that CO doesn't even exist or that viruses don't even exist. If you want to go higher and okay, they're calling it CO and it's not. I mean, you can say you can you can come up with a conspiracy like that about absolutely anything. At what point do we just go, look, viruses exist, pandemics exist, they happened. This is a pandemic that happened and a bunch of people died. Why is that such a hard pill for people to swallow? >> No, it's almost like flat earth, right? You think about the magnitude of the conspiracy. The implication is is that like the entire airline industry would have to be in on the cover up. all world governments, uh, you know, every space agency, meteorology. I mean, the the idea that they're all sitting in a star chamber twirling their mustaches, fooling the rest of us is so unbelievably batshit crazy. >> Yeah. The number of people instit Yeah. that are behind it are outnumber the mark, right? You've got six billion people in on it and two billion that are, you know, it's like it just completely unravels. I don't know what to do with it. So, uh, Antivax, Bill Maher. Now, Dave, >> yeah, >> you know, I used to think Bill Maher was okay. I never really, you know, followed him, but I watched Religulous and I, you know, it's nice to see him go hard at Religion until he got into the Jesus Horus connection. It was totally a lazy overreach and then I started to like raise an eyebrow. Hey, wait a minute. Maybe he's not doing his due diligence and then he's fallen for some bad [\h__\h] stuff out there. >> You want to talk about Bill Maher? I mean, he's now he's out there banging his drums, you know. >> Yeah. Bill Maher sucks a lot. I mean, yeah. Like, he Okay, ridiculous. Like, okay, let's give him a point for figuring out that fundamentalist religion is stupid. Congratulations. You're as smart as an average 12year-old, intelligent 12-year-old. Like, it's not that hard to figure out that that fundamentalist religion is stupid. No, he's he's um he's he's been a smug douche for a long time, but it's gotten way worse in the past few years. He's gotten way anti-woke. Uh he's just completely fallen for that whole movement. And he's also gigantic Zionist piece of [\h__\h] Um so I don't know if you want to get into that, but uh >> sure like Israel at all costs kind of thing, right? No matter what Netanyahu does, he must be supported, right? >> Yeah. He's just way pro-Israel, which is absolutely indefensible. I mean, it's been indefensible since Israel formed, but especially I think through the current genocide, I think it in the first 6 months or so, people who were not educated about the history of Israel and the history of the subjugation of the Palestinian people and the occupation and and everything um didn't know and were thus privy to Israeli propaganda. And so I want to have a little bit of sympathy and let them have had a little bit of time to come around. But today, if you're pro-Israel today, get the [\h__\h] out of here. Like, what are you doing? You've had this long, you've had almost 2 years now to just take 30 seconds of your time and go look, go look at what's happening in Gaza. Go follow any Gazin journalist. Look at all of the images and videos of all the blown up children, all the hospitals blown up, all the journalists murdered, everything that's happening. the starvation that's happening now. If you're still pro-Israel today, you have no excuse. Uh Bill Maher has no excuse. And uh he should just be mocked until the end of time, mainly for his Zionism, but also secondarily for all this anti-woke uh [\h__\h] that he pedals. It's just like a rogen manosphere thing that he's riding. And uh it's uh pretty ridiculous. >> Dave Fina and I have this in common. For better or worse, we both appeared recently on Piers Morgan. Now Dave, I was contacted because Piers wanted to talk about the Shroud of Turin. He had a couple of PhDs, right? And so he had one, it was a first century, this has all been miracle. There was divine light that burned the image and ooh and here's a crucifixion spike and buy my book. >> And then there was another PhD who was like, well that's a bunch of [\h__\h] This is almost certainly medieval era humanmade. this is not the miracle even though I believe in he was a Christian he's like even though I believe in in God the Christian God this the the shroud is [\h__\h] or something else and then they're like well let's they must have googled atheist and they're like hey you want to come join they promised equal time so I got four minutes at the end >> and mostly I mean I'm not qualified I'm I'm not an expert in medieval times I don't know first century history in that way I'm not a carbon dating expert but I do talk Jesus a lot so that was mostly my angle, >> but I'm not a Piers Morgan fan. I mostly went because I was invited. It's a platform. It's a chance to sort of ants the conversation. You're not a Piers Morgan fan either, right? >> No, I would not say I'm a fan. And it's very interesting because I was So, okay, it's three times. Number one, I was asked to go on to talk about the Terren Howard stuff with Eric Weinstein and a couple other people. And then I was dropped at the last minute, I believe. I can't prove it, but I think Eric Winston was like, "Get rid of this guy." The second time I was asked to come on to talk about some trans stuff, but I had a conflict and so I had to decline. Uh, but then this time they they actually asked me for the Shroud of Turin. They said, "We want you either for the RFK one or the Shroud of Turin." And like you, I was like, "Well, look, Shroud of Turin, it's [\h__\h] We carbon dated it to like 1,200 or something like that." And but I don't have like I I didn't know. and they always contact you like, "Can we do it in 2 hours from now?" And so I'm like, "I don't have time to like go figure out all the [\h__\h] everyone is saying about the Shroud of Turin today." So no to that, but yes to RFK because I just a month or two ago did a very long like 2hour RFK piece going into all of his [\h__\h] So I was like, I'm ready to go on that one. Let's do it. >> This shows you, by the way, why I'm rightly lower in the hierarchy. There are probably a dozen other names under yours before they got to me. And it was it was like, "Hey, we're on at noon. >> Can you go right now?" And I was like, "Holy shit." >> I'm always just like, "Could you give me 48 hours?" Like, I just I it would be nice to like because it's weird like I don't know how you feel. I don't actually don't know what your exact if your precise expertise is more philosophy or history or anything like that. Mine is chemistry, but I'm a generalist and so I make content on a lot of stuff like archaeology and things like that. So, somebody uh actually I I I forgot they contacted me another time to talk about uh archaeology stuff just because I had a semiviral piece debunking Graeme Hancock and his loser acolytes. And I was like, "Look, man, I'm not an archaeologist. I made a great piece. That's a great, you know, bit of content for for people to get educated from, but I'm not going to be the guy." So, I I sent um I said, "Why don't you talk to Flint Dibble and Milo Rossy?" And so, they actually went on for that segment. I sent it over there. But, yeah, you're right. like they don't know who knows what. They're just contacting anybody with a certain level of following and like you want to do it. We don't care if you're prepared or not. We don't care if you knock it out of the park or humiliate yourself. We're just filling the segment. So, you know, either way, if you kill it, you great views. If you tank, great views for like it doesn't matter to them. So, >> it was, you know, my angle was and my wheelhouse is counter apologetics specifically in relation to Christianity. I'm an exeangelical and I've done 16 years of this type of stuff. We can get into Jesus. Let's talk Jesus. So rather than focus on the shroud, you know, hey, we'd like to talk about the magical cave cloth, I was like, well, hang on. Let's talk about the myth that the whole cave cloth story is built on and let's talk about the Bible that presents that story. And so I actually went back to more of a root thing and uh you know, that was my wheelhouse and I think that was the more productive place to go. Oh, this piece of cloth is magical is not that interesting to me. But Piers himself, >> I was, you know, his history is so problematic. He's so tabloidy. I I debated, but you know, I I couldn't say no for a few reasons. So, I don't know. Piers Morgan, >> I mean, you're right. Like, he is problematic. And it's just interesting. Like, it's been fascinating to see him flip on Israel because at first he was all, "Do you condemn Hamas? Do you condemn Hamas? Do you condemn Hamas? Every 10 seconds. And now he's like very anti-Israel. He's very pro Palestine. But it's totally for optics. Like he watched the optics flip on the conflict and was like, "That's the winning side now. I'm going to I'm going to voice that." So it's like on the one hand, purely in terms of optics, great, one more person taking Israel to task, but it's so seedy the way that he does it. But in general, my view of it is the same as like if like Joe Rogan knows who I am. He mentioned my name on on an episode once and so people were like, "Do you think he'll invite you on?" I'm like, "I don't think he will, but would you go on if he did?" I'm like, "You know, I would like I will. I did go on Piers Morgan. I would go on Joe Rogan. I would go on these because it it whether you want it to exist or not, the platform exists and it has the influence that it does. whether you go on it or not. And so you have an opportunity to prepare thoroughly and go on that platform and make it bend to your agenda, what you want to do with that access, with that reach. And so that's my view of it. It doesn't have to be viewed as like I'm supporting the Piers Morgan platform. It's I'm accessing his audience and the eyeballs that he has access to to say the facts that I need to get to these to these people. >> Yeah, sure. You get the Joe Roganites in this disinformation silo. It may be the only chance they have to be presented with contrary ideas. I was Hey, Seth. I I go hard after Fox News. And I used to be that guy. I was a Rush Lamb and Coulter Fox Newser back in my day. Wow. >> And of course now I go I go hard at Fox and they're like, "Well, if Fox News for some reason was to invite you to to appear, would you would you do it?" And I'm like, "Hell yeah." I mean, as long as I could say what I wanted to say. And my first question would be, why are you guys dear Leader State Television? You know, I mean, because that that would be a refreshing thing for the Fox viewership to hear. They might send me a pipe bomb, >> but I think it has to be said, right? >> Yeah. Mix it up. Go on there, blow it up from the inside, just uh dismantle whatever platform you're given an access to, go on it, and do what you want to do. Do what you have to do with it. Yeah. >> Do you ever watch Pete Budes? That guy is a master. that guy, they every time they try to push him into a corner or ambush him, he just he devastates them and he does so with such an even voice, it's masterful. >> Yeah. I I very quickly was like, "Oh, you're my number two after Bernie. He's uh he's smart guy." Yeah. >> So, you mentioned trans issues and the biology of transgenderism. Uh this is a hot button even within the free thought community. I've seen people who were like, "It's the religion of trans or the religion of woke or the anti-woke or you're you're a trans phobe and everybody's throwing out these things." I know there are some out there who are navigating what is uncharted territory >> and they genuinely don't know what to think. >> Yeah. >> So, you tell me as far as an educator goes, how would you explain transgender to people who are curious about whether or not it's science or anti-science? >> Yeah. And this is one of the peer segments as I was responding to the fallout of the Freedom from Religion Foundation debacle with uh Richard Dawkins, Jerry Coin, Steven Pinker, who unfortunately represent part the part of the intelligencia that is swinging this anti- anti-woke way, pseudoscientific way. Um >> yeah, it's basically if I may quickly Dr. Jerry Coin, the evolutionary biologist, had written a piece that was signal boosted by FFRF at the time, which I think they apologized for afterwards. But he said, "Biology is not bigotry." And he was blasted. And then a bunch of the A tier freethinker types came forward and they stood with him, resigned from the board. It was a big blow up. >> Yes. >> And everybody shouting at each other over it. So I'm sorry. I'll take it from there if you want, Dave. >> Yeah. So, I made a whole piece on exactly this. It was called More Things That I Was supposed to say on Piers Morgan cuz the first time I got booted from the segment the second time I had a conflict. Uh, but I made a piece. This is what I would have said if I was on talking to Jerry Coin about all of this [\h__\h] Yeah. There's just this very insidious the the right is using trans issues to polarize people to the right by offering these ridiculous straw men of like liberals think men can have babies and they don't there's 27 genders or whatever the hell has nothing to do with any of that. All we're saying is that there is sex and there's gender identity. Sex refers to a suite of biological characteristics. It is definitely uh first of all it's not binary. They like to say that it's just gameamtes, right? you got sperm or egg. Well, that doesn't work because bo prep preubescent boys don't produce sperm. So, are they not male until they prod right? There's all these kinds of uh logical gaps in this kind of thinking. So, sex refers to um uh gameamtes, gonatal apparatus, hormones, sex chromosomes, primary and different primary and secondary sexual characteristics. It's this suite of of characteristics. And then gender identity is a neuroanatomical construct. There is such a thing as experiencing being male or female. It is correlated with specific brain structures. Now I get hit all the time just because I I reference primary scientific literature that is investigating this. It doesn't mean that we're have this like overarching uh very solid comprehension of it. But we have identified region regions of the brain that correlate with gender identity and sexuality. There's often overlap there, but there they are two different phenomena. And so that's being trans is when your sex and gender identity do not align. That's all. So when you have a trans woman, let's say that is the vernacular that we have developed to refer to somebody that is of was born of male sex but has female gender identity. We refer to them as a trans because the sex and gender identity do not align. and then we refer to them as trans women as a courtesy to dignify them. Right? So if it's a linguistic thing, it's never the case that conservatives acknowledge what I just said about male sex, female gender identity, but let's not call them trans women. It's always just ah you don't you're denying biology and all this stuff. Um it's absolutely not the case. They just don't they just absolutely want to stick to this third grade understanding of boys penis girls vagina and refer refuse to look at any of the science that is referenced and just continue going ah you think men can have babies. Which men? What are you talking about? Are you talking about cis men? Because no, nobody has ever said that. Are you talking about trans women? Are you talking about trans men? Yes, they can because they have uteruses because they are a female sex. So, it's just always it's nothing but distortion. Completely bad faith. Absolutely refusing to engage with any of the commentary on the side of science. And then they hide behind unfortunately figures like Dawkins and Coin who have sort of fallen for this anti-woke fat and they go, "See, look, the biologists agree with us. Yeah, they just don't. They're just really old and canankerous and refuse to like learn something new. That's all it is." So, >> I'm sorry. You have joined the religion of woke. Yeah, that's usually what I see in the comments section. Like, that's an argument or something. I'm like, well, first define woke because that's apparently the jello that you can nail to the wall or something like that. >> They just [\h__\h] their pants and have nothing to say every time. Nobody can define woke. No conservative can define woke. You can humiliate them every time. No fail. >> It's the boogeyman of the 21st century. It's the equivalent in some ways of when it came to gay rights and they were like, well, what's next? Sex with animals. You know, that was the first place that conservatives went, right? >> 100% identical. And nobody has learned their lesson because in the 70s or '7s, '8s kind of when people were like, oh, like it's not it's not a mental illness, right? It's it's a way that you can be. Some people are attracted, most people are attracted to the opposite sex. Some people are attracted to the same sex. And by the way, just like everything else in biology, it's a spectrum. There are various gradations of bisexuality and so forth. Um, and asexuality and whatever. And nobody learned their lesson on the right. Nobody can has has the foresight to go, "Oh, that again," but with a different thing. Nobody can do it. So, it's it's really frustrating. You know, people want everything to fit in a box and then they either worship the box or crush the box, right? >> Yeah. It's it's this very childlike insistence on everything fitting this binary mode. So, going back to sex, right? They'll say sex is binary. Well, no, it isn't because look, you have all these different characteristics. And most of them don't know that these conditions exist where you can have um XY sex chromosomes but express female genitals or XX chromosomes and express male genitals. And so it's like you have these different characteristics that are that are associated with male or female and they don't align. Right? Binary code is 0ero and one not a half or 3/4 or 1.27 zero and one two states. You do not have that with sex because it refers to this suite of biological characteristics that do not always align. So, it definitively is not binary. And everybody who pretends that it's gameamtes only that determine sex, you are wrong. I'm sorry. If uh if you remove a woman's ovaries, they're still a woman. If you a prepubescent boy that's not producing sperm, still male. Um it is not sufficient. It is not sufficient to look at gametes alone to define sex. That's not how we do it. It's a suite of characteristics. So, oh, speaking about, you know, the fears, I was, you know, fear of everything and we were afraid of trans people, we were afraid of foreigners, we were afraid of Muslims, we were afraid, you know, don't don't shake hands with a gay person or, you know, be in their vicinity because you never know you they might turn you gay by osmosis kind of thing, right? >> Yeah. >> So, that's just a culture, I guess. >> Culture of fear 100% has been around for a long time and pervades to this day. teachers are uh allowing kids to [\h__\h] in litter boxes in high school bathrooms. It's just a crazy world. Dave, before I let you go, I got to let's just talk like real people, as if we haven't already been doing that. I'm I'm not a pessimist. I'd like to think I'm kind of a realist, but I I've harbored hope. Like, I used to think, you know, things are, you know, there are people out there who were like me. They were brainwashed. They were in disinformation silos. They have not had the benefit of what has been called the knowledge economy. They just need a chance. Good people can have bad ideas. >> I'm I've been that guy. I want to be that guy. But I will make a confession to you that I look after 10 years of the insanity and the cruelty and the horribleness that's going on. I will admit that in that dark space when nobody's looking, what I'm thinking is these people are [\h__\h] stupid and they're not reachable. >> I don't know what I I don't know. I be my bartender, Dave. I mean, what do you think? >> I mean, look, I I'm with you on it. Unfortunately, I have gotten significantly more pessimistic over the past 5 years or so. Um, and it's not so much like, yes, people are stupid and many of them are unreachable, but it's not so much how stupid they are. It's more how insidious and and unrelenting the propaganda is. Right? If it weren't for that, I think they would be reachable. I think they could be reasoned with, and I think that we would see a very slow progress towards rationality. But they are just getting slammed every day with more and more sophisticated techbroof fueled techn you know technocratfueled deliberate disinformation that is aimed at manipulating the public and it's only going to get worse with AI and deep fakes and m what Musk has turned Twitter into is just this like disinformation central paradise for for spreading lies on the internet and um It's just so like it's not it's not an even match. It's not an even match between the the liars and the truth tellers, right? We're on this side where we're just like making YouTube videos and trying to reason with people. The other side is billionaires constructing social media landscapes that are that are that are that are just completely aimed at ruining epistemology and making it impossible for people to know what the hell is going on. And it's going to get worse. I look forward to the day that somebody at the Discovery Institute or I don't know just somebody on TikTok makes a deep fake of you >> admitting that intelligent design was right all along. I mean this is the world we live in, right? It's the post-truth era. >> It is the post-truth era and we are we are not the the tunnel is dark. >> But you are a light in that tunnel. Do you see how I brought us full circle? See that Dave? Yeah. trying. >> How do people find you and your work before I let you go? >> Professor Dave explains on YouTube. That's about it. >> All right, Dave Arena, thanks for spending almost an hour, I don't know, venting, humoring me. Anyway, it's always a pleasure to hang out. Happy to do it. It's >> all right. We'll talk again, man. >> Sounds good. Thank you.