Do you see any any significant need for educational reform? How would you like to see things changed? >> So, it's very hard question to answer. It's a great question. It's hard to answer because I I did receive that education. I did receive that education in high school. I went I I went to a public school. It was a very good public school in Fairfield County, Connecticut. So, it's an affluent area. Um, but I got that public education and I I took bio, two years of chem and physics. Uh and then I went to to college ready. You know, I I tested out of intro chem and and was a chem major and it was all just a seamless uh thing. You know, I felt that I that I got that education and I subsequently, you know, I did finish a masters in in science education. And so I'm I'm fairly familiar with science curricula and how they are implemented into the public school system and I think that they are good curricula. Obviously, you have low-income areas and you have places where the teachers aren't good and and and they don't have the resources and so some students just get the short end of the stick and they don't get that education. And I think that that's that's an issue of budget. I think that uh obviously I would love to get to restructure the federal budget, you know, take some money out of defense and put it into education. I don't know. I I I mean I'm not an expert in this, but I don't know that we need large-scale educational reform in in the sense of curricula restructuring because they're there. They're they're they're good and when they're implemented properly, students learn. I mean, not everybody wants to be a scientist and that's fine. Um but um so I don't know. I don't know how to how to fix this the the schools that aren't doing it right. That's hopefully someone can figure that out. we can uh you know appoint someone uh to to cabinet positions that that aren't imbecile and and actually can can do something in their position. Um but um yeah I maybe the other aspect is cultural and so we are seeing a little bit of a popularization of science right nerdiness being cool and things like that. Um it's a little bit memeified which bothers me. Um, and so it's not it's not perfect, but it's better than nothing. It's certainly better than when I was a kid. When I was a young kid, uh, it was not cool to be nerdy and not cool to know things. Now it's better. It is cool to know things certainly to an extent or at least, you know, I've lived in a few places in the country and um, that, you know, that's my sense of it that that uh, that nerdiness is is cooler than it than it once was even in my lifetime. So I think we're on the right track. Uh like you I'm cautiously optimistic and in fact a big part of what I do or or at least what I want to be a big part of what I do moving forward is I uh I do give talks at universities um sort of uh trying to to get undergrads and grad students to warm up to the idea of scom as a career. So I give a talk I talk about my path to science communication because it is still a very fresh field. That's a new field.