Hey it's professor Dave, let's discuss forces. There are certain words that are commonly used in the English language which are very important in physics. These are words like work, energy, and force. In everyday parlance they can mean a variety of things, but in physics they have very specific definitions, so we will need to learn these definitions if we are to learn about classical mechanics. We already went over kinematics, which is the branch of mechanics that studies the motion of objects without referring to forces, so now it is time to learn about dynamics, which is the study of forces and their effect on motion. We will refer to a force as any interaction that if unopposed will alter the motion of an object. A force can cause an object with mass to start moving, stop moving, move faster slower or in a different direction. A person can exert force by pushing or pulling, an object can exert force by falling or rolling, a planet or star can exert force through its gravitational pull. Any force must have both magnitude and direction, so forces will always be represented by vectors when we draw free body diagrams. If you push a shopping cart through the grocery store, you are applying force on the cart in order to generate a forward acceleration. This force vector, which begins at the center of the cart's mass, points in the forward direction and also has a particular magnitude, depending on how quickly you want to get your shopping done, and this magnitude will be represented by the length of the vector. Some forces are called contact forces because they arise when two objects touch or collide. Pushing a cart forward is an example of a contact force. The same goes for when you throw or kick a ball, go bowling, and even when you sit on a chair, pushing down on it with the force of your weight. Some forces are called noncontact forces. These involve some action at a distance, like objects that fall to the earth because of its gravity. In classical physics, non-contact forces are sometimes called field forces because they typically involve some kind of a field, like a gravitational field or electromagnetic field. In fact, contact forces that describe macroscopic motion are just manifestations of field forces happening on the microscopic level. If you push an object, it moves because of the repulsion between the electrons in the atoms in your hand and the electrons in atoms in the object, so even though we will discuss many different types of forces in this course, in actuality there are only four fundamental ones. Those are the strong nuclear force, the weak nuclear force, the electromagnetic force and gravity. All other forces are just some variation or application of one of these four, which we will get to a bit later. Given that any force must have magnitude, we must have a unit of measurement to communicate these quantities. That unit is called the Newton, and it is equal to the amount of force that will cause a one-kilogram mass to accelerate by one meter per second squared. Since these are all SI units, the Newton is the SI unit of force. The Newton is named after Sir Isaac Newton, who put forth the first extensive study of forces in the 17th century. His studies are summarized in the Principia where he describes the laws of motion that deal with force and mass. These laws changed the world and are considered among the most important accomplishments in the history of science, so let's learn about them next. Thanks for watching, guys. Subscribe to my channel for more tutorials, support me on patreon so I can keep making content, and as always feel free to email me: