Hey everyone, you've all seen me mock Eric Weinstein before, especially in a recent video about his encounter with Sha Carol, but an opportunity arose that will allow me to follow that thread to its full conclusion and mock him even more in the process. Have I piqu your interest? Good. Let's get started. Stop me if you've heard this one. Eric Weinstein walks into a bar. No, you haven't heard it. Well, that's great because you're going to love it. But also, it would be weird if you had heard it before because nobody has. Less of a joke and more of a story. This video is going to be about a late night alcohol infused interaction that physicist Christian FKO had with Eric Weinstein back in May of this year. He emailed me to tell me about it and we agreed that it needed to be shared with the world. Since it sheds some light on who Eric is as a person and how he is perceived by the physics community. Then to ensure that this information does not go to waste, we will apply it to some of the things he said while being scolded by Shawn Carroll on Piers Morgan. Eric made several highly specific claims about what's in geometric unity. And Christian is going to go through those claims to show with complete clarity that Eric is a liar. And GU is nothing but smoke and mirrors for tricking the science illiterate public into thinking that he's a genius. But first, let's set the stage a little bit. That brutal interaction on Piers Morgan from late May was seen by almost a million people. And my commentary on the interaction was also seen by almost a million people. Eric was very much the laughingtock of the internet that week. and he needed to come up with some damage control as quickly as possible. But who is going to help him run the spin cycle? Everyone knows Gu is nothing. So, who can help Eric continue to pretend that it's something? He really has only two options here. The first is Kurt Jaimal. Kurt already did a three-hour long video doing his best to make GU seem like a real theory, almost certainly on Eric's dollar. But after the humiliation Shawn served him, it was time for more drastic measures. Kurt put out another three-hour video, this time interviewing Eric. Why are you nervous? I You're formidable. Sean Carol doesn't make me as nervous as you do. And he's hostile. And you're not. That's right. Kurt is about to lick Eric's balls for longer than the runtime of any Lord of the Rings extended edition. And not a physicist. Kurt is way smarter and cooler than stupid real physicist Shawn. So, disregard the Piers video entirely. This puff piece is where it's really at. Oh, yeah. And Shawn is super hostile because he sat there quietly and politely while Eric spewed his [\h__\h] script. And once it was his turn to speak, he calmly informed the viewers that Eric is a con man propping up a fake paper and pretending it's a revolutionary theory of everything. But don't worry, Kurt isn't hostile at all. He's just there for the ball licking and the artificial inflation of Eric's persecution complex. What do you think Kurt's netting here? 10 grand? 20? Eric is loaded and desperate. So, I bet Kurt made out pretty well on this one. You've arrived. I'm nervous for the right reasons because we're actually going to have a conversation and I never have a conversation. Eric, literally all you do is have conversations. Your only job, your entire purpose in life is to go on podcasts and have neverending conversations with whoever will listen to your bloated bloations where you pretend to be the world's leading expert on literally every topic that you got called out by Shawn for not being able to write a real paper and your response is to just have another three-hour long conversation on YouTube doing nothing but whining about how physics is lost and nobody will take you seriously is quite telling. We're not going to dissect either of these marathon length videos since it would serve very little purpose, and ain't nobody got time for that. But check out Eric's next move. Remember when I said Eric had not one but two buddies that could help him out? The second is Brian Keading. Of course, I pointed out in my Weinstein Brothers video that Brian is a complete joke who constantly platforms Eric Discovery Institute clowns and engages in other questionable behavior. Well, he's only gotten even more pointless since then. So, here he comes to white knight for Eric for the thousandth time. After the noise died down, I sat down with Eric for a conversation about all of this, his theory of geometric unity. What does it all mean? And why do so many people misunderstand or misrepresent what it's all about? Wow, Brian finally gets to the bottom of GU because it's not like he's platformed Eric a zillion times over the past several years or anything. I guess they hadn't dug into it yet since there's nothing to actually talk about. And spoiler alert, they don't do that here either. It's just two and a half hours of shit-talking. And of course, why does everyone misrepresent poor Eric's awesome theory? Why is Eric always the victim of big bad academia? This is pathetic and absolutely not worth listening to, except for one tidbit. I don't sense with either you or myself any desire to just negate people. If somebody is just determined to be horrible. Yeah, I don't mind commenting. That person seems to want to be horrible. Dave Fina, perfect example. But if he did if he did something genius or something really brilliant, I would like to think that we would say, you know, hey, this is kind of uncomfortable, but this person actually really did something impressive. Aw, it sounds like I've been getting under Eric's skin. He doesn't sense that he has the desire to negate people, even though that's literally all he does for a living is try and negate the entire academic establishment and brainwash the masses into rejecting credentialed experts altogether. Eric, you're the biggest negator on the [\h__\h] internet. I'm the one who defends the scientific community against bullying frauds like you. Remember, this is what you deserve and I'll never stop doing it. Call me horrible. Run and cry to mommy about how mean I am. It won't change a [\h__\h] thing. Oh, and if I had done something brilliant, you'd acknowledge it. Like how you want everyone to acknowledge geometric unity as a revolutionary paradigmshifting masterpiece, even though you're really just a pointless professional troll. Let's get one thing real clear, Eric. I've done more for science than you have. Have I published any research? No. And neither of you. We are not scientists. We are a pair of non-scientists who have published the same zero amount of science. But while you're a podcaster who spread science denial, I support the scientific community and teach science concepts to budding future scientists. Now that I'm 10 years in, I have helped many thousands of people become scientists who in turn do lots of science. Who have you helped? Have you helped anyone pass a class or get a job? Of course not. You tear science down. I build it up. You are the dark. I am the light. You get paid by oligarchs to poison society. I root for humanity, reflect your negativity back onto you, and neutralize your awfulness. You can't acknowledge that because you need for me to be a villain in your tale of persecution. But fewer and fewer people are falling for that story every day. You're nearly extinct and this little jab is born of pure panic after being repeatedly knocked down from your high horse by yours truly. Never [\h__\h] forget it. All right, with all the leadup covered, we arrive at the main event. All we need in order to set up this story from Christian is one thing that Eric said on Piers Morgan. Check this out. But I happened to be on a 5day visit to a leading physics department. Um, and in this situation, uh, I just had a 9-hour conversation and talk with 3 hours or 4 hours rather of that being an explication of geometric unity. Yes, Eric claimed to be visiting a top physics institution to graciously lecture his intellectual inferiors for 9 hours, a good chunk of which was about GU. As you'll recall, I was quite skeptical that any legitimate institution would have Eric around for any reason. As it turns out, I was wrong. This is why Christian initially got in touch with me. Eric was referring to the Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics in Canada, which is a real place, and Eric was indeed invited to speak there. Christian knows this because he was also there to give a pair of talks, one of which was right before Eric's. Here's the thing. Perimeter did not record Eric's seminar, mention it on their website, take photos, or publicize it in any way, and even forbade Eric from mentioning them by name, or you know, he would have name dropped them on peers in a heartbeat. So, you see, it's actually quite hilarious. Eric was invited to speak at Perimeter on the condition that he not tell anyone that he was there. This is because they hoped to squeeze some money out of him without sacrificing their reputation by publicly affiliating themselves with a charlatan. Eric gets to feel like a real physicist for a day, and they hopefully get a pile of cash in return. It's like a Makea-Wish Foundation sort of experience for Eric, but paid for out of his own hundred million net worth pockets instead of through donations to sick children. Apologies to Perimeter for spilling the beans. It's nothing personal. I'm just here to take out the trash. Continuing, Christian bumped into an inebriated Eric late at night, and the conversation that ensued was bizarre. Christian believes the details of that conversation would be of interest to you guys, and I wholeheartedly agree. So rather than attempting to paraphrase, I'll just let Christian tell you about it himself. Hey Christian, thanks so much for joining us. I think everyone is really excited to hear this story. Uh we have all of the context, so I kind of want to just uh hand it over to you and uh and uh regail us. Yeah, great. Thanks. Thanks a lot, Dave. Um, so just to set the scene a little bit, um, if if people have been to perimeter, so you walk into the building and there's this, uh, enormous atrium type area where they have the black hole beastro. So it's kind of an open seating area and I was sitting there around 1:00 a.m. So it was quite late. Uh, when I visit places like this, I tend to get into long physics discussions. So, I'm talking about cosmology or something like that with a colleague and lo and behold, walking through this long hallway into the atrium comes kind of staggering a little bit, Eric Weinstein, who I had been assiduously avoiding cuz I didn't really want to interact with him at all while I was there on this visit and uh he comes and sits down, much to my horror, and starts to ask uh what we're working on. So, I I tried to give a very curt response. So I said, well, I gave one talk on this, one talk on this, not really giving him much to latch on to. And it seemed like it had worked because he got kind of bored and started stumbling away. And unfortunately, my uh colleague then wanted to stir up some trouble. So he shouted, "No, Eric, come back. Christian works on string theory." And uh yeah, that was magic words. Yes, that was the beginning of the end. So uh then he came back and uh asked, "Okay, well, what do you think of string theory?" And I I told him what I tell a lot of people when this topic comes up, which is that I think string theory isn't what we thought it was maybe 10 or 20 years ago. And a lot of the public criticism of string theory is kind of unfounded because string theory is more of a tool like calculus that you use for building theories. It's not a single theory in and of itself. And I thought Eric would kind of push back because I had heard a lot of his uh public comments about this, but surprisingly he said, "I completely agree with you. That has been my position for decades and they killed a lot of my friends for saying this." And first of all, I don't really know what that means. I assume he's talking about ending people's careers or something like this. But it seemed to me a little bit like this ingratiating tactic that he uses. uh if you remember from the peers interview at some point he says you know Sean we could work together in the same notation we know the same people as if to sort of foster some camaraderie so that was I think what he was doing with this trick but it uh it didn't really make a lot of sense to me because that's completely at odds with what he had been saying entire public persona all of his videos the thumbnails are always you know string theory is destroying physics and all this crap like I don't get it yeah it doesn't make any sense at all so Um maybe privately he does respect string theory as uh an intellectual enterprise. I'm not completely sure but that's where he started launching into this rant and it got kind of you know way way off the rails. So maybe one uh one anecdote that I'll tell you because I think it was uh one piece of this that was especially funny is he started talking about Ken Wilson who's uh some people in your audience might know is a Nobel Prize winning physicist who had worked on something called the reormalization group and understanding phase transitions. So he whipped out his phone and said Ken Wilson is a drug that should require a prescription. And I didn't really know what that meant. And then he starts playing a YouTube video from Wheel of Fortune. So, he puts his phone on the table, plays this video, and stares at me expectantly. And I mean, I can send you the video if you like, but it's an example where there's only two characters on the board, uh, an apostrophe and an L, I think, and the contestant on Wheel of Fortune just, uh, guesses the entire phrase, which is, "I've got a good feeling about this or something." And he just stares at me expectantly, like, "I have no idea." Know what I mean by this? Yeah. Yeah. It's one of these he uses a lot of these bizarre analogies as you've you know probably seen in your your coverage of him. But um he stares at me and I say is this some analogy for guessing an ultraviolet theory from an infrared theory which in physics we use ultraviolet to mean high energies not just for for wavelengths of light but more generally and infrared to mean low energies. And he says now you're getting it. Nobody wants to try to guess what the real theory is if they have someone like Ed Whitten saying, "You dumb [\h__\h] bitch." every time they guess wrong. And I only later realized that I think this is really a statement about geometric unity. He thinks that he has somehow guessed what the correct theory is from essentially no information despite the fact that it's obviously and provably wrong. So, he's envisioning himself as this uh contestant who's extremely lucky or smart or whatever and has somehow guessed the phrase, but it's it's just completely misplaced. It's very weird. Also, the victimization. I mean, does Ed Whitten even know who Eric Weinstein is? Like, has would he ever talk like that? Like, I don't know Ed Whitten. I don't really know his reputation, but is he like that or No. No. I mean, Ed is a very very proper person. I mean, he uh I don't know. I think he's incredibly soft-spoken. I've seen some footage of him speaking. He's like shockly softspoken. Yeah. Yeah. I've interacted with him and he's he's very polite and wouldn't say anything like this, but uh I mean Eric has his entire mythology around Whitten. I mean he's referred to Ed as Voldemort in one of the Joe Rogan interviews. He claims as I think you mentioned in in one of your videos, Eric claims that the Cyber Whitten equations, which are famous equations in mathematics and physics, that he actually discovered them, right? Yeah. the insufficiently nonlinear equations. It's in that lost notebook right next to the Shia operator. Yes. Yeah. It's uh he made that claim as well in our conversation which um I'm not a historian of science and I don't work directly on the cyber whiten equations but from what I understand of the development of the field it seems completely impossible to me that anyone besides cyber and whitten could have come up with the cyber whiten equations at that time. So the claim is just I mean it's it's someone who is not a physicist and has never done any physics ever. Yes. Yeah. He's a mathematician and I don't know maybe not uh if I can say maybe not a great one at that. I mean one of my colleagues when I was uh discussing Eric said you know that guy really gives me hope because if that guy could get a PhD in math surely I can because he's essentially a clown. It really it's as a as a tangent here. It is perplexing to me how he even got one without publishing a dissertation. He essentially did no relevant work in the field and somehow got the degree. Anyway, I'm curious about that. I don't know if anybody knows more about that chapter, but uh yeah. Yeah, this um I I've looked at his thesis. It seems like it's reasonable work, but as you say, there was no publication, which is kind of unusual. Just write a thesis with no papers. Evidently, he was able to get a post-doal position afterwards. Uh maybe two, I forget, which is also surprising because he had no publications. And yeah, I can't really shed much light on it besides to say that in someone for from the perspective of someone in academia working in a related field, it it's kind of bizarre. Um so I don't know what the story is there but uh yeah so this uh this claim of the cyberwitten equations came up as well in the conversation and uh I didn't push back for fear of uh getting into some sort of uh I don't know flame war or something but the ed criticisms were uh were flowing freely. So, he does a very unflattering impression of Ed, which uh I'm not going to attempt to reproduce, but Ed has a famously high-pitched voice. And uh Eric claims, which I also find kind of strange, that in 1983 he attended a talk by Ed. I think he's also made this comment on Rogan. And he said that at that time Ed was insisting that three generations of firmians which is a fact about the standard model is obvious from thinking about calabia manifolds which are something that come up in string theory but it's kind of historically strange because the paper that really launched this excitement about calabia didn't come until 1985. So, I don't know if it's it's possible that what he says is correct, but I think this is another one of these weird historical anacronisms that he's kind of making up in order to I don't know tell some story about how Ed misled the entire field. And he specifically made the claim that three people uh Ed, Lenny, and David, referring to Whitten, Leonard Suskin, and David Gross, they killed our field. They ended physics. It's like the rape of Nanjing. He's sort of saying that what these guys historical references, man, they just kill me. Yeah, he really likes these for some reason. Well, it's all narrative. It's it's all narrative and no substance because he if he was this brilliant physicist that he that he portrays himself as, he could just do physics, but he can't cuz he isn't. So, it's all of these, you know, the wheel of fortune thing and the nonjing and the just story story. It's just it's just fabricated narrative because there's no substance behind any of it, you know. Yeah. No, I think that's completely right. So his opinion or at least what he said at that time was that if these three people were honest, so if Ed, Lenny, and David were were good scientists, what they should do, according to him, and I quote, is to say, "Wow, we [\h__\h] up. We really [\h__\h] up." and go back to doing physics the way that we did, you know, decades ago in the ' 60s, '7s or something, which I I think is kind of flavored by the fact that that was the last time Eric was thinking about physics or math was, I guess, in in the 80s or early 90s. And it really comes across in a lot of his opinions where he says things about physics that are just extremely outdated. He's focused on old-fashioned views of grand unification and things like that that um are from that time and yeah he's uh I don't know he I I guess he he thinks that what we really should do is go back to the good old days like he has rosecolored glasses about this but also that confuses me and look I'm not a physicist and I'm not a historian of physics but my understanding is we started coming up with quantum field theories and then when was QED like the ' 50s or something? Yeah, around there. Yeah. 60s I don't know shortly thereafter. So if you extend that to its logical conclusion you get a quantum field theory for every fundamental force. So trying to get quantum gravity via string theory or via another model is doing what we were doing prior to the 70s. So I don't even understand what he's talking you know what I mean like it seems like a very line. You know, it doesn't mean we're going to get one, and it doesn't mean string theory is the one or whatever it is, but it's like it's a very logical continuation of the way physics was being done in like the 50s or whatever era he's talking about, you know? Yes, you're preaching to the choir. That that is my opinion. And it also seems strangely like what Eric is trying to do with his geometric unity. I mean, it claims to be something which is going to incorporate both quantum field theory and gravity. Obviously it does not succeed in any any sense whatsoever. But it it's there's some strange contradiction that he says this he works on something which he claims will be maybe some some theory of quantum gravity and then he makes comments like in his uh his recent talk at UC San Diego he's he starts by saying quantum gravity is a mental disease that he thinks that somehow this uh this entire field of people are uh I don't know baddy or like screwed up in the head or something like this. So, it's it's all just it's extremely bizarre. It's just a way for him to manufacture the the like a mirage of him being intellectually superior to basically the entire field of physics, right? It's an artificial way of of propping himself above actual experts in the field. That's pretty much it. Yes. And that uh that brings me to another interesting comment that he made. So um he of course was at perimeter apparently to speak about geometric unity and quite reasonably there was push back on his ideas and he was recounting to me a conversation he had with David de Goyoto who's a very serious good physicist and pointed out an objection that many other people have pointed out uh Joseph Conlin Timuin who you've you've had on uh that the anomalies in this theory don't cancel and uh that's a technical statement but all you need to know is that that's completely fatal. If you don't have anomaly cancellation, the theory is done. There's it's not uh you know a small issue. It's just completely fatal. And at that point, Eric stares at me and says, "Is a whale a fish?" And uh I'm extremely confused. I said, "Well, okay. I normally think of a whale as a mammal and not a fish." And then he says, "Well, there's three levels of answer to this question." He says that the common person uh the working man the blue collar guy would say a whale is a fish. Keep going. I get it. I get it. Yeah. Keep going. Yeah. I mean you probably see where this is going but uh since you know about evolutionary biology. Yeah. But the viewer for the for the benefit of the viewer. Yeah. Yeah. Just for for completeness. So um maybe a common person says a whale is a fish because it swims in water. And then there's a somehow next level where you say no a whale is a mammal. It's not quite a fish. And then there's this more sophisticated cladistic definition that evolutionary biologists use which is is technical but according to that definition all mammals are fish and therefore a whale is a fish. Yes. And tetropods are all lobe finned fish. Saropterigians. Yes. Yes. Exactly. Um so then Eric says that the string theorists are like the second level. So we're the people who say no whales are mammals. They're not fish. And he's at the third level. And he claims that, you know, string theorists can't appreciate that there's a level above them. They don't realize that Eric is on a a separate plane of existence. He's much smarter than them. And uh, you know, they they can't appreciate this. And yet, unfortunately, simply cannot publish any science whatsoever describing this mythical third tier that only he inhabits, right? Or even explain it to to anyone. Yeah. Um so I guess he in this analogy he thinks uh you know he's having this conversation with David which is I mean it's ridiculous to even compare these two people but David is on the second tier he's on the third tier and he characterizes David's objection about anomaly cancellation which is a very good one by saying that it's as though David is staring at a 3x3 grid of a chessboard and trying to predict the next move but he doesn't know there could be a queen over here or a rook over here. So Eric thinks that there's so much other stuff going on in his theory that you can't possibly object uh with a reasonable comment about anomaly cancellation because there's so much other stuff that's going to fix it. He cannot engage with the criticism. He will always deflect to some obtuse analogy that could be spewed in any context. No matter what the criticism is, he could just vomit up this chess analogy or the whale analogy or whatever. And it's just a way of obiscating he cannot engage with this with the very real substance of the criticism. That's it. Yes, that's right. And the analogy is like most of his analogy is just completely inappropriate. I think a better analogy for what his theory is is not, you know, a 3x3 piece of a chessboard where you're trying to predict the next move, but it's like a 3x3 grid of a chessboard where there's two rooks in the same square. One of the pieces is a checker piece instead of a chess piece. And you know, there's a pawn on the back rank that hasn't been promoted. just none of it makes any sense. So I Yeah, just a very very weird dude. Um Yes. So that's that's his opinion. That's narcissism for you. Yeah. Yeah, I think that's the only real explanation because um at some point he got a little more emotional in the conversation and said, well, you know, people spend their entire lives doing physics in order to just improve some measurement by a little bit or calculate the next term in some series expansion. And you could have spent that time doing something else like getting rich or starting a family. And you only should spend the time on physics if you really care about it and if it really motivates you. So I I I found this kind of weird because it seems like he actually somehow does care about the science or at least he's claiming to. He thinks that the standard model is beautiful. He really wants to understand reality according to him. But he goes about it in this very ciruitous way where he's, you know, just claiming that he's a misunderstood genius who deserves a Nobel Prize and being completely unwilling to explain and his brother and his wife too, right? Three in the family apparently are welld deserved. Yeah. I mean that's also hypocritical, right? He's talking about you have to, you know, be uh being dedicated to physics instead of wanting to make money. Meanwhile, his entire professional career has been centered around making money. I mean, he just he's has an enormous net worth thanks to Peter Teal and uh that's it. He's the money guy, right? Yeah. Was there that's that's my suspicion. I mean, it's it's it's difficult to understand why he gets invited to these places. So, I mean, as you know, he went to San Diego because Brian Keading is there. And for reasons that are completely mysterious to me, he seems sympathetic of geometric unity. I I don't understand why any serious scientist would invite him to give talks at these places. But if I had to speculate, it would be either because they're hoping that he's going to donate money to them, obviously, or because they want access to Peter Teal, maybe through him. Yeah. Well, Brian is trying to inflate his web presence, right? He's trying trying to be a barnacle on the on the Tealboat. Um, but yeah, I mean, it's possible that Eric maybe maybe word got around that Eric does give money to any institution that kind of artificially inflates his credibility. So, right, I'm sure Perimeter probably did get money or at least thought they were going to. So, yeah, that would be the guess, but I I don't think as far as I know, he has not actually given money to any of these places that he visited. So, he also visited my my alma mater for my PhD, the University of Chicago in 2021, I believe, shortly after I graduated. And I also don't really know what the story is with that visit, but to the best of my knowledge, he never gave any money to Chicago. I don't think he's going to give any money to perimeter. So, if that was the hope in inviting him, it seems like it was a sorely misplaced hope. Swinging a miss. Yeah. Yeah. Just a mess. Um, yeah. So this uh this narcissism I guess came came across very clearly. There was the more um this emotional thing that I just mentioned. Um yeah, I think trying to remember if there's anything else that's that's worth mentioning about this. Um yeah, maybe that's that's the long and short of it. Mhm. Well, I mean I think we got a lot of meat there. It's definitely amusing. I think I got a kick out of it. I'm sure all the viewers have gotten a kick out of it. So, uh, yeah, I'm glad you were at the right place, the right time for him to be walking through. That was fun. Yeah, it worked out. Uh, I mean, at the time I was really hoping to avoid it, but in retrospect, I'm kind of amused that it happened just because it was the wildest conversation I think I've had in my life. So, from that perspective, it was fun. I mean, probably not the last time you'll tell this story. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's uh I don't know. He he describes GU as a work of entertainment. And at the very least, I found this conversation entertaining. Well, that was quite the story, wasn't it? But we can't stop here. There are a lot of idiots out there who are still clinging to the ridiculous notion that Eric is a real physicist, that Gu is a real theory, and that nobody has debunked anything. Not me, not Shawn, not nobody. That's quite preposterous since Shawn did explain for the lay person how GU is absolutely nothing. and I've done the same with the help of Tim Wyn in a previous video. But maybe we can do a little better. Since we have Christian here with us, we're going to go through a broad assessment of GU and how it's not a legitimate theory, citing glaring issues that automatically disqualify it from being classified as such. Then we will zoom in a bit. During the peers segment, Eric made a number of specific claims regarding GU, which we can use to make a little checklist so that we can debunk those claims one by one. Let's start with the broad overview. Okay, we're back with Christian and we're going to do a uh a little bit of an overview of GU here. So, take it away, Christian. Great. Thanks a lot. Um, so just to get everyone on the same page, some very basic statements that everyone probably knows. This is about this geometric unity, which is Eric's supposed theory of everything. Uh, it was introduced in this Oxford lecture and this quote unquote working paper. Um, just to be clear, this is of little to no scientific interest. So, if you're interested in seeing some of the problems with this in more detail, I recommend looking at this paper by Tim New and his anonymous co-author writing under the name Theopolia. And I think you've you've had him on to discuss some of these issues. Besides this, no one has really engaged with this at all. So, you might ask, why am I wasting my time telling you about this? Uh, I think it's primarily just a sociological question because I became bizarrely fascinated with Eric's personality after this interaction at Perimeter. But I think it could also be fun just to run through some of the issues with GU as a sort of pedagogical jumping off point to tell you some of the things that we've learned about quantum field theory in the past decades. So I'll start by just saying what is it? What is GU? Uh what are the problems with it? And then we'll break down some of the claims that were made on this Piers Morgan debate with Sean Carroll. Very good. Great. Okay. So part one, what is this? Um, this will be slightly technical, but I'll just try to big picture it for you. So, GU claims to be something called a gauge theory. So, these are theories in physics that are like the standard model of particle physics like QED or QCD. And importantly, it lives in 14 dimensions. And I can explain why that is if in more detail if you like. But the ingredients that Eric has in his theory are starting with our 4D spacetime. So we live in three spatial and one time dimension. That's fine. At each point of spacetime, he then considers all of the metrics. So metrics are objects that tell you how to measure lengths and distances. And they're the key player in Einstein's theory of relativity. And it turns out that in four dimensions, a metric has 10 independent numbers that specify it at a point. So those 10 plus these four give you 14. Um this is some bizarre numerology at this point but this is how he gets his 14-dimensional space. Upstairs in this 14dimensional space he then says let's introduce something called a gauge field. So this is like the photon in electromagnetism and its field strength f. All of this seems okay so far. He defines some unusual gauge transformations which are not the ones we normally think about. These are so-called inhomogeneous and tilted gauge transformations. and he defines something called this augmented torsion called t which isn't super important but what I do want to emphasize is then he says okay here is my equation here's the equation of motion for my theory and it looks like this so it has some of the players we've seen above this f and this t but also this mysterious ship in a bottle or shiam operator which has become infamous in all of the the critiques of guant object it appears in two places in this equation and then He adds in some matter. So all of this is kind of the uh the gauge sector if you like. Um then he adds in some some matter which are firmians like the electrons or quarks that we know and love. And these are objects that also couple to this gauge field in some way which again involves this mysterious shiab operator. And the main claim uh that Eric makes is that if you take these firmians from step four which live upstairs in Y14, somehow those firmians look like the standard model particles that we know and love when you view them from downstairs. That's the big claim and it's something he repeats over and over in this Piers Morgan interview. Mhm. So that's the big picture. A weird symbol to use for the Shia operator by the way. It's like a it's like a target as though he doesn't actually have it and he's still hunting for it, you know. That's yeah, it's actually I don't know what this I actually had to make in latte this symbol by myself. It's not a standard symbol. So he he clearly went out of his way to use this. I don't know why. Um which is fine. You can make up a symbol, but just like what's that's what's what's up with that one, you know? Yeah. It just it it looks very weird. Um he does a lot of these weird things in the paper like this chimeic bundle and the zorometric. He likes to invent a lot of strange words. Yeah. Um but I don't know. Um, okay. So, this is this is roughly what he wants to do. Um, so let's now see why this is immediately nonsense. So, there's two ways in which you can critique a theory like this. You can make mathematical critiques or you can make physical critiques. I'll start with the math ones which again are nicely explained in in the paper by by Tim. Um, so there's a technical statement which as a mathematician he should be aware of. I think Eric should know that if you're going to talk about spinners, which he uses to get his matter that he claims look like the standard model, you need to check something which is called the vanishing of this second Stifl Whitney class and the symbol is this. So this is very technical, but it's just to point out that there's a basic thing you need to do which he does not do and does not even comment on, doesn't seem aware of. A second mathematical issue is I think he's slightly confused because he keeps talking about defining his spinners his matter in 14 dimensions without a metric. You can't do this. Uh you need a metric in order to define spinner fields. And he seems to confuse defining metrics on different spaces. So at some point he says okay we have a metric on this other space C and we can use that to define spinners on Y. But it's just wrong. It's just a basic confusion. Um, and third, and perhaps most fatally, as you know, this ship in a bottle operator, um, I actually didn't realize because I read his paper first and then went back and read the Oxford or watched the Oxford lecture. In the paper, Eric basically just says he doesn't know how to define it and doesn't really make any claims. But in the Oxford lecture, he says something which is supposed to be a definition of this thing, which Tim rightly points out is just wrong. there's this technical complexification step that you need to do and it's it's just incorrect. So I think if I had to guess, he probably saw the paper by Tim and Theo and changed what he was saying before putting out his paper since his paper appeared after theirs. He probably realized, oh yeah, these guys are right. I made a mistake and just said, okay, now I don't know how to define it. Um, so this is any one of these is kind of embarrassing/killer. Like if you want to say, well, he's not a physicist. He's a mathematician. Any mathematician should know that you need to be rigorous and prove all of these claims. So any of these is already fatal for a piece of mathematics. Um that's just math. So you can ask, what about the physics? It claims to be a theory of everything. If we're extremely charitable and say, okay, suppose you can fix all of those issues. You can mathematically define this GU. um it's already dead on arrival for some other physical reasons. First of all, this is supposed to be some unification, right? GU is supposed to unify the various physical theories that we know like the Einstein equations and the Yangmills equations. Um there is no mechanism by which GU can actually reduce to those. So it's not unifying anything. it's just a sort of kitchen sink where he throws in all of these bizarre ingredients and it doesn't really reproduce any of the physics that we know. That's already kind of I think a reason to immediately dismiss this. Um and then there's some other uh also fatal issues. Even if you say maybe this is not a theory of everything, but it's an interesting physical theory to study. you could say that uh you would be wrong since first of all if you try to define the shiab operator in the way that uh that Tim describes by doing this complexification there's something called a gauge anomaly we already mentioned before that if you have an anomaly in your theory it's completely fatal um there's a separate issue that if you do this complexification it leads to something called a loss of unitarity which you can think of as conservation of probability right probability must be one that something will happen and if your theory loses unitarity you have a probability of one that something will happen at a particular time and then you wait and later there's a probability of two which doesn't make any sense that's just killer right um and then there's some other facts that we've learned in studying physics in the past you know decades uh I think a lot of the progress in theoretical physics has been asking about consistency so if a theory is consistent what else must be true and there's various theorems that go under the name of Weinberg Whitten and Coleman Mandul doula and various theorems that we've we've learned. One of them is that if your theory has something called a spin three halves field, which Eric's theory does, he says, "Look, I have this so-called Rita Schwinger field, which is spin three halves." Uh, for the theory to be consistent under pretty mild assumptions, it has to be a theory of what's called supergravity. This is essentially non-negotiable. It's not advice. It's a fact. It's a theorem. And you can just show that there is no such consistent theory of supergravity in 14 dimensions. It stops at 11. It's just not there. There's no such thing. Maybe you try to evade this and say, well, somehow secretly you don't need super gravity or gravity at all. It's just a quantum field theory. It's not a gravitational theory. But then there's just another fact another theorem that we know that there are no unitary local lorren invariant interacting quantum field theories above six dimensions. So these are some mild assumptions like conservation of probability basic sanity checks you would expect any theory to have and you can just show that there aren't any above six. So in particular there's none in 14. Uh it's it's just dead. So I think in in short this is why no serious theorist has paid any attention to this theory because it flies in the face of so much that we know. There's just so many theorems, so many consistency checks that this thing fails that there's no reason to ever think about it. You should just write it off immediately, which is what all of my colleagues do. I know that got a little esoteric in certain spots, but that's what happens when debunking frauds who cloak themselves in jargon. There are moments where it can be made exceedingly clear, even to the lay person, how they are full of [\h__\h] And there are moments where it gets murky because their web of buzzwords has to be dismantled systematically from the inside out. But I do think we did both of these things quite successfully. In case my previous content shredding GU to pieces wasn't convincing enough, this ought to have done the trick. A refusal to define key terms, inconsistencies, and incompatibilities. Calling GU an incoherent mess would be an understatement. Now, let's get a little more specific with certain things that Shawn and Eric said on Piers Morgan. There are four relevant statements, and I'll let Christian take you through them, refreshing your memory with the appropriate clip when necessary. Okay, so Eric talked a big game on Piers Morgan, made a lot of very specific claims. Let's uh let's tackle those. Take it away, Christian. Yeah, thanks a lot. Thanks a lot. Um, so I think I I really enjoyed Dave's video on this and the the whole debate was just very entertaining to watch. Sean, how dare you? Um, but uh I just want to run through some of the statements that were made since I've seen I think some rather bad faith uh arguments being made online about you know did did Shawn lie about something? Uh did he misrepresent what's in the paper? So let's just be very very uh clear about what is and is not in this geometric unity paper. So let's go through it. So the first one I've put the timestamps all of these refer to the the Pierce video. So Sean objects as I did. uh he says where is the lrangeian and where are the interactions is the proton stable is there dark matter and then says Eric's paper has none of that where's the lrangeian where's the there dark matter like how does it fit into what I already know of the Eric's paper has none of that and Eric responds I think mostly to the first point so he says what you said about lrangeians is false he says Eric hasn't se looked at it blah blah blah and he claims he can say why there should be dark matter that he hasn't looked at it and hasn't read it that's why he says that there are no lrangeians in it you what you said about lrangeians is false what you said about predictions is false why Shawn chooses to mispray the fact that I can say why there should be dark matter what the dark energy is so these are the only claims I could find from Eric that respond to this objection from from Sean okay so let's address the first one is there actually any lrangeian in this paper. Now, technically, if we're being extremely generous, there is a section, section 9 of the paper, and below equation 9.4, he writes in very obtuse notation what he claims to be the lrangeian for geometric unity. So, there is a formula there that you can point to, but this is kind of fake. So, I think merely mentioning, oh, here is a lrangeian in the paper, but not actually defining all of the ingredients. Crucially, this lrangeian involves the Shiaab operator which we've mentioned which has not been defined. So you can write this formula but if pieces are not defined I don't think this qualifies as a lronian because no physicist can use this can do calculations can make predictions because the pieces are just not there. So even though you can maybe point to this and say okay well Sean says there's no lrangeian I think more precisely what Sean probably meant is there is no usable well-defined lrangeian in the paper which is absolutely true it's like you could call it an algebraic equation but if it uses wingdings instead of well-defined variables is it really an algebraic equation right it doesn't uh yeah yeah I I just don't think it qualifies and I'll make one other point which is that uh as we said in the first part there's really two pieces to this geometric unity. There's this so-called gauge sector and then the matter. The matter is what he's really excited about because he thinks it looks like the standard model. This is a lrangeian for the first part just this gauge sector. He never writes a lrangeian for this matter sector which I think for him is somehow the more important piece. And he just sort of says I've I've quoted this here. He just claims that these bosonic and firmic variations of the sporial lrangeian can be combined blah blah blah. So he essentially just asserts that it all works, which he does over and over. It's just an assertion. Um, so I think it's it's fair to say that Sean's criticism is essentially correct. There's no usable langrian and what he claims to be the lrangeian is only for part of the theory and not all of it. So yeah, I think if we're keeping score, I think Sean wins this point. Mhm. Okay. Um the other things that he said just to quickly uh respond to these Sean mentioned interactions, stability of the proton and dark matter and all of these I think are again not in the paper in any substantive way but there are some words he can point to and I think this is what the Eric supporters are doing online. So people can point to this particular part of the paper where he claims that the interactions work out. So the quote is the various subfields of omega accommodate misspelled the functionings of the CKM matrix blah blah blah blah. So this is just the the claim that all of the interactions work but he doesn't show it. There's no quantitative discussion. It's it's just a nothing burger. There's nothing there. So uh this I think is fair to say is not in the paper. I looked for proton stability since he seems to claim all of all of what Sean said is in there. There is only one mention of proton decay anywhere in the paper and it's not even about his theory. He says, "Oh, there's this other grand unification proposal, this George Iglashio SU5 model." He says proton decay happens in that model, but my model is not that. So maybe the proton is stable in my theory. But of course, this is just a logical category error, right? I mean, if something happens in another theory and your theory is not that, it does not follow that the proton is stable in your theory. It's it's just nonsense. And the dark matter comment, well, okay, there's there's a brief mention in the sense that Eric says, "Look, my theory has all of these particles, and there's a massive list of the particles he claims are there." And then he essentially says, "Maybe some of these particles are the dark matter." But this is again just some sort of weird gesturing in the direction of something physicists care about. He's like, "Maybe this is dark matter." Yeah, it's uh you know, there's nothing quantitative. I mean, as Sean says, show me a plot. Compute a relic abundance. I mean, there's nothing. Um, so make a quantitative prediction. Do something. Yeah. Yeah. Do something real. So, I mean, my perspective as a physicist is that essentially there's no substantive content about any of these these topics in the paper. So, Sean is essentially correct. None of it's in there. And if you point to these throwaway comments in the paper and say, "No, look, Sean lied. They are in the paper." It's highly misleading because none of them really say anything. It's just words that are thrown in essentially that he points to post hawk and says, "No, no, no. Look, it it was in the paper after all." Which is it's just highly misleading. Mhm. Good. Okay. This one I think is easy. So Sean's other objection is to ask, has the theory been shown to be viable in a very basic way? Is it stable? Is it free of anomalies, which we've mentioned? Is it finite? And says, none of that is there. Is it stable? Is it free of anomalies? Is it finite in the sense of the quantum mechanical calculation that I already mentioned? Again, none of that is there. So, I've I've watched the entire debate a couple of times now, and as far as I could tell, Eric does not respond to this point ever. So, he does not rebut this in the Piers video. It's not mentioned in the paper. any of the other or public conversations uh that I've listened to do not mention this any of these viability checks. So I think this is essentially a win by default since he doesn't say anything. Um but just to comment uh any viability check that you could do on geometric unity either automatically fails or has not been performed. So again to come back to anomaly cancellation this has not been checked and if you try to define the shiab operator via complexification it automatically fails and this I think is something which was already raised to him in Oxford in 2013. So I'll tell you an anecdote. One of my colleagues who shall remain nameless uh who was in the room uh at this Oxford lecture claims that in the question session after Eric's talk which was not recorded someone asked him have you checked very basic things about your theory like do the anomalies cancel and reportedly Eric's answer to this question was what is an anomaly which does not inspire confidence right so yes this is you know this is a a fail a loss for GU we've mentioned unitarity this conservation of probability it fails if you try to do this complexification it seems to require super symmetry as we've mentioned and we know that that's impossible in 14 dimensions to have a theory of supergravity and finally it's claimed but not shown that you know this chu somehow reproduces all of the theories that we know and that would be a necessary viability check which is not performed and I claim cannot be performed because there's no mechanism for it to do this and I'll just inject a little bit of of self-s serving uh defense of string theory here a little bit. I think some people when they think about GU and other theories of everything like Kchi Mongol who has an iceberg on this GU and also an iceberg on string theory. I think some people kind of do this both sidesing where they say well okay GU and string theory have some similar ingredients. Both of them have extra dimensions. Eric's theory is in 14 dimensions and super string theory is in 10. and they kind of conflate these two things and say, "Well, both of these have similar problems. So, are they somehow on similar footing?" But this is of course ridiculous, right? I mean, the reason why we care about string theory is because of these viability checks that it passes all of these checks that geometric unity fails like anomaly some crap and just say it has 17 dimensions. It doesn't make it worth anything. Yeah. You don't get to just uh do numerology and pick whatever dimension you like. I mean the 10 dimensions of string theory are required for anomaly cancellation. It's it's a consistency condition rather than something invented. So uh I'll just you know inject that that small comment and then and then move on. Okay. So then there's this word vomit that Eric responds to this uh third objection from Sean which is asking are there new predictions? Does your theory solve any interesting problems? And he says I see none of them. Are there any new predictions? And finally, does your theory solve any interesting problems that we already thought we had? And again, I see none of that in Eric's paper. And this is one of the kind of famous most rewatched parts of the video where Eric, you know, just launches and says, "Sean, I'd like to hear your explanation for blah blah blah." And he claims he can give you an explanation for all of these things. Why the gauge group of the standard model is this, why there are three generations, this, the quantum numbers, the Hig sector, the yukawas, the blah blah blah blah. I can give you an explanation for why SU3 cross SU2 cross U1, why there are three generations, why 16 particles in a generation, why the observed quantum numbers are the way they are, why the Hig sector comes out of seemingly nowhere uh with a cortic potential with a a quadratic term, why the Yukawa coupling is uh just there just so in order to produce mass uh when the weak force forbids a mass directly in the DACA operator. So, is this true? Is this in the paper? And again, it's gestured to in the paper, but wildly overstated. First of all, you don't even really need to take this claim seriously since we've already demonstrated GU is illdefined. So, anything that comes after that, you can kind of ignore. None of it can be trusted anyway. But suppose we're being super super generous and steelman uh this GU construction. Suppose those problems can be fixed. What does he actually do? Does he explain all of this stuff? And I would say no. Essentially, what he does is begin with some model in 14 dimensions that has a huge amount of stuff. And he picks out particular pieces of that stuff that if you squint and are very uh very uh generous kind of vaguely look like some parts of the standard model and then just wildly claim that those pieces somehow give rise to a theory that looks like our world with the standard model in four dimensions. And this is also not explained. Um so again, if we're evaluating this claim critically, is there really an explanation or prediction as Eric claims? Um I would say no. It's it's essentially numerology. I mean the reason why this 128 appears is because 2 to the power of 14 / 2 is 2 to the 7 which is 128. There's some weird numerical coincidences and then he somehow gets some matter and because of this numerology and a bunch of wishful thinking he says look I get the standard model. It it's just it's wrong. Sounds very Terrence Howardy. Yeah it's kind of similar. Um, it's it reminds me of these weird uh I don't know numerological things where people look at the book of Genesis and they say, "Okay, if you count the numbers of all of these things, it somehow predicts I don't know the end of the world." That's the intellectual equivalent of what Eric is doing. Okay, last thing, and I'll go into just a little bit of detail here because I haven't heard others discuss this. Um, so Sean objects correctly that there's no quantum mechanics in the paper and no attempt at showing that it solves any problems of quantum gravity. There is no quantum mechanics in the paper. There's no attempt at showing that this solves any of the known problems of quantum gravity. And I couldn't find a place where Eric directly responds to this criticism. But around this timestamp, he launches into this word vomit which I'll reproduce on the next slide about something called geometric quantization which is different from geometric unity. This is an actual thing that people serious people do and I'll say more about that in a moment. Um, but if you're trying to defend Eric, you might say, well, okay, elsewhere he has spoken about the children of Einstein and the children of Boore, and you don't need to quantize the geometry, but geometries quantum. So maybe he doesn't want to quantize his theory and doesn't want it to be compatible with quantum mechanics. But I think you can immediately reject that since the paper itself directly says that the theory on this 14-dimensional space y should be quantum. So he talks about how the the fields on y are more readily quantized and he talks about different sections that would pull back quantized values on y. So taken at face value, I think he does want the theory to be quantum and it's not. Okay. So then what is this uh this time stamp referring to? What does he say there? So he uh I'll I'll just flash this here. I've you know I' I've seen people who were reacting to the debate point out this particular word salad as an example of very bad science communication which is true. It's horrible. He just says a lot of jargon about every phase space carrying a simplectic form can be treated locally as a blah blah blah blah. We blew Hamiltonian analysis and that in fact every phase space carrying a simplectic form can be treated um locally as if that simplectic form is the curvature of a line bundle and the se L2 sections of that line bundle form a Hbert space and the P and Q coordinate functions can be promoted to operators. It is very dense jargon but it's also just wrong and I want to emphasize this. What he's referring to is something called this geometric quantization. And this Hilbert space that he talks about is not the actual Hilbert space of the quantum theory that he wants. There's some technical thing called a pre-quantization. And he either doesn't understand this or is intentionally conflating the actual Hilbert space of the quantum theory that he wants with this pre-quantum Hbert space that is just not the same. So all you need to take away from that is that this this kind of uh throwaway comment about geometric quantization doesn't save him. It's, you know, it's just misrepresented. It's it's just wrong. So, I would say that on this fourth point, again, Sean is correct. There's no quantum mechanics in the paper. We've explained why GU cannot be made compatible with quantum mechanics. And for that reason, it's essentially just dead. Dead on arrival. That's it. Yeah. How do you have a theory of everything that does not incorporate the already massively successful aspects of of physics? Right? I don't understand. Yeah. I mean, it's uh quantum field theory is the most successful theory of physics that we have. You can test things to eight decimal places in colliders and his theory has none of that. It makes no contact. Yeah. So, I'll just wrap up here as an executive summary. If you're not an expert and you just want to know what happened in this in this debate uh and what is GU I would say again if we're being very nice he is a mathematician there are some correct mathematical statements in this GU paper and there are even maybe some ideas these weird inhomogeneous gauge transformations he defines I wouldn't call them good ideas but there are things I haven't seen anywhere else if we're being nice um you know that that is something you could point to but it's just not coherent. It's not coherent enough to merit any serious intellectual discussion. And in this peers debate, Shawn rightly criticizes this content. Um, his objections maybe could have been stated more precisely. He says there's no lronians when maybe he means there's no usable or well-defined lrangeian, but I think all of them are valid. They're all correct in essence. And as you know, the ERIC responses are essentially ad homonyms, criticisms of academia, and these just completely oversold claims which are not credible. So in one line, I mean, you you can't uh you can't really, I think, point to a winner of a debate all of the time because uh it gets a bit messy, but in so far as you can, the winner is clear. Sean wins, he is correct, and Eric is wrong. Yes. Yes. Yeah. I mean to to state the obvious, GU uh you know, Eric has used his modest competence in advanced mathematics to manufacture something that can be sold as convincingly revolutionary to lay people and has tried to hide from academia as long as possible to evade this precise sort of uh direct and thorough criticism to extend that window as long as possible. possible where he can enrapture the public with this uh cosplaying as a genius sort of a thing before the eventual blowback of people who actually know what they're talking about going in very very rigorously and specifically explaining how all of it is complete [\h__\h] So yeah. Yes, that's exactly right. And it's uh the experience of reading the GU paper as someone who thinks about these questions of of theoretical physics every day. It's in a weird sort of uncanny valley like when you see these AI generated images that have six fingers and things like that where it's kind of like okay some of this makes sense and it's almost looks like physics or math but then there's just so much weird bizarre wrong stuff that it it sits in this kind of weird uh intermediate place. So it it feels almost like uh I don't know having a stroke or an acid trip or something to read this paper. So I don't recommend anyone to it. And obviously and and it explains why he's gone three, four, five years or however long with nobody in academia even looking at it or or talking about it because why would they, right? And so he's taken advantage of that window of time to procilitize and act as this genius that is being uh ignored by the establishment when everyone in the establishment is like why would you want us to look at this? You put it out on April Fools. You admitted it's a work of entertainment. like you're it's not serious work, right? You know, Sean said dog ate my homework type of a thing and he's absolutely right. And now the blowback is finally hitting him and it's uh he's he's flipping out about it. So yeah, that's right. Um it's uh no, I just want to emphasize what what you just said to to echo a little bit. It is not the case that anyone is suppressing these ideas or saying, "Okay, this this guy is an outsider, so you shouldn't consider it." I mean, we we as the physics community are ignoring him precisely because it should be ignored and there's nothing there and just want to be super clear about that. Yeah. Last question. I mean, I've made several videos on Eric now and my viewers know ex in great detail my perspective on who Eric is, why he does what he does. Um, you know, the connection with Peter Teal. Do you have any uh differing opinions or additional perspective? Why is Eric the way he is? Why does he do what he do? What does Peter Teal want? Why is he paying Eric to do this? Any thoughts? Yeah, it's it's really not clear to me. I mean, it could be something like what you're saying where for some reason these guys want to inject some sort of skepticism about science in the public. Um I don't really know to what end what that would actually achieve. So, it it's it's possible that there's some nefarious uh ulterior motive going on, but uh my best guess is that there's nothing like that. And it's really just one of these misplaced genius complexes where he he's honestly doing this because he thinks it's right and he actually deep down wants to understand the universe and he's just going about it in the wrong way. I mean, that would be my guess, but it's hard to know. That's remarkably charitable of you. Don't agree. Maybe too nice. If that were true, he would have been pursuing physics all this time and uh tried to become more of a legitimate uh scholar instead of and it doesn't even have to be done in a particular institution, but he would be doing that instead of doing money stuff with Peter Teal. Um yeah to to me Teal's agenda is is crystal clear but I you know there I want to leave it open you know the possibility that I can can also fixate on a narrative and then go down a rabbit hole and you know if somebody has some alternate perspective but uh yeah from where I stand it's pretty obvious what teal is doing and trying to undermine the credibility of legitimate sources of information because if you if you can get somebody to ignore every scientist and every university and every legitimate institution ution, then you have a monopoly on their worldview and then you have a monopoly on their voting behavior and you have a monopoly on on on the masses and the behavior of the masses essentially. So you can steer their consumer behavior, you can steer, as I said, their voting habits and everything. So that that's what I think is is going on. And Eric, I I will agree with you maybe due to some of this interaction like it does sound like he has diluted himself into thinking that he is the genius that he portrays himself to be. So he is a little bit of like a you know it's half greed and half you know him buying his own his own his own sauce a little bit but um yeah then that just makes him part pawn part pawn to teal essentially. Yeah it could be right. I mean if your explanation is right then these people who invite Eric to come give talks hoping to get access or money are obviously not going to get any of that since that's not the point. Well, hopefully word gets out and they stop doing it. Yeah. I mean, I don't understand it, but uh it's very interesting. No, I like your your explanation. You might be right. Cool. Yeah. So, I think uh you know, um uh I I've taken a shine to Eric uh as of late and I because I do think that this particular propaganda is very insidious and um and so uh yeah, this this has added another layer to the saga. Thank you for this uh this perspective. Uh it was a fun story and definitely diving into GU even a little more. Um I think people enjoyed it in the first video I made on them. So this is just this is just more more for everybody to enjoy. So thank you for that. Yeah, it was my pleasure. Thanks for having me. Hopefully, it should now be abundantly clear that beyond gu being a joke, Shawn did indeed know exactly what he was talking about in explaining how nobody should take Eric seriously, whether the dog truly ate his homework or not. Anyone who still thinks that geometric unity is a real theory simply isn't paying attention. They're delusional people who want to believe that they're smart enough to understand frontier theoretical physics without ever having studied any physics whatsoever. So they prop up a fake genius who gives them that feeling through their lofty rhetoric and agendriven attacks on the academic institutions that remind them of their intellectual inferiority. But enough people have gotten the memo by now that Eric's fans are very much the minority. So maybe they'll shrink to zero in the near future. Maybe I'll get more physicists to dunk on GU even more thoroughly at a later date. Who knows? But for now, most people can see what a joke Eric is and precisely how his agenda fuels this [\h__\h] rhetoric. But what's that agenda again? Peter Teal something something. Well, let's take a look at this video from 4 months ago that has 2 million views. You're in a war and you don't even know it. Oh, we know, Eric. We know. We've intercepted communications from General Teal and we know exactly what your orders are. That's why you're getting ambushed like this. Anyway, this talk is brought to you via the brand spanking new organization, the Alliance for Responsible Citizenship, the brainchild of Jordan Peterson, which claims to focus on traditional Western values, you know, like colonialism, racism, sexism, and genocide, and I don't know, fast cars or something. It's only 15 minutes long, so we can certainly skim through for some highlights to wrap things up. Uh I want to begin with uh going back to the Bible as AI I am your DEI speaker as an a atheist Jew progressive from the United States. I'm sort of slightly slightly a skew. Um but what I want to do is I want to go back to the Bible and Isaiah which is at the end of Bob Dylan's famous all along the watchtowwer. And if you uh go to the King James version where it says, "Go and set a watchman and let him declare what he seeth. Uh it's two writers that are approaching as the song says." And what did they come with? They come with news of the fall of Babylon. Has everyone's eyes already rolled out of their sockets? Eric needs everyone to know how well read he is and that he knows how to rock and roll. He's a polymath, remember? This helps sell the genius brand. Let's see if he can muster up an actual point. We are in a situation in which the postworld war II order has fallen and JD Vance has announced this. I personally think it's very important that the US treat its friends in Europe very very well and it should be done in uh a fashion that lets people know that the US will be there for the long haul. I am sure that that is uh in the cards. But we have to realize that we are waking up from a very long period of time which I've called the great nap. Name dropped for Peter Teal's handpicked VP JD Vance. Some preemptive ball licking for oligarch Elon Musk. And some crap about waking up as a way to baselessly disparage existing institutions. This jackass doesn't even hide his motives anymore. I want to talk about a very difficult subject and that is that the concept of actual physical emasculation has a rich history going well into the 20th century and in fact into the 21st century. One of the reasons that we've been deranged by the trans discussion is is that the trans discussion is about devitalization and it is a recurrent theme that authoritarian regimes attack the reproductive rights of their citizens. Who lets superersized Ben Shapiro in here? [\h__\h] hell. Can any of these jerks go without bringing up trans people for even 5 minutes? Trans people existing is devitalization. Trans people existing is a communist authoritarian plot to attack reproductive rights. Jesus Christ, when will these morons find a new scapegoat or Sanjay Gandhi who triggered in part the reaction in India? Do we have Indians in the audience? Very disappointing. I would say to them, total revolution is now the slogan. That is how angry people were and how violent they became because of sterilization camps that were practiced in the 1970s. Dear lord, it's so painful. I appreciate the shot of the audience so we can see everyone staring in bewilderment as they wonder what the [\h__\h] this American [\h__\h] is rambling about. But wait, he speaks Hindi polymath, right? And I have this quote from Elon Musk because I think what you have to assume is that when you go to war, one of the great terrors is that you will be disfigured. The sun also rises as a famous example. Bouncing Betties were discussed in Vietnam. And the fact is is that these people very much came for our children. This is not cute. It's not funny. It's a terrible tragedy. And I don't think that I overspeak when I call it a reproductive holocaust. I don't know what pisses me off more, Eric pretending that trans people existing is a reproductive holocaust, named dropping Elon Musk for the bazillionth time, or hearing him say is is every 20 seconds. Eric, how the [\h__\h] does trans people existing stop anybody from having babies? Try making an ounce of sense at any point in your ridiculous life. The reason that this talk changed radically at 4:00 a.m. is that I became aware yesterday that many of you don't know the basic terminology or framework of what you have just been through. You think you have been through the culture wars, which is some sort of cute internet conflict that seems really draining, exhausting. No, no. This is actually something that has recently been termed hybrid war. It's a 2007 concept from Frank Hoffman and it says that in the current situation, non-shooting wars have no border and no end. Yeah, Eric totally changed his entire talk at 4:00 a.m. that day. It isn't just a regurgitation of the same dog [\h__\h] propaganda he's been spewing on podcasts for 5 years now. And the reason is is is is because you Europeans have to know about this no border culture war. The trans are coming for your kids and the communists are coming for your freedoms. Let me show you the way. Cyber attacks, diplomacy, psychological attacks, information warfare. This has been discussed in the national security community, but it has not been discussed widely, which is why when we have coffee and I use these words, I see blank stairs. It's important that we learn their terminology. Their terminology or your terminology. Eric is a lieutenant in the information wars. He is employed by General Peter Teal to infect people's minds with a virus that will cause them to distrust any and all sources of legitimate information. Scientists, universities, federal agencies, you name it. He projects his nefarious agenda onto others as a way of infiltrating the guard of the target. It's like a creepy rapey guy telling a group of women at a party about some fabricated creepy rapey [\h__\h] some other random guy did as a way of manufacturing trust so that he can take advantage of them later. It shouldn't work at all but it kind of does. Human terrain system. This is the concept that we can weaponize the social sciences, cultural anthropologists, economists, psychologists can be used. We are the terrain. It is no longer the mountains of Afghanistan or the Hindu Kush that we have to map, but we have to map the actual aspects of human nature by clicks and how long you let stay on a site, what you care about, what's your behavior on Pornhub. We are available as the terrain for these national security people who do not show their faces to they fight over us and they use our social sciences and our universities to fight us as if we are simply terrain. Who but Eric Weinstein can sound like a smug douche just by saying Afghanistan? But yes, of course, the universities and the social sciences are the devil. They do the transwoke communism stuff, so they're bad. So, we can't listen to them about anything. Not vaccines or climate science or any of the other sciency stuff. McCarthyism is back, baby. Amazingly, many of you do not know about the whole of society approach. Whole of society approach is an innovation that came out of the Asia-Pacific Security Center named after Daniel Inaway in the Pacific. And it basically says that the institutions of a society must be aligned to fight hybrid wars in the modern era. Now, if you think about that, you'll realize that that is a very complicated name for soft fascism. Literally, the fascia is what binds together these institutions. And if you've ever tried to say, well, if I don't go to the New York Times, can I go to the Washington Post? Can I go to the Times of London, the BBC, NPR? All of these people appear to be in lock step. Wow. News outlets sometimes all say the same thing. I wonder if that might be because they're all just talking about a thing that objectively happened. Look, it's not like propaganda doesn't exist. And it can run deep. But if Zionism has taught us anything, it's that even the most powerful people in the world can't unify every single media outlet since many of the ones that have traditionally run Zionist propaganda have periodically flipped over the past year and a half to expose Israeli atrocities since it's the only way they can retain any sense of journalistic integrity. The entire media landscape will never be 100% lock step ever. But this rhetoric isn't just a fabrication. It's a clarion call. All media is bad. So reject all media and trust me alone. Worship me like a prophet beyond reproach. I expose the corruption and tell the truth at all times. This is Eric's playbook. This is coordinated through the whole of society approach. Because they have chosen the name for it, we will call them hoes. Now let's talk about these hoes. Are they truly the whole of society? That's what they would have us believe. But somehow many of us didn't get the message. Many of us didn't get the call and none of you got the terminology. So what is what are we if we are not part of society? I would put to you that we are the benited rest of society. Ark represents the bros united rest of society fighting Klaus and Davos and the World Economic Forum who at least know that there's a war when we do not. That gives them a certain advantage. Oh, Eric, you're so cheeky. Did you think of this hose versus bros quip at 4:00 a.m. or did you workshop it in some redpilled incel message board? A few dorks in the audience seem to like it. So, well done, I guess. Right now, we treat Europe as if it is a quaint Disneyland when it is in fact the most dangerous place on Earth. And the great trade hypothesis is that most all of Western vitality was traded for one commodity, and a precious one at that. And you have to honor these people. You have to give the devil its due. They did keep us out of thermonuclear war since November of 1952. The trade ended in January of 2025. You can decide that this is a good price to pay or bad price to pay, but you cannot claim that the trade is continuing. We are back to vitality. And I'm sorry to say that almost certainly we will soon be back to kinetic war. The great nap is now over. So what does this have to do with building? Eric really has created his own unique brand of [\h__\h] Fear-mongering about nuclear weapons right into red pill wake up from the matrix rhetoric. right into a Jimmyi Hendris reference. It's just as seamless as it is nauseating. You can't have a rebel without the rock and roll. And Eric's a rebel to the core. Don't let the blazer and net worth fool you. He's fighting the man just like all you poor people. What can we do, Eric? What's the solution? The two uh figures, the joker and the thief, are crucified on other each side of Christ. Now, the Joker says there's got to be some place, some way out of this. Right now, where we are is four light years from the nearest star. Yeah, he's revving up his interstellar engine. This is his way of appearing like a precient sage, leading us into the future while shamelessly gargling Elon Musk's balls. Okay, Eric, tell us about the time shares available on planet Teal. The problem is that the culmination of all human theory about the base reality stagnated abruptly and mysteriously in 1973. Imagine that physics stopped when crocodile rock was top of the charts. Ah, I was wondering when we were going to get some physics is dead [\h__\h] Eric never disappoints. And he throws a bonus music reference in there. Crocodile rock. He's on fire. Okay, Eric. I'm sure that someone in this audience hasn't heard this [\h__\h] before. Let her rip. The youngest living Nobel laureate in theory in physical in theoretical physics theory. That number is always below the age of 50 until this magical point where string theory enters the game is a theory of quantum gravity. And our youngest living Nobel laureate is now over the age of 70 because the field is not producing new results. This is also terrible but it turns wonderful because if we can find the problem, we can make progress and reach the stars. String theory is a stupid jerk face. But now that we know the problem, we can murder all the dumb string theorists and finally go to space. Grab your pitchforks, guys. Hey, Eric, do you remember what Shawn told you about the prevalence of string theorists? In my department at Johns Hopkins, we have six professors in the theoretical physics group. One of them does string theory, and even he only does it sort of half time. I wish we had more. Honestly, this is very typical. Even at the most stringy departments, it's maybe half. It's beyond trivial to derail this [\h__\h] tirade against string theory by simply pointing out that most theoretical physicists aren't working on string theory. I don't know who's in this audience, but I doubt there are very many physicists. So, spin that web, king. They took a couple of theories, they cocooned them, string theory being preeminent among them. And they said, "All competitor theories will die." And in the field of physics, it's called the only game in town. You try to do something else, your career comes to an abrupt end. No physicist can do anything but string theory except for the thousands of physicists who publish on not string theory every single day. Can we just skip this part? Quantum gravity is the holy grail. All the questions center on what is the theory of quantum gravity? Quantum gravity is the holy grail of theoretical physics. You proverate and if you say something enough times it becomes as if true. But if it was the holy grail, why is there no mention of it in the corpus of English language books before 1972, right before physics stagnated? Well, Eric, people have been discussing the concept of quantum gravity since the 1930s when quantum field theories became a topic of serious discourse. That discourse takes place in primary scientific literature, not books. Once we made some progress with quantum field theories, finding success with QED and QCD, we moved up the ladder and tackled gravity in a more rigorous way. String theory came about, then loop quantum gravity and others with something concrete to talk about. That's when those concepts showed up in books for lay people. What a profoundly idiotic thing for you to be confused about. But more importantly, physics didn't stagnate in the 1970s and has never stagnated since. This is just the [\h__\h] script that people like you and Sabina pedal in an attempt to assert yourself over a vibrant scientific community that rejects you. It is because there is no theory of quantum gravity in the way that they're looking for it. Quantum gravity is safe. You can invite your Iranian and your North Korean and your Russian and your Chinese students to do quantum gravity and nobody's going to get hurt. Oh wow. Quantum Gravity is actually a plot to trick the greatest minds within the axis of evil into wasting their lives on a wild goose chase. It's brilliant. How does he come up with this soft serve swirl of science denial and dog [\h__\h] political takes? And of course, Eric knows there is no such thing as quantum gravity because he's smarter than every physicist alive. Eric knows so much about physics that he doesn't even have to be a physicist or publish any physics ever in order to be smarter than real physicists. He and Elon are halfway to Proxima Centuri already looking back on all those [\h__\h] Nobel Prizewinning naysayers wasting their time with silly theories. We have to go beyond Einstein because we are simply not capable of getting to the stars if we have a speed limit set at C. Western science must lead the way. The VC Ramaswami is convinced that somehow China and India are pulling ahead of the West. This is not true. The greatest threat comes from France. Is it France or is it the White House? Don't get me wrong, Vivc is super smart and not a piece of [\h__\h] at all. But I'm pretty sure that the orange clown cutting billions of dollars in funding to every single area of science is the real threat to progress here. But sure, let's whine about Einstein in the speed of light. Eric, I actually have some good news. The government has wormhole technology. Have you met Ashton Forbes? He knows all about it. And according to him, he's even smarter than you. I have nothing against Eric Weinstein, but he's not even remotely close. Geometric Unity is not even remotely close. He's never going to solve anything. No disrespect to him. He has no clue what he's talking about. No clue what he's talking about. I'm I'm beyond Eric Weinstein at this point. Way beyond him. Maybe you two should get together so we can finally colonize other planets. Just a thought. Are we a pair prepared to take on Paris and Mars? I put this to you. Oh, can I go back? Apparently, you cannot. You can go back, Eric. You can go back to the hole where you came from and never speak publicly ever again since you are quite literally pointless. But I won't put my money on that happening anytime soon. What I want to say is the following. We Jews have a meal that isn't really a meal. It's a survival manual and it's the Passover seder. And I ask you this year to find, if you're not Jewish yourself, find a Jew and get invited to a Passover seder. It describes how we survive. And the way we do it is that at some points you have to realize that you cannot stay here and you must leave even if you feel that there is no way out. You may feel that you are backed against the Red Sea. But if you do not actually realize what time it is, you will surely perish. Yes, Passover is totally a survival manual. How to survive a thing that didn't happen. Since you're such a scholar of the Torah, Eric, I'm going to let you in on a little secret. Exodus is a myth. It didn't happen. Jews were never slaves in Egypt. They never had their backs against the Red Sea. So, if you want to keep your academic persecution narrative multi-dimensional, you'd better switch over to the Holocaust since that's actual history. I believe that the end of physics is almost in sight. It may bring us wonders. It may bring us the ability to traverse the cosmos. This could be the greatest time. We have a brief period of vitality before the wars will surely start if we choose to revitalize. We must use it well. and our greatest challenges are ahead, but I think we're going to make it. And I think that the future will be amongst the stars and be glorious indeed. Thank you all very much. A pompous final remark, some forced light applause with a single woo probably from Jordan Peterson, and a quick cutaway before it rapidly dies down to plug some [\h__\h] book about restoring our foundations. These panicky oligarchs are nothing if not fragile and desperate. Don't you think? I didn't intend for this video to get political. I was just trying to make fun of Eric some more. But that's the thing. You can't combat these propaganda peddlers without getting political because their rhetoric ultimately seeks to manipulate the politics of the masses. That's what Eric is. He's a lieutenant in the culture wars, seeking to infect the minds of the masses and polarize them against real knowledge and the places where that knowledge comes from. That's why he needs so much pomp and circumstance. The promise of a future in the stars, fear-mongering about trans people, the underdog rock and roll attitude while looking like he owns the yacht club. It's all so transparent that it's hard for me to wrap my head around the fact that it actually works on some people. But what can we do in retaliation? We mock. We take the wind out of his sales. And by extension, Papa Teals. We show as many people as possible the reality of the matter. That Eric is a pointless blowhard posturing as the wisest person alive for money. He's pretty good at it. I'll give him that. But once you see through the facade, all that's left is laughter. So that's it for Eric Weinstein today. As you can tell, he's become one of my very favorite punching bags just because of how relentlessly insufferable he is and damaging to boot. What other misadventures will Eric find himself in? I guess we'll just have to wait and see. Until next time.