Hey everyone, remember how Eric Weinstein is a pathetic fraud who pretends to be a super genius physicist? Well, sometimes he pretends to be a super genius economist as well. Spoiler alert, he isn't. And today, we're going to get some help from a real economist to prove it. Let's get started. If you'll recall, we've already enlisted the help of several physicists in order to demonstrate conclusively that Eric's magnumopus, geometric unity, is just a big turd sandwich with the exclusive purpose of tricking the science illiterate public into thinking he's a genius. Check out previous videos like this one featuring Tim Wyn and this one featuring Christian FKO for supremely thorough debunkings of GU, as well as still other videos for a highlights reel of Eric's hilarious downward spiral in dealing with the fallout. as the public has now largely realized that GU is absolutely nothing but economics where has he made bold claims about his prowess with economics? >> I don't think that economists understand what a price index is that measures inflation. Nor do I think economists understand what a growth index uh or uh a product um a quantity index is that measures GDP. I think that they don't even understand the basics of uh price and quantity index construction and therefore um they can't possibly review uh field theoretic economics. They can't review gauge theoretic economics. They're intellectually not in a position to manage their own field. >> Yeah, you heard him just fine. Economists, literally all economists, are exclusively idiots who don't understand basic economics. Eric, the not an economist with zero training in economics, understands the field much better than literally every economist in the world. And you can tell because he just said some high school level economics terms and he sounded super confident while doing so. Do you think Eric can explain to us lowly peasants what economists are missing? Perhaps using obtuse analogies designed to trick us into thinking he knows what he's talking about. >> Let me explain what they don't understand to begin with. >> Sure. Imagine that all prices and all quantities uh of output are the same at the end of a year as they are at the beginning. And you ask what happened during that year? Was there inflation? They meandered over the course of the year but miraculously they all came back to exactly their values. The amount produced uh at the end of the year is the same as at the beginning in every single quantity. Typically, the claim would be that the price index should be 1.0 and that the quantity index should be 1.0. That's clearly wrong. >> Why? >> Well, it's much easier to see with it. It speaks to a fundamental confusion that economists have. They don't understand that the economy is curved and not flat. Yeah, bro. The economy is curved and not flat. This is just like when Terrence Howard told us that there are no straight lines. Pretty deep [\h__\h] huh? Anyway, we could listen to Eric flap his lip for quite some time. But instead, let's get to the meat of it. As you likely recall, Eric spends most of his time whining about how nobody in academia will acknowledge his revolutionary work. But he also sometimes brags about how he gives super awesome talks for academics all over the world all the time because his work is so smart and awesome. And since those two narratives totally go together, one of those was the Perimeter Institute talk that we discussed in the video with Christian FCKO where we learned that he's a buffoon who was forbidden from telling anyone that he had been there. But Christian also said this. >> So he also visited my my alma mater for my PhD, the University of Chicago in 2021, I believe, shortly after I graduated. >> And I also don't really know what the story is with that visit. >> Ooh, I know the story. Want to hear that story? Okay, let's go. On November 10th, 2021, Eric held a seminar at the economics department at the University of Chicago, one of the best economic departments in the world with a high concentration of Nobel laureates. Apparently, the news of the seminar traveled a bit since Eric talked down to a rather intelligent and reputable crowd there. He presented something he wrote with his wife, Pia Milani, and which follows up on the second chapter of Pia Milani's 1996 PhD thesis, which they co-wrote. Yes, Eric helped his wife write her doctoral thesis. It's hard to wrap your head around whether that's a worse look for her or for him, but do with that information what you will. Anyway, in this talk, Eric explained how, and I quote, "All of economics is based on the wrong version of differential calculus." The reactions were not very positive. One person in attendance described it as follows. The main focus of his talk was a criticism of how the consumer price index CPI is calculated. He suggested that if only economists would abandon their bad differential calculus and if they were to adopt his good differential calculus, they would replace the current CPI with his version of it and that would make the world a much better place. Given that his audience were actual experts, they had plenty of questions. In response, Eric was evasive, condescending, and when asked repeatedly to actually illustrate his alternative for the CPI with a simple example. He just kept backpedaling and making excuses, saying things like, "I'm not trying to be a dick." Unfortunately, no footage exists of this lustrous sermon on the mound, but somebody was live tweeting it, so we can still get a sense of what happened. Some unwarranted condescension from Eric. Some very warranted skepticism from the audience. Smart people correcting a dumb thing Eric said. The aforementioned dick comment. The smart people not taking Eric's condescending [\h__\h] Weird race stuff. Another huge dollop of unwarranted condescension. The smart people asking him to get to the [\h__\h] point. Where's the godamn formula? And some patented Weinstein word salad. In just a bit, we will discuss Eric's garbage claims with Mati Vanve, a professor of economics at the University of Amsterdam. But let's run through the basics first so that everyone will be primed for the discussion with Matise. Now unlike geometric unity which anyone can download and laugh at his economics paper an extension of intertemporal ordinal welfare to changing tastes economics as gauge theory is difficult to track down. University of Chicago pages that used to display it now just show errors like this one and also this one. Luckily the wayback machine has come to the rescue as it often does. As you can see, it's only 11 pages, and most of those 11 pages are fluff. After a very brief abstract, for some reason, there's a table of contents, since 11-page pamphlets typically need one of those, followed by two long quotes, a few pages of math that never gets applied to anything, and two pages of references. Take away the narrow margins, and it's about two pages of meat, if you're inclined to call it that. Pia's doctoral thesis is also difficult to find, but not impossible. So, here is that as well. Since this one is quite long and their newer paper is the focus here, to save time, we can simply point out that the thesis is essentially irrelevant, having only two citations and therefore in no way the revolutionary document Eric regularly pretends. Now, between the talk and the paper, here's the thing about Eric and Pia's garbage assertions. Apart from their solution being totally illdefined and difficult to pin down, there is an important reason why they absolutely can't be correct in their claim. In fact, Matise formulated and proved an impossibility result which shows that the solution they suggest their approach provides simply does not exist. This result is not fringe. It is published in Econometrica, an important econometrics journal. One of the other papers on the topic that he wrote together with Roy Vanderwide was in the American Economic Review. These journals are the nature and science of economics just to convey to you how not at all fringe these results are. And there are other papers that relate to this result and corroborate it. Once again, to be perfectly clear, these economists have published results that serve as mathematical proof that the solution Eric claims to have found does not exist. All attempts by scholars to politely convey this information to Eric have been met with total silence. Shocking, I know. Since Eric cares more about status than truth, that leaves it to people like me to inform the public about what's going on and how anyone can arrive at the conclusion that Eric's claims regarding economics are just as flimsy as his claims regarding physics. And we will get to that right after introducing today's sponsor. As you know, I expose all kinds of frauds and charlatans. And some of them are batshit insane. So much so that in response to me exposing them, they do crap like this. Yeah, weird doxing stuff where they insinuate that I'm going to die and they'll steal my wife. And why would I be dead, you ask? Professor Dave, I'm going to make that guy hang himself. >> And how Prtel does a troll like this enact his revenge on people who expose him? >> I'm going to destroy their lives. I'm going to dox them publicly. I'm going to give their address away on live stream in front of thousands of people and have their lives be ruined. >> And while this guy is the most unhinged of all my haters, he's far from the only one. Do you think I want jerks like this to be able to figure out where I live or get my phone number or anything like that? Absolutely not. That's why I use Incogn. Incogn scour the internet for data brokers who collect and trade your personal information without you knowing. Finding them all and demanding your privacy would take forever, if they even comply. So, why not let the professionals do it for you? Go to incogn.com/professor Dave and use code professor Dave to get an exclusive offer of 60% off. Since I've worked with Incogn times, most of you know how this works. They keep all your personal information off the internet, and you can keep track of this activity in your own personalized dashboard. But it goes much deeper than random weirdos. Massive data breaches occur all the time, which put you directly at risk. In late August, a breach at Credit Bureau TransUnion expose the data of 4.4 million people. Leaked social security numbers can then be used to commit identity theft and financial fraud, and this is more common than it should be. And there's always the looming threat of an Orwellian surveillance state on the horizon. Tech laws disguised around youth safety may actually threaten personal privacy as the state continues to gather as much information as possible on every single citizen. So don't wait another minute. Go to incogn.com/professor a whopping 60% off. That's Dave or click the link in the description to take your personal data off the market. Now back to the debunking. Now, getting back to Eric, it's important to refresh our memories about some of the wild claims he's made about this revolutionary work he and his wife have bestowed upon the world, as it's good for context while we show how vacuous it really is. >> Pia Milani's thesis revolutionized all of economic theory and it hasn't been understood. If you want to do something revolutionary, I promise you that that's been a it's an it's an arbitrage. I can share it with the world. Nobody will do anything with it because um the the world decided to stand in the way of that progress. That's an incontrovertible fact to me. >> Yes, the whole world is conspiring against his wife because reasons, just like they do to Eric and to his baby brother Brett as well. All the while, the Robin to Eric's Batman, Brian Keading, nods along like the pointless buffoon that he is. Just to be clear, I'm comparing them to Adam West and Bert Ward from 1960s Batman, not actual badass superheroes. I don't want there to be any confusion. Was that the Bosin Commission in 1996 tried to figure out how to cut Social Security and raise taxes without getting caught because that's the third rail of politics. And what they said is if we change the CPI, the consumer price index, the way we measure inflation, because tax brackets are indexed and because entitlement payments for social security and Medicare are indexed, if we claim that social security, sorry, if we claim that inflation is overstated by 1.1 percentage points, we will gain a trillion dollars in savings. Frauds in America love to tie their conspiracies to the US government, always failing to explain why academics in literally every other country ignore their work as well. But logical consistency is never their strong suit, especially when he contradicts himself at every turn. If you look up uh gauge theory and uh an intuitive way to understand gauge theory something like that uh you'll come up with this really brilliant economic analogy uh that sounds like you know Eric is copied from from Juan Maldena uh this is Eric's work uh this gauge uh gauge theory applied to economic uh transactions >> Eric and Pia Milani >> Yep. Pia Milani. Of course, >> Juan knew that he he'd gotten this um he knew about Pia Milani. >> So, Pia's work was buried, never to see the light of day, but then also stolen and subsequently published. That checks out. Anyway, this is all right in line with what we've come to expect from Eric. Very light on the actual academics, heavy on the conspiracies and persecution complex. Why bother actually explaining economics when all you really want is the conspiratorial rhetoric and resulting cult following? Unfortunately for Eric, just like how physicists eventually did read geometric unity, even though he tried so hard to hide from them, the same can be said for his claims regarding economics. And it will come as no surprise that Eric and his wife did not in fact revolutionize the field. Now, if you'll recall, we did a little bit of debunking Eric's economics as gauge theory [\h__\h] with Tim Wyn right after his debunk of GU, given that he wrote a paper in response to the economics paper as well. This time without the anonymous co-author that Eric used as an excuse to ignore Tim before. Do you think Eric paid attention this time with only Tim's name on there? Of course not. Anyway, Tim's presentation focused on some trivial mathematical errors from Eric since Tim is a mathematician. But it's time to get more thorough with it by speaking with an economist. As we mentioned, Eric's rhetoric about inflation is disproven by something called an impossibility result as formulated in 2002 by Mati Vanve. The result he proved is called the apples and oranges theorem. In order to explain this result and why it implies that Eric's claim can't be true, we have to explain what this whole index number problem is that Pia and Eric claim to have cracked. To start, there are two numbers which are perhaps the most important numbers in economics. The first is economic growth or the increase in the amount of goods and services produced per capita over time. This is measured by a country's real GDP or gross domestic product. This has to account for the second important number, inflation. This is the sustained increase in the prices of goods and services leading to a general decrease in the purchasing power of money over time. But the prices of things don't increase uniformly, so it's not trivial to calculate. This increase is measured by something called a price index, typically a consumer price index or CPI. In order to address these concepts, economists use something called a utility function. This is a formula that describes how much someone likes certain goods or services. With these, we can then also generate indifference curves. These are contour lines which indicate the combinations of products that consumers value equally as much. Given that these curves are continuous, they are differentiable where derivatives give us rates of change as you may recall from the first few lessons of calculus. So the straight lines tell us what consumers can afford and the curves tell us what consumers like. If you know someone's utility function, then you can decide to define economic growth accordingly. But we typically don't just magically know this. What we may have, however, is data on what people buy and the prices against which they do this. that may allow us to infer from their behavior as consumers what their utility function looks like. If we can do that, then we can define real growth accordingly. There is one more complication and it's the part that Eric claims to have solved. Sometimes the data are inherently inconsistent with the idea that what someone likes and dislikes is constant and that the only reason why the consumption patterns change is that the person adjusts what they buy in response to changes in their budget and the prices of the goods. Tastes change, populations change. In technical terms, it can be that our data violate what economists call the generalized axiom of revealed preference or GARP. And if this is violated, you simply can't reconstruct a utility function that would be consistent with all the choices of a consumer at once. So assuming stable preferences or the same utility function for everyone may be a problem, especially if the data you gather in an effort to reconstruct this utility function tell you that this is impossible. So Eric says, "Let's compute real economic growth and inflation without assuming stable preferences." One who desires to do this would have to ask themselves how they would want those measurements to behave. This is what Mati did in a paper from 2002 in which he formulates four axioms. Axioms are basic properties that a measurement of real economic growth should have. The first states that if you consume more of every single good in one year compared to the previous, then the real income should be higher now than the real income last year. Or if you apply this to countries instead of years, then if per capita consumption of every single good is higher in France than it is in Germany, then real per capita income in France should be higher than in Germany. That sounds like a property that any measurement of real income should have. But there are many ways to calculate real incomes that do not have this property. If you use the big mac index published since 1986 by the economist in order to compare the price levels in different countries and then use this to deflate the nominal incomes in order to compute the real incomes then this method violates a naive more of everything is always better property. Also if you use the exchange rate to compare the nominal per capita incomes in the US and USD with the nominal per capita income in Canada in CAD then this problem can occur. The other properties that Mati came up with are slightly harder to explain, but they are all similarly low bars that one would think should be cleared by the way we calculate real economic growth. And yet, it turns out to be impossible to satisfy all four. In 2002, he proved the apples and oranges theorem, which once again is an impossibility theorem, showing that it is simply not possible to construct a way to calculate real incomes that satisfies these four minimal requirements. He does this by providing the following formula. 1 plus growth nominal income equals 1 plus growth real income time 1 plus inflation. This shows us that if you have a way to measure inflation, you would also have a way to measure real income. Given that the original apples and oranges theorem states that there is no perfect way to measure real income, there cannot be a perfect way to measure inflation either. Of course, statistical agencies still calculate and publish numbers and they are reported in the news regularly. The US economy shrunk by 0.3% in the first quarter of 2025 or a growth of negative0.3% and the CPI in Canada rose by 2.4% in 2024 or 2.4% inflation. So when you see these numbers being reported, it is good to know that there are different ways to calculate these numbers. And whatever way your statistical agency uses to compute them, they are inevitably imperfect. They always violate at least one of the four basic properties one would think a method for computing these numbers should satisfy. Now back to Eric. Apparently he is unaware that it has already been shown over 20 years ago that the holy grail he claims to have found does not exist. This is a mathematical fact which comes with a proof. He makes his gauge theory, the differential calculus he was trying to sell in his talk, sound really fancy and deep. But mathematically, there is just no escape from the fact that index numbers are always going to be imperfect. When I say proof, I mean that in the literal sense since unlike empirical science, it is possible to prove things in mathematics conclusively. Eric is objectively wrong. And beyond this, if he was right, it would be trivial to give some simple examples of his alternative for the CPI, something he has never done and was completely unable to do when asked point blank to do so during his talk. Unfortunately for Eric, differential calculus is not the issue. It's his inability to face reality. There are four papers by Mati that are relevant to this discussion and I'll link to them in the description if you want to dig a little deeper. But for now, with some background information covered, let's get into the discussion. Mati, thanks so much for joining me. Uh, so my viewers got a little bit of a primer about what the situation is, that there was a seminar, that there was a paper that now uh is difficult to find. So, let's dive into this. I guess first let's just talk about the seminar. I believe you were not there, but you have colleagues that were that were present. >> Well, I I found out later, but there was someone was live tweeting. Apparently, it was entertaining enough to share with the world. So, there there were a few people who were actually tweeting about it. Okay. Um, and so the the the subject matter of the paper and the talk are are directly aligned. So we can kind of dive into a a critique of the paper, I suppose. >> Yeah, I think he was presenting this paper there. >> And apparently he was um condescending to the to the people that were there and the and it's a it's a room full of noble laureates and and famous people. So people found that entertaining. >> Entertaining is a is a polite way to put it, I guess. Um, so yeah, my viewers have gotten a little bit of a primer on on on the specifics, but uh that was just to sort of get some of the concepts out of the way so that they'd be ready to listen to you uh give give a little presentation here. So why don't we launch into that? >> Yeah, sure. Yeah. So the the problem that he claims to have solved is um is a somewhat complicated problem but um I would like to start very simple. So um this is all about calculating economic growth and calculating inflation. Um so um economic growth if the world is really simple and the the prices of all products that you consume go up equally much then um it's it would be really easy to calculate inflation. So, so let's say that you um that you have an 80% increase in how much money you get on your bank account and everything gets uh uh 50% more expensive, then you can buy 20% more um of all the stuff you were you were buying before. So, um um in a in a simple world, uh it would be easy to calculate real income growth. Um so so this is what what economists call a budget set. So let's say you have um a hundred euros or $100 for your audience and um both movie tickets and pizzas cost uh $10 a piece. Then this set here describes what you could buy. So you could put all your money on movie tickets. You could go to the movies 10 times. You could only buy pizzas. and you could buy 10 pizzas, but you could also go for five times to the movies and five pizzas. So, let's say in 2020 that that's what you did. And let's say in 2025 things have changed. You've got more money, but um pizzas became twice as expensive. So then this would be what economies economists call your budget set. Now, that doesn't have to be a problem if how much you consume in uh grows proportionally. So, if you both have a 20% growth in how many movie tickets you buy and how many pizzas you buy, then it it's still straightforward to think that um economic growth, real economic growth is 20%. you just ended up buying 20% more of of everything that you were buying before. Now, when prices change, so in this case, pizzas have become more expensive and movie tickets have stayed as expensive as they were. Uh so, relatively speaking, movie tickets became cheaper. So it it makes total sense that you you wouldn't change your consumption proportionally, but maybe you want to go to the movies more often and buy a few uh buy fewer pizzas. So in this case, it becomes harder to decide um how much the economy has grown or how much our consumption bundle has increased. So um one way to solve that or to to think if there is a solution for that would be so suppose that we know for some magic reason what people like. Um um and for this economists use what is called a a utility function. And um you could imagine a utility function that works like this. So suppose you have a number for how many pizzas you consume, a number for how many movies you consume and then you you multiply them and you take the square root of that and if this gives you a high number then you're really happy. It gives you a low number then you're not happy. Um so this is just an example of a utility function that could perhaps describe what you like. Um, so if you have five pizzas and you go to the movies five times, then the square root of five times five is five. So this makes you five happy. If you uh if if you have if you buy six pizzas and you go to movie six times, it makes you six happy. Um, you know, you could eat four and a half pizza and go to the movie nine times, then this makes you 6.4 happy. And um so now I drew in red contour lines for these utility functions. So so anywhere on this line would make you five happy and anywhere on this line would make you 6.4 happy. So um if this utility function describes how h how consumption makes you happy then this consumption bundle uh makes you happier than this consumption bundle did >> and you could even say well this is where the technicalities become uh maybe I shouldn't bore you with that but um economists make a distinction between ordinal and cardinal. The most important thing about these utility functions is is that they tell you which bundles make you happier than other bundles. So these are ordinal comparisons. So if it's five and 6.4, the the numbers don't really matter. The thing that really matters is this is higher than this. So this bundle makes you happier than this bundle. So if it's possible to um reconstruct a utility function that is consistent with a consumer behavior, then you could base your your measurement for real income growth on that utility function. So so up to now I've discussed a few complications, but all of those complications um are solvable. Um now the last complication um really gets us into trouble because it regularly happens that the data that you gather. So data here would mean I figure out what those prices are and I figure out what people buy in 2020 and in 2025. And it regularly happens that those data violate the requirements that would allow you to find a utility function. um that is consistent with this behavior. So that is the the core thing that Eric Weinstein has um when he presents his claim, he always says this is what I have a solution for. So even if uh preferences change, even if what people like changes over time, I can still find a measurement for real income for and therefore for income growth. um that is well behaved or nice or has nice properties. So you could imagine if you if you calculate GDP for instance that's a measurement of of real income this is something that you do for for a whole nation and of course uh who is in that nation already changes right so people die people are born uh people immigrate people immigrate um so on top of individuals changing their preferences or you know my consumption pattern now is not the same as it was 10 years ago and it's not because I not only because I have more money, but it's also because just what I like changes. And Eric Weinstein's claim is that he has a solution for that. So even if people change and and the nation changes and what people like changes over time, um he claims that he still found a solution to to um to the index number problem. Unfortunately for him, I have shown in 2002 that this that the holy grail that he claims to have found just does not exist. And there's a there's a mathematical proof for that. My result states a few very simple properties that you would expect a measure of real income uh to have. So one of them is uh if you consume more of every single good in 2025 than you did in 2020, then you should have a higher real income in 2025 than in 2020. So that seems like a super low bar, right? You Yeah, you would expect that any measurement of uh of real income should satisfy that. And it it actually turns out that some some measurements don't like if you use the the big mech index to deflate incomes then this this doesn't actually satisfy this and also if you just calculate GDPs in in local currency like you do that for the US you do that for Canada and then you use the exchange rate to to make the the GDP in Canada uh to express it in in US dollars, then this also violates this property. Um, yeah, there's a few more properties that are equally low bars and and there's just a mathematical proof that that um it is impossible to find a way to measure real income that satisfies four super basic properties. That's it. Oh yeah and and the reason why I have this last slide is that he is always talking about the the CPI the consumer price index that is sort of the measuring inflation is the twin problem for measuring growth. So at the beginning of the first slide um we we had if you buy 50% more of everything and everything becomes 20% more expensive then you have to bring 80% more money right 1.5 * 1.2 too. If you have a way to calculate the growth in real income, then you automatically also know a way to calculate inflation. And if you know a way to calculate inflation, that implies that you also have a a way to um calculate real income. So far, I've my apples and oranges theorem. That's the theorem about the that's the impossibility theorem about this um formulates everything in terms of the growth of the the real income and Eric Weinstein is always talking about the consumer price in index or in other words about inflation but those are twin problems if you've solved one you've solved the other >> the fact that there's no or there's there's no way to measure the growth of the real income um that satisfies basic properties means that there's also no way to to do that for inflation. >> Okay. So, let's if if we can get just a quick sound bite. What is it in about Eric's presentation that's not just naive but literally fundamentally impossible. I think it's more or less what you just said, but let's see if we can condense it. >> Well, Eric Weinstein is is elusive all the time, right? So, so at the seminar they were also asking him questions like you know can can you give a simple example and he he apparently he didn't and it should be really simple to give a example of how his index works >> right >> um so >> like you just did with the pizzas in the movies and stuff like get something like that right >> yeah it should it should be really easy and they kept asking him for it um so and he's also um similarly evasive um about what what properties would his index have. Right? So, these are all kind of relatively vague statements. I'm going to solve the problem of uh of of changing preferences or changing tastes. You know, I still don't don't you know, this is my spe you know, I'm a specialist and I still don't really know exactly what what he means by that. So both his presentation apparently but also his paper um yeah it's hard to pin down exactly what he what he means by by that but if there's a holy grail in this in this field that that would allow you to measure inflation and measure um uh sort of GDP growth um it would be something that satisfies is my four properties. >> Mhm. So where does the differential calculus part come in? Obviously we we saw that there uh instead of lines we had these curves and so we can talk about rates of change but he made it sound like he had a fundamentally different kind of calculus or something even talking about there. Well, so I so um the thesis of his wife starts with with a description of this this calculus. Um and I I don't get it. Um but I I don't think this calculus is the point. you with or without this calculus, it it you know, none of that has a has um bearing on on the index number problem. >> Mhm. >> If if he has if he found like an amazing index, uh you could just, you know, all indices are are formulas. You put in data and out comes a number. and um it's just needlessly suggestive and and vague. >> Also the examples in in the thesis of his wife I you know it it's so unhelpful. Um yeah >> a vague >> I don't think calculus is the issue here. >> No a vague index kind of like his vague shiab operator in geometric unity. I think we are identifying a pattern here. stay as vague as humanly possible. Uh because if you the more specific he gets, the more readily uh people can jump on him with very pointed criticism. Uh that's pretty much it. >> Yeah. >> So what is the what was the aftermath there? I mean it it seems like he's not trying to he he he doesn't talk about it too much except occasionally in podcasts. Well, that's really all he does in the first place. But um he's not really championing this work in economics. Is that because of uh any p specific push back he's had or the the reaction from the economics community? Does the story go any further or is it pretty much just like what was that? Okay. Later >> I that what was that? People were entertained how um at how he talked down to people who only kept asking him for details and specifics. Um, so when I when I heard uh when I saw this uh tweet, this Twitter thread, um, I actually uh I sent him an email saying, you know, you you might be since you are so interested in index numbers, you you might uh might be happy to find, you know, I point him to my papers. Um but there was no response and actually the the the person who edited my paper in 2002 was in the room that's Nancy Stoki very famous economist also very nice person. So I also sent her an email saying uh you know do you remember this? Um but he convinced no one and so you know u yeah >> yeah funny how he seems to be unaware of of work from 20 year old from 20 years prior that undermines the entire thesis of what he's trying to say. >> Yeah. So my paper is after the the thesis of his wife. >> So he couldn't have known but um well let's let's put it mildly. He's not keeping up with the literature. >> Yeah. In in economics nor in physics probably. Um well, that's a fun addendum. I I just thought this would be a nice opportunity to uh to uh extend the evisceration of Eric in the realm of physics over to economics since he does pretend to have prowess there as well. So, uh thank you for that. Any other last comments about Eric in general or any of this uh any aspect of this debacle? No. >> Yeah. >> Well, he he presents uh you know he he's not shy in presenting his stuff as uh um as super big and very important. Uh so when he announced his so let me see if I can find that. So when he announced, you know, yeah, he describes it, you know, it's affecting us all and I'm going to fight this battle for us. Um, wish me luck. Um, it's an academic issue, but one that affects every family. I don't know. Yeah. >> Right. This is the >> calculating consumer you know inflation index is important because um if your if your pension is um is is tied to the index you know if a higher number comes out you get more money and uh that's also important for the for the budget because then the government or or your pension fund needs to needs to pay more. So sure it's important to get these numbers right but uh he doesn't help anyone in in in moving the numbers uh towards you know more accuracy or anything. Yeah. >> No. >> Yeah. He needs this rhetoric about the Bosin Commission and all this stuff to uh to sell the conspiracy and then himself as a as like a heroic whistleblower. Uh so it's all part of the shtick for him. >> Yeah. So I don't really get that. So, it's it's I'm not sure if he's mostly concerned about the the inflation um being calculated to be higher than it really is and therefore bad for for the government budget or if he's out helping the consumers who the citizens who who uh who get too little money from even though you know price are going up more than uh than they get compensated for. >> Mhm. I don't do you know what side he's on there or what's his main concern? >> Uh he's on Eric's side. His main concern is presenting himself as a genius. >> He is cons literally nothing other than that. >> He's not championing consumers or or the government budget. >> He's no he's championing Eric, right? He's he's I'm AI'm a genius. I figured out this thing that you know all economists are idiots. All physicists are idiots. I'm neither. But I know more than than all of them on both topics. Um, yeah, I don't know. The the the thing is that the the it's sort of expired. Uh, you know, 5 years ago, I think he still had a lot of people on on the, you know, on uh on the hook, but um that's kind of uh that time has passed. So, I'm just sort of doing the my due diligence here and just covering each chapter of the saga uh just to kind of uh have have a place for everyone to go to to look at all of his claims and all, you know, all of his outlandish claims and and uh you know, hear from, you know, I had some physicists talk about GU. Now we have you here talking about economics just to really make it perfectly clear how everything he says is unbelievably idiotic. That's uh that's my goal here. >> Yeah. Well, good. Yeah. >> Cool. Well, thank you very much for your uh participation in this endeavor. We'll see uh if there's anything left uh to talk about with regards to Eric after this. Perhaps perhaps there will be knowing him. >> Yeah, it's my pleasure. >> So, that wraps up the demolition of Eric's fake economics theory. As you can see, there's not much else to say about it. But while we're here, is there anything else we can crap on him for? Of course there is. In that video with Christian FCKO, we were both perplexed by Eric's ability to get a posttock position without having published anything. Evidently, he was able to get a post-doal position afterwards. Uh maybe two, I forget, which is also surprising because he had no publications. And yeah, I can't really shed much light on it besides to say that in someone for from the perspective of someone in academia working in a related field, it it's kind of bizarre. >> Um so I don't know what the story is there. >> It does seem strange, doesn't it? Well, I got the answer through a little bird that landed on my shoulder. Eric himself told his fans on Discord that he started his posttock at the University of Jerusalem without yet having been awarded a PhD. He lied to them and said that he had it. Why were they going on his word and not any kind of official record? That's a damn good question. But according to Eric, once the dean found out he had no PhD, instead of firing Eric, he called Harvard up and scolded them for not awarding Eric his doctorate. very dramatic and almost certainly fabricated to some degree. But whatever the reality might be, we can point out that the University of Jerusalem does quite a magnificent job of elevating Zionist frauds like Eric and placing them in positions of power. It's where alienobsessed fraud Avi Loe got all of his degrees, after which he went straight to Harvard, mysteriously achieving tenure in only three years. Pretty sketchy stuff indeed. So what was the problem with Eric finishing up his doctorate? Well, apparently he had a falling out with his first adviser, Clifford Tobs. I wonder why that would be. This put his PhD at risk. He somehow got another adviser, Raul Bot, and Harvard assigned a classmate of Erics to his thesis to help him work out the math. A thousand bucks says this all happened after he started in Jerusalem, thanks to a hefty helping of Zio money, to which Harvard is no stranger. Harvard has only course corrected as of May of this year when Trump terminated $60 million in grants because they wouldn't properly address anti-semitism, which is code for them refusing to violently shut down pro Palestine activism. What else? Oh yeah, let's crap on Eric for another dumb story he tells all the time. That would be the one where he claims to have arrived at the Cyborg Whitten equations before Cyber and Whitten did. Many years ago around 1987 uh I put forward some equations that I thought might become my thesis at the uh Harvard department of mathematics and they were disallowed for a variety of reasons. Those equations were later discovered in I believe 1994 and I sat in a lecture in which I saw these equations go up on a board at the very end at MIT and I looked at those equations and I said, "Huh, those are the exact equations I was told could never work. Why is the leading physicist in the world placing them on the board and saying that these are the equations from which all of something called Donaldson theory can be derived. What I'm giving you at least at a minimum had the ability years earlier um to provide those equations from a different source. There's something called cyber witten theory which I have no claim on but the actual equations that are called the cyberw whitten equations came originally uh as an outgrowth from investigations of this theory. So at a bare minimum the cyber witten revolution should have happened at Harvard rather than Princeton. >> You heard Eric he came up with these awesome equations but Harvard said no naughty boy no math for you. And then they held him at gunpoint for the next several years to make sure he never wrote down those equations absolutely anywhere. That totally makes perfect sense. You have to be really stupid to fall for a story like this. But to get into why it's especially pointless on top of being obviously fabricated, it's folklore and math circles that Simon Donaldson had the Cyborg Witten equations on his desk long before they were made famous. But the point is that Cyborg and Whitten's names are on them because they were actually able to do something with them. The point is that even if Weinstein discovered these equations, which he definitely didn't, it wouldn't mean anything anyway. You have to do things with the equations that he's not intellectually capable of doing. This is similar to how Schroinger came up with the Klein Gordon equation before Klein and Gordon, but didn't understand its utility at the time. And finally, very soon after my last video on Eric, he went on Diary of a CEO to spew two and a half hours of complete horseshit. And that video blew up like crazy, now sitting at over 4 million views. So, let's mock him appropriately for some of the most ridiculous things he said there. >> Jeffrey Epstein was a product of at least one element of the intelligence community. I would bet money on it. >> The CIA, FBI. >> I don't know who ran him, but he knew a tremendous amount about my scientific work in ways that he wasn't supposed to. very powerful people told me I needed to meet him. He certainly was not a financeier in any standard sense. That was a cover story. I need to know what this thing was and I want to know why people don't investigate it. I want to know why nobody asks for the filings. But I think more than anything, we don't trust our scientists because our scientists are the most powerful people in our society. [\h__\h] hell. This is going to be painful. Scientists are the most powerful people in our society. Really? So, do you think they cut their own federal funding in half on purpose because they don't like money? Or did that come from the government that is currently wielding Orwellian power over everybody, including all the scientists who barely make enough to get by? The same scientists that we don't trust because ass hats like you and Sabina specifically tell them not to. And of course, we're getting more about [\h__\h] Epstein. Yes, he was a product of the intelligence community, specifically and almost certainly the MSAD, Israeli intelligence, having the function of acquiring leverage over American politicians and other powerful figures. But of course, Eric won't specify and blow up his Zio spot, right? Oh, yeah. And Epstein knew so much about Eric's scientific work. Which work would that be, Eric? It's a confusing claim since you don't have any scientific work. You've never done any science ever. These images are all from your pathetic chalkboard presentation of GU that is now universally known to be absolutely nothing. And you've never published any science in your entire life. So, let's drop the act. Nobody powerful gives a [\h__\h] about you except Peter Teal. And Epstein had no clue who you are. >> Eric Weinstein is a renowned mathematician >> and one of the most fearless and provocative thinkers of our time. He dissects the failures of science, exposes elite networks, and proposes bold new theories that could save humanity. So top of mind for me at the moment is the apocalypse and tropical fruit. I'm not kidding. >> Oh, Eric, you're just as cheeky as you are brilliant. That is to say, none whatsoever of either. I don't know who wrote this script, but it goes without saying that this is Eric's last desperate attempt to reclaim the facade he's lost over the past few years by telling viewers exactly how he wishes they would still see him. The rock and roll rebel, super genius, whistleblower, and soothsayer extraordinaire. instead of a pointless buffoon who lies on podcasts for a living. Well, let's get to Eric's thoughts on Doomsday and Papayas. >> You said I'm looking at the end. >> Yeah. Remember all the talk about the singularity? Like Ray Curtzwhile, we're heading to the singularity. What is the singularity going to be like? You're in it. This is This is now. Amusingly, the text this guy chose to overlay in this moment proves Eric wrong. AI currently is not smarter than humans. It does not improve itself at all, let alone at an unstoppable rate. And nobody has merged with any cloud. So no, Eric, this is not the singularity. >> In 1967, the Israelis felt invincible in the Six-Day War. And then in 1973, they had the Yom Kipper war. And all the people that they were, you know, priding themselves as having beaten these ferocious enemies that were arrayed against them woke up on Yom Kapor in 1973 and bloodied the Israelis and they surprised them. So the Israelis underestimated their enemy and that changed the entire character of the country. It went from being a triumphal state that felt that David could defeat Goliath to realizing that Goliath was quite powerful. >> Uh Israel is Goliath. Eric, Israel is a westernbacked nuclear global superpower that has been terrorizing the Middle East for 75 years. Pretending the indigenous groups that have been desperately resisting Israeli aggression throughout that time are supposed to be Goliath makes you sound like an idiot, >> but nobody knows what to do with it. And this is part of what what Elon is all about, which is that I am convinced that everybody else needs to be talking about this much more and I need to be talking about this much less. I talk about this all the time. You know, people are always I want to survive more than anything else. There's so many things that I love about this place and I don't like the idea that we're all trapped here with one atmosphere with nine individuals if you like who could all wake up on the wrong side of the bed and say, "Uh, today's the day." Hey, Eric, if you wanted to talk less about something, you could just stop going on every podcast in the world and shut the [\h__\h] up for a little while. But no, it's time for Eric's patented Elon Musk ball licking and we got to get to other planets, but we can't because physics is stuck. [\h__\h] >> Everything that you care about is on one sphere with one one atmosphere. And I think Elon is 100% right. We got to get to another sphere. I can't believe that he's focused on Mars. I mean by by sure focus on the moon, focus on Mars, focus on chemical rockets, but throw a couple billion towards physics for God's sakes. So let us get it. Let us get serious about exploring the cosmos. >> Yeah, people are already doing that, champ. Physicists think about physics all the time. You don't have the intellectual capacity to understand what they do. And elevating yourself above the entire physics community when you aren't one just makes you look like an [\h__\h] >> One of the funniest things that gets said about me on social media is he goes on forever and he never says anything. And then like I look at the word clouds of things that I' I've talked about and people are just googling everything incessantly. You know, if you didn't know who Pablo Cassals was, now you do. Now you know what a real chis sounds like. >> Well, that's pretty accurate. We just skipped about a half hour of you doing exactly that because it was so unsubstantive that I didn't feel like commenting on any of it. You just jump from one obscure reference to another at breakneck speed, hoping that people thinking you would do well on Jeopardy must mean that you're super smart. Looking up a word cloud of all the random references you make doesn't instill your ramblings with any substance, kiddo. Sorry. My people just got hit. And you know, you want to talk about the river and the sea, that river is not the Jordan River and that sea is not the Mediterranean. The Arab world stretches from the Atlantic with Morocco right up to the what is it? Sha Alarabia, a waterway that divides Iraq from Iran. >> And here comes the Zionist propaganda. No, Eric, the river and the sea are indeed the Jordan River and the Mediterranean because that's the piece of land that was stolen from Palestinians by Zionists and has been progressively ethnically cleansed over the past 75 years. This whole look at all the Arab states shtick isn't fooling anyone. >> It bothers you. I can see it personally bothers you. Do you have any idea how much hate there is right now for Israel? >> Yeah. Something about murdering tens of thousands of children and starving to death a million more tends to get people a little miffed. Right now, I'm thinking about the Jews and I'm thinking about the fact that the social media businesses have lost complete control of uh the bot farms and we're just seeing this unbel I I I feel like I'm living through the 1930s again. I I we've seen this movie before. It doesn't end well. >> Totally. It's just like the 1930s again. Those poor Jews always the victims. Why are so many bots online complaining about Israel's genocide? Don't they know that Israel is allowed to blow up as many children as they want and steal any land they want and dehumanize any population they want? A belligerent Jewish ethnostate bombing everyone around itself and gaslighting the entire world is totally just like the Holocaust. They're practically identical events in every single way. [\h__\h] [\h__\h] >> This is hybrid war. The most important thing for Senoir is video. Why? >> Look at the effect of the video. The video of Gaza has turned the world to an extent against Israel that's sort of inconceivable. Yeah. Isn't it crazy how helplessly watching daily live footage of Israel committing genocide turns people against Israel? It's inconceivable. I guess that's why Israel has murdered almost every single journalist in Gaza. They're not doing anything wrong, but they don't want anyone watching because reasons. >> Israel has an advantage over the Gaz and Arabs in kinetic warfare. And Senoir knew that. He's like, "Brilliant. All we need to do is force Israel to come after us." >> Yes, let's force Israel to continue their 75- year long campaign of ethnic cleansing. How clever of them to invite genocide on purpose. Israel is now preparing for a ground invasion of Gaza City in order to occupy it, which means Gaza will soon be Israel, which was the entire purpose of this conflict from day one. Ethnic cleansing and land theft. 1948, 1967, 2025. That's all Israel has ever been. Western powers murdering indigenous people and stealing their land. Not really a new concept, but I guess it's a little too advanced for Eric to wrap his head around. Now, in the US, we've got this terrible sort of Christian nationalist uh problem that we've developed, which is what sometimes people call the woke right, where we have a bunch of people who've been badly treated. White Christian Americans have been badly treated in the woke era. They've been forced to salute everybody else's, you know, yay for uh, you know, I don't know, Honduran lesbians day. And and it's like, okay, enough. We don't we don't want to do that anymore. We've also done great things. And I absolutely think that they've been mistreated. Yeah. >> Poor white Christians in America. Everyone is always against them, especially Honduran lesbians. Leave it to Eric Weinstein to accurately allude to the terrifying rise of Christian nationalism, but then spin it into anti-woke rhetoric within a single sentence. >> Who cleans this up? Israel volunteers for this job. And then Saudi Arabia pretends, "Oh my god, this is terrible. Our our Muslim brother is being attacked by our Jewish uh barbarian." I I I just can't believe anybody's dumb enough to fall for all of this. Fall for what, Eric? The forced laughter, the manufactured way you cut yourself off. This is so staged it's painful to watch. Nobody is falling for Zionist propaganda anymore. Everybody is awake to what Israel is. Running this script is zapping the tiny bit of credibility you had left. So I hope the paycheck was worth it. >> I mean, you know, it's very weird. I was workmates with JD Vance. You know, these these are people who are, you know, Bobby Kennedy lives one canyon over from me in Los Angeles. the people around power in the US. Godspeed, you know, just just wish them well. Godspeed, JD Vance. Godspeed, RFK. The world needs you now more than ever. Dismantle democracy with all your might and show those stupid plebs what authoritarianism really looks like. It's just nauseating. Yes, Eric, we know that Peter Teal is the piece of [\h__\h] behind both you and JD Vance. You don't need to shout it from a mountaintop, but RFK, you pretend to be rooting for science, yet you support the guy firing all the scientists because they won't lie down for fascism. Tisk tisk. We need to have peace between Israel and the Palestinian Arabs who can live in peace. And we need the people who cannot live in peace. We need to find someplace else for them to be. And there it is. Eric is subliminally preparing the general public for the abject removal of all Palestinians from Gaza so that it can become Israel, which once again was the entire point of the conflict from day one. If these stupid Palestinians can't live in peace while they're being carpet bombed and starved to death on an ongoing basis by the military superpower brutally occupying them, then we need to get those jerks out of there. utterly transparent. Can we pivot to some Terrence Howard type stuff? >> Okay, so we have three mugs. Think of those as vertices of a tetrahedrin. And think of this coaster floating here as the fourth vertex. >> Mhm. >> For every two vertices, so the number of vertices we would agree is four. >> Yeah. What's what does verticy mean? >> Points. >> Yeah. 1 2 3 4. >> Idealize these three things and this as points. >> Mhm. Well, I was kind of wondering how much this guy is getting paid to platform Eric. But after hearing him ask what a verticy is, even though Eric also used the singular form of vertex, I'm thinking he might just be really stupid. Dumb Brits always skate by on their accent, don't they? >> Draw a line segment between all of these four vertices. How many line segments are there? One, two, three, four, five, six, six. >> Yep. So, there's six edges, four vertices. How many triangular faces that have three vertices on them? >> Oh, four. >> Yeah. This is how to think about the actual dimensions that we have open to us. The four faces we know about. >> Oh, cool. So, you didn't need to do any of that [\h__\h] Look at this shape with four faces. Four is a number that is the same as 3 plus one. Aren't you glad I made your editor do this crap with the red lines? It really ups the production value of your crappy podcast. The key point that I was trying to get at is I don't believe that you just have the four dimensions. I believe that you have all six edges are dimensions and all four vertices are also dimensions. I'm talking about a hidden world. It's very interesting. Physics has gone stagnant in terms of how we usually measure progress. The the way we measure progress is the change in something called the action or the lrangeian, the specialized device. And that used to change a lot and then in 1973 it stopped changing. >> Yeah, definitely don't elaborate on the [\h__\h] you just spewed. Faces are two-dimensional, edges are one-dimensional, and vertices are zero-dimensional. But all of them are different dimensions in this fun analogy of yours because you say so. Quick, before he asks what the [\h__\h] you're talking about, pivot to lrangeians. We measure progress in physics with lrangeians and those say that physics is stagnant. This is Eric's number one campfire story. So let's hit it. >> What's the lrangeian? >> The lrangeian. So you probably think about physics in terms of equations like Maxwell's equations or the Einstein equations or whatever. Think about an equation as being not the primary thing that physicists think about. So I give this example. The Beatles had four basically different configurations. When Ringo was the front man, he was singing Octopus's Garden. George Harrison is singing While My Guitar Gently Weeps. You know, uh Paul is singing about Penny Lane and John is singing about Strawberry Fields Forever. Those four equations, those would be those different configurations of the Beatles with one of them front and everybody else backing the front man would be the equations. But the Beatles would be the lrangeian. It's the thing that generates the four >> Okay. >> Hey, look. I'm a physicist. No, wait. I'm a rock and roll man. This is all Eric does. He can't actually explain anything. So he just talks about the Beatles until the interviewer nods their head and then moves on as if he actually said anything. Okay. When the Beatles switch instruments, those are equations. But the Beatles are a lrangeian. Now I totally know what Lrangeians are. Continue, Mr. Physics Man. >> And there's this bizarre force field that anybody who wants to talk about physics and doing something new in particular leaving or traversing time or multiple dimensions of time. Anything that's really close to what might be possible gets slammed. We don't know why. >> That's right. Anybody who talks about doing new physics gets slammed. In every physics department all over the world, the administration shuts them down anytime they try to do physics. They just play Candy Crush all day. >> It's very cheap to explore ideas and we have no new ideas. But the only thing about a new idea in physics is that a new idea changes the balance of power in the world. >> No new ideas everybody. Thousands of papers published every day. Not a single new idea in any of them. Don't go on Google Scholar and search for yourself. Just trust Eric. People in power don't want new science with which to innovate and increase their power. What sense would that make? You have to recognize that the inst pen to paper or you start talking to somebody, you're committing a violation of the 1917 Espionage Act. And if you think that's crazy, start exploring the words restricted data, 1917 Espionage Act, 1946 and 1954 Atomic Energy Acts, the doctrine of born secret. It is illegal to pursue Q clearance data if you don't have a Q clearance. But if you're creating Q clearance data out of your own head as a byproduct of trying to do physics, you are actually potentially committing a capital offense. >> And your theory of everything, your theory, the theory you just talked to me about there, what does that mean for the for the average person that's listening to this in terms of that they should >> Well, this is my point. Did Rutherford know what he was doing? >> It's a crime to do physics, you guys. Secret government stuff, which of course magically applies to the global scientific community because reasons. This guy tries to bring up geometric unity. Eric evades. Maybe he's tired of everyone laughing at him. >> So many new forces, so many new particles, ways to go in. There's no longer an arrow of time in my theory. So you could live forever theoretically. >> What does it mean if if you think about a final theory? And again, by the way, I just want to say something. I say my theory sometimes when I'm having to defend it, but it isn't mine. It it it just is. >> It just is, you guys. Gu is like a sentient life form. That's how powerful it is. I'm just a vessel who stumbled upon it, but I'm not really responsible for it, even though it's a pile of crap that I made up. What other [\h__\h] can I offer up to distance myself from this landmine that has made me the source of endless public ridicule for the past several months? You may be able to go back in time without going back through time. I don't know what this means, but it's a lot like saying maybe there's a neutral version of the proton. Now, what I'm concerned about is that essentially none of my physics friends know that there is a doctrine of restricted data. They've never heard of the 1946 and 54 atomic energy acts. They don't know that the department of energy that funds them is really the the department of physics. >> Yeah. All the non-American physicists have no idea that a department of the American government is funding them. Stupid foreign physicists. And that's why none of them can figure out time travel because the American government won't let them. No need to question that logic. >> You can't talk about what we do that is deceptive without being ruined by what are called covert influence operations. Like if you'll you watch my Twitter account, you'll see all sorts of accounts descend on it. Fraud Charlotte and Grifter blah blah blah blah blah blah. Oh, so that's why so many people call Eric a fraud on social media. It's not because he's a gigantic [\h__\h] fraud. No way. It's because he's a super cool whistleblower telling everyone about secret government stuff. Covert influence operations. That checks out. So don't listen to those haters, you guys. the desire of our government to destroy people who have no idea what they've tripped over because our government isn't good enough to keep its own secrets. This is an abomination. You cannot destroy your a team. >> Who are you referring to when you say people are being destroyed? Are you referring to people like yourself? You know, if you look at, for example, Jeffrey Epstein, >> why does Eric even pause to be asked a question when he always ignores it and just pivots into something else he wants to ramble about? Okay, Eric, give us the Epstein crap. Now, >> I desperately want to know why Jeffrey Epstein knew so much about my work, and I want to know why he was connected to my graduate program. I was I was in the Harvard mathematics department. Jeffrey Epstein was absolutely connected to the Harvard math department. I want to know why. >> Again, you don't have any work. You've never done any science. And Epstein being connected to Harvard is not surprising. Dirty money meet dirty money. >> Hosted physical workshop called Confronting Gravity. >> Confronting gravity. That's right. >> In March 2006. >> Yeah. What is Jeffrey Epie Epste is very focused on gravity. >> Was it a gravity conference? Yeah. was about gravity. >> Yeah. >> What the [\h__\h] was he doing talking about bloody gravity if he's a finance year? >> It was very important to get Nobel laureates and some of the smartest people on earth to come to the Virgin Islands and talk about gravity. Steven Hawkins was there. David Gross was there. Lawrence Krauss was there. Lisa Randall was there right before his conviction. And I'm telling you, he was very focused on the Harvard math department. And he knew all about me in ways that he wasn't supposed to. Yeah, I have to I have to be clear. I have to be clear on my understanding of what you're saying from what I understood. And you can say, Steve, I'm not going to answer that. Whatever. But I just have to cuz you've opened up a curiosity hole in my mind. So, let me try and fill it. Even if it's the conversation I have with Chris. Um >> I'll just evade you if you're within the right to evade me and I hold the right to ask, which is um so is what I'm hearing is you believe and I'm just gonna say it how I think it is what I'm hearing is you believe that Jeffrey Jeffrey Epstein was not a financier. He was planted in some way to >> he was a construct is what I said. >> He was a construct in some way to mess with the progression of physics. >> Jeffrey Epstein apparently I think some I'll tell you what I said when I met him. >> I don't think Eric answers a single direct question in this entire interview. Why make a specific claim when he can just pivot over and over again? Yes, Epstein was totally a plant to influence physics. That's the main thing that he was. All that child sex trafficking and incriminating American politicians was just a hobby on the side. I I live under a periscope. Proctocope is really what I meant. But yeah, I I don't I want to do physics, man. I'm really really good at it. You know >> you are? That's funny because you're 60 and you've never done any physics in your entire life. Got any other hidden talents you're keeping from us? >> Yeah. Like one of the memes against me which is very funny is that no physicists take me seriously when I'm in their offices all the time. >> The [\h__\h] cope wafting off of this jerk is unparalleled. You stupid doodoo heads say physicists don't take me seriously, but I'm in their offices all the time. Whose office, jackass? Brian Keading. Maybe snap a Polaroid next time, Dingus. >> I I just don't know what my life is. And And with this latest advent of war in the Middle East, are you really going to pretend that if you can Google all of these things that I have no idea what I'm talking about? Yes, it is very easy to conclude that whenever you open your mouth, you either have no idea what you're talking about or are actively lying at the behest of your paymaster. That's why nobody takes you seriously anymore. >> I just spent 5 days in the physics department. I'm not allowed to say that it was five days in the physics department as a visitor. I gave a talk. I'm not allowed to say that I gave a talk. I don't know what this is. >> You don't know what this is? This is the one time you got invited to give a physics talk anywhere reputable and they told you not to tell anyone because they're embarrassed to be associated with you. We've been over this, Eric. I can't keep going on the world's largest podcasts saying everything that can be googled and figured out and just constantly have as my reward that the government refuses to have a conversation with me and sends it its gaggle of uh of idiots to harass me. >> You think it's doing that? It's sending a gaggle. >> Yes, I do. I do think I think that some of them are actual idiots who just enjoy having causing problems. But I think more than anything, we have a real problem. >> Yes. The problem is that idiot frauds like you get platformed by huge podcasts and poison the minds of millions of listeners with your Zionist anti-establishment propaganda. You can't keep going on podcasts. That's literally all you do, Eric. You're a podcaster. We'd all love it if you would stop tomorrow, but we both know that's not going to happen, don't we? >> Science is the most amazing, powerful, crazy stuff possible. And we spend a fortune trying to convince people that scientists are worthless, that scientists are incapable. >> That's what you do, [\h__\h] You specifically train your brainwashed flock to regurgitate the notion that physicists are incompetent boners who haven't done anything relevant since 1973. >> The top people in this physics department professed that they had no interest in the physical world that they only cared about the mathematics that they were doing. And I just thought, you're in a theoretical physics group and you profess openly that you have no interest whatsoever in the physical world. >> No, that never happened. This is just the lost in math crap that frauds like you and Sabina echo from Electric Universe grifters. Any closing words, Eric? >> What advice would you give the listener? An actionable piece of advice so that they could live a subjectively better life. The songs of Tom Ler are pretty terrific, as are the operetas of Gilbert and Sullivan. You might want to explore the Azors as well as the Indonesian archipelago. Indonesian is one of the easiest languages to learn because it's been denuted of most of the complexity that screw up people who have a hard time learning other languages. Buy poster tropical fruit. Make sure that you visit every single single one on that poster before it's time for lights out. Consider box beind your ass in the in the chest sweet particularly by public sales and take a serious listen to euca cassity uh singing stormy Monday in an album called live from blues alley to see if uh you really know how to feel things I think professor long here's big chief is one of the most brilliant pieces of piano music absolutely inspiring if you really like that James Carol Ber the third has an album called the resurrection of the bayou Maharaja seriously think about visiting the island of selina in the south atlantic >> you heard it middle America hit the azource and learn Indonesian I know you're struggling with bills but learning Indonesian will do the trick trust me Jesus Christ this guy's a [\h__\h] robot he's asked for accessible advice and he just goes into a flow state, listing as many obscure references as humanly possible, like it's a trivia show lightning round. Honestly, behavior like this is even more telling than the propaganda in terms of showing you what Eric is. He's not a physicist. He's not a mathematician. He's not a deep thinker of any kind. He's a [\h__\h] jukebox. You put a quarter in and a neverending stream of [\h__\h] comes out. But of course, his agenda slips in there sometimes. Take a look at Kurt Jaongle's channel. He's doing amazing stuff being done by no one else on Earth. >> Yeah, he's the only ass hat who will take your bribe to pretend Gu is a real thing. What else could you be referring to? Interviews. He's the only person on Earth interviewing people. Astounding. >> We have a closing tradition where the last guest leaves a question for the next guest, not knowing who they're leaving it for. And the question that was left for you I love this question. What is the problem that you are doing the most mental gymnastics to avoid? Pass. This must be what Eric sounds like in therapy. Eric, what are you avoiding? Are you avoiding the realization that you're a pointless fraud whose entire existence is focused on falsely elevating yourself and deceiving the public? Pass. Uh, what do you mean pass? Just pass. Anyway, Eric's agenda has been pretty clear lately. Spread Israeli propaganda to diminish genocide and spew conspiracies to deflect from how badly he's been exposed as a complete nobody. This whole linking of big science to Jeffrey Epstein is exactly what that [\h__\h] form scapes did in the one video I made on him. Robert Maxwell and Pergamon press. Therefore, science is scientism. Nobody in the world is doing physics because American government. It's a caricature that only the dumbest people alive are still falling for. But that's what Eric's target audience has been reduced to. And Eric has no one to blame but himself for this gradual fading into complete irrelevance. So that's it for today's mockery of douchebag supreme Eric Weinstein. As long as he keeps trying to spew this crap on huge podcasts, I'll be here taking him down a peg or five. And since this is literally all he does in life, you can bet this won't be the last time you hear from me about his bloated bloations.