Do you have some advice for the non-scientists out there? The or the ones that are not uh maybe stop taking a science in high school and if they're just scrolling on social media, Tik Tok, YouTube, and they see some sort of slick slick sounding YouTube science uh some some title that's like making some kind of scientific claim. >> What's like the red red flags like they need to look out for here? I mean, uh, the first red flag is is any kind of like everything we know about science is wrong. Everything we knew about physics is wrong. Everything blah blah blah is wrong because this one thing I'm showing you. That has happened pretty much zero times in the history of science. I mean, maybe in the 1600s or something, but um, that's not going to ever be true. That's not going to be true that one thing is going to make all of physics wrong because physics is right. We know because we use it to create technology that works. So physics is right. We can uh amend certain details and expand into new areas of understanding. Um but that kind of hyper sensationalist uh uh language rhetoric is is your primary red flag. Um and uh it's it's clickbait. It goes beyond simple clickbait. It started as clickbait. I think that kind of approach was like hey this will the urgency created by this will make people click on it. But it has transferred over into fueling science denial because the impression that people get is that oh it's very very easy and and regularly happens that all of science becomes wrong. So uh number one I don't have to learn it because it'll all be wrong tomorrow. I can just look at the latest Tik Tok and that'll be you know replaces all of physics. Um but yeah that would be the primary red flag. And then just in general anyone who disparages the entire scientific community as a whole. You can't do that. One scientist could be a fraud. That is absolutely true. And you could have a video that says this scientist is a fraud and it may or may not have legitimacy. You can watch it with with with skepticism in mind and you can then look at other sources and go, "Wow, a lot of people are calling out this one scientist." Or or if this is a coordinated attack on a public health official or something, right? could go either way. But anyone who says all scientists are wrong, >> it's insanity, right? They are definitely a fraud.