Hey everyone. Many of you saw my recent video detailing what I would have said to Brett Weinstein if he wasn't a little coward who declined to debate me on Piers Morgan. That commentary ended once my part of the segment began. And a lot of people asked me to upload my bit separately since they didn't want to give Piers the traffic. So that's what this is. Please enjoy. We're listening to my previous two guests and here to give his verdict on whether RFK is making America healthy again is Dave Fina, the host of Professor Dave Explains. Uh well Dave, welcome to Uncensored. >> Thanks for having me. >> Your response to what you were just listening to. >> I mean, where to begin? Uh I mean, I'm familiar with Brett Weinstein. I'm not familiar with his opponent, but I know uh you know, I've dealt with him and his brother. They're peas in a pod. Uh yeah, Brett just basically pedals, uh conspiracies to generate a cult following online. Uh a lot of what he said was absolutely ridiculous. He went on a tirade about uh you know aluminum based adgivants not being tested. Absolutely not. They've been tested rigorously. They're shown to be safe. Uh the levels of aluminum are comparable to what are ingested through breast milk by children, stuff like that. It's just basically his whole shtick is just kind of like I'm just asking questions and look at all these things and um there's just absolutely no basis for it. I'm a little alarmed that both of them had anything positive to say about RFK. I I don't think that there is really anything positive that you can say about him. He's been a complete train wreck. um antithetical to the idea of public health in every way, shape, and form. So, I'm sure that we're going to get into the specifics of how that is the case. >> Well, I I've got to say I've interviewed him a number of times, RFK Jr., I went into it thinking that everything I read would mean I would have a crackpot in front of me espousing crackpot ideas. Actually, I didn't get that feeling from him. And I've watched very carefully the way that he has performed so far. The measles crisis was interesting because he took a bit of time but then came down and publicly endorsed the vaccination which I think surprised people. I completely agree with him that America needs to wean itself off overprocessed food. Um I think he's he's right to try and get Americans fitter. America has shocking health rates really comparative to say Asian countries. Um the obesity rates are alarming. So there are lots of things where I find myself nodding to him. What is it about him that concerns you so much? Because obviously you don't agree with what I just said, but what concerns you so much? >> So, you just asked three separate questions, so I'll answer each of them. Uh, number one, he absolutely is a crackpot. Uh, he has pushed my asthma theory, terrain theory, pushed Ivormectin, hydroxychloricquin. He promotes raw milk. Uh, he continues to push lies about vaccines causing autism. Uh, just all manner of uh, blatant pseudocience. and he's leveraging his position to have this essentially is like a repeat of Stalin backing Lysenko uh where you have this sort of state sanctioned pseudocience trying to usurp actual science and that's what we're seeing with all of the layoffs uh discarding the entire vaccine safety panel you have even top experts like Peter Marx uh saying and I quote it has become clear that truth and transparency are not desired by the secretary but rather he wishes subservient confirmation of his misinformation and lies so he's just surrounding himself with yesmen that will promote pseudocience. He's even threatening to ban uh federal scientists from publishing research in respected journals demanding they publish in the state uh state sanctioned alternative. So this is all driving scientific talent out of the country preventing uh people from immigrating here to be part of the scientific community. It's very disastrous the pseudocience but then speaking to what you said about uh vaccines and ultrarocessed foods. His vaccine rhetoric is directly responsible for deaths. And you guys have been focusing on the Texas outbreak, but let's not forget the Samoa outbreak where he is absolutely 100% directly responsible for 83 deaths over there. He is the one who went over there, met with antivaccine uh adv, you know, uh advocates and uh pushed this false narrative about the outbreak being due to uh to a vaccine rather than actual measles. 83 deaths on his head, no remorse over here in Texas. Right. Obviously, he uh you know, when he gets cornered, he's going to backtrack and say, "Oh, no, no, no. By the way, you know, MMR is fine. Everybody should get it." But he's the one pushing all these long debunked uh uh conspiracies about uh the the autism thing, which goes all the way back to Andrew Wakefield, the massive fraud from from your neck of the woods. Um and then to go to ultrarocessed foods. Look, this is the one thing where it's like, yeah, junk food is bad for you. Are we going to give this guy a medal for saying that junk food is bad for you? Everybody knows that, right? I mean, it's like what what is like it it also speaks to the the hypocrisy of the right as well, though, because, you know, not like um this huge fan of Michelle Obama or anything, but she had an initiative to make school lunches more healthy. And Republicans jumped on her, federal overreach, big government, all this stuff. And now RFK comes around, says, "Oh, yeah, by the way, junk food is bad." And everyone's clapping and cheering like he's some kind of messiah. What is the plan here? Ban fast food, ban soda, banan ice cream. I don't think that uh that his orange boss would be too pleased if McDonald's is outlawed. So, what's what's the end goal here? This is just rhetoric to try to make it seem like he's on the side of the public when he just absolutely isn't. Right? He pretends to be this uh bullwark fighting against uh fighting against big pharma and everybody in the private industry, but as soon as he gets the reigns, soon as he gets the keys to the castle, what does he do? He guts all of the federal institutions that are meant to protect the public against the private sector. thousands of layoffs at the FDA, at the CDC, all right, the entire vaccine panel. What's happened to the vaccine panel? He replaced them with Robert Malone, all these other frauds. Then if these vaccines are no longer recommended, then low-income families, low-income children don't have access to them for free anymore. So all this rhetoric about not wanting to take vaccines away from people, it's actually specifically what he's doing. So all of it is a facade. All of it. when when you take a specific for example like mRNA vaccines uh you know I've heard exactly the same rhetoric that RF Kennedy Jr. uh says about this from a top UK oncologist. I mean literally one of the best in the country. He he absolutely concurs that there are genuine issues about the mRNA vaccine. And I would just use that as as an example where COVID in many ways did reveal that science is an ever evolving thing that sometimes people take impleable positions that turn out to be completely untrue. I remember the scientists collectively assuring us that if you took the vaccine then you could not transmit the virus and then it turned out that was nonsense. early on they said you know you shouldn't use masks then they became mandatory and so on and then later it looks like masks weren't that uh helpful anyway etc. Um, so science evolves and it moves. And I guess my overview would be if the experts have been so expert in America in terms of health in the last 50 years, why is America so unhealthy? >> Okay. Again, that's like three different questions. Uh, first of all, you're what you're attributing to the scientific community is actually just a couple of things that Biden said offhand, right? In terms of um not you won't get infected, things like that. That's not what doctors said. Um, so, okay, leaving the why Americans are so unhealthy thing for later. Just we should talk about mRNA vaccines cuz you just had Brett Weinstein on and he is one of the main purveyors of all these lies and conspiracies uh about you know fabricating all of these millions of deaths and all these other things. Uh his opponent was a little more uh reasonable in terms of uh discussing the the co vaccines. So uh in terms of like we we absolutely cannot deny the efficacy and the success in saving millions of lives for these co vaccines especially at this lightning speed in which they were produced where other therapies did fail. So uh we we to talk as though that's not true is ridiculous. But then looking at this uh you know 500 million cut uh for future you know you had a clip of of someone else talking about all these other alternate therapies that uh we're not going to get anymore because this was cut. I mean this is absolutely indefensible right there. There is there is a kernel of truth to some of the rhetoric about the mRNA vaccines in terms of the um it was the the urine pseudoine the nmethyl pseudurdine swap which is responsible for uh the spike protein uh lingering longer than we expected. It's sometimes found 6 months later in in muscle tissue and things like that. So that was a bit unexpected. But how you know how do you and and by the way all of the side effects have been completely overblown by frauds like Brett Weinstein completely fabricated all of these you know the myocarditis and all this stuff just complete false rhetoric right so it's not that there's nothing there right we can talk about why is this spike protein hanging hanging around longer than we expected to but how do you answer that question you do more research right you you study it you don't you don't gut the FDA and CDC you don't you don't have you know billions of dollars of budget cuts you don't push brilliant scientists out of the country and prevent other brilliant foreign scientists from coming into the country due to RFK's policies and Trump's uh you know attitude towards immigrants. It's just a complete mess. I mean it's a deterioration of the American scientific community right before our eyes and RFK and Trump that Trump's administration are directly responsible for it. That's really all there is to it. Um as far what was the last >> but but on that on that big picture you know the big picture point was about why if the experts had been so expert why is America so unhealthy? I mean look it's poverty right America is absolutely unique among the world powers in terms of number one not having uh uh you know affordable health care uh it's it not having access to to to healthy food not having access to affordable healthcare like this is what's driving health concerns so uh if we want to address these things obviously we have to figure out how to make healthcare better and so that involves standing up to health insurance industries and things like that um but also just kind of taking it more seriously if we want to understand right RFK pushes this uh you know this explosion in chronic disease 54% prevalence and it's all magically lined up with 1989 in the vaccine schedule and junk food it's complete rubbish I mean we obviously we know junk food isn't good for you right that's not news and okay what are you going to do like enforce uh laws that prevent people from manufacturing and eating fast food luck with that if you want to try that but more importantly why don't we research the genetic basis for a lot of these diseases. Things certainly behavioral and neurological diseases are largely genetic. And then even stuff like obesity has a very large genetic component. Why aren't we researching that more? And then just ultimately economics. I mean I'd say post World War II just America has become this venue where you know the oligarchy is just consistently vying for supremacy here. specifically being that US is the you know at the moment remains I believe the the premier global power um that may change soon or or is already in the process of changing but that's why we see this continued transference of of wealth uh from the masses into the oligarchy and that's going to generate uh incredible amounts of poverty and with that you don't have access to healthy food you don't have access to healthcare that's the main problem that's what we should be focusing on >> okay Dave Fina Thank you very much. Well, we're listening to all that. Was Brett Brett Jirro, one of the two people I interviewed earlier who stayed on just to listen to what Dave had to say. Uh Brett, what's your response to that? >> Well, I I agree with a lot of what was said. I mean, it's hard in a debate format to to to jump on everything that's being said by the other Brett, but things like, you know, adivants have been studied forever and they're not linked with these catastrophic consequences. uh the mRNA vaccines have saved millions of lives. Yes, we can always improve our vaccine safety monitoring, but the vaccine safety monitoring uh particularly uh the prospective one that's throughout the health systems that report to the CDC is pretty good and they saw myocarditis very early. Myocarditis is real. It's not due to mRNA vaccines. It's a class effect uh probably related to the spike protein that we saw with adn noirus. And um so so I agree. I certainly agree that stacking the ASIP panel, the vaccine panel um at CDC and eliminating all inputs from scientific societies like IDSA is just a way to guarantee that the result that he wants the secretary wants on vaccines is going to is going to happen and to put some modicum of legitimacy there because well the ASIP said this is what we should do but he's already stacked the ASIP with people who have pseudoscientific beliefs. Um I do want to say one thing about America being unhealth unhealthy and I you know I I want to foot stomp a lot of what you said. Um one factor that um I think is very important is you know you have to change the reimbursement system. Uh we have a sick care system that reimbures for sick care. um I will happily reimburse you to amputate uh somebody's leg who has diabetes and vascular disease but we don't put the money prospectively into access to preventative care access to healthy foods. So the entire reimbursement system almost guarantees that we maintain a sick society and it doesn't support the maintenance of health and in addition to everything that was said which I agree with um that reimbursement system absolutely needs to be changed to be a healthpromoting system and not a sick a sick care system. Ju just finally um uh Brett, you know, Dave painted a pretty apocalyptic picture of how he views RFK Jr. running America's health. I I detect you're not quite as grim-faced about it, but what would your response be to to Dave to maybe reassure him? >> So, I I can't reassure him because I don't know, right? I don't I I don't know how this is all going to turn out. um having been assistant secretary and worked for someone who I think is an outstanding secretary uh Alex Azar uh who is uh very smart uh understood uh how to make things happen uh no craziness whatsoever very science-based um I I think a secretary is going to have an opportunity to do maybe two or three things and you know that's going to that's going to be it maybe two or three or four things and uh I'm trying to you know support the things that I think are are very important that could be beneficial. And I, you know, if this secretary did nothing else but work on nutrition, raise nutrition um as a national priority, uh elimination of diets, uh I think that could be uh very helpful for the country, right? Um uh on the other hand uh inst instilling vaccine hesitancy, fear of vaccines, uh pseudocience on the headlines like the mRNA vaccines are killing more people than they help. Uh gutting the uh scientific system that are at our agencies. These could be catastrophic, right? And that's why we're having this what that's why we're having this this discussion here. So my goal is to help promote what I think is in the best public health's interest. He is our secretary and until he is not our secretary, uh which may be in three and a half years or maybe tomorrow. You know, Trump does fire people. Um while he's our secretary, I want to promote and support the things that I think are beneficial for public health. And uh um I want to come on shows like this to argue with things that I think are detrimental. And the whole vaccine policy, his whole tenor about vaccines, um his whole gutting the scientific infrastructure about vaccines, I think is highly detrimental and could be catastrophic. >> Dave, final word to you. >> Uh I agree with all of that. The the only thing I would emphasize is that his his this veneer of concern about nutrition and public health, it's it's a facade. It's just a smokeokc screen to uh make people think that he is actually concerned with the masses when he's really just there to implement this agenda. Uh he's just gutting all these federal institutions, right? It's very much aligned with what Trump and Musk were trying to do with Doge, right? going in trying to pretend that uh you know they're that they're that they're cutting all of this waste when in reality they're just gutting the institutions that have any ability to regulate the private sector, right? It's all in line with this continued transference of wealth from the general public into the oligarchy. And RFK is right in line with that. As much as he tries to portray himself as the polar opposite of that, uh it is what he is. >> You know, Trump was asked recently in an interview, you know, he eats so much fast food. gives you a good example. He said, "Well, all the people who've been lecturing me about eating fast food have passed." And then he did a big smirk. I'll just leave us with that. Uh cuz one thing's for sure, Trump is ridiculously healthy for a guy of nearly 80 who's had the diet he's led. Uh maybe it's the lack of alcohol might be the key, I think, to why he may be uh as healthy as he is, but we shall see. Uh thank you both very much. I appreciate it. So, that was me on Piers Morgan. How do you think I did? Do you think Piers learned anything? Do you think his audience learned anything? I'd like to think so, but it's hard to tell. Would I do it again? Sure. For the right topic. It always makes for good content, right? I'll see you next time.