Hey everyone, we're back with more of this series exposing all the frauds at Discovery Institute, the Christian propaganda mill whose sole purpose is to lie about science to push a regressive theocratic agenda. Who's today's target? That would be Michael Edgar. Who is he and what kinds of lies does he tell? Let's find out. Okay, let's see. Michael Egggner, MD, medical doctorate from Colombia, professor of neurosurgery and pediatrics at Stonybrook University. 30 papers. He sounds a bit more qualified than most of the other DI boners, don't you think? Well, none of this stuff matters when you're lying for Jesus. And since he can't do that in his legitimate scientific output, what else can he do? Oh, right. Shitty books. Just like Meer and Behe and the rest of the DI clowns, Edgar writes dog [\h__\h] books like The Immortal Mind: A Neurosurgeons Case for the Existence of the Soul. Edgar joined the DI in 2007. He started writing articles and eventually appearing in videos for them. And recently, he's been spotted out in the wild, like on the Piers Morgan program. Many of these videos have hundreds of thousands of views, so he has developed a reasonable audience over the years. So, what's his grift all about? Well, you've heard the DI whine about materialism before, right? We saw them do this all the way back in part one of this series with Casey Luskin and the idiotic science uprising video, denying the entire field of anthropology. Science does not need humans to share a common ancestor with monkeys. materialism does. We are not materialists. We see the human soul. Human evolution isn't science, you guys. It's materialism. That dirty, filthy ideology where stupid atheist jerks pretend that we weren't created super special just the way we are, complete with an immaterial soul that lets us go to heaven and party with Jesus. What is materialism really? It represents the idea that matter is the fundamental substance in nature and all things including mental states and consciousness are the results of material interactions. No fancy soul needed, just brains and whatnot. Here's the thing. These days the term materialism apart from academic courses teaching the history of philosophy is more or less only used by pseudocience peddlers and religious fundamentalists because the scientific community understands that the material world is all we have access to by definition. We can't have access to the supernatural world were it to exist because if we did then it would be defined as natural and we could study it scientifically. The scientific method and evidence-based experimentation are the only way to get to any kind of truth regarding the physical world around us. And any alleged supernatural phenomena are necessarily beyond the scope of scientific inquiry because they are considered to be outside the realm of observable, measurable, and repeatable natural processes. So essentially, whining about materialism as an ideology is just the fundamentalist's way of admitting that they have no [\h__\h] clue what science is. But Edgar doesn't buy it. Just like how flatearthers say they used to be globers and antivaxers say they used to be provax. Edgar says he used to be a materialist. But after his long career as a neurosurgeon, he just had to change his mind and become a dualist. Science showed him the way. So what's dualism? It's the idea that your mind and your body are made of two totally different substances. Your body is physical, but your mind is some supernatural, magical, non-physical essence floating around in your skull. This goes all the way back to Renee Deart in the 1600s, who pictured the mind as a ghost driving a biological machine. And sure, that might have been a reasonable conclusion in an age when people thought that disease was caused by bad smells. Yes, that's a real thing. It's called my asthma theory. But we should all know better here in the 21st century, shouldn't we? I mean, after all, how exactly would a non-physical thing with no discernable composition and structure interact with physical matter made of atoms and molecules? Unicorn farts, quantum fairy dust. This wasn't of much concern centuries ago when we didn't know that atoms and molecules exist, but now we do. So, how does this relationship between the physical and non-physical work? We've had plenty of time to figure it out and nobody's produced a mechanism that makes any sense. Meanwhile, the field of neuroscience keeps showing us that every aspect of your mind, your memories, your emotions, even your sense of self, depends on physical processes in the brain. Change the brain and you change the mind. That's not a hypothesis. That's an observable fact. This information wasn't available to Decart. They knew very little about the brain in his day, but we know a lot today. So, there's really no excuse. Because of this, when people cling to dualism in this modern era, it's typically because they like the comforting idea that the real you survives death. It's wishful thinking stemming from a fear of mortality. To be clear, they also are not up to date on the last hundred years of neuroscience, but it wouldn't help them anyway. The laws of nature don't bend to make us feel warm and fuzzy inside. And the evidence points to the mind being what the brain does, not some mysterious ghost in the machine. Damage your hippocampus and suddenly you can't form new memories. Smash up your frontal lobe and your personality does a complete 180. This isn't speculation. Phenomena like this have been documented thousands of times in clinical neurology. If the mind were some mysterious non-physical essence floating around completely independent of the brain, why would a bump on your head turn you into a totally different person? Did the ghost in there stub its toe? Can ghosts have toes? Does it stub its toes on the brain and that's how it controls everything? How do ghost toes affect the non- ghost brain? So many questions. Back to brain stuff, we can even see thoughts forming in real time with fMRI and EEG. Different brain regions light up for language, vision, motor control, and so forth. And if researchers stimulate those regions with electricity, they can make you move your arm, hear a sound, or even feel an emotion. Did you hear what I said? Stimulating a region of the brain with electricity makes you feel feelings you weren't having a moment prior. That's not contacting some kind of soul. That's just manipulating wet biological hardware. So unless your ghost has a phantom USB cable plugged into your cortex, dualism doesn't just fail, it collapses spectacularly under the weight of actual empirical evidence. Dualism is officially archaic and obsolete. Despite all this, Agnar claims this change of heart was due to large amounts of neuroscientific evidence he has accumulated. Kind of like Gunter Beckley allegedly reading all those shitty propaganda books opposite Origin of Species at the museum. Huh. Real cute story. Edgar also reports being an atheist in his youth, but he then changed his materialist views not long after becoming a Christian. Coincidence, maybe. And to put the cherry on top, he has also expressed anti-evolution views. He's whined about scientific consensus asist corruption. And we will get into all of that crap throughout the video as well. So, as you can already see, Edgar is similar in a certain regard to someone like James Tour. Now, I've never seen him shriek like a maniac while holding chalk. That's not what I'm referring to. What I mean is that unlike almost everyone at the DI, James is a real scientist who publishes papers. Edgar is a neurosurgeon who has published papers. But just like James, he steps outside of his expertise, tells nothing but lies, and makes baseless theological claims. Being a neurosurgeon doesn't mean he's an expert on philosophy of mind, frontier neuroscience research, or anything that has to do with actual evidence regarding consciousness. So when Edgar talks about dualism or the mind is not the brain, this isn't coming from some dispassionate review of the data. It's lies and propaganda. It's behe and irreducible complexity. It's meer and the waiting time problem. It may sound like science to the untrained and suggestible ear, but in reality, it's complete [\h__\h] Discovery Institute's entire mission is to smuggle theological claims into science education. Dualism is essentially the neuroscience analog of intelligent design. It's not about finding the truth. It's about making sure that the conclusion always supports their religious worldview. That there's an immaterial soul created by their god. This is why Agnar ignores or misrepresents decades of hard neuroscience showing direct causal links between brain states and mental states. Legion studies ignored neuroiming cherrypicked or misrepresented. Electrical stimulation producing thoughts and emotions handwaved away. Why? Because admitting that the mind is what the brain does would mean the immortal soul is an obsolete religious idea, not a scientific construct. And if your paycheck comes from a propaganda mill that exists solely to defend biblical literalism for the purpose of eroding the separation of church and state, you're going to have to ignore a lot of science that proves you wrong. So here's the takeaway. Dualism in this context isn't just wrong, it's deliberately wrong. It's a devious strategy. Just like how irreducible complexity is a PR tool for creationism, dualism is a PR tool for keeping supernaturalism on life support in the age of neuroscience. And every time someone like Edgar promotes it, they're not doing science. They're doing apologetics in a lab coat and hoping you can't see the difference. Okay, with some important background information covered, let's watch this jerk spew his dumb script. The main source we will pull from is another one of those ridiculous science uprising videos. The evidence against materialism. Oo, this should be very scientific. >> U materialism is is an ancient philosophy. Uh it dates back to the ancient Greeks. And um the viewpoint of Democrus who was a Greek philosopher uh is that the only thing that exists is atoms in the void and that everything including uh the human mind is reducible to atoms in the void. >> Pretty damn smart that Democrus, huh? Mikey is trying to denigrate materialism by calling it ancient. But all he's really doing is admitting that there were ancient Greeks with no access to any science whatsoever that were still able to arrive at more sensible conclusions than him. But wait, he has evidence. There are a variety of classic studies in neuroscience that support the viewpoint that some aspects of the mind are not material and that um refute materialism. Uh the first set of experiments uh are experiments that show cerebral localization with certain kinds of neurological functions but not with others. It's been known since the 19th century that for motor and sensory function, there are very specific locations in the brain that seem to mediate those functions. Uh what if I move my hand that is controlled by a specific part of my opposite cerebral hemisphere and the area is is is quite discreet. Uh vision is controlled by a very discreet area in the occipital loes. However, higher intellectual functions, abstract thought such as mathematics, such as contemplating um ethics, uh things involved in personality, uh are not localized like that. That is that there is no calculus center of my brain. Uh there's no addition center of my brain. The brain seems to be necessary ordinarily for doing calculus and doing addition and thinking about concepts like justice and mercy and so on, but it's not localizable in any way near the same way that movement and sense and sensation is localizable. >> Right? There's no part of the brain that's specific to doing calculus. So souls must exist. This is not a good argument. It's like saying that traffic doesn't happen exclusively at one intersection. Therefore, cars are magic. Yes, higher level thinking things like planning, reasoning, and abstract thought aren't confined to a single chunk of brain tissue like certain rudimentary functions. But that's because complex cognitive functions are distributed across neural networks, not because they're floating around in the ether. You don't find reasoning in a single neuron cluster for the same reason you don't find internet in a single server. It's an emergent property of many physical parts working together. We know this because fMRI and intraraanial recordings show distinct patterns of activation across multiple regions during tasks that involve highle thinking including the prefrontal cortex, parietal loes, temporal loes, and even subcortical structures like the phalamus. When you damage any part of that network, you degrade the ability to perform these tasks. That's a physical causal link. Second, and more importantly, distributed doesn't mean non-physical. Take long-term memories. When you store a memory of your high school graduation, it's not locked in a single memory cell somewhere. The hippocampus helps consolidate it, but the actual memory is distributed throughout the cortex. Visual aspects in the occipital lobe, sounds in the auditory cortex, emotional tone in the amygdala, and contextual associations in the temporal and parietal loes. This distributed pathway comes together to produce the complex experience of remembering a detailed memory. What we have to understand is that if you damage one part of this pathway, you lose part of the memory or your ability to retrieve it even though the rest of the memory remains intact. This is 100% consistent with a distributed physical system and totally unnecessary if immaterialism were true. If the memory wasn't exclusively physical, why would damaging parts of the brain erase aspects of the memory? And in general, it's a very selective claim. The immune system is distributed across your whole body, but no one claims it's supernatural. The same goes for weather systems, ecosystems, or cognitive processes. Not in one spot does not equal not in the brain. Edgar's logic boils down to if I can't point to a single brain cell and say that's where your creativity lives, then creativity must be immaterial. It's just more God of the Gaps [\h__\h] Finally, we have to point out that beyond his argument being completely invalid, the premise itself is false. There are examples of localized prefrontal activity that produces higher level thinking. There is a lobe in the brain that is for complex rational thinking. The prefrontal cortex, especially the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, is the brain region most strongly associated with higher order reasoning, abstract thought, decision-making, and impulse control. If you damage it, you don't just get a mild personality shift, you lose complex rational thinking abilities. This is taught in high school biology. The fact that he isn't mentioning this at all screams deception. But after learning about similar science denial on the most trivial level from Meyer and Beehey, are we really surprised? He spews more of the same crap in this blog post he wrote for the DI called, "Logic shows abstract thought is an immaterial power." Get this [\h__\h] Mikey says there is an infinite number of possible abstract thoughts we can have but a finite number of neurons therefore immaterialism. Let's read this adorable bit together. But now consider my intellect. There is no similar finite bound on the size of a number I can contemplate. I can think of the number 7 * 10 27 which is 7 octillion. That is roughly the number of atoms in the universe. But I can also easily think of twice that number 1.4 4 * 10 28 and then double that number. How about an octillion * 7 octillion? There is no limit on the numbers I can think of. So the question for materialists is this. How can the infinite capacity of my intellect, which is my capacity for abstract thought, be generated by a finite number of neurons or atoms in my brain? How can infinite states of my intellect be generated by finite states of my brain? It's ironic hearing Mikey reference his intellect while saying something this profoundly stupid. Basically, he is saying, "I can think of arbitrarily large numbers. Therefore, the mind can't be finite and must be immaterial." Well, genius, potential unboundedness is not the same thing as actual infinity. Saying, "I can always imagine a bigger number just means that you can conceive of the concept of numbers and you can follow a rule forever." It doesn't mean you have a separate neuron for every number or something insane like that. The brain doesn't need a separate neuron for every possible thought. It just needs mechanisms that manipulate symbols and rules, which is exactly what neural networks and cognitive systems do. And this guy is supposed to be a brain scientist. Think about language. 26 letters give you an infinite number of sentences. A tiny program, five lines of code, can print bigger and bigger numbers forever. That single finite mechanism generates an unbounded sequence. No infinities or supernatural quintessences required. That's how brains work. They store rules, symbols, and compression and then manipulate them. If you want to argue for an immaterial soul, you have to show humans reaching actual infinite non-computable states that no finite physical system could ever represent. And Mikey obviously can't do that. He's conflating I can always make a new thought with I must possess an infinite warehouse of thoughts. It's just stupid. Moving on to his next dumb thing. >> Back in the 1960s, Roger Sperry uh who is a prominent neuroscientist did a series of studies on patients who had had uh split brain operations. And these are patients who had severe epilepsy in which uh an epileptic focus would begin in one hemisphere of the brain and travel through the corpus colosum which is a bundle of fibers connecting the two hemispheres and cause a generalized seizure. It was recognized by surgeons in the mid- 20th century that if you cut the fiber bundle that connected the two hemispheres of the brain that you could prevent the seizures from becoming generalized and you could greatly improve the quality of the patient's life. So a number of patients had this operation called called corpus calisottomy. It's an operation that I've performed and that many neurosurgeons have performed and um surprisingly after the operation the patients uh their seizures would get better of course but they really weren't much different that is that their brains were essentially cut in half but they still seem to be a unitary person. They still seem to be fairly normal. Sperry was a neuroscientist who studied these people in detail and he did find that there were some subtle abnormalities as a result of cutting the brain in half. But the abnormalities were very subtle. They were so subtle that the experiments he did won him the Nobel Prize. But they weren't obvious. They weren't obvious changes. And what that implies is that the the human mind is not purely uh generated by the matter of the brain. Otherwise, cutting the brain in half would have profound effects on the human mind. It might make two people. Certainly, it would it would create a a rather profound difference in in a person's state of consciousness. And it doesn't. you can cut the brain in half and the person can't tell the difference except that he has fewer seizures. >> Okay, so this is just one big fat lie. He's basically taking a thing that demonstrates materialism magnificently, the profound changes that occur for these split brain patients and just lying about it, saying that they don't change much at all in the hopes of getting people to ignore this phenomenon entirely. To reiterate the factual part of what he said, Roger Sperry would cut the corpus colosum of patients with epilepsy to prevent the spread of seizure to the other side of the brain. After doing this, seizures would improve and he claims their personalities would remain pretty much constant. First of all, he describes this procedure as cutting the brain in half. That's a bit misleading. The hemispheres of the brain are already separate, connected primarily by the corpus colosum and just a few smaller structures. He's pretending that Sperry sliced right through the middle of entire loes of the brain. He understands basic brain structure. So this is deliberately deceptive rhetoric. But more importantly, he's just flatout lying about the effects on the personalities of the individuals. Let's first point out how dumb the argument itself really is. If you cut a brain in half and don't get two people, that proves a soul exists. No, what it proves is that Mikey doesn't understand how brain modularity and plasticity work. When you sever the corpus colossum, the primary method of hemispheric communication, the two hemispheres of the brain can't communicate in the same way. Each hemisphere process information from the opposite visual field and controls the opposite side of the body. But language production and most logical reasoning reside in the left hemisphere, especially in right-handed individuals. To initially investigate this, Sperry had split brain patients stare at a fixed point while different words or images were quickly flashed to either their left or right visual field, ensuring that only one hemisphere received the stimulus. The study's findings showed that one, language and speech are lateralized. When a word was shown to the right visual field or the left hemisphere of the brain, the patient could easily state out loud what they saw. But when a word was shown to the left visual field or the right hemisphere of the brain, they said that they saw nothing even though their left hand, which is controlled by the right hemisphere of the brain, could point to or draw the correct object. Two, each hemisphere has its own awareness. When asked to match images or words with their hands, each hand could do it independently based on its hemisphere's input without the other hand knowing what was going on. In some tests, the two hands even tried to do different things or interfere with each other. And three, he saw limited interheiser transfer. Complex tasks requiring cooperation between hemispheres became impaired. For example, a split brain patient might struggle to name an object they held in their left hand because the right hemisphere received the tactile information but couldn't then communicate it to the left hemisphere's language centers. I have a tutorial regarding brain lateralization in my biocsychology series that you can check out if you want more details regarding these famous experiments and the absolutely fascinating results. But we can already see that Edgar is totally full of [\h__\h] Beyond these being huge changes to the way a person operates, it very nearly satisfies his demand of the splitrain patient acting like two different people. Each hemisphere has its own stream of consciousness and answers questions totally differently. There are patients for whom one hemisphere of the brain believes in God and the other doesn't whereby when asked about the belief, one hemisphere answers yes verbally and the other points to no on a card. I bet Mikey would agree that's a pretty big difference. Don't you think? A believer and an atheist in one body call the exorcist. Anyway, what this study really demonstrated is that each hemisphere can operate independently for some functions. The idea that a relatively unified personality after split brain surgery somehow proves the existence of an immaterial soul is idiotic. It misrepresents both the brain's architecture and how mental unity emerges from physical systems. Mechanistically, the reason patients don't develop two independent personalities in many cases isn't because of a soul stitching them together. It's because the brain is far more integrated than Edgar suggests. The corpus colosum is just one of several pathways the brain uses for interheispheric communication. Even after it's severed, subcortical structures like the anterior commissioner, calicular connections, and brain stem circuits still allow for integration of information at a more basic level. Furthermore, much of what we think of as personality and selfhood, our preferences, habits, emotions, and long-term memories, are not split cleanly across hemispheres. They're represented in distributed neural networks that involve both sides of the brain simultaneously. Meaning that identity remains intact, even if some communication is reduced. So, the fact that consciousness remains relatively unified after split brain surgery doesn't point to something magical. It simply demonstrates the brain's redundancy, plasticity, and complex architecture, which are wellestablished properties of a physical system. Splitbrain patients don't show us souls. They show us how robust, resilient, and ultimately physical the brain truly is. And even if we didn't understand alternate mechanisms, concluding that a soul is necessary to explain this is very obviously a god of the gaps style argument. What else you got, Mikey? There are the experiments of Wilder Penfield who was uh the pioneer in epilepsy neurosurgery was the first neurosurgeon to systematically uh operate on the human brain when people were awake. Uh the brain doesn't feel pain. Uh the scalp can feel pain, the skull can, but he would give local anesthesia so the patients didn't have pain. and he would work on their brain while they were awake in an effort to identify the focus of their seizures and to remove the focus from the brain so their seizures would stop. And he was a uh dualist for several reasons. First is that he repeatedly observed that there were aspects of the patient's mind that no matter what he did to the brain, he couldn't affect. You know, he could he could elicit memories by stimulating a part of the brain. He could make uh a muscle move or make a patient have a sensation, but he couldn't change uh their consciousness. He couldn't change their intellect. He couldn't change their sense of self. There was a fundamental core, the person's soul, that no matter what he did to the brain remained the same. So he said there was something he couldn't reach using material things. The other observation that he had which I think is absolutely fascinating is that he asked the question why are there no intellectual seizures and when people have epilepsy the epilepsy can follow various patterns. Commonly a person will have jerking of a muscle. Sometimes so many muscles jerk that they actually go unconscious. Sometimes they have a tingling on their skin or sometimes they'll have a funny smell or sometimes they can even have a little behavioral tick, but they never start doing calculus. They never contemplate justice or mercy. They never think about Shakespeare. So Penfield says, "Why aren't there intellectual seizures?" If the mind comes from the brain entirely, the mind is material in some sense. Well, then you ought to have seizures that make you do addition when you can't stop. You ought to have seizures that make you uh think about politics and you can't stop. But you don't. He says there are no intellectual seizures. And he says what that implies is that the intellect is not the brain because otherwise you would have it. You would have intellectual seizures. >> Wow. Seizures don't make you do calculus. So souls exist. Jesus Christ, he just keeps getting dumber. Okay, let's dig into this crap. So, what he's saying is that Penfield found that no matter what he did to the brain, certain aspects of the mind wouldn't change. And why don't seizures ever make people perform intellectual tasks? First of all, in doing brain surgery on awake patients, he showed that you can evoke memories, movements, or emotions without altering a person's sense of self. This doesn't make the sense of self immaterial. It just means that the neural coralates of identity or selfhood are not stored in one isolated spot in the brain. Nevertheless, there is abundant neurological evidence showing that altering or damaging specific regions of the brain can radically change a person's identity, behavior, and personality. The famous example of Phineas Gage is usually taught in middle school. For those who haven't heard the story, Phineas Gage was a railroad worker who survived a traumatic injury that destroyed much of his prefrontal cortex. After the accident, he became impulsive, irresponsible, and profane. A dramatic shift from his former responsible and mild-mannered personality. This was not just a mood change. It was a fundamental shift in his sense of self directly tied to a physical brain lesion. Similarly, degenerative diseases like Alzheimer's and fronttotemporal dementia gradually erode memory, language, moral judgment, and even personality traits, often to the point where loved ones describe the person as no longer themselves. The impairment of autobiographical memory or the recollection of life events that shape one's identity is well documented. This clearly shows that the core self is not untouchable. It is deeply rooted in brain structure and function. So no, the inability of early 20th century stimulation techniques to destroy the sense of self isn't evidence of an immaterial soul. It's just a technological limitation of the time. The self is very much a product of brain activity. And as countless neurological case studies show, it can indeed be altered, degraded, or even lost by purely physical means. Okay, moving on to the dumb [\h__\h] concept of intellectual seizures. What are seizures exactly? They're pathological bursts of synchronized electrical activity in neurons. They disrupt normal communication between brain cells. They don't enhance it. Expecting a seizure to produce calculus or philosophical reflection is like expecting a car engine exploding to result in smoother driving. Complex intellectual activity like solving equations or contemplating justice doesn't happen from random neuronal firing on large scales. It depends on finely tuned, highly coordinated neural circuits, especially across the prefrontal cortex, parietal loes, and language centers. These networks work in harmony, not in chaos. Seizures typically impair consciousness. They produce automatisms like repetitive movements or speech. They cause confusion, hallucinations, or involuntary emotions, not organized goal-directed cognition. There's nothing mysterious about this. Just like a software glitch won't randomly write better code, chaotic brain activity won't produce intellectual insight. So the absence of intellectual seizures doesn't imply an immaterial mind. It reflects the fact that disorganized neural activity disrupts thought rather than enhancing it. This is entirely consistent with the materialist understanding of the mind. So Mikey is basically just admitting that he doesn't know what seizures are. And finally, just to really drive home how clueless this guy is, there are instances in which after a serious brain injury, sometimes even after a seizure, the brain can rewire itself to develop new extraordinary abilities. It's called acquired soant syndrome. A classic example is Derek Amato, who suffered a concussion and then suddenly became a virtuosic pianist. Doesn't that sound like the exact [\h__\h] thing Mikey was whining about not seeing? Something happens to the brain and it makes you do a new awesome thing. These dumbass apologists have an incredible knack for presenting arguments that are not only idiotic straw men, but they also ignore the fact that what they're asking for miraculously has been observed anyway. Incredible. Can we get even dumber, Mike? In 2006, uh a uh a neuroscientist named Owen published uh a landmark uh uh study in the journal of science uh looking at brain function in people who were in persistent vegetative state. Many times their family and and sometimes their their caretakers will say, "But I get the sense that the person is there, that they understand things, but there's no clinical evidence for it. You examine them, there's no sign of any reaction at all. And on scan, their brains are are shrunken and obviously severely damaged. So what Owen did is that he took a woman who had been diagnosed for several years in persistent vegetative state from a car accident. Uh who showed no sign at all of any awareness, deep coma, put her in the MRI machine, and um asked her questions through a little microphone and head headset. He said, "Um, pretend that you're playing tennis or imagine that you're walking across a room." He asked her to imagine all these things and her brain kind of lit up in places, but you could say that, well, the brain lighting up doesn't mean she was understanding anything. It just meant maybe the sound coming into her ears was causing a reflex or something. So, what he did was he took 15 normal people and he did the same thing with them. stuck them in the machine, put and asked the same questions. And then he asked neuroraiologists to look at the functional MRI images of this woman and the 15 normal people and see if you could tell a difference between the two and they couldn't. Maybe the lighting up of areas in her brain and the lighting up of the areas in normal people's brains was not because of understanding was but was just because of the reception of the sound and that it didn't really mean she understood. So what he then did is he took the same words that he had asked her before and he asked them again but he mixed them but he mixed the sequence of the words so they didn't make any sense walking understand pretend room across so he took away the semantics and just left some syntax and her brain stop stopped reacting as did the normal controls even when your brain is so massively destroyed that there's no clinical evidence for any mental activity at functional MRI can find that these patients are capable of thinking in quite quite clear ways. There are aspects of the mind that cannot be destroyed by severe brain damage. That's what Owen's work is showing us. It's showing us there are aspects of the mind that aren't connected tightly to the brain that are immaterial. >> There you have it, folks. Brain goes bye-bye. Mind sticks around. So souls exist. Case closed. As always, we can't trust the apologist fraud to be honest about anything. So, let's explain what Owen actually did. He asked vegetative state patients to imagine certain tasks like playing tennis or walking through their house and looked for patterns of brain activation in an fMRI scanner. Some patients did show patterns similar to healthy controls, meaning they still had enough functioning cortical networks to follow instructions. But notice the key point. When brain activity was there, the mind's responsiveness was there. When brain activity was absent, the responsiveness was absent. No brain signal, no conscious behavior. Then there's the scramble words part. He mentions when Owen scrambled the words, so they made no sense. The activation disappeared in both healthy and vegetative patients. That doesn't mean there's some magical soul processing language outside the brain. It means the brain wasn't receiving coherent input. So there was nothing for the language network to process. This is not surprising whatsoever and it actually supports materialism. Then comes the biggest problem for Mikey. Persistent vegetative state is caused by widespread but incomplete brain damage. The patients who showed responses in Owen's experiments had preserved cortical tissue especially in regions like the supplementary motor area and parahhippocample place area that could still sustain those specific cognitive tasks. In other words, the results depend entirely on what parts of the brain are still physically intact. If you were to shoot someone between the eyes three times and then ask them to do math, they wouldn't be able to because the physical brain structures would be obliterated. There won't be some backup soul generator to compensate for this. Structure equals function. If the mind were truly separate from the brain, why do only some vegetative patients respond but not others, and only in ways linked to preserved brain structures? Why are they looking at fMRI data at all? Why wouldn't the magical soul just think freely without relying on surviving brain tissue to demonstrate activity? The evidence fits materialism perfectly. Consciousness requires functioning neural networks. When they're gone, so is conscious processing. Also, doesn't all of this contradict his first argument about cortical localization? He now conceds that there is observed and consistent diffuse brain activity for higher level understanding. These guys can't even keep their stories straight, much less make any kind of coherent point. Let's keep the stupid train rolling. >> Some of the most fascinating work in neuroscience has been the work of Benjamin Liebbit who uh was a neuroscientist uh in California uh back in the mid 20th century. Liebbit was fascinated by the correlation in time between thought and brain activity. And he did a whole series of experiments in which he would place electrodes on the scalp of patients or people and he would ask them to um make decisions or think about things and he would attempt to time the moment when they made a decision when they thought about something and correlate the moment they thought about something with a the moment that there was a change in the brain wave activity. And he did a number of different experiments. One experiment has become very famous and ironically has been used by materialists to support materialism. Although an understanding of what Liebbit actually found is quite the opposite. It refutes materialism. The experiment that Lieut did was he would uh ask a person to press a button when they decided to do so. So he put a button in front of them and he would have a clock with a sweep uh hand and the person would just sit there and whenever they would decide I think I'll press the button and push the button he asked them when they made the decision to press the button not when they pushed it but when they decided to push it just note the the the fraction of a second that was on the clock at the same time he was recording brain waves and he wanted to find out the moment you decide what happens in your brain and what he found was quite consistently was that about perhaps half a second before you decide to do something there's a spike in your brain spike in your brain wave that he called the readiness potential and it was before you were aware of the decision to do anything there's almost like an unconscious motive and then you would decide a half second later and do it. So he found this quite consistently that there would be the spike in brain activity then the conscious awareness of a decision and then you go ahead and do what you decided. Materialists have used this to suggest that we are misled by thinking that we have free will that what what actually happens is that our material brain just sort of makes the decision and then we kind of think that we decided but we didn't. It was our neur neurotransmitters and neurochemicals. But Liebert didn't agree with that. Lieut pointed out that he asked the subjects to do something more. He said, "When you decide to do something, then decide not to." So you decide I'm going to push the button. Oh, no, I'm not going to push the button. When they did that, he found that there was a readiness potential for deciding to push the button, but there wasn't a readiness potential to decide not to push it. And he said he didn't prove the existence of free will, but he proved the existence of free won't. And that's what he called it, free won't. He said what he sees going on in the brain with his experiments is that we are bombarded with what are probably preconcious or unconscious motives and that we are freely capable of deciding whether to comply with them or not. and the decision to comply with them is not material. There's no sign of any brain activity when you decide not to comply. And he pointed out kind of interestingly that free won't is a parallel concept to traditional religious ideas of original sin that in a sense we have motives that are beyond our control. We can't stop the motives but we can stop ourselves from doing it. and the free will or the free won't um is scientifically demonstrable. >> Yes, the thing that supports materialism actually refutes materialism according to the lying fraud with the religious agenda rambling about original sin. Okay, folks. No brain activity for inhibition. Therefore, souls exist. Let's tear this turd apart as well. So to review, people are asked to think about something and electrodes found that half a second before you decide to do something, there is a readiness potential spike in the brain wave. When faced with the button, there's a spike associated with pushing it, but no spike associated with deciding not to push it. So free won't, and souls exist. We can stop ourselves from sinning, you guys. Let's start with the obvious. The readiness potential is a brain signal linked to voluntary movement. It's a slow ramp up signal in the motor cortex and supplementary motor area that precedes movement initiation. It'll happen when you're deciding to move and do something. So, it's not surprising that it won't be there when you're deciding to not move or not do something. It is a thing that has to do with movement. If you don't move, it won't happen. Am I making this clear enough for any 5-year-olds who stumbled upon this video by accident or timetraveling cavemen? Thing happened when move so it not happen when not move. Is that pretty easy to understand? Mikey's logic is like saying a car doesn't accelerate when I hit the brakes, so braking requires a soul. It's stupid. He's a stupid person. But now to get more technical, he's also just wrong. There is brain activity that correlates with inaction. Inhibition uses different neural circuits, especially the right inferior frontal gyrus, presupplementary motor area and basil ganglia. These regions show robust measurable activity during stop trials in go no-go and stop signal tasks. So to update our explanation for Zog the caveman, thing happened when move other thing happened when not move. We've mapped this inhibition network in great detail. There's something called the VMPFC or ventromedial prefrontal cortex. It's an entire physical region of the brain responsible for inhibition. This has physical signals. This is not immaterial. The VMPFC also plays a role in the inhibition of emotional responses and in the process of decision-making and self-control. It is also involved in the cognitive evaluation of morality. For example, alcohol, more specifically ethanol, is a chemical that diffuses into neural tissue and affects neurotransmitter systems, especially that for GABA or gamma aminobuteric acid. GABAurgic activity in the VMPFC and other frontal inhibitory regions is reduced under alcohol, weakening the brain's stop signals. This explains why people under the influence of alcohol display disinhibition or reduced inhibition. Finally, talk to your crush at a party. Take a risky jump that sober you would never try. No soul necessary, just a chemical doing stuff to the brain. Also, damage to the right inferior frontal cortex impairs the ability to stop actions. TMS or transcranial magnetic stimulation to that area can temporarily reduce stopping ability and fMRI consistently lights up these regions when people inhibit actions. Again, all of this perfectly demonstrates materialism. And finally, all this free won't stuff is still brain-based. EEG, MEG, and intraraanial recordings show that veto signals appear in the same frontal control regions milliseconds before the action is canled. No magic, just a cascade of neural events. In this case, via inhibitory circuits instead of motor execution circuits. What do you think? Shall we pack on a little more stupid? >> This remarkable research suggests is that the materialistic bias that has been present in neuroscience specifically and in science in general leads us to misunderstand the results of our science. Uh, one could say in a sense almost that we have an ocean of data, an ocean of answers, but we've forgotten what the questions are. We've forgotten the questions that we're supposed to be answering. And when you look at these studies in cognitive neuroscience carefully, they are giving us a very clear answer to a fundamental question in neuroscience. And that is, is the mind entirely a product of the material brain? And the answer they're giving us is that it's not. >> Finally, after all that foreplay, we get to the full penetration. Materialistic bias in science, you guys. Not just in his field, which he does nothing but lie about, but in every area of science. All those areas he knows precisely dick about. It's in there, too. This materialism bias is just everywhere, you guys. All the millions of stupid jerk atheist scientists are doing stupid butt science and hiding souls because they hate God. That was barely a caricature. It's exactly what Mikey is serving up to the DI's target audience. Just gussied up with fancier words and in a lab coat for no reason. I feel sorry for anyone who can't instantly see through this agenda. Maybe you can fall for his script about the brain stuff, but the moment he extrapolates that to literally all of science, the alarm should be going off. And of course, the entire premise is idiotic. Materialism or methodological naturalism is not some kind of dogma. It's literally the way that science works. The DI drones essentially do nothing but whine about how science is science. Science is about testing ideas empirically against the physical world. If you want to propose a hypothesis in any field from physics to neuroscience, you have to make testable predictions about measurable things. That's it. If something is alleged to exist, but it can't be measured or interacted with in any way, then by definition, it's outside of the scope of science. And anyone whining about science not addressing that thing does not know what science is. What Mikey is really saying is modern science won't validate my archaic religious beliefs. Therefore, science is broken. This is what the DI is always trying to do. Redefine the rules so that supernatural explanations can get smuggled in as scientific. Mikey, science doesn't lose sight of questions by focusing on physical phenomena. It avoids wasting time on untestable ones. The moment Eggy or anyone else can provide concrete, reproducible, measurable evidence of an immaterial mind, science will study it. But until then, demanding that science accept supernatural conclusions without evidence isn't canceling out bias. It's breaking the scientific method. Do we need a little more of this [\h__\h] The natural world can be much better understood if you assume that it has purposes, if you assume that it has design. It it helps you to understand how things work. Um, and I believe that the human mind properly understood will give us a much deeper understanding of nature and not just of the mind. Okay, we don't really need to dissect this too thoroughly because it's just the same crap we hear from every DI drone. It was much more important to explain how he's lying about all the neuroscience in exposing the deception these figures serve up about neuroscience and molecular biology and anthropology and every other field. The intended effect just fizzles and fades. But also, no, we don't need to pretend that everything was designed by your magic skydaddy and given the special purpose of loving the Jesus. That's not science. In science, we can still discuss purpose in the sense that we can talk about what things are for, like how eyes are for seeing. But that just describes an active function that is the product of millions of years of evolution, selecting for creatures that see better. On the contrary, God made this thing this way does not help you understand science better. It makes you a science illiterate toddler that ignores the entire field of evolutionary biology, which actually explains why living organisms are the way they are. Mikey is pretending that scientists start with a baseless philosophical assumption, materialism, when in actuality, it's just how science works. Meanwhile, he is the one who starts with a baseless theological assumption that God exists and made everything the way it is for a reason and then tries to force that ideology onto everything he encounters. That's the most anti-scientific thing you can do. His worldview is specifically anti-scientific. It's not falsifiable. You can't test for purpose in the natural world because it's a metaphysical claim, not a scientific hypothesis. It's a lens imposed before gathering data, not a conclusion drawn after examining evidence. So when Mikey says purpose is the key, what he really means is, I'm going to interpret everything in my field and every other one through a creationist worldview, whether the data supports it or not. Sounds a bit more like a preacher than a scientist, doesn't it? Anyway, there's a bit left in the video, but it's totally vapid. He's just droning on endlessly about how much materialism sucks instead of making concrete claims about neuroscience that can be debunked. So, there's not really any point in dissecting it further. And while this video was absent of the DI's typical cinematic pageantry, making it ideal for debunking his scientific claims, we can also see Mikey showing up in their topshelf propaganda, like this piece of [\h__\h] that kicked off the science uprising series. >> How do they know the cosmos is all there is? Isn't our reality more than just matter? Most people and cultures around the world have a profound belief that life extends beyond the physical. That compassion, ideas, joy, and sorrow aren't made of matter, but are as real to us as our arms and legs. If we believe this, are we anti-science, or is it materialism that is anti-science? Those stupid materialist scientists don't want you to feel joy and compassion. They say it's stupid Bible talk, but we know better than them. Right, gang? Tell them, Mike? >> But some scientists are willing to speak up about where the evidence leads. >> I I was brought up with materialist viewpoints all the way through high school and college and medical school. you you get inundated with um scientific viewpoints that have a materialist bias. >> The cosmos is all that is all that is >> and it's all just mechanical and blind and purposeless purposeless at the bottom. >> The deeper I looked into the science, the more I realized what a catastrophe for science materialism and atheism really is. >> Scientists doing science, what a catastrophe. Carl Sean, Dan Dennett. These are false prophets who should be ignored. Listen to Michael Edgar, the brave truthtelling whistleblower who's going to help us end this materialistic tyranny on science that actually proves God and Jesus and souls and all the dumb [\h__\h] you believe. Who falls for this crap? >> We want to follow the evidence wherever it leads and decide for ourselves. We are not materialists. We see the human soul. We experience love. We live with purpose. We fight for justice. We are the quiet majority and we will be quiet no longer. It's just embarrassing. Dumb atheists say there's no soul, so they don't believe in love, and they hate people who love each other. We've hacked the mainframe. Wake up everyone in Time Square. Nod along emphatically, actors we paid to pretend to agree with us. Take off your masks and storm the capital. Or I mean, let's get religion taught in public schools and turn America into an authoritarian theocracy so that the woke atheist commies can't turn our kids trans. It's basically a satire of itself. Can you imagine actually putting money into making crap like this? How about something a little cheaper? Here's Mikey as a guest on the DI's shitty podcast. >> So, scientific consensus really doesn't even have anything to do with science. Scientific consensus is a political thing where a group of scientists, they get together and and agree either explicitly or implicitly on a particular viewpoint. >> No, that's what you DI morons do. You sit in your pathetic little Seattle conference room, insist that creationism is true, and then figure out how to lie about science to convince other people that science supports creationism. The projection is off the charts. Mikey, scientific consensus changes according to new data and evidence. That proves it isn't politically motivated. That proves it isn't dogma. Dogma doesn't change. Science does. So, it's not dogma. Germs replaced my asthma theory. Neuroplasticity replaced the static brain. Science does not cling to outdated ideas like creationism. It evolves over time. This is simple stuff here. Try and keep up. My impression is that scientific consensus is driven more by political and financial sorts of considerations among scientists than it's driven by actual scientific data. >> More projection. You morons do this. You're paid by wealthy Christian nationalists to lie about science and push a theocratic agenda. You are driven by political and financial considerations. Science goes by data. You can't get the entire global scientific community to demonstrate a particular political bias. Nor can you buy off millions of scientists. This is pathetic. >> So, uh, scientific consensus is not science. Science intrinsically is a search for truth irrespective of the consensus. And virtually every major scientific advancement has been done in spite of the consensus, not because of the consensus. Scientific consensus is the end of science. It's not a part of science. >> Well, that's [\h__\h] idiotic. Major scientific advancements are almost exclusively brought about and confirmed by the consensus of the scientific community. Every field advances slowly and incrementally via the work of thousands of people. And when this eventually yields a breakthrough, the global scientific community will recognize it as such and continue to build upon it. Paradigm shifts like plate tectonics or germ theory challenged prevailing views. But once strong evidence supporting them had accumulated, the scientific community acknowledged it and incorporated the new understanding into the consensus. It's very easy to see what he's doing here. This whole anti-consensus narrative fits into a broader pattern of ideologically driven skepticism towards science that is often rooted in a framework of Christian apologetics. By framing consensus as inherently untrustworthy, he primes his audience to dismiss scientific positions that contradict biblical literalism like evolutionary biology or abiogenesis or neuroscience that undermines dualism. This tactic aligns with a long tradition for propaganda mills like the DI. The goal is to undermine public trust in science to preserve religious authority as the ultimate arbiter of truth. It's less about improving science and more about keeping it subordinate to a pre-existing authoritarian worldview. The one Mikey wants to be true because it makes him feel good inside. Okay, let's hit one more. Here he is debating Matt Dillah Hunty a few years back on whether God exists. Yeah, he's not even trying to hide his agenda. Let's see how bad this gets. >> What is your moral What is your morality based on? >> My morality is based on God. How do you know what God's moral opinion is on anything? >> He's put it in me. >> He's put it in you. So, how is that not subjective? Because first of all, >> it's written in my heart as >> I don't care if it's written in your heart. So, so you're you're sitting here saying God wrote it on your heart. Well, that's really cool for you. Doesn't help anybody else. And there's no way for you to demonstrate to anyone, including yourself, that God wrote it on your heart. >> Pretty well argued by Matt here. What's your morality based on? God said stuff where and how do you know? He wrote it on my heart. What? Like with a [\h__\h] Sharpie? What the [\h__\h] are you talking about? So basically, Mikey, you just think and feel whatever you want. And God made you think and feel those things because you say so. No justification or evidence required. Is that about right? Help us out here. >> He wrote it on your heart, Matt. That's why you don't babies. >> Holy [\h__\h] Mike just said that God gives Matt his morality and that's why he doesn't rape babies. So Mike is saying that the only reason he doesn't rape babies is because God says not to. So if his imaginary god suddenly appeared in a vision and said to him, "Hey, Mike, it's totally cool to rape babies, and I'd prefer it if you were to rape some babies." Would he do it? Does Mike genuinely want to rape babies? Isn't it funny when super religious people put on a show about their moral superiority only to blurt out comments like this that reveal their profound moral bankruptcy? Speaking of profound moral bankruptcy, what has the rest of the DI been saying about me lately? They conjured up some pathetic limp dick blog posts, whining about every video I've done on them since the beginning. So, has there been any attempt at a rebuttal lately? What about my recent video on Casey Luskin about his misadventures doctoring figures and lying about genetic similarity with chimpanzees? Shockingly, not a word from them in response. Or I guess it's not that shocking. Gunter Beckley was the one who responded to my first piece on Luskin and the one about Steven Meyer, leading to my two scathing videos in response. But he's dead from a murder suicide, so he can't write anything. Oh, he was the murderer suicider, in case you were wondering. errant boy Jonathan Mclatche tried to respond to my Michael Beehe video and he botched it horribly leading to his own humiliation in my video on him. So who else is there? Jonathan Wells is dead. Everyone else is an incompetent buffoon. But wait, there's paper pusher David Clinghofer. Was he able to muster up some courage and defend Casey Luskin's doctrine of a figure and pathetic lies about anthropology? He was not. Instead, he decided to whine about my Avi Lobe debunk. Remember, he's the disgusting Zionist fraud astrophysicist who lies about comets and shitty books to make money. What was Davey's issue exactly? On YouTube, Dave Fina gives Avi Lobe the Hamas treatment. Wow. And I guess that's supposed to be me, the devolved version of Charles Darwin dragging my knuckles on the ground. At least they made me jacked as [\h__\h] So, what's the problem exactly? Oh, right. I'm a terrorist just like Hamas. There is darkness in my heart because I was voraciously combating Zionist propaganda on Twitter that was manufacturing consent for genocide. I'm an anti-semite because Zionist propaganda machines attempt to destroy the lives of anyone who speaks out against Israel's atrocities. I pay my bills with Jewhating Bile, even though I've never said anything whatsoever against Judaism or Jews. Only piece of [\h__\h] Zionists who murder children by the hundreds of thousands. They've stopped trying to respond to my videos exposing their lies about science because it just makes them look even more pathetic than they already do and also only makes me debunk them even harder while they whine about how many subscribers I have. And of course, I wasn't targeting Avi because he's a piece of [\h__\h] grifting fraud who lies about science to make money. Heavens no. It's because I'm a dirty anti-semite who hates all Jews. I went on a horrible rant about Israel's terrorism, genocide, and murdering children. Oh my goodness, how deplorable it is to speak out against genocide and the murdering of children. Where are my morals? I've opened the hate gates by valuing human life and denouncing genocide. You've heard it loud and clear, folks. Discovery Institute loves genocide. They love that Israel has murdered hundreds of thousands of children and is starving a million more to death. And according to them, anyone who doesn't love that is a filthy terrorist. Obviously, nobody is surprised by this hot take. The DI is a propaganda mill funded by sociopathic Christian nationalists and Zionism is at its heart a Christian movement. It's Western powers usurping the Jewish identity to justify imperialism in the Middle East for the purpose of destabilization and resource extraction. But I guess these dicks didn't get the memo that public opinion is very much on the side of genocide being bad. Nobody with more than half a brain gives two shits about Zionist Hasbbor [\h__\h] So by broadcasting their vile genocidal ideology, they simply reveal themselves as being just as morally bankrupt as they are intellectually bankrupt. And this is why I will never stop crapping all over these disgusting, pathetic, toxic, dangerous, scienceed denying, genocide supporting piece of [\h__\h] frauds. When you call people anti-semmites, that's a signal for intelligent people to rally around in support because it's a synonym for anyone who is telling the truth about Israel. What else can we look at to expose their pathetic agenda? Hey, check this out. For criticizing her field, physicist Sabina Hosenfelder gets cancelled by her institution. Look at that. They're Sabina fans. That makes sense since I've pointed out multiple times by now how the agenda of the Christian theocrats is essentially identical to that of the fascist oligarchs like Peter Teal whose agenda is identical to the rhetoric Sabina spews. Super smart Sabina blew the whistle on stupid pointless buttthead physics and now she's a victim of cancel culture you guys. They cite an article from the Wall Street Journal about conspiracy physics that explains how she's a fraud along with Eric Weinstein, which mentions my work exposing them both. Funny how the DI doesn't mention me, huh? No, it's more important to talk about garbage papers since the DI wants the public to distrust all legitimate scientific output just like Sabina and Eric do or Peter Teal rather. Isn't it funny how the more you dig into this [\h__\h] the more you see how it's all connected, Discovery Institute, Eric and Sabina, they're all just vacuous mouthpieces meant to manipulate the public. And they're all funded by the same dirty money. Don't pay attention to the erosion of the separation of church and state. Don't worry about the global rise of fascism. Don't think about the evaporation of free speech, rapidly growing wealth inequality, and the disappearance of the middle class. Don't be scared of the militarized police force invading every city and cracking skulls open. They're there to protect you from Antifa. Don't worry about any of this at all. Lay down for fascism. Look the other way on genocide and antagonize anyone who speaks out against it. They're just stupid anti-semmites. Acquies with your own subjugation and everything will be okay. Sorry, boners. Not today. Not any day. You keep pushing out the propaganda and I'll keep showing everyone what revolting, worthless pieces of [\h__\h] you really are. That much you can count on. So that's it from Michael Edgar, the neurosurgeon who doesn't understand how brains work. Some DI guys fumble fields they have no experience with. This one fumbles his own. I guess that's progress. Which DI [\h__\h] will I expose next? We'll just have to wait and see. Until next time.