Some of the important reactions in Organic Chemistry involve generating new carbon-carbon bonds. Especially ones in which we add new alkyl groups to a benzene ring or some other aromatic structure. So one of these reactions is the Friedel-Crafts Alkylation. This is where we are able to add some alkyl fragment to a benzene ring or some other aromatic structure. So what is happening here is we have a benzene ring and we have an alkyl chloride – could be any alkyl chloride. I've drawn this one arbitrarily. And then in the presence of aluminum trichloride, lewis acid catalyst, we're going to get this benzene ring with the alkyl substituent and then HCl byproduct. So this actually operates in a very similar manner to the halogenation we just saw. So once again the first step is one in which we're generating a catalytic intermediate. So a lone pair on the chlorine atom is going to go and interact with the aluminum atom in the aluminum trichloride very similarly to the way we were seeing the iron compound behaving before. And so we're going to generate this compound here.  Once again this chlorine is going to have a formal positive charge, because it is contributing 6 electrons to this lewis dot structure. And then the aluminum atom will have a formal negative charge, because it is now contributing 4 electrons to this lewis dot structure. Now the only difference here from the halogenation is that there is now a further step. The benzene ring is not going to directly interact with this intermediate. Instead what is going to happen is this carbon-chlorine bond is going to cleave and it's going to do so because it will then stabilize this chlorine atom and neutralize it and then we'll have an alkyl carbocation. We'll have this alkyl cation intermediate instead. So now we have our isopropyl cation and then we have the remainder of the catalytic complex. The aluminum will still have a formal negative charge there.  Aluminum has 3 valence electrons, here it is showing 4.  That means it has a formal negative charge. So now this is a big difference because whereas a benzene ring would have a very difficult time interacting with this neutral chloroalkane, there's going to be a much lower activation energy associated with benzene interacting with this highly unstable carbocation. The instability dictates it's going to be much more reactive and therefore able to react even with benzene. So this pi bond is going to interact with the carbocation. Now that alkyl fragment is attached to the ring just as we've seen before. Now we have a cation on the ring and then the remainder of this structure In order to neutralize this aluminum atom, the chlorine atom leaves with the electrons in this bond Goes extracts the proton, the electrons left behind form the new pi bond And we've restored aromaticity.  So now we have that alkyl fragment present on the benzene ring. And then we have HCl and then we've regenerated the catalyst. So this is extremely similar to the halogenation mechanism we just saw. The only difference is that the benzene ring doesn't immediately react with this catalytic complex. There is yet a second step where this carbon-chlorine bond cleaves generating a carbocation intermediate and it is the carbocation intermediate that interacts initially with the benzene ring. Thanks for watching, guys.  Subscribe to my channel for more tutorials, and as always, feel free to email me with questions