Hey everyone. As you all know, I've debunked a lot of frauds over the last 5 years or so. But how do they stack up against each other? Who is the biggest scumbag I've ever debunked? Well, you guys love those tier list thingies, right? Of course you do. Everyone does. So, let's do that. I'll admit, although this idea had occurred to me before, I never did it. Mainly because I'm not savvy like the young kids. But then someone emailed me suggesting the idea and even set up the tier list for me. Not only that, but I like the way it's organized. They have all the little icons here for all the people I've debunked in alphabetical order by first name. They have the tiers going from D to F minus and even a scum category at the bottom. It's kind of perfect. So, I decided I have to do it now. One question remained, however. What are the metrics I will be using to do the ranking? After all, there are a few ways to come at this. After quite a bit of thought, I decided on four metrics that I will be considering as I sort these frauds out. They are as follows. One, how harmful are they to society? Are they just someone silly we can laugh at, or are they enormous threats to public health, putting millions of lives at stake? Least harmful, D. Most harmful scum. Two, how malicious are they? Are they completely delusional and genuinely believe that they are in the right, or are they 100% cognizant of their deception, or somewhere in between, oblivious to the harm they cause? D. thoroughly aware but doing it anyway. Scum. Three. How toxic are they? Are they meek and polite or are they complete maniacs that harass and dox everyone that speaks ill of them? Super sweet. D. Total douchebag scum. Four. How qualified are they? Do they have doctorates and publications or are they high school dropouts who can barely read? Highly qualified? D. No qualifications of any kind. Scum. As you will likely predict, these trends will come into conflict with one another quite a lot. There could be a qualified doctor who speaks softly and politely while endangering millions of lives. There could be someone highly toxic, but not actually very damaging in a broad societal sense. There could be someone highly damaging that doesn't know they're wrong. That's what makes this tricky. And at the moment that I'm writing this, I haven't yet done the ranking and have no idea how it will go. But these are the four criteria I will be considering for each person. pondering all of them and weighing them against one another is how I will be operating as I move through the list. So, without further delay, let's start ranking some frauds. Okay, everybody. Welcome to my tier list. We're going to have a little bit of fun here uh looking at these grifters that I have tackled over the years and uh sorting them out here. Um let's just go over who's going to be included on this. So, uh once again, these are in alphabetical order by first name. So, we've got Andrew Wakefield, the uh antivaxer fraud, who did the uh the study in the Lancet, the the autism one. Um, we've got Ashton Forbes, who is the newest member of this list. I did a couple videos on him very recently, so a lot of you probably are familiar with him. Uh, then there's Austin Witet, the flatearther. Uh, this is Ben Davidson, the uh, it was Suspicious Observers. Now he's calling himself space weather news. Uh, totally insane cult leader. Uh, Billy Carson is the Anunnaki guy. Brett Weinstein, one of the Weinstein brothers. Candace Owens. Then we've got Casey Luskin. He's one of the Discovery Institute guys. Chris Langan, the the fake super genius. Dan Richards is one of the pseudoarchchaeology frauds. Then we've got David Weiss, a flat-earther. Then we've got Dennis Noble here, uh, the biologist. uh the all the um you know I had covered that recently from doing the Sabore stuff. Uh this is uh Doug Axe, another Discovery Institute guy. Here's Eric Weinstein, the other Weinstein brother. Uh here's Formcapes. I actually don't know his name, but Formcapes. I did one on him. Uh here's Graham Hancock, the king of the pseudoarchchaeology cult. Uh this is Gunter Beckley, another DI guy. Uh this is I am Lucid. Another um I don't know his name. Um that I did a reaction video to one of his videos. Uh then we've got James Tour, of course, is going to be on here. This is Jimmy Corsetti, another one of the pseudo archaeology guys. John Lennox is on here. I just did a reaction video with with Planet Peterson on him. U but you know, I don't know, why not throw him in there? Uh then we've got uh uh John West is another DI guy. This is Jonathan Mclatche, another DI guy. This is Jonathan Wells, another DI guy. Uh, the Kent Hovind, of course, you know, probably. U then Lord Jamar has got to be on there for sure. Here's Matt Walsh, the the Daily Wire buffoon. Uh, here's Michael Bee, another Discovery Institute guy. Here's Sabina Hassenfelder. Uh, here's Steven Meyer, the uh another DI guy. There's Sabore Ahmad, the uh apologist. Here's Terren Howard, of course. And then Tucker Carlson. And here is Wall Thornhill. He was king of the Electric Universe Thunderbolts Project. Uh rubbish. And then Warren Smith is on there. I did one on him uh too. So uh thanks again to the person who uh compiled this, made this tier list for me. Uh they went ahead and got all these icons, put them here in alphabetical order. And then we've got D, D minus, F, F minus, F. Oh, that's an F double minus I guess is on there. And then scum. So scum is going to be the absolute worst. And uh as I said in the little intro bit, the four criteria are how harmful are they? How malicious are they? uh if they are lying or maybe they don't know they're lying. They think they're in the right. Toxicity, how much of a jerk they are in just in their discourse and in their interactions. And then qualifications, do they have a doctorate or a bachelor's or high school dropout or whatever it is. So, I'm not really sure how this is going to go. I I genuinely haven't thought about this or planned it out other than setting up the criteria there. Um I think what I'm going to do is for each person, I'm just going to jot down a score, right? D minus F F minus F double minus scum for each criterion and then I'm going to try to like average them I guess is what I'm going to do. Um you know so uh let's go ahead and get started. So we're we're we're coming out of the gate pretty strong here with Andrew Wakefield. This is going to be one of the worst if not the worst honestly on here. So uh harm is scum. Uh I'm just going to take notes here. So harmfulness is an absolute scumbag. Andrew Wakefield's fraudulence leads directly to many deaths of human people. So complete scumbag in that regard. That that is definitely the case. Um in terms of malice, again, total scumbag. He knows exactly what he's doing and he's doing it for money. He is an utter garbage human being. I'm just going to go ahead and say it now. I think Andrew I'm predicting I'm scanning here. I think Andrew Wakefield is the worst person on this list. It really has to be the case. Maybe I'll change my mind as we go through, but uh toxicity. So, uh he does uh kind of try to come off as as polite and oh, I'm just a soft spoken British guy. So, I I'm you know, I want him to be a scumbag. I want to say scum for all of these, but I'm going to try to stay true to the to the criteria as I have delineated them. Uh, so in terms of just how toxic toxic how toxic he comes off when he talks, we'll put him at uh well, I guess he's really polite, right? So, we got to go D on on the toxicity. Um, and then in terms of qualifications, he was a doctor. H So we got he was a doctor. So he went through med school. He was a practicing doc. We got to put D on that as well. Um, here's the thing. Okay, so I'm going to This is just a scorekeeper for me to like if I if I if I don't know if I'm having a hard time placing them. But Andrew W just the death count and what an unbelievable scumbag he is. There's no way this is going anywhere other than in the scum category. He's just an utter vile excuse for a human being. The world would be better without him. Yeah, he's definitely going in the in the scum category. Uh, okay. Moving on. We've got Ashton Forbes. Uh, okay. So, let's go into Okay, harm. How much harm does he cause? Not Not as much as a lot of the people on here. He's just kind of a, you know, like he hasn't even, like I don't know if he even sold that many or any of his $50,000 scam device. Uh, so he may not even really be scamming people out of money. He's kind of just a clout chaser. He's just kind of a dork that has nothing in his life and wants like a little bit of internet celebrity to feel special. Uh, so to be honest, harm I'm gonna go D minus because it's not even like it's not it's not the the narrative is not even anywhere near as bad as like antivaxers or stuff like that where people, you know, it it gets it it polarizes people against I mean, you know, I've made the argument that all science denial is harmful. That's obviously true. Um, but anyway, I'll put it at D minus. I think that's fine. Uh then let's go for Malice. This is Ashton is is definitely mentally ill. I mean he's he's got a number of personality disorders. So the degree to which he has deliluded himself into thinking he's in the right I think there's some of that. He's not like Wakefield. Wakefield knows knows exactly what he's doing. Um I'm going to go ahead and put I mean he's definitely dishonest. I'm going to put him at F for that. But I think I think he's so delusional that that he like he kind of a little bit believes his like, oh, I'm a hero, you know, for uh whistleblower here. So, I'll put him at an F for that. Uh toxicity uh scum. He's definitely he's probably the biggest piece of [\h__\h] on this list in terms of like just the way he behaves. um absolutely vile misogynistic incel behavior, calling everybody the rword every two seconds, projecting his mental illness. He's absolutely insufferable. So, we're putting it we're putting him at scum for that. And then qualifications, I think he has a bachelor's in business or something, so not really much, but not he's not a high school dropout or something. So, let's put him at either an F or an F minus for that. Let's do let's do an F. Let's do an F for that. Um, actually, no, F minus because, you know, a business degree and he's talking about a business bachelor's and he's pretending to know about physics. Uh, yeah, we're going we're going F minus for that. So, okay, doing a little averaging here. I've got a D minus. I've got an F. I've got an F minus. and I've got a scum. So, if I average that out, I guess I'll put him at an F minus. So, for him, he goes way down there because of what a toxic douchebag he is. But, I think it's not anywhere near it's nowhere near as harmful as Andrew Wakefield. So, that's Yeah, we'll go we'll go with that. Um, okay, moving on. We got Austin Witset here now. So harm flat earth is not that harmful. Uh I mean it's I mean yeah it it's it's not as harmful as antivax and all this other stuff. I mean he's obviously also an antivaxer but flat earth the flat earth cult is like kind of adorable in comparison with other you know Christian nationalists that are trying to erode the separation of church and state like actual real tangible harm. So, I think he uh Yeah, I'm either going to go D or D minus on this for harm. Let's let's But he is he does he he does try to do other political stuff, too. Let's go D minus for harm. Dminus for harm. Malice. Um yeah, he definitely knows he's lying. Um but he also is Yeah, I mean I think he's fooled himself a little bit into thinking he's like doing anything that's good. Let's say either let's say F minus or yeah let's say F minus for Malice uh toxicity he is it's funny I I ear you know a year ago I would have put him very close to the bottom here but it's like after dealing with Ashton Forbes I look at Austin and I'm like all right I guess he's not he's nowhere near as bad as uh as him so we can't put him at scum for toxicity. Um, well, but but he but I mean he is a dick. I mean he harasses and he Yeah. No, he No, he's pretty bad. He's pretty toxic. Let's call him Let's call him Fminus for toxic. He kind of fains sometimes he pretends to be uh you know like hey we're just having a conversation you know like he harassed the hell out of me to try to get that debate and then in debate he like tried to be friendly and stuff or a little bit anyway. Um, so yeah, that that's a little bit manipulative. We'll go we'll go F minus for toxicity and then qualifications uh scum. I mean the bottom because he has none whatsoever. So D minus F minus F minus scum. We let's average that out to F minus. That seems pretty good to me. We'll put him right there. He's not as toxic as Ashton, but more malicious because he's not quite as mentally ill. Although I don't know. He's he's he's I'm pretty sure he's an alcoholic and uh well, I don't know what he does. I mean, he was I somebody sent me a file with all of his like arrests and DUIs and all that stuff and I was like, well, I never ended up using it because I was like, it's not really pertinent and like, you know, I don't know that it didn't seem, you know, as relevant. But anyway, all right. He's an F minus. That's fine. We'll put him there. Okay, moving on to Ben Davidson. Ben Davidson harm absolutely quite a lot. Um, we're going to go either F minus minus or scum on this because the guy has a literal apocalypse camp. He's got people quitting their jobs and uprooting their whole lives to go move to this apocalypse camp because he's he has convinced them that the world is ending because of all this uh all the space weather crap that he's lying about. Let's go. I you know it's tempting to not put him on the same tier as Wakefield, but honestly I think he might be the second most harmful on here. I mean the the the DI stuff is pretty harmful, too. But I'm going to go scum for harm because he really is just that bad. Malice. Um, yeah, we're going we're I think Well, he's insane, so I think he's diluted him himself a little bit, but uh yeah, let's go F double minus for for Malice toxicity scum. The guy when I did that first Electric Universe debunk, it was very polite and innocuous and out of nowhere, never even heard of this guy, starts blasting all over social media about me. go attack him, demand he debate me, all this crap. Uh the back and forth. After I did my second piece on him, he just shut up and started pretending I don't exist because uh it got, you know, that video has almost a million views and it has shown a lot of people what what a maniac he is. So he I think he's just hoping that I forget about him. Um which I have to an extent, but I've heard that he's coming out with a documentary or something. So I don't know, maybe I'll circle back to him. So we're going scum there. Qualifications, none. I mean, I think he went to college. No. Yeah, he did like law stuff. Absolutely nothing pertinent to uh to uh to everything he pretends to know about. Let's go F double minus there. Yeah, Ben Davidson is a scumbag. There's no way he's not going in the scum tier. So, yeah, that's where he goes. Absolutely. Okay. Billy Carson. Billy Carson. How much harm does Billy Carson do? This is going to be not quite as bad, right? It's just kind of uh fun silly stories that um people like to fall for. You know, he sells his books and all this crap. And I'm going to go not as harmful. I mean, it's definitely like look, all science denial is harmful. That's why this starts at D. There's no A tier here, right? There's no Grifter where their harm is non-existent. Uh it's starting at D. Uh so that's another thing I like about how this was set up. It's all harmful. Um it's just that some leads to human deaths, some just leads to people entertaining whimsy and and you know distrusting actual legitimate uh experts in any scientific field. But uh we'll go D minus. Let's go let's go let's go D. It's fine. I'll be charitable. Let's go D. Okay. Malice. Um yeah, the guy's a complete con man. There there is absolutely no he's not mentally ill at all. He's just he's a con man. He is 100% a con man. So let's go scum for that. Like I like I'm trying to just like on that metric alone. He knows 100% he's pushing [\h__\h] So I'm giving him that the the lowest possible rating for that metric only. Uh toxicity. He he he doesn't come off as very toxic in interviews. He comes off as mildmannered. But then he does have toxic behavior like the whole Wes Huff thing and then he started showing up at someone's house and and all that stuff. So there there's some there's definitely some toxicity, but um we're it's going to go in the middle somewhere. Let let's let's say let's say let's say F minus for toxicity. Qualifications, none whatsoever. Uh I don't even know if he finished high school. Uh definitely no college education. And then even worse, he parades around his uh his little, you know, six week uh certificate as though that qualifies him as uh for anything, you know. And oh, he went to Khan University, right? Khan Academy. Uh watched some YouTube videos. Uh so anyway, yeah, let's let's average this out. So we've got a D, a D, an F minus, and two scums. So, that puts him um I'll be charitable and put him at an F because I don't think he does belongs next to Ashton Forbes, but he does suck a lot and he is a con man, so we'll put him at F. That's fine. Uh, okay, moving on. We got Brett Weinstein. Brett Weinstein, how much harm does he do? A lot. Um this is an example where all the misinformation he was pumping out on social media during the pandemic. People died. There were people who died based very strongly on the advice like they were voraciously following him, followed his advice, right? Got ivormeckin instead of you know took ivormectin instead of getting vaccinated died of COVID. Um everything he's just part of that whole Peter Teal wave of disinformation. Um, yeah, pretty harmful. I'm gonna go I'm gonna go F double minus on on the harm there. Not quite like Wakefield, but I mean it's in the same ballpark. Um, Malice, he knows he knows exactly what he's doing. Uh, I there might be a little bit of uh him him deluding himself, but um the whole Evergreen thing, the way he reacted to the Evergreen thing was completely orchestrated. total Jordan Pet Jordan Petersonesque stunt. So, um yeah, he's been a grifter since then. We're gonna go F double minus for the Malice. Uh toxicity. Uh not not not much because yeah, he does try to put off that like air of like, oh, I'm just a mildmannered ac liberal academic. I'm so polite and I'm just bringing up inconvenient truths that the establishment can't handle. Uh so from that metric alone, he's he's probably one of the most mildmannered and and seemingly, you know, at on the surface kind seeming people. So on that metric, let's just give him a D. That's fine. Uh qualifications, we'll we'll have to admit that uh that he does have a doctorate. Um, but he's not an actual scientist, so there's other people more qualified than him on here, but he does have a doctorate in evolution in in biology, in some kind of biology. Uh, so we'll give him um but but he's not but he's not an active not an actively publishing scientist. So we'll go close to the top. We'll go D minus on that. So we got two F minuses and we've got a D minus and a D. I can't go too high though because he I mean his Yeah, his rhetoric leads to deaths. So, all right, let's let's go let's go F. Let's go F for Brett. Okay, so Candice Owens. Okay, in terms of harm, um not that harmful. Uh she it's just kind of silly stuff. I mean, it's just run-of-the-mill very silly Christian nationalist kind of stuff. And I will say this, she's absolutely voracious in condemnation of Israel and support of Palestinians, which neutralizes not all, but some a good chunk of the uh utter horseshit she spews. So, I'm going to go I mean, somebody has to go kind of more towards the top. So, let's go. Let's go D for harm. I I'm going to be honest. I don't know like all the kind of stuff that she says all the time. So, maybe I'm missing some really harmful things that she says, but just based on the little bit I've seen, I'm going to go D. Um, Malice, I don't know. I kind of think she just says whatever to to get an audience. I don't think she believes a lot of the stuff she says. Let's go. Let's go. Fminus. I think she knows that she's, you know, scamming. Um, toxicity. Not super toxic obviously, but you know, the way she t for for that for that Blue Origin flight, she was all just like, "Oh, girl power. Haha. That's so silly. It's just kind of obnoxious uh way of talking. Let's Let's give her an F. Not too bad, but not, you know, she Yeah, she just has a very obnoxious way of communicating. Uh, and then qualifications. I I don't know. I don't know what what she did. I mean, I can't imagine that she has an advanced degree. She probably went to I don't know what her qualifications are. Let Let's say let's say F minus on that. I'm just guessing. I could be wrong. Um, so we've got a D. We've got an two F minuses and an F. Yeah, there's no one in that D minus. Let's pop her in the D minus. She She's nowhere near as as as harmful as as a lot of the stuff here. Uh, okay. Moving on, we've got Casey Luskin. So, Casey Luskin, in terms of harm, uh, yeah, it's pretty harmful. The DI is uh is funded with the intention of eroding the separation of church and state. Uh getting religion taught in public schools, all kinds of things like that. So, it's it's very harmful. um where it's not it's not at the it's not like Wakefield where people die as an immediate ramification, but it's kind of the next most poisonous um type of propaganda in terms of the how it unravels the social fabric. So, let's go F minus minus for harm. um for malice with religious people it's very tough because they really really trick themselves and go like oh it's okay to lie if I'm lying for Jesus you know uh James Tour style we'll get to him so I I'll go in the middle here like he's defin like in my video on him I showed how undeniably it was a hit piece how they were misrepresenting the paper how they were misrepresenting what um uh Owen Lovejoy was was doing in in his in his lab Um, so definitely a lot of malice. I'm just leaving a little bit of room for for um, you know, uh, self-d delusion. But let's go let's go let's go F minus. Let's go F minus for that toxicity. Not much, right? All of these DI guys are like, oo, look, I wear a suit and I'm so mildmannered and and softspoken and I'm such a nice guy and you can trust me. So just based on that metric alone, we'll go D. Uh he's a harmless little putts in that in that regard. And qualifications, I mean, he has uh what did he study? I forget. Geology. I don't know. Something has a doctorate, but he's not a real scientist. Uh so let's go D minus on that. So F minus F minus D minus D. Average that all out. Put them in an F. That's fine. We'll put him in an F. Okay. Chris Langan. All right. Chris Langan, the fake genius. Um, harm. Not that much. I mean, it's just for delusional religious people to think that they are uh validated in their in their worldview because the smartest man alive believes in Jesus and demons and all this stuff. So it just further entrenches people um in their delusions which is harmful but um you know it's not all his fault. Let's go let's go f let's go f on harm malice. I mean he's we'll go in the middle there. I mean he's definitely lying. He's lying about his IQ. Uh he it was a mail-in test that he did twice under two different names. So, he saw the questions and answers and then cheated on the second one. Um, so yeah, he's not he's not of of supreme intelligence. That's definitely totally fabricated. And he knows he's lying about that, but I think he's also deluding himself uh to an extent. Let's go Fminus. Fminus on Malice. Uh toxicity is pretty toxic. It's actually funny. You can go to any video like the one on Curt's channel or the one, right? Any video on somewhere else that's talking about him and you and he's monitoring the all of those videos every single day and he replies to every single one with just the most buttth hurt response. Just like you're stupid. You're like, it's just absolutely pathetic. Like anyone who talks about what a genius he isn't, he just acts like a baby about it. It's really really funny. I'm going to go I'm going to go F minus F minus or F minus minus. Let's go F minus on that. Um and then qualifications. Uh none. He didn't go to college. Uh I I yeah I think he finished high school and then the story goes he went to college and and the the calculus teacher uh couldn't explain to him what an infinite decimal was, right? He was like, "Oh, this guy's an idiot and now I'm what a tool." Um yeah, qualifications are pretty much non-existent. Um yeah, we'll go scum on qualifications. Well, I'll leave scum for high school dropouts. Let's go F minus minus F minus minus on qualifications. So F minus minus and an F and two F minuses. Yeah, I guess I'll put Chris on F minus. That's fine. We'll go right here next to Austin Wit. Uh yeah, pretty similar, I suppose, to that guy. Uh okay, Dan Richards. Dan Richards, the pseudoarchchaeology troll. Uh harm. How much harm does the pseudoarchchaeology thing do? I mean, definitely some. It's really crazy once I started getting into this. Like I totally understand people being like, "Oh, big pharma, big pharma's lying to you and big big whatever like actual big things, but when I first heard them talking about big archaeology, it's just the dumbest thing ever." Like, what are you guys talking about? Like there's some conspiracy with archaeologists, it's just breathtakingly insane. Um, and it So, you know, it's definitely harmful. Let's say let's say F for harm. Uh, not too not as bad as some of this stuff, but you know, uh, Malice. Um, I mean, I think that he definitely is deluding himself to an extent. Kind of has nothing going on in his life. Got this very mild celebrity from this couple of, you know, the videos he's doing. Felt like, oo, I got something going here. and then just is really like selectively, you know, uh there's audience capture going on there. Let's go in the middle. He he definitely probably is convinced himself that he's doing the right thing. Although, honestly, I called him out on that thing where he um the Fox News thing that he couldn't even read and he thought two sites were the same thing. And then I called, you know, I said, "You're not even going to do a retraction. You're not going to do anything because you're you're a fraud." and and indeed he didn't he did not bring up how he just can't even read and that's at the basis of all all of his content. So he's you know he knows he's a fraud. Let's let's say F minus let's say F minus for for that toxicity. Uh there are definitely more toxic people in that camp but he has ramped up the toxicity over time. I think that he used to be he started out kind of like, oh, like what's, you know, let me get involved here. And then over time, just from people debunking the [\h__\h] out of him, he's gotten more defensive and more toxic. But he's nowhere near like nowhere near like Ashton Forbes level toxic. So, let's go let's go F. Yeah, he he's not he could be a lot worse. Um qualifications, none. He's an electrician. Uh, let's go F minus for that. So, F minus, F minus, and two Fs. So, we're going either F or F or F minus. F or F minus for Dan. F or F minus. Let's go F. Part of me is just kind of like, what a what a harmless pointless little troll. He can't go too far down on here. Okay, David Weiss. Oh boy, David Weiss. Uh, okay. Harm again, flat earth is is not as harmful as other things. What did I say for for other What did I did I say D minus for harm for for Austin? Let's let's do that again. Um, Malice, he's definitely knows he's lying. Definitely is scamming people with the app. all kinds of stuff, you know, making the lady in the in the elderly home lie and you know, that all that stuff. And yeah, no, he's a he's a complete grifting fraud. Let's go. Fminus minus on that. Uh, toxicity. Not as bad as Not as bad as Austin. Nowhere near as bad as um Nathan. Uh, what's his face? That guy if he if he was on here would be scum level of toxicity. Uh not at he's not at he tries to be cordial I think. Um let's put him at uh F. Uh okay then. Uh qualifications scum. I mean I don't I'm pretty sure he didn't go to college. Uh, so we've got D minus, Fminus, F, and scum. So that actually mathematically works out. We'll put him F minus. That makes sense to me. Uh, okay. Dennis Noble. Dennis Noble harm. So not as much, right? Because he's actually he's not part of like he's not a Christian nationalist. He doesn't um fall he he's just a tool that Christian nationalists use. Um he's going to be pretty high up here. Yeah, he's nowhere he's not as harmful. I mean it is okay. It's a Let's go D minus harm. Let's go D minus harm. Malice. Um I think that is is I think that he has a little bit of the I called it right. He's got noble noble disease, right? like the Nobel disease. I think that he just at this age he's kind of convinced himself that he stumbled upon this great breakthrough in evolutionary biology. I think he he is is a little bit not right upstairs in that regard. So I think um yeah D or D minus like I I don't think that there's malice here. I think that he thinks he's bringing up valid points. Let's go. Yeah, but he's doing it for money though. Templeton is giving him money. Let's go D minus. That's fine. Um uh toxicity, not not toxic at all. Um yeah, he's just trying to be a polite old British British guy, British scholar in his suits. We'll go D for toxicity. and qualifications. We got to go D because uh he w he not like he's not like Discovery Institute clowns who who fumbled their way through a doctorate and then did no science ever. He's done Yeah. I mean, he's done he's done the most science on this list. There's no doubt about that. Um he's done very legitimate science uh prior to this last sad chapter that's tanking his uh legacy. So yeah, we'll put Dennis in the D. Yeah, he's probably the the the least uh grifty. He's the he's the least offensive of all the characters on the list. Probably. Yeah, I'd say that's fair. Put him on the D. Um, okay, moving on. Uh, Doug Axe. Douglas Axe. Uh, okay. So, what did I say was the harm for all all the DI guys are going to get the same level of harm because they're all pushing the exact same agenda, the same uh agenda of their institution and it is harmful. So, what did I say? Did I say I probably said F minus or F double minus? I think I said F double minus. It's very harmful. We'll go with that. Malice. Um, like all these guys, they definitely are very blatantly uh misrepresenting studies, lying in their own uh in their own output. Um, but they also have that angle of they've they're they're so religious that they're deluding themselves to an extent. Let's go Fminus for malice. Uh, for toxicity. Again, all these DI guys have that air of uh oh, I'm, you know, such a well spoken, well-dressed man. So, he's definitely going for uh we'll put him a D here, right? Because it he doesn't come off as toxic. Uh qualifications, we're going to go it's more towards the top, but not like Dennis Noble, who's a real scientist. Uh, we'll go I guess we got to go D minus because he does have a doctorate and he's he has published two or three papers. Um, even though they're [\h__\h] Uh, they he did do that. So F minus F minus D minus that averages out to a D. Sorry, to an F. So we'll put him right there next to Casey Luskin. That works out. Okay. Eric Weinstein. Eric Weinstein. Uh, okay. The harm for Eric, um, it's not quite as bad as Brett because Brett's rhetoric le led to some deaths, but it is very pernicious. He's just raging against academia and this and that and the establishment uh, in a very general way and it is pervasive. It is infectious. So, it is quite harmful. We're going to go Fminus for that. Um, Malice, he knows he knows he knows what he's doing. He's paid by Peter Teal to do what he does. Knows exactly what he's doing. Um, he is a narcissist, though. He's very egotistical, and I think that he he I think he thinks he's doing physics. I think he might think that, but um yeah, all this crap with geometric unity. Good god. Uh well, let's go. Let's go F minus or F double minus. Let's go F minus. We we'll give we'll we'll we'll pretend the delusions are are are real. Uh toxicity nowhere near as someone like Ashton Forbes, but he's pretty toxic, honestly. Um you know, all that stuff on that on that clubhouse call that was that was pretty toxic. uh the way he reacted to Sean Carol. How dare you, Sean? It's like pretty toxic. So, let's go F minus for for toxicity. And then qualifications, we got to go a little higher because he does have a doctorate, although I don't know how the hell he got through it. Didn't even publish his dissertation. So, we'll go we'll go F on qualifications honestly because you know it's like other ones like um like he's even less qualified than like say Douglas Axe right who has a doctorate and is just an apologist but like published a few papers you know what I mean like they suck but but Eric can't even publish one so you know he has a doctorate but it's just it just doesn't matter like it just doesn't matter for what he does so at 3F F minuses and an F. We'll put him in F minus. It's pretty harmful, right? All this stuff, all this stuff that Teal is disseminating is uh it's bad, man. It It's really t It's really nasty stuff. Okay, moving on. Uh Formcapes. Okay, Formcapes is is adorable. How harmful is Formcapes? Not that harmful. Uh, I mean it's it's rhetoric very similar to Eric Weinstein, but Eric is is more pervasive, more more omnipresent. He's just way in in he's in the, you know, uh, in the collective consciousness. Nobody knows who Formcapes is. Nobody gives a crap. Uh, not very harmful in in the grand scheme of things. Let's call it a D. It's really not that that harmful. um malice. I think I think he thinks he knows what he's talking about. He has completely deluded himself into thinking that his his uh mild philosophy knowledge has has turned him into uh an expert in in physics. Uh he read [\h__\h] structure of scientific revolutions and goes now I know everything about physics. It's really adorable. I' I've seen it a lot. Um, but so I think he has successfully diluted himself and he's not like grifting like he's not trying to like sell uh you know products and stuff like that. Let's go D minus for malice. Um toxicity not that toxic. Um I mean he's really childish, right? The way he reacted to my video was very childish. uh both his his reaction in his first video and then he did another one after my video which was just like I'm not even gonna comment on this. This is absolutely pathetic. But uh let's go. It's not still it's not that bad. Let's go F for toxicity qualifications. I don't really know. I assume he has a bachelor's degree in philosophy probably. Um let's put him at an F for that. So FF D minus D. Uh, let's put him at a let's put him at a D minus. That's fine. I I don't I I don't even think about this guy. Seeing him on this list is the first time I've thought of him since I made that video. Uh, okay. Moving on to Graham Hancock. Okay, so how harmful is he? Um, uh, pretty harmful. Uh, and and he's the most harmful of that bunch because he's the most visible. He's the most popular. He's got that Netflix show. I'm going to go Fminus on this. I'm going to go F minus there. Malice 100% con man knows exactly what he's doing. All of this. I'm just asking questions. [\h__\h] no. You know exactly what you're doing. Um, and uh, yeah. No, he is absolutely con man. F minus minus on that. Um toxicity a little higher because he's definitely going for I'm just a well spoken British man. Um but he gets a little testy, right? I mean with with with Flint, he was uh yeah, some of that stuff in there. But we'll go either a D minus or an F. Let's go um let's go F on toxicity. And then qualifications, none. uh pretends to be a journalist. No education in in archaeology whatsoever. Let's go F minus on that. So, two F double minuses, an F and an F minus. So, we're going to go probably F minus. Let's go F minus there. Okay. Gunter Beckley. Gunter Beckley is dead. He died recently. Uh, interesting tidbit and uh, pretty harmful, right? We said F double minus for Discovery Institute clowns. Really, really pernicious uh, wellunded propaganda. Um, and I'm very happy to have exposed all of them to the extent that I did. Malice. Um, yeah, just like the other guys. What did we say? Something around F minus because he absolutely knew he was lying. But oh, and then the whole freaking used to not be religious, but then he read like Michael Beehey's books and that converted him. [\h__\h] [\h__\h] This is a paycheck. That was a paycheck for him. So definitely Fminus, honestly. Fouble minus. I'm going F double minus for him. Um, toxicity. None of those DI guys are nowhere. They're they're they're nowhere near like Ashton Forbes or anything like that, but like he was the one who did all of those blatant hit piece uh uh responses on the on the DI blog about me. He did a couple. He did two. He did one on my on my Luskin piece and one on my Meyer piece and it was just total horseshit. Total horseshit. Uh so that counts for some toxicity. Let's go F on toxicity. uh qualifications obviously a little higher and I think he has published some what did he he did like paleontology and I think he has pub he he had published some so let's go either D minus or yeah let's go we'll go D minus we'll go D minus there so two F double minuses an F and a D minus will Go F. I think all these DI guys are going to end up there. Okay, moving on to I am lucid. Um, this guy's a clown. Similar to the formcapes one, just a little dumber. Uh, harm. Not that harm. Not not that harmful. D, we'll go D. Harmful. Malice. Um, not M. I think he's just stupid. He's just stupid and he fell for some [\h__\h] and regurgitated it thinking it was in the right. I'm gonna go D for for malice. Uh yeah, I don't think he is malice toxicity. Not I only saw that one video. I don't think he's toxic and he wasn't combative when I made my video. He didn't do a response video being like, "Professor Dave is a fraud, blah blah blah." I think he was just embarrassed and turned comments off. I'm going to go D for toxicity too. Um qualifications, none. Uh I don't know. probably high school graduate. I I have no idea what uh let's let's just go F minus because I have no idea. But honestly, I I would feel bad putting him really low on let's just put him at D because he's just a dumb guy who made one really dumb video. Maybe he's toxic and I just don't know what his other content is. Uh okay, moving on to James Tour. James Tour, what is the harm that is done? It's it's it's actually worse than the other DI guys just because of the the volume he puts out and um just the conviction that he tries to convey. Um it's pretty harmful. Yeah, we said F double minus for uh for the other DI guys. So, let's go with that. He's not like in the same umbrella in terms of the funding and the and the mission statement of the institution, but he's in there. I mean, he's part of that. Um, malice will go in the middle here because he as much of a lying fraud as he is, that's religion for you. This I mean, James really is that [\h__\h] batshit insane. He I think he really thinks that he's in the right. I really think he does. Um, but the but there is a lot of malice there. uh the way the the way that he went about his content on me. Just so much misrepresentation and he has to know on some level what he's doing. But I'm going to go all the way up to F on this just because the delusion is off the charts here. Uh it really is. So I'll give him credit for that. Toxicity pretty damn toxic. Um yeah, I mean yeah, we'll go scum for toxicity. I mean the guy is a line is a shrieking maniac. all the content he made on me with the using all the memes and the footage of me in music videos and stuff. I mean, the toxicity is is pretty up there. We'll go scum with toxicity. Uh qualifications though, we obviously have to go to the top because he is a working chemist that publishes a lot. So, got to go D on that. That's only fair. So, we got a scum and a D and an F F minus. No. And an F and an F double minus. So, we'll go I would go F minus, but you know what? He's just he's the lore with me and him. It it we'll put this is nice and empty right here. I I'm going to put him F double minus. Mathematically, I would have put him here probably F minus just based on the delusion there. But yeah, F double minus. That that that works for me. Okay. Jimmy Corsetti. Jimmy Corsetti harm uh will go the same level. What did we say for Graham? I think we said F minus. Um Malice definitely completely full of [\h__\h] Um knows he's lying. All that Gobeckley stuff. Um uh F we'll go F double minus there. Toxicity pretty damn toxic. He is probably the most toxic member of that cult. So we'll go scum for that. Qualifications, none. I don't know if he went to college or or what. Uh uh I I don't I I don't know if he went to college. I I'm not sure. So let's say let's say F double minus. I Well, okay. Fminus just because I don't know, right? And that's fine because scum two F minuses. F minus. Let's put him F double minus. Uh we'll put him there. And uh he's got his own video coming soon. Don't worry. I did one on Dan Richards. I promised to do one on him. So uh that's coming. Okay, moving along. We've got John Lennox. Uh, so yeah, I only did a reaction video. I actually don't know that much about him. Harm, not that harmful. Not as harmful as DI because that's a very well uh outlined agenda. Um, he just kind of says stuff that makes people think that apologetics are more intellectually valid than they actually are. Um, let's go D minus on harm. Um, malice. I don't I I wouldn't peg him as as part as malicious. Um, no. I think he he I think he just I mean he just kind of talks about stuff he doesn't understand. Uh, we'll go D minus on that. Uh, toxicity, not toxic at all. He's just kind of a happy little happy happy old man. We'll go D on that. and qualifications. Um, I mean, he speaks way outside of his expertise, but he is is a respected mathematician, I am to understand. So, we'll go D on that. He he can go at the top here, right? He's not um he's not that bad. John Lennin, he's not that bad. Uh, okay. John West. John West. I actually don't even really know much about this guy. Uh, I just um I I just wanted to debunk that manifesto, the the Discovery Institute manifesto. Uh, so I did one on him just to do that. So harm, he gets F double minus because he's in the DI. Uh, Malice uh, knows exactly what he's doing. Really bad stuff. That manifesto, go watch my video on him. It's it's it's comedic how disgusting that thing is. I'm going to go F double minus for Malice. Uh, toxicity. I've never even heard the guy speak, but he's, you know, like these other guys. What do I say for for toxicity for the other guys? Do I give him a D or a D minus? Pro. I've never even heard him. Oh, we'll go D, I think. Uh, qualifications. I don't even know what his qualifications are if I'm being honest. Uh, I don't know if he has a doctor or anything like that. Let's go F minus. I don't know. Fminus, D, F. Uh, F minus. Um, I think I'm gonna probably put all of these DI guys in the F. So, let's let's put them there. That's fine. Uh, 23. We're moving on. Okay. Uh, Jonathan Mlatche. What a wiener this guy is. Okay. Harm, he's in the DI. Fouble minus. Malice. Um, deluding themselves with religion. I think he thinks he's in the right. Fminus. Toxicity pulling all that crap on Twitter. uh where he took different replies of mine and rearranged them to pretend we were having a conversation. That [\h__\h] was bananas. Um so I'm going to give him a little more toxicity than the other guys. Let's go. Let's go Fminus on toxicity. Qualifications, not much. I think he finished a doctorate, but he's never published. He's never uh Yeah, no papers. Um dissertation wasn't published even. So we'll go F on that. So F double minus F two F minuses. Actually that'll put him that'll put him on the F minus then if we average those. So that's fine. We'll go put put him there. Uh Jonathan Wells, he uh also died recently. A lot of these DI guys are dropping like flies. Uh Jonathan Wells harm F double minus. Malice um diluted himself to an extent. I'm sure we'll go F minus. They know they're lying though to uh certainly at least partially. Toxicity. Uh D. Just a soft spoken old man. Uh qualifications. Not uh he he uh Yeah. No. Um let's go F minus. We'll go F minus here because uh the Mooneyies the cult he was in funded his doctorate. I've heard from multiple sources he did [\h__\h] all like just I don't even know how he finished obviously never published anything um not yeah basically his his his his doctorate is is was a fraud was was fraudulent uh and was never a scientist so low there. So F minus two F minuses and a D. Uh we'll go one of these two. Uh we'll put them up here. That's fine. Put him in the F. Okay, now we've got Kenth Hovind. Kenth Hovind is going to go pretty low on this. What a piece of [\h__\h] Uh harm harm. Very harmful. Uh not just the rhetoric, but I mean, wife beater, pedophile enabler, a kid drowned at his uh amusement park. No remorse there. We're going scum there. Malice 100% knows that he is a scamming piece of [\h__\h] Uh, toxicity scum. Qualifications scum. This Congratulations Ken Hovind. You have the you're the only one so far, probably the only one on the list that is going to get the quadruple scum rating. You go right there with Wakefield and Ben Davidson. You are a scumbag to the core. Okay. Uh just a couple more here. We got Lord Jamar. Uh what number was that here? 25. So 26 here. Lord Jamar is uh uh wait, you know what? I need to uh have this list available here. Okay. Lord Jamar, what did we say? 26. harm. Uh, not that harmful. He's just an idiot. Uh, yeah, we're going to go Well, he's really I mean, but we'll No, we'll put that in the toxicity part. Harmful, not that D or D minus. Let's go D minus. Um, malice, not that much. He really is that stupid. Um, yeah, he's convinced himself that that he's in the right. Let's go D minus there. Um, toxicity, pretty [\h__\h] toxic. Uh he is a gigantic piece of [\h__\h] in terms of just the way he behaves. So let's go scum there. We'll go scum on that one. Um qualifications, high school dropout. He's the least qualified person on this entire list. So two D minuses and two scums. Um that would be F minus, but I'm kind of tempted to put him in F double minus just because he really I mean he really is such a massive douchebag. Yeah, I'm gonna put him in there. Yeah, he sucks. Okay, Matt Walsh harm pretty harmful. Daily Wire is absolutely vile propaganda. Um, yeah, extremely harmful. I would say as harmful as Discovery Institute, just not and you know, rooted in in in Christian nationalism for him, too. So, excuse me. Let's go. Fouble minus for harm. Malice. Yeah. Lying. Lying for cash. lying for ratings, lying lying for cash. Let's go. F double minus toxicity. Pretty [\h__\h] toxic. Um just acts like a complete douchebag. Attacks everybody online. Um attacked me twice and then stopped hoping that I would never uh acknowledge him again, which I haven't to this uh uh thus far. But pretty damn toxic. Fouble minus. Uh qualifications next to none. Uh, I think he went to college, but um, yeah, clueless [\h__\h] We'll go F minus there because I think he went to college. Uh, yeah. So, three F double minuses. Let's Yeah, let's put him in here. Yeah, he really sucks a lot. I think that's fair to put him there. Okay. Behe. Um, okay. Harm gets an F double minus because he's in the DI. Malice. Uh, it definitely is deliluding himself, but I mean that stuff with the polar bear table, like he's just ch like very very blatantly deliberately misrepresenting data. Let's go F minus there. Uh, toxicity, not toxic at all. Uh, tries to come off as very polite. D. and then qualifications. Um, has a doctorate, published like one or two papers way forever ago, wrote and then just started writing a [\h__\h] ton of books. Um, so but uh D minus or F for qualifications. I guess D minus that's fine. Um, okay. So F double minus and F minus. D minus and D averages out to an F. Yeah, let's put him in here with all of his uh DI di cronies there. Okay. Sabina, Sabina, Sabina, Sabina. Uh harm. It is harmful due to the way these that she's perceived as as a credible figure. So, it's pretty harmful um the the science denial that she evokes in she's like a gateway to science denial. She's more than anyone else on this list a gateway to science denial for people who otherwise would not go down that route. So, it's actually really harmful. I'm tempted to give her F minus or F. Let's go F minus. I'll be a little charitable. Um, and actually, you know what? I won't go F double minus because some of her content make improves in science enthusiasm, right? There's popsai stuff on there that's not that that's not harmful. So, okay, F minus for that. Um, Malice. You know what? Actually, I'll go just a plain old F. F for harm. Malice. Um, you know, I I won't dock her as much because I don't have any proof that she's paid by Peter Teal, but she's definitely there's audience audience capture. She's making the kind of content that science sners want to see. There's definitely some malice there. Let's go F for malice. Um, toxicity. She's kind of toxic. I mean, she does like it's nowhere near like, you know, like a Lord Jamar or something like that, but um we'll go I mean, it's she behaves really childishly. Um we'll go F for that. Uh qualifications though, uh she's not like Dennis Noble, but she has I mean has a doctorate, has published literature, so we got to go D on that. That's absolutely fair to say that she's more qualified than the others. So, FFD. Um, we'll go D minus just cuz F is so full. But, um, her qualifications are definitely outweighed by the harm that she causes. She's a portal to science now for thousands, if not millions of people. It's it's really bad. Okay, moving on to Steven Meyer. So F double minus for DI for the harm. Malice knows exactly what he's doing. Um F but you know with the religion thing. F minus toxicity. We'll have to go D because he's so good at putting on that air of uh I'm just a nice guy, right? I'm just kind of uh trying to tell you these things. So we'll go D for that. Qualifications. Um yeah, no doctorred in philosophy of science. So, uh um yeah, we'll go we'll go F for that. Um the thing is, yeah, harm. He's the most harmful of them because he's the most prominent uh figure in the DI. So, let's see if we got F minus F minus D and F, that would be yeah, tie between F and F minus. And I'll put him F minus because he's more he's more visible than the other guys. He goes on Piers Morgan and Joe Rogan and stuff. Okay. Uh Sabore. Oh, Sabore with his little clown nose there. Um Okay. Harm. Uh I mean, not that harmful because he's too stupid to do. It's the same flavor as DI, but he's not able to make it. Uh he's is is not as coordinated as that. So, let's go F. Um, in terms of malice, I mean, definitely knows what he's doing. Um, but he but he's he he has diluted himself. We'll go F minus there. Uh, toxicity, scumbag. Total scumbag. All of that buffoonery with the debate and all of his stunts, every single thing he did, just like a year of of prolonged scumbaggery from him. Defin definite scumbag in terms of toxicity. The way he behaves, everything. Unbelievable. Uh qualifications. Yeah, pretty much none. I mean, um he has a bachelor's in something, but what philosophy? I don't know what. He definitely doesn't understand science. We'll go we'll go we'll go F minus on qualifications. So, uh F two F minuses on scum. Uh but he's so scummy. He's so scummy in his behavior that we're going to put him F minus. He could have gone in F minus, but just the toxicity bumped him up to to that level. Uh, okay. Moving on to Terry. Oh, Terrence, what are we going to do with you? Harm, not that harmful. Um, he's just he's just nuts. We'll go D minus with harm. Um, Malice, he's insane. So, he has definitely deluded himself into thinking he's a genius. There's no two ways about it. He definitely thinks he's a genius, but he's also a wife beater. I don't know how much that weighs into that. Um, we'll go let's go f toxicity. Yeah. Yeah. He's a piece of [\h__\h] challenging me to a duel on Twitter and crap like that. Let's go. Let's go Fminus for toxicity. Qualifications, none whatsoever. We'll go scum on that. Never went to college. Uh I think he graduated high school. Um so yeah. So let's go. So we got D minus F F minus scum. So we'll go he can go in either F minus or F double minus. Um we'll go F double minus just because of his reach, right? If he was like Formcapes or something that nobody watches, then it's not as harmful. But he's just so famous that he's got to go somewhere in there. Okay, we're almost done here. Tucker Carlson. Harmful. Very harmful. Um, very famous, very harmful. Just the propaganda he spews is uh, yeah, Fouble Minus. We'll go there. Malice knows what he's doing. Says whatever the hell he has to say to get ratings. Absolutely. absolute scumbag. Uh, we'll go Fminus there. I will say this, the thing that he did with the interview with Ted Cruz, I cannot believe that somebody made me like Tucker Carlson for a second, but it was absolutely hilarious. I'm sure many of you guys saw that, but if you if you haven't, in the past few days or a week or something, he interviewed Ted Cruz and made him look so stupid that for a second I was like, I like Tucker Carlson. I was like, wait, no, no, no. That's insane to say that, but it was pretty it was pretty funny. Um, toxicity kind of in the middle. He plays it as like, oh, I'm just like a down home guy or that's at least what he's doing now. Let's go Fminus on toxicity. Qualifications. I mean, I don't know. I I don't know what his qualifications are. I mean, did he is he like what did he did he study journalism and stuff? I don't He was I I I don't know. We'll go F for that because I'm not sure. So F F minus two F double minuses. He would go in F double minus but that Ted Cruz thing we'll bump him up one. We'll put him in F minus. Okay. Wall Thornhill. Um harm electric universe kind of in the same camp as flat earth. Not that harmful. Let's go. Let's go D minus for that. Malice definitely knew he was lying. Abs. He's dead, too, by the way. He died, I think, last year. Um, definitely knew he was lying. Um, we'll go we'll go F double minus on Malice. Absolutely a con man. Toxicity, not toxic, right? He he presented himself as a very polite gentleman. And in fact, he was smart enough to never make response videos to me or anything like that, whining about, you know, like Ashton Forbes style, just uh attacking me or anything like that. He was smart enough to keep his mouth shut. I'll give him a D because he was not toxic at all. Um in my in my to to my knowledge, I'll say qualifications, none. Um he was a computer salesman. I think I think he did a bachelor's in physics. I think he did a bachelor's in physics. Let's go F minus for for that. So, we've got a D and a D minus and an F minus and an F double minus. That averages to an F. And then we got one more. We've got Warren Smith. Warren Smith. I don't really know much about this guy. Harm, not that much. Um, it's he's basically Jordan Peterson with no influence whatsoever. So, let's go D minus there. Um, malice. I think he's diluted himself into thinking he's intelligent. So, let's go. We'll go D minus on that. Uh, toxicity. Not really that toxic. I mean, he's definitely childish. Uh, he his response video to me was just like, oh, didn't, you know, like pretending to respond to the things I'm saying. Let's go F on that. Qualifications. I don't know. I mean, I I don't know what it's I don't certainly not any advanced degree. I assume he went to college. Let's go F minus on that. So, two D minuses and two F minuses. But honestly, I mean, just he doesn't like barely anybody watches this guy. We'll put him in D minus. That's fine. Uh, okay. So, that's the end of the tier list. Everyone is there. Uh, the three in the scum category are Andrew Wakefield, Ben Davidson, and Kent Hovind. And if I had to if I had to uh give my pick here of the biggest scumbag I've ever debunked, I think it's Andrew Wakefield. The guy is an absolute piece of [\h__\h] whose body of work as a grifter has caused the most the most human deaths. Um, without a doubt. Without a doubt on this list. and uh he's the biggest scumbag I've ever debunked. And then we've got some honorable mentions there for Ben Davidson and uh and uh Ken Hovind So, that's it for my Grifter tier list. I hope you had as much fun as I did. Maybe I'll do another one of these every couple years just to make sure everybody gets their turn. But until then, it's back to the debunking for me. See you next time.