there are components of the immune system that interact with with virons um and then so that will elicit the primary immune response. They will interact with the with proteins on the envelope of the virus and then they'll go back to the lymph nodes and then the cells will interact and they will produce antibodies that will then be able to go and kill the viruses. But the thing is that whole process takes four or five days. So in that time span you've become infected by the virus and you could be potentially very very ill and also be infecting other people. So what the vaccine does is it artificially prompts the primary immune response. So in the past we had t we had taken viruses and attenuated them. So we you know made them it made them unable to act. So an attenuated virus or a viral particle also we would take just the the the envelope protein itself >> the proteins >> and put that in there. And so then everything right it's just a protein but it is the antigen. It is the thing that the immune system is going to recognize and respond to. So the point is that we inject something into the into the human body that elicits the primary immune response such that the ant the the necessary antibodies are produced so that if the body ever comes into contact with that with that virus it has antibodies ready to go. when antibodies interact with that with that antigen, it's a signal and then macrofasages come and destroy the invading uh entity. So just everything can happen really fast. The immune system can work right away and kill the viruses as opposed to waiting this four or five day time period for antibodies to be produced. So that's really all it is. And so again, classically it had been uh attenuated viruses or viral particles. The new thing now is with these mRNA vaccines, but it's really not very different because as we said, uh we would inject the viral protein. Well, what we've done instead is this mRNA transcript in our bodies transcription and translation. So the DNA is read to a gene is read to make an mRNA and then the mRNA is translated to make a protein. So here this uh foreign mRNA is translated into the viral protein. So instead of injecting the viral protein, we we inject viral mRNA which is translated to make the viral protein. So it's just one extra step and and we're just getting the viral protein that way so that it can uh interact with that and generate the antibodies. And so the the reason this is brilliant is because in the past we've we've made mistakes, right? People have injected what they thought were attenuated viruses that actually weren't. So like there was a whole batch of polio vaccines where they just gave people polio. It just they didn't properly attenuate the virus so they just injected them with with polio. um like it's you know and so this is very good this is a very interesting innovation because there's no there's no viral particle being injected