hey guys I'm professor Dave and I want to tell you about chemistry what is chemistry why should we know about it chemistry is the study of what matter is made of and how it changes it's important to know because it describes everything around us every material, almost every process. if we truly want to understand how our bodies work how diseases operate, how to cure them which foods are nutritious and which are not we must learn chemistry. unless you fundamentally understand molecules all you can do is repeat things you've heard. but how do you know for you heard is right? if you know chemistry you can compare what someone says to how you know that molecules behave if there is a glaring contradiction you can easily reject false information and you won't be taken advantage of for someone else's personal gain. we should be able to think critically like this in every avenue of life be it health, politics or otherwise. with this general chemistry series I have two goals. one is to help high school and undergraduate students taking their first chemistry course. please use these tutorials to supplement your lectures in any way that is helpful to you but because this is introductory material and given that chemistry is the central science this general chemistry series also meant for anyone who wants to learn science with no prior knowledge and for any reason. I will break down concepts as simply as possible so that anyone can learn them. there will be moments where we go over practice problems that are more geared towards students in a class, but feel free to learn these too. because the predictive power of mathematics is what proves the legitimacy of our science if you're watching this clip and intend to view the entire series please click on the general chemistry playlist under the Professor dave home page to view in the suggested order. when we check our comprehension after lesson feel free to pause the clip so you have plenty of time to think before I tell you the answer. if you need to watch a clip more than once to fully understand it that's okay. and if you have any questions about what you've learned feel free to email me enjoy your newfound knowledge