Hey it's professor Dave, I want to tell you about modern physics. Throughout the seventeenth, eighteenth, and nineteenth centuries, our understanding of physics grew tremendously, thanks to the work of a number of brilliant scientists. Near the turn of the 20th century, between Newton's classical mechanics and Maxwell's classical electromagnetism, it seemed like we knew just about all there was to know about physics, and that burgeoning young scientists should choose another field of study, one with more left to figure out. The universe appeared to be completely deterministic meaning that if we could know the precise location and momentum of every particle in a system, as well as the laws that govern their motion, we could know their location and momentum at any time in the past or future. French scientist Pierre Laplace even suggested that if we had such information for every particle in the universe we could know everything about the universe, including how it began, and how it would end. This concept of rigid causality characterized our understanding of the universe until the beginning of the 20th century. It was around this time that some cracks began to form in the deterministic worldview. Through a series of perplexing discoveries we quickly realized that while classical physics works just fine for most earthly phenomena, it breaks down when looking at the realm of the very small, like subatomic particles, as well as the realm of the very fast, like things moving close to the speed of light. In these two realms the laws that we apply to cars and rocks and bowling balls just don't work, and a new generation of physicists had to figure out a whole new set of rules. This period of confusion represents the greatest paradigm shift in the history of science and a sobering lesson in the nature of the universe, which is much strange than anyone in the 19th century could possibly have predicted. But Einstein himself said that the most incomprehensible thing about the world is that it is comprehensible, so strive to comprehend we shall. It is important to mention that this modern physics course builds upon the knowledge that we developed in the classical physics course. If your intention is to master the concepts of modern physics and you haven't yet learned classical physics, you absolutely must go back and view that playlist in its entirety. Modern physics can only be fully appreciated in the context of its historical development and a discussion of the ways that classical physics failed to describe newly observed phenomena. Besides this, these tutorials will assume some basic knowledge regarding concepts and terminology from classical physics as well as knowledge from the general chemistry playlist regarding the structure of the atom, so it is a good idea to do some preparation before we start. Modern physics is hard enough to understand without any handicaps. If on the other hand you are just watching these tutorials for entertainment purposes, by all means proceed, but if you get confused, you know where to go for clarity. Just find the classical physics playlist and general chemistry playlist on the professor Dave explains home page. So if you're ready to talk about relativity, quantum mechanics, and all the other physics of the 20th century and beyond, let's get started now. Thanks for watching, guys. Subscribe to my channel for more tutorials, support me on patreon so I can keep making content, and as always feel free to email me: