Hey everyone, we're back with more debunking of the dumbest chemist on the entire internet, James Tour. Last time we mocked his pathetic attempt at writing a paper on origin of life research. So now let's move on to his more standard apologetics. In particular, some recent malicious content aimed at yours truly, shall we? Now, ever since our debate, where he humiliated himself more than anyone in human history, as well as the equally shameful aftermath, James has referred to me exclusively as that YouTuber, as though people don't all know exactly who I am, and also as though if he were to say my name three times, I'd appear in his bathroom and murder him. That's how terrified James is of me. And in fact, he typically only references me vaguely in passing while spewing some lies I've already debunked. But something has been stirring in James' nuts lately because he recently found the courage to make a whole video about me with my face on the thumbnail and everything. YouTuber couldn't understand this. Origin of life hypotheses are imploding. And the thumbnail says vindicated on it. Wow, this must be a bombshell. Not to give away the ending, but there is no such implosion. I still understand every area of this field a h 100red times better than James. And far from vindication, he is only choosing to humiliate himself even further. But let's get through this garbage video so I can prove it to you. For context, James is going to be deceptively cherrypicking snippets from an interview with origin of life researcher Rahm Krishna Murthy that took place on John Perry's channel stated casually. James is going to pretend that Rahm made claims that support the [\h__\h] James spews and that this is a sign that those silly scientists are finally coming around to the gospel of tour. He didn't and they aren't. He's just being a pointless troll like always. Oh, it's also worth pointing out that in the description of the video, James identifies one of the chemists he claims to have debunked as Donald Sutherland. You know, the recently deceased actor from Animal House and Hunger Games. He was looking for John Sutherland, the chemist. You can chalk it up to a careless error, but maybe James is just in the early stages of dementia. Worth considering. Anyway, let's check out some of the disgraceful dementia fueled trolling. >> No, name me one person. One person that has made a stereocontrolled reaction to make glucose. Stereocrolled reaction to make glucose. And that could ever separate it from the mess that you get. >> Why would they Why would they have to separate it? >> Why would they have to separate it? You have to separate it. >> Why? >> You have to separate in the lab because you need to characterize it because you're a chemist. Nature doesn't need to do that. >> Take it on to the next step. >> Molecules that are in a mixture can't do chemistry. James opens his video with me debunking him using simple concepts that Rom will reiterate later in this video. Wrap your head around that. >> What What did Lee Cronin tell you? In the foremost >> I don't know. He's not my favorite billions of compounds. In seconds to hours, you get billions. And that's why they do all this research on mineral surfaces. Mineral surface didn't take care of it. You want No, it did. Remember the NMR spectrum? Remember the billions of compounds and the NMR spectrum that you can't read because you're a buffoon. >> Unfortunately, you know, many times the science gets blown up um too much. So, one has to be guarded among these kind of you know uh statements that you see when you say they find new clues to origins of life. You know, I' I've seen this. We have been part of this. Then it's a bit where I mocked James for being too dumb to read a 13C NMR spectrum, followed by pivoting to Rom talking about how sometimes popular media uses sensationalist clickbait headlines, which has absolutely nothing to do with what we were talking about in the debate and is a fact I have agreed with since my very first video on James. It's like he's trying to embarrass himself on purpose. There is a recent paper by Raman Orion and Krishna Mirththy and Charles Leotaa and they have written a paper on the foremost reaction and the foremost reaction makes sugars. Why are sugars important? Sugars have another name called carbohydrates and another name called saccharides. But to make DNA and RNA you also have to have the sugar because DNA and RNA are made of nucleotides and a nucleotide has a three component part. It has a nuclease. It has a phosphate. And it has a sugar. So if you can't solve the sugar problem, you can't make any of the carbohydrates. And if you can't make any of the carbohydrates, you can't make DNA and RNA. That's how critical sugars are. And people thought there was a prebiotic route to the making of sugars using the foremost reaction. And that reaction now goes away. But you may have heard people talk about the foremost reaction. Already so much deception. For James to even mention DNA is a total farce. Nobody is looking for a way to get DNA prebiotically because it did not form prebiotically. No matter how many times this is pointed out to him, he will never stop talking this way. Because then he wouldn't be able to pull his pathetic stunts where he looks at extant bacteria or even unicellular ukareotes like yeast and marvels at how something so complicated could have formed spontaneously. you know, like a disingenuous fraud. But more importantly, he said, foremost reaction now goes away. As you will see throughout this video, no, it definitely does not. And it was never the only prebiotic pathway to sugars in the first place. >> Other people have talked about the foremost reaction and how they can quote unquote clean it up. What did Lee Cronin tell you? I don't know. He's not my favorite scientist. Like you said, normally when you do the reaction produces billions of products literally within a few seconds or hours. In seconds to hours, you get billions. And that's why they do all this research on mineral surfaces. The mineral surface didn't take care of it. You want to No, it did. >> I showed that using their very own papers, they weren't cleaning it up. You got to look at the experimental. He says when he ran this reaction, then about 70% 3.5 ms of the supernant was removed for analysis. He's removing the super nent. All the ones that are polymerized and are crashing out of solution are getting put away. They're solidifying and they're falling out of solution. They're precipitating. And then he takes the super natan. He puts it on his HLC and he does the mass spec of mass spec analysis. This is why you will always be a buffoon in this area, James. You can't wrap your head around a way that nature could perform simple filtration like this. Kind of like how you have never once, not once, not even a single time, acknowledged polymerization of biomolelecules by wet dry cycling. The most trivial and universally acknowledged method of biop-olymer formation. You fixate on things that you can't understand as though they render a biogenesis impossible when it's just you complaining about how you're stupid. >> The influence of Brelo's autoc catalytic pathway in the foremost reaction is doubtful. So it is not an autoc catalytic process. They used very careful isotopic labeling C13 labeling to show that they did not get the linear tetroses and pentoses. So in other words they were not making these fivecarbon sugars that you need for making DNA and RNA. Nor did you get the sixcarbon sugars that you need for making things like glucose. Those don't exist in the foremost reaction. they're not even being made. So remember what I've told you many times is that every year we get further away. So so people think that we're getting a little bit closer but the target is moving much further away. Here's another example of that because the foremost reaction has been a red herring. The foremost reaction we say it now and it's not just me. It's Krishna Mirththy. It's Leotaa. is people who are working in the area of origin of life are now coming clean. So here's the nugget of truth that James is using to make this entire garbage video. Rahm and his co-author have found complications with the foremost pathway that indicate it's a less likely candidate for prebiotic formation of biologically relevant sugars than we thought of many different candidates. They certainly did not determine that it is impossible. And they certainly did not conclude that abiogenesis is somehow impossible or that we are now magically further away from understanding the origin of life. That's just Jimbo's dumb script filtered through his desperate need for his religious ideology to be vindicated. Speaking of religious ideology, so we don't even know how to make the sugar sugars. So the RNA world hypothesis goes away. The sugars can't be made. the foremost reaction doesn't work. If you do not believe in the physical resurrection of Jesus Christ, send me an email tour.org and we will get together and I will share with you about why I embrace the resurrection of Jesus. Real subtle there, champ. I wonder what James would do if hundreds of people who aren't brainwashed idiots emailed him to request his dumb Jesus pep talk and just trolled him the whole time. That would be pretty funny. actual formos reaction is a very harsh conditions high pH uh calcium salt high concentration or low concentrations even but a very high pH and heat and the whole thing goes pot. So if you let it go more than 3 or 4 minutes it becomes dark brown dark black with time and then becomes very difficult to analyze. >> Are things sticking together and branching? Are they kind of melting together? Yeah, it's it's it's like almost like a polymer that is being formed. >> Yeah. >> Our results suggest that controlling the ald doll reaction of formaldahhide to selectively produce linear aldoses appears unfeasible. >> In other words, we need other models. Everything we've put forward doesn't work. This is by an origin of life researchers themselves. So you people could say, "Oh, Jim Tour is a liar. >> James is a brazen liar and charlatan. He's a toxic individual and pathological liar." >> This is what James does all the time. They go and they hunt and they just find something esoteric that they can distort and just say it confidently and then the viewers will be like, "Oh, and they sound like they know what they're talking about." >> Yeah, that's exactly what you're still doing here, jackass. You are playing clips of me accurately describing what you are doing in this very video. You are selectively chopping up Rahm's interview, very selectively quote mining his paper, completely distorting his conclusions, and then baselessly shouting everything we put forth doesn't work. Everything. You're taking one paper regarding one pathway and extrapolating that the entire field is a sham. This is what makes you a [\h__\h] fraud, James. The first quote is out of context. He's describing the classical butlero conditions which are not thought to be prebiotically relevant. Very high pH and temperature and lots of calcium. That's laboratory chemistry. Butlero had no interest in prebiotic chemistry. He was just trying to synthesize sugars. Rahm is giving historical context. Here's what he said right before where your clip started. And so we went into this very benign conditions where we thought because the actual formos reaction is a very harsh conditions high pH uh calcium salt high concentration >> they try benign conditions because the classical approach is too harsh and I've shown you all kinds of research where prebiotically plausible bases are used to promote this chemistry under milder conditions and then you flash one brief quote from the paper again with no context and jump to your predetermined conclusion of science is dumb, therefore God. Let's pause here and point out that John's interview with Rahm was in two parts. The first part was about Rahm the naysayer where they discuss instances in which he overturned popular possible routes in origin of life research. This of course is how science works. You have a multitude of possibilities and you rule out as many of them as possible through experiment to figure out what is most likely to have happened. Ruling out options does not make us more clueless. It's actually forward progress. Then part two is about Rom the Pathfinder. This is where he offers solutions to origin of life problems, including the ones that James whines about. Jimbo conveniently ignored the entire second part of the video so that he could screech about how scientists are clueless like he always does. To show you what a dishonest prick James is, we have to go to the original interview. So, so in your mind this scratches the foremost reaction or very similar reactions off the list for the origin of ribos and under the type of conditions that we have seen. This does not mean that there might exist a special condition under which this can be controlled. Um so one of the caution that we give in the paper is that this should not shut off the avenues for such research but it should shut off the claims that the formos reaction has been a source of RNA which is what currently exists in the literature. >> Okay. So so so the the claim is premature. >> Yes. He limits his criticism to specific sets of conditions that have been investigated, encourages further research on the foremost reaction, and states that we simply should not assume that ribos came from the foremost reaction. It's just an easy reaction to point to since we know that it can make a bunch of sugars. But does Rohm act like James and arrogantly leave it at that? Does he throw up his hands and shout, "We're clueless," and run to hide under a pile of coats? Of course not. He's got plenty of ideas. >> There's also Rahm the Pathfinder. There's this new paper that you just published on selection. Let's talk about that. Can you describe that to a lay audience? >> Yeah. So the question now becomes you know let us say we do have um a reaction that gives us a mixture of sugars. >> Mhm. >> Um >> so so you got a mess of different sugars. >> You have a mess of different sugars. And the question is are there ways to select a particular sugar without you know I'm not being teological here I it's not that I want a particular sugar is there a mechanism to select the type of sugar from this reaction mixture and so that's >> there something in nature that will just sort them just the way that that rock sizes get sorted in a wave >> correct yes exactly exactly very nice way of putting it yes so the question was is there a chemical that would do that and when we started looking Looking at this reaction of a phosphorilation reaction where you attach a phosphate to a particular molecule. What we found was this molecule that we use which is called the diam amido phosphate which is nothing but a phosphate molecule where we have replaced two oxygen with two amino groups allowed us to do that and you know it turned out that ribos was the one that got selected mostly from this reaction and in in a fashion that allows this molecule to react further probably producing nucleotides. which is the next step towards the nucleic acids. This molecule took advantage of that fact and then ribos reacted much faster than the other three pentosis and it selected itself out by a factor of almost 6 to1. So that means for every six molecules of ribos that would react only one molecule of the other sugars reacted. So that means there is a overwhelming preference for ribos to go forward and leaving the remaining sugars behind. Well, would you look at that? That big mess of sugars James always whines about and wonders how nature could possibly do anything with it. There are ways in which nature can select specific sugars. And Rahm has identified one way that nature could have selected ribos specifically in a manner that promotes further reaction towards nucleotides to be integrated into RNA. This isn't a brand new concept by a long shot. It's novel chemistry from ROM that builds upon known concepts and it completely demolishes the narrative James is trying to manufacture using other clips from this very same interview. Can you say deceptive gaslighting piece of [\h__\h] Now, let's take a look at the new paper from ROM since James won't actually show it to you. He just flashes tiny snippets and has AI read them for some bizarre reason. The paper examines the plausibility of the classical formos reaction as a possible source of ribos necessary for the prebiotic synthesis of nucleotides. It's a very detailed paper full of complex NMR spectra. He focuses largely on the reaction of dihydroxy acetone 3 with formaldahhide monitored by NMR and discusses the complex mixtures arising from it. He claims that the foremost reaction probably did not occur in the presence of calcium ions and at very high pH as under the butler conditions. So he therefore uses calcium free solutions and pH around 8.5 achieved with bicarbonate. He later states that the reaction does not change much in the presence of calcium. This should all sound familiar if you remember a stunt James pulled in previous content where he just showed the classical conditions using calcium hydroxide and pretended that I didn't understand papers on the formos reaction under prebiotic conditions resorting to pathetic memes to trick his audience into thinking he was winning something. Anyway, Rom's results show that the formation of four is followed by immediate further condensation to yield branched sugars and does not lead to any detectable amount of five on aldos. Thus, the entire cycle is unlikely to have worked under this particular set of prebiotic conditions. Is that the end of the story? Not by a long shot. Just as it's very difficult to show that a particular scheme must have worked under prebiotic conditions, it's equally difficult to show that a scheme could not have worked because the sets of conditions you can try is infinite. And there are hundreds of papers outlining efforts to tame the foremost reaction, some of which shows ribos formation this way. Does it prove it had to happen this way? No. Is it possible? Yes. But James pretends that this paper conclusively disproves the possibility of the formal cycle as the prebiotic source of ribos. And therefore, without a plausible approach to ribos, the whole RNA world hypothesis is dead. This is nothing but slimy preacher deception. Rahm does not support this claim at all. He knows just like any other synthetic chemist working in this field that there are many other plausible pathways. James is just misrepresenting his paper. Read for yourself. It seems reasonable to propose alternative paradigms to overcome the limitations of the foremost reaction to provide the linear pentoses. This is how science works. If you criticize an idea, you propose or look for alternatives. And just like in his interview with John, in his paper, Rahm admits that under different conditions still to be found, the reaction may be more selective. Still there are continuing efforts to control the formos reaction complexity. Here he cites work by Steve Benner using borates among others. The reason Rahm wants to discredit the foremost reaction cycle as a source of ribos is not to invoke the god of the gaps but to advertise his own hypothesis. Prior to this paper he had published an alternative very complex approach to ribos recycling some ideas by echinoser proposing an alternative C2 building block to glycoalhide 1. That's the gioxilate dihydroxyphmerate hypothesis outlined in this other paper. Looking at scheme 4, this seems perfectly reasonable, but so far he does not have solid experimental evidence for it. And his current interest is to reinforce the notion that the foremost reaction may not be the best candidate for ribos production, thus setting the stage for his own contribution. Even still, he emphasizes in the interview that the foremost reaction has not been conclusively scratched off the list. it increases the uh pressure in order to find different source of sugar molecules. Um >> yeah, >> it still might be the formos reaction under a conditions that we have not discovered before which would do this. I'm open to that. It's not that I'm shutting it off. It's just that I do not know at this time what would be a good way to convert formaldihide into ribos in a in a fashion that would be you know um productive. >> Again this is how science works and it demonstrates the extent of useful vibrant debate within the origin of life community. Debate that James is not a part of and is desperate to shut down by twisting the words of researchers in the field. Rahm also reminds the reader that the prebiotic synthesis of ribos may not even be necessary. He cites several approaches in particular Matthew Pounder's work. Pounder has shown that condensation of glyceraldahhide with two amino which is prebiotically relevant creates an intermediate oxolene which can be readily converted to all canonical nucleotides. As for stereochemistry, check out this paper by Donna Blackman that I have referenced before which showed that even recemic glyceraldahhide can give rise to an antiopure crystals of the product if catalysis by proline is hypothesized. Proline does not have to be optically pure. Even a 1% inantiomeic excess is enough to produce an anti-opure crystals of the key intermediate. Remember amino acids have been found in meteorites with some degree of an anti-opurity. Of course, the chyro catalyst may not have been prolene, but the principles demonstrated clearly. With all of this in mind, let's get back to James lying and screeching. Remember the NMR spectrum? Remember the billions of compounds and the NMR spectrum that you can't read because you're a buffoon. >> When we actually went and looked at Benner's paper in great detail, there is no yield of ribos. >> The billions of compounds are actually just noise as the vertical axis is expanded to highlight the wider peaks. You know there are some peaks very you know messy peaks that you know one is pointed as ribos but we couldn't but there is plenty of information on the branched sugars that are formed the yields on the branch sugars. So what the formos was doing was leading to more branch sugars than any linear sugars. It does not stop at the linear sugars which is what you would want for a ribos. >> As for ribos not having formed at all I find that difficult to swallow. It made a lot of sugars. Yes. And ribos must have been in there. Perhaps he meant that it wasn't a predominant or statistically significant product. >> Not the typical classical formos reaction where or in the presence of borate where you really don't get in any ribos you know in a meaningful fashion. >> Don't get any ribos in a meaningful fashion as in not a lot of it. That's a little more tempered. Funny how James doesn't use this clip, right? But also notice how blatantly James distorts what Rom says. Rahm said that there were peaks that were interpreted as ribos. He didn't say that every single peak in all this noise was a distinct compound. Most of this is indeed noise. He's just completely misrepresenting ROM at every turn in this quest to slander every single researcher in this field and me as well. I was absolutely correct in skewering James for his inability to read that spectrum. And he knows it. But he thinks he has a way to reverse reality. So he then plays his own clip of him botching the spectrum so badly by comparing ribos borate to the spectrum of pure ribos, demonstrating yet again that he has no idea what he's talking about and will never learn anything about this topic. While each of these pathways have their advantages in overcoming the complexities of the foremost reaction, they also have their challenges in terms of giving rise to a process that lends itself to an efficient and selective formation of linear pentos sugars in a self- sustaining manner and not suffering from spaciotemporal restrictions visav the early earth environment. >> You try this on an early earth, it would never work. We can't even get this to go in our lab. This would never work for us. >> Can't even do it in the lab. So, how the heck could it work on the early Earth? Are you sure about that, James? Did you even watch the whole interview with Rom? >> The problem is the analytical techniques are not there to really go in and tell us how things change. So if you remember there was a PNAS paper that was published with Fakundo Fernandez where we when we in even increased a slight complexity of the mixture the complexity analysis grew exponentially far beyond what we could tackle. So, so that what's the limitation? >> So, so you're saying that one of the reasons we're stuck doing clean chemistry right now is because we can't we can't analyze. Our our analytical tools just are are not there. You hear that, kiddo? It's not a synthetic limitation. We simply don't have the analytical tools necessary to know exactly what's going on. Nature doesn't need to know what's going on. It's blind and just does what it does. So by whining about laboratory conditions, you are again missing the entire point. >> I tried to invite Christo Murthy on this channel to talk about this and he wouldn't come on, but he graciously sent me and he says, "You understand why I can't come on." And I understand because if he comes on, he's going to have to talk about this. And it doesn't look good for him to come on Jim Tour's channel and say that origin of life doesn't work. >> No, jackass. It's because you're a manipulative fraud who twists foremost reaction may not be how ribos formed prebiotically into origin of life doesn't work. You're pathetic >> because it can ruin their careers. He can't come on my channel. But at least he's putting out out there in the literature. >> So going on your crappy YouTube channel that zero scientists watch would somehow ruin his career. Yet you want your viewers to believe that he is publishing the lies you're spewing in primary scientific literature that scientists do read and that won't ruin his career. Does anyone watching your content have a fully functional brain? Because everything falls apart. So he can't come on my channel. And I understand that's why the origin of life people don't come on my channel. It's not because they disagree with me. It's because they agree with me that they don't come on my channel. Because they agree with me. It it it it really slices up the field. >> No, Jimbo. It's because you're a disgusting troll who is allergic to good faith conversation on this topic and who has spent years slandering the entire field and many of the prominent researchers within it. It's like wondering why astronomers declined to be interviewed by flatearthers. There's no point. They're busy doing science and occasionally communicating it to science-minded people who aren't hostile brainwashed lunatics. That's why you have to deal with career science communicators like me who are devoted to squashing lying frauds like you. An endeavor that people like Rom fancy themselves above and with some justification. Although I really wish he and others would take a turn at putting you in your place one day. For the same reason that one person doesn't want me to quote him anymore and he's asked me not to quote him saying that origin of life research is a scam because when I quote him it makes him look bad but it's all been a scam. Yeah, you're still doing it, James. By not mentioning Lee Cronin by name, it doesn't mean you aren't still vomiting up that blatantly tongue-in-cheek quote for the thousandth time like the worthless fraud that you are. Even after Lee threatened legal action, >> these theories that they put out there, they're going to go, "Oh, whoops. That doesn't work. That doesn't work." This is why I say that we are clueless on the origin of life. Because of you, millions of people have heard the gospel. >> I just can't believe this [\h__\h] isn't a cartoon character. This doesn't work. This doesn't work. Therefore, we are clueless. Don't bother looking at any of the dozens of other possibilities. This one thing doesn't work. Maybe kind of, but also not for sure. I'm just misrepresenting someone to pretend they said that. Therefore, we are clueless. Now, let me tell you about Jesus. Seriously, how is this a real person? So, what do we have in the end? It's just James doing what he does best, misrepresenting literature in this field and quote mining interviews to support his baseless science denial because Jesus. It's all a bunch of pageantry for his brainwashed flock in between interjections about the resurrection of Christ. The level of brainwashed you have to be in order to fall for this stuff is pretty monumental. Unfortunately, there are a lot of such people in America, and some of them are in Tour's groomed comment section where anyone who points out what a fraud he is mysteriously disappears, leaving just a bunch of clueless cretins whining about how materialism is dead and how those evil atheist scientists refuse to insert God into their theories. Science that disproves skydaddy magic is evil Satan lies, right? I'll remind you that these people vote. How's that for depressing? So that's it for James today. We still have a lot more [\h__\h] to sift through given how much he has ramped up his operations over the better part of this year. But this shameful attack on me and the misrepresentation of ROM he used to do it absolutely needed to be addressed in its own video. There's still plenty more stupidity to laugh at. So, I'll see you next