Hey everyone. Lately, you've seen me clap back at James Tour for his most recent personal attack on me. And you've also seen me dismantle his pathetic attempt at writing a paper on origin of life research. But there's so much more to make fun of him about. So, let's do that together now, shall we? As you'll recall, James has made two very long series immaturely slandering me. Each of which I responded to with a complete demolition that pushed him even further into this gigantic hole he's dug for himself. That led to our live debate, which was a train wreck for him, and then a few more hilarious developments, like getting humiliated at Harvard. It's a long saga, so check out my previous content on James if you'd like more context on what a toxic fraud this guy is. Then he went silent for about a year, which would lead one to believe that perhaps he'd learned his lesson and was going to keep his mouth shut indefinitely. But no, not James. For some time now, apart from the two developments I covered recently, he's been mouththing off on the regular with precisely the same script as always. Sometimes featuring other frauds I've debunked, sometimes lying to college kids. It's a rich tapestry. Debunking his attack on me and his crappy fake paper were items that seemed important to cover first and with a sharp focus. But with those covered, enough of his embarrassing apologetics have piled up over the past year or so, such that it's worth our time to poke through for some highlights. So that's what this video will be. Now, to get one important thing out of the way up top, in every single dumb lecture he gives to some university Jesus club or church group or whatever, he parades the same five pathetic talking points that he used in our debate, even though I debunked every single one of them right to his face. The first was polyeptides, where he offered his straw man lysine aspartic acid linkage. First, even if we could only make polylycine, that would still be a polyeptide. We can watch that and similar sequences form spontaneously with prebiotically plausible chemical activators and also by wet dry cycling even in natural settings. So to pretend we are clueless about this is completely insane. But more importantly, there is no reason to suggest this linkage was required for abiogenesis. Here's a paper by Kersning which explains how there were 10 phase 1 amino acids that were available from the prebiotic environment and the other 10 phase 2 amino acids became available later from amino acid biosynthesis once life existed. Lysine did not exist at the origin of life. Additionally, deptide formation was shown prebiotically for all 20 canonical amino acids by Matthew Pounder anyway. So the side chains are not an issue like he pretends. The second was polyucleotides. Again, he ignores all the research that shows these forming trivially on catalytic clay surfaces and he just whines about details present in extent life that were not required for abiogenesis. The third was polysaccharides which were obviously synthesized by enzymes once those came about. The fourth was specified information which is creationist propaganda and not a real thing. Functional RNA sequences arose by chance and were then refined by natural selection. And the fifth was the protoell which is nothing but trivially self assembling lipid myels which did not have to be a phospholipid blayer but could have been as simple as a monollayer of fatty acids and the evolving autocatalytic sets of molecules encapsulated within. Obviously unlike the first four this last one is not open and shut. We are still figuring out how those evolving sets of molecules could have produced the first protoell. But it's not a complete mystery. He's just hiding from all the science he doesn't like. Despite all of this being debunked right to his face in our debate in several of my videos afterwards and by several other science communicators as well, he continues to deliver the same sermon over and over again, whining about how nobody in the field will engage with him because they're so scared and they know how right he is. In reality, he's just a creationist troll they ignore like how astronomers ignore flat-earthers. I give you all of this up top because I'm going to cover a bunch of his sermons rapid fire and I'm going to skip over this lengthy bit that he regurgitates every single time because there's no point in explaining it more than I already have. It will be more fun to focus on the unique tidbits of stupidity from each video. And trust me, there are a lot of those. Okay, let's start with this one. College classrooms are destroying Christian beliefs. Oh no, you guys. When students actually learn things, they discard their archaic faith-based belief system. That means colleges are bad. Take it from this college professor. Notice the clear alignment between the agenda of the Christian theocrats like Torres handlers at Discovery Institute and the fascist oligarchs like Peter Teal channeled through Eric Weinstein and Sabina Hassenfelder. Demonization of centers of higher learning is a hallmark of every descent into fascist authoritarianism. Let's see what pearls of wisdom James has here. What about the resurrection of a cell? Resurrection has got to be easier than an eoniosynthesis. I mean, every everything's pretty much in place. The cell has just died. Just bring it back to life. In fact, define for me what life is. What was there in that cell a moment ago when it was alive and now it's dead? What did you just lose? Did you just say, "Well, we lost the ionic potentials." Is that is it really? I mean, is that all you lost? I mean, there's a lot of things that are gone now. How would you even bring that back to life? All the molecules are there. It's all pretty much in place. Nobody's ever brought a molecule a cell back to life again. Jesus Christ, James, we've been over this. Remember your chat with Steven Meyer and the Humpty Dumpty problem? You're so dumb that you think that cell death is just some magic switch. You think that dead cells are the same as living cells minus some special quintessence. Do you think cells have souls or something? When you say all the molecules are in place, you reveal that you have no [\h__\h] clue how cell death works. As I've explained before, there's not just one mechanism of cell death. There's intrinsic apoptosis, exttrinsic apoptosis, mitochondrial permeability transitiondriven necrosis, necroptosis, ferroptosis, pyroptosis, parthonatos, enotic cell death, neatic cell death, lysosome dependent cell death, autophagy dependent cell death, immunogenic cell death, cellular scinessence, and mitoic catastrophe. And do you know what most of these entail? Complete destruction of the cell. In apoptosis, all the DNA and the organels are destroyed. That's why the cell dies. So, when you say all the molecules are in place, you sound like a [\h__\h] [\h__\h] And do you know what? I know for a fact that you watched my previous video where I explained all of this to you because right after I said all this, I talked about brain cells from a dead pig being brought back to life. and you specifically brought that up during our debate, desperately trying to correct me and failing even though it had absolutely nothing to do with the topic of that section, which was RNA replicators. So, not only are you so [\h__\h] stupid that you said all this insane crap about cell death the first time, but you listened to me explain to you how stupid it is using language a child could understand, and now you're here spewing the exact same horseshit. Do you have zero shame? Are you addicted to humiliating yourself? Is it a kink for you? It's just mind-boggling to watch. The only way to achieve what you think you're saying is to freeze the cell. Bring the temperature down to -200° C. All the functions cease, so it's not really alive, but all the parts are intact. Wait a long time and then thaw out the cell. All the functions will start back up again. Holy smokes. The cell has been resurrected. Hallelujah. James not knowing what death means is not surprising since his entire worldview is based on denying his own mortality. >> That word became flesh. God took on flesh. Jesus took on flesh. Hebrews chapter 2 says he took on flesh and blood because his children are of flesh and blood. in solidarity with us. He took on flesh and blood. That's our Jesus. That's what Jesus has done. And Jesus died and rose from the dead. Let's pray. Aba, my father, blessed be your name. You are so good. >> This is what James does now. He goes to random places, spews his science denial, and then preaches. I won't show you any more than that, but he does this for like half an hour. He's literally preaching. Remember when I told him this? You have a choice. You can be a scientist or you can be a preacher. You can't be both. I mean, he's not even hiding it now. His script of lies about origin of life research was preaching disguised as science. But now he just straight up preaches about Jesus everywhere he goes, even when it's build as a science talk. And he had the balls to act offended when I gave him the ultimatum. Can you believe this jerk? >> You do 15 minutes every morning, you will change. People will say, "You seem a lot more patient." So something's different about you. They will see it in you. And then you'll find yourself apologizing more. You know, I I lost my temper with you. I shouldn't have done that. You didn't deserve that because you were going to become a better person. >> Mr. Fer, >> did you read your Bible for 15 minutes on that day, James? Because you seemed pretty agitated. And I still haven't gotten any apology from you for acting like a [\h__\h] maniac shouting in my face for 90 minutes. People like James are nothing but narcissists who desperately want to be seen as zen-like sages full of profound wisdom. So they get on stage and project that false identity to whichever gullible idiots will listen. He'll make up stories about how awesome he is and how reading the Bible makes him such an awesome person. And he'll convince himself that he truly is one because that's what narcissists do. But in reality, he's a toxic, ragefueled, misogynistic douchebag. And he's too clueless to comprehend that everyone outside of his echo chamber can see that in 10 seconds. How do you deal with a literal six day creation versus a day evolution view? >> Yes. So, so six day creation versus a long longer creation, six 24-hour days. You know, this is probably the biggest question that I get when I speak at universities. You get Christians coming from Christian backgrounds and they say, "Okay, well, the world the earth is 6,000 years old." Okay, why do you say it's 6,000 years old? Well, you count back the years of people's lives in the Bible, and it comes to, I don't know, 6,300 or something like that. >> Uh-oh. Okay, James, it's time for your song and dance where you don't explicitly state that you're a young earth creationist, but you also try and answer the question by referencing scripture instead of all the science that definitively tells us the age of the earth. Lay it on us. >> What happens is, okay, so so that's that's where they got that. But there are different ways of of looking at this. So for example in Genesis chapter 1 for in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth and and and and so you you have these first two verses are different than the third and then verse three. So there seems to be this gap there and the earth was then formless and void. There's this gap even the tenses between the first two verses and the third verse. So you could say all right there is a gap between the origin of of uh uh of the earth and then the sixth day creation. Now Christians will dig in their heels and say no everything goes back to these six days. So this now just take out Bible just one chapter one it says it says who chapter 2 right so chapter 1 verse four God saw that the light was good and God separated the light from the darkness God called the light day and the darkness he called night one day right God called the light day and the darkness he called night what does mean that context is not as easy as we might think to figure this thing out >> yeah the correct answer is that the earth didn't pop into existence through magic. And we know through radiometric dating of various minerals that it'S4.6 billion years old. You're trying to answer a scientific question by reading scripture because unless you're building nano cars or whatever the [\h__\h] you're not actually a scientist. You're a preacher. Nothing in that old ass book is going to tell you how old the earth is or how it formed, [\h__\h] Crack open a high school level geology textbook and learn something for once in your life. By the way, James clipped this bit and uploaded it separately titled A Scientist's Take on Creation and the Age of the Earth. And yes, what a scientist's take. It was exclusively trying to rationalize religious scripture. Why would a scientist use science to substantiate their position? That's silly. It's so pathetic and transparent what James has become, and no amount of flashy thumbnails and clickbait titles will ever change that. Okay, let's move on to a familiar face. Why would you look at that? It's Sabore Ahmad. Many of you are familiar with him from the time I did a drunken reaction video to him and his buddy fumbling 9th grade biology for 2 hours, followed by him pretending to want to debate me, then an extended back and forth where he lied about having set up a debate, culminating in an online debate where he immediately conceded his position on the debate topic he chose and just filated an effigy of Dennis Noble for 90 minutes. What a perfect discussion partner for James. You'd be hardressed to find two more clueless assets in one video. And they are bonded by their shared humiliation at the hands of yours truly. It reminds you a little bit of when Lord Jamar and David Weiss had a giant cope session about me, doesn't it? Anyway, good on them for coming together despite their cultural differences. Let's sift through for some highlights. So the first question I I want to ask you is what inspired you to get involved in origin of life studies. >> If you do not believe in the physical resurrection of Jesus Christ, send me an email. >> No, I didn't cut that together. That's exactly how the video starts. How apppropo is that? James, what inspired you to rage against origin of life research as though you have any [\h__\h] clue what you're talking about? I love Jibus. Unbelievable. And so I saw a presentation almost 10 years ago, maybe eight or nine years ago, where a gentleman was talking about carbohydrates and the the difficulty in in the synthesis of carbohydrates and how carbohydrates every every disease in a cell can hearken back to a carbohydrate disorder. And so I I wanted to try try to understand and I went out on the on the ver after that talk. It was in Nice, France. And standing out there was a was a man named David Berlinsky. And David was uh uh I was telling David, I said, "You know, this is a bunch of nonsense what people have put out there to think that that these carbohydrates could have spontaneously formed on their own." Then he said, "Why don't you write an article about it?" Because he was the editor of a journal at that time. >> Yes. James watched a talk that had nothing to do with origin of life research. Couldn't wrap his head around the very obvious notion that biological polysaccharides arose through enzyatic reactions. Met David Berinsky, the piece of [\h__\h] fraud from Discovery Institute, was convinced to write a shitty blog post, sorry, article announcing his ignorance to be included in Peter Teal's propaganda journal, Inference Review. And the rest is history. He's been celebrating his willful ignorance ever since. Somebody invited me to give a talk on this and I gave one talk and it was I was invited by the Discovery Institute and it was at a meeting in a church. the church. It was over a weekend over a uh uh but it was not during a church service and I gave this talk and it just exploded on the internet and all of a sudden I found myself uh embroiled in this and I wrote an article for inference magazine inference the journal inference and that blew up and and uh and now I had a whole community against me. I was I was everybody liked me prior to that. >> Nobody ever liked you James. You've always been a petty, narcissistic douchebag. But then you gave people a scientific reason to dislike you. You gave that shitty talk in a church where you slandered a Nobel Prize winner. Remember? >> You say, "Well, that's a book from 2009." Well, let me show you the primary literature 2018 in the journal Nature. This is our top journal. You want to see what nature will publish in this area? None of us could get away with this except origin of life researchers do. This guy is Nobel Laurate Jack uh uh Sustak. Here's what he writes on on on uh how did life begin? Let's go through it. I'm interested in it. How life begin? I mean, the guy's a Nobel Prize winner. He must know. Some scientists believe that RNA emerged directly from these reactive chemicals nudged along by dynamic forces in the environment. Huh? Nudged has no, you can't put nudged in any of our articles. No scientist knows what nudged means. They don't know. Nucleotides, the building blocks of RNA, eventually form, then join together to make strands of RNA. Some stages of the process are still not well understood. You think? How do these things hook together? Show me the chemistry. It's not there. As the membranes incorporated more fatty acids, they grew and divided. At the same time, internal chemical reactions drove replication of encapsulated RNA. That is nonsense. Next slide. Here is next slide. The figure that he showed. This is the figure from nature. This is his figure. Cyanide derivatives and simple sugars. Those are not sugars. He says this is oxygen, carbon, nitrogen, phosphorus. That's fictitious. I don't know any sugars that have that chemical composition. You don't know that. He's lying to you. That's not real. And then all of a sudden, you got an RNA nucleotide. But the problem is that's not a nucleotide. It's the wrong structure by far. That's the wrong structure. He didn't even put the right structure. At least he could have put the right structure. >> The backlash was extremely warranted. And if you weren't a brainwashed narcissist with main character syndrome, you would have realized how badly you screwed up and immediately stopped trying to lecture on this topic. But we all know how the next decade went. But that of many people at the Discovery Institute who in their own fields saw absurdity, saw contradiction, saw misleading information and thought, "Okay, I need to get into this." And it just haphazardly happened that they happened to get pushed forward into a position in which they were articulating themselves and then they got a lot of backlash. Discovery Institute is the misleading information Subie. They lie about science to push a regressive theocratic agenda. And unlike figures such as Steven Meyer or Michael Bee who know exactly what they're doing, you're just genuinely a brainwashed science illiterate [\h__\h] who can't tell you're being lied to. It's tragic. I know. I get many people writing to me and they say you know we abandoned they say I abandoned my faith in college when I started learning about Darwinism when I started learning about how there were these these naturalistic explanations for things and I thought the Bible is a bunch of nonsense and so I abandoned my faith they say then after hearing my talks after hearing what I have to say they're actually returning to the faith they're returning to to their faith because they say that that that hey, we we can't we don't even understand where life comes from. >> Yeah, there are precisely zero atheists returning to the faith because of your shitty talks. They only serve to keep indoctrinated buffoons in their blind faith. The Bible is indeed a bunch of nonsense, at least if you're trying to parse scientific information out of it, since it was written by people who knew [\h__\h] all about science. And tricking people into thinking we don't know anything about the origin of life doesn't in any way validate the dumb stories you believe. Then there's the whole progress of of how does life evolve from that first luca that first uh uh uh last universal common ancestor presume that first cell how does that go to multisellular organisms and then all the complexity of we of life that we see today. Luca wasn't the first cell you [\h__\h] idiot. It's just the last universal common ancestor. It's the ancestral cell population from which the extant domains of life evolved. There were at least a billion years between the first protoell and Luca. You don't even know what any of these terms mean. And sorry, how did we go from Luca to multisellular organisms? Well, you're again skipping about a billion years, but if you want to go straight for multisellularity, that's not a mystery at all since we have literally observed the evolution of multisellularity within a unicellular algaal colony. Is that it? What's the harm in just giving in to that types of that that type of theistic evolution? We can still keep our faith and we can still be theistic evolutionists. Um, you know, why are we fighting this particular battle? You know, I I never I never use the Bible, the authority of the Bible as my text for saying what my problems are with origin of life and with evolution. I am using strictly the book of nature, the book of science. Just based on the science, I do not understand how life came about. Just based on the science, I don't understand the evolutionary process. That's right. Just based on science, James doesn't understand science that is taught to high school students. It's breathtaking to watch these admissions tumble out of his mouth without the foresight to know how [\h__\h] dumb he sounds. He's not basing any of this on the Bible. You guys remember a little bit ago when he was trying to rationalize the age of the earth based exclusively on Bible passages? Yes, James, it's all biblical for you. Religious scripture is your default lens for viewing reality. Anything that contradicts it is discarded by your pathetic little pea brain. Even when you're not specifically referencing scripture, and remember, we already demonstrated that you do indeed do that, you are never using scientific reasoning to reject all the science you don't understand. You just say, "Nuh-uh." and run away like a toddler to hide in your closet. If you want to understand how evolution works, crack open a biology textbook and start reading, dumbass. >> For for many years, I've I've I've said, "I don't understand this." And and I invited colleagues come forward and explain this to me. You would think here in the university if somebody could easily explain evolution to me because of course I mean an elementary school person can understand evolution they say I mean it's a very easy thing. So you would think that that I would be able to understand it. You can't understand it because you don't want to understand it because it contradicts the scripture that you've decided is the ultimate source of truth. And stop pretending that nobody can explain it to you. Any high school biology teacher can explain it to you. You refuse to listen. You make these public statements asking for help. And when people offer help, you refuse. Remember Nick Matsky? You'll weasel out of it every time because your entire fragile little worldview relies on your own willful ignorance. Give me more detail. I need to see the chemistry. I need to see the chemistry of what's happening here. >> What chemistry, [\h__\h] The chemistry associated with mutations in the genome. That's in the high school biology textbook you refuse to read. The chemistry associated with changes in embryionic development due to those genomic mutations. That's not chemistry. It's biology. Biology can be found in biology textbooks. Whining about how biology should break down entirely to organic chemistry is like pretending that organic chemistry should be instantly comprehensible to a particle physicist. Grow a brain. It is many miracles would have to occur. Uh um I mean I I could literally line up thousands of them. I have these five questions that I put before origin of life people where I said answer any one of them and I will take down everything I've ever said about origin of life. >> Yeah, five is not thousands and all five of those are [\h__\h] as we've discussed. Yet somehow all your dog [\h__\h] content remains online because you're a liar. I need not even apply to their agencies anymore because at the top I was being cut from my positions on these things because they want to silence you. What what better way to silence Jim Tour than to cut his funding? He can't do any more research and you cut him off as as a professor. Uh how would cutting off your funding silence you dumbass? Your research has nothing to do with your loser apologetics. On the contrary, if it became impossible for you to make your nano cars and whatnot, you'd lean into your apologetics even harder, parading your newfound martyrdom. Anybody can make YouTube videos, and the disco toot covers all the costs for yours. You get cut off from sources of funding because scientific institutions don't want to be associated with pseudoscientific lunatics. It's a bad look. What we're seeing, however, is people are starting to to rise up a little bit. Dennis Noble, for example, in in the UK, uh, he started he started saying, "Hey, there there's real problems here." >> Dennis Noble. Uh, oh, Sabore just ejaculated in his pants. Hey, James, if you're too dumb to understand evolutionary biology at the ninth grade level, you're too dumb to see what's wrong with the rhetoric of Dennis Noble. Savor is, too. I'd suggest that you watch my video deconstructing a pseudocience, but it would require that you watch my biology tutorials for high school students as a prerequisite. and it seems like you're super busy with all these interviews with other morons I've humiliated. >> They have one little result in one of their papers and they blow it up and then they talk to the press and the press blows it up again and it is from that that it gets into our textbooks and and this whole idea of a primordial soup, some pool with lightning strikes, molecules randomly came together and formed these cells and that formed higher organisms. That primordial soup model actually is taught in our elementary schools. This means to children under 12. It's even taught that in our advanced university, in our advanced graduate classes, the same primordial soup model. Sweetie, I absolutely ruined you with this exact lie in our debate. I pressed you to show me a single textbook that says anything like what you're describing. You just shhat your pants, muttered to yourself, and then ran to the chalkboard in a panic to write clueless for no reason. >> Let's begin with the textbook thing. Um, why would you tell this dumb lie, James? Why would you tell this lie? >> This lie. You think you've been taught things that are whole thing about molecules in a puddle. Okay, so there is a primordial soup model and there is no understanding of what's happening in this primordial soup and you talk to people and this is exactly what they see. They talk about the primordial soup model in all of these textbooks. That's your question. >> This is the primordial soup model just means some molecules in water. That's what it means. >> Look, you were absolutely clueless >> on polyeptides. You never gave me the coupling for that reaction. I want you to notice. I'm going to narrate. This is my time now. >> You completely humiliated yourself. I proved in public, right to your dumb face, that you're lying through your teeth when you say this [\h__\h] and you're still saying it in every dumb interview. I can't even begin to imagine the degree to which you must gaslight everyone in your entire life. And in that documentary, we can see the persecution of people simply because they happen to believe in God. Um I remember interviewing the late Jonathan Wells about 5 years ago and one of the things that he mentioned was he was supposed to publish a paper in a journal to do with cell biology and um he was simply asked after he submitted and it really went through are you the Jonathan Wells from the Discovery Institute and he said yes and then he never heard from them again and we have all of this data all across the world of people being persecuted because of their belief. beliefs in insights. Nobody is being persecuted because they believe in God. You duplicitous [\h__\h] Jonathan Wells was a fraud who worked for a creationist propaganda mill. Millions of scientists believe in God and publish their science just fine. Because believing in God doesn't undermine the science they do. Being a lying creationist fraud does undermine science. And that's why Wells was a pointless cretton who never did an ounce of science a day in his life. The Mooneyies, the cult he was in, pushed him through a doctoral program so that he could feain credibility and then he never did anything for the rest of his life except lie about science for money. Cry about it. >> So, if someone was to ask me um what is Professor to all about? I see him all over the internet, but what is he all about? All I would simply say is, well, I would summarize to's perspective as the public has been misled and I'm simply trying to unmislead them. Yes. Unmislead them by misleading them with a pathetic script of lies. Great job, Subie. >> There there is still something mysterious about life. You know, in the old days, they used to describe this as being something called vitalism. That that there was something vital to life that we didn't really understand. And there continues to be some truth to that. >> No, there is no truth to that. And this notion was dispelled in 1828 by Friedrich Ver when he synthesized ura thereby proving that we're made of molecules that humans can synthesize themselves and absolutely no special vital divine force. 1828 that's almost 200 years ago. That's how far behind James is. Wrap your head around that. >> But still what is gravitation? What is that force between two bodies? So when Newton talked about the gravitational pull between the earth and the moon uh uh people were accusing him of of speaking of of demonic things because what are you talking about this force over a distance? What does that mean? And to this day we don't we can define what gravitation is. But to really explain it is a very hard thing. This force over a distance what is this really? Did you want to mention the curvature of spacetime around massive objects? It's called general relativity. It came out in 1916. Oh, right. You're stuck in the 18th century. Carry on. >> I've come across this article written in the Guardian, uh, which says that Craig Venttor created synthetic life form in the lab. >> Yeah. Yeah. No, I I I heard you you you just hung up for a little bit, but I I got it. Yeah. So, I'm very familiar with Craig Venttor and what the work that he's done on synthetic cells. And let me tell you what he did. So he took a cell and what he did is is he has two different experiments he's done. One of his experiments is he's he looked at the genome of a particular cell. He went to a modern laboratory and he copied he made a copy of that genome. Then he took the copy that he made and he put it in that cell and let it run the cell. He didn't make the cell. Clickbait Popsy articles are not indicative of what scientists say or think. Craig Venttor is a synthetic biologist whose work has essentially nothing to do with origin of life research. And no, he didn't just make a copy of a genome. He designed a novel genome and synthesized it from scratch. He invented a new bacterial species. Of course, James whines about how he didn't synthesize the cell. And that's true, but it doesn't matter at all. He's a synthetic biologist. James is so clueless about origin of life research that he doesn't even understand which research is part of the field and which isn't. >> I think one of the most telling things Sabur is this that they will not engage with me. What they'll do is they'll send forward a YouTuber to engage with me. >> Nobody sent me James. I decided to ruin you all on my own. Scientists ignore you because you're a pointless troll. They're busy doing science. I'm a science communicator. Demolishing piece of [\h__\h] lying frauds is my full-time job, and you were my number one kill, Jimbo. >> One man said, you know, I uh uh uh you know, I I don't I don't want to uh uh put upon my children this belief in God. Let let them find this themselves. Oh, no. Your children already believe in God. They're born with a belief in God. You pull that out of them. It is there. It is something that we are born with. Wow. That's the biggest load of [\h__\h] I've ever heard. We definitely are not born with a starter kit of beliefs, buddy. Religion is shoved into children's brains forcibly through indoctrination. And if it's any kind of fundamentalism, it's essentially child abuse. Even if a kid was to come to this conclusion totally out of their own accord, that there is a divine entity that created everything, it sure as [\h__\h] wouldn't be the malicious sociopathic god that you [\h__\h] worship. Sorry. You know, I even look at some of these people and what they're trying to put forward and uh um people will say, you know, is watching so and so atheist on the internet. And I said, watch them. Watch them. Learn about their families. Do you really want to be like them? Is that something? Is that the type of person you want to be like? What the [\h__\h] are you talking about? Learn about their families so every atheist physically abuses their family or something? What the [\h__\h] are you implying? [\h__\h] hell. It's bad enough that you try to present yourself as virtuous when you're a ragefueled narcissistic misogynistic fraud, but you're now going to project all of your faults and weaknesses onto literally all atheists. You are beyond [\h__\h] in the head, James. When a person stops believing in God, they don't stop believing in in in everything. They start believing in anything in anything. When you stop believing in God, you'll believe in anything. You believe in aliens, put it here. You believe in anything else. No, dumbass. When you're not a brainwashed Jesus freak, you base your worldview on actual empirical evidence. It's you morons who believe in literally anything if it's in your dumb book. A space wizard farted out the universe. All humans are inbred from a single pair of humans, not once, but twice. If you're a naughty person, you get tortured eternally in a pool of lava by a vindictive genocidal deity who loves you. You are constantly describing yourself and projecting it onto rational people. It's tragic. Okay, that's enough of Little Subie. Let's pivot to something else. Ooh, check this out. Student Q&A at Dartmouth. James versus Harvard students. Look, he's calling out bad science. Or rather, it looks like James is trying to become the Ben Shapiro of creationists and own those stupid woke college kids. Except in this case, he's always talking to some Christian club full of brainwashed people. So, we're not likely to see any college kids demolish him like what frequently happens to Ben. Let's look at the Dartmouth one first. >> I was just wondering like what you thought about the Shroud of Turin. Do you believe do you believe that it's the actual like thing the covering that was around Christ? I think there was there was a study about the half-lives halflife of the >> of the Shroud of Turin. It was saying it was from the second temple times. I was just wondering what you think. >> Yeah, I I don't know. Oh, the shroud of Turin. Uh, uh, many people have have come to say that that that this this was probably the shroud. It has a lot of things pointing to it. And one guy, a friend of mine has said, "Jim, you you you got to you got to do do a YouTube video on this." I mean, you just got to I mean, I've looked over all the evidence. Looks really good. And then just this week, I got an email from him saying, "Oh, there's a video that just came out on the internet saying giving all this evidence for why it is not the shroud of of Jesus." And you, he says, "I'm not as sure anymore." So, I just don't know. I mean, that that's not that's not my area of expertise. Origin of life research isn't your area of expertise either. In fact, you're a [\h__\h] [\h__\h] in that area. And yet, you never shut up about it. You can't flex your mighty brain, figure out what's up with the Shroud of Turin, and put that whole thing to rest, Jimbo. Well, that's a shame. >> What is the argument for people that are like him that the evidence is in front of their face, right? So, they they they see that the the grand creation and scheme of there being a a designer, a creator, but they don't want to acknowledge that as being a personal savior and like Jesus being that actual God. You know what I'm saying? you know, you know, and and there and he's not the only one. There's many scholars that read this document for years and years. And what I've seen is if you read this just as an intellectual text, you go into it in that way as it's intellectual only, sometimes you don't get it. >> Yeah. If you go in there exercising basic reason and critical thinking skills, you're not going to see it. You have to shut off the part of your brain with access to simple logic and just have blind faith. I wonder if this kid had to give a presentation about all this evidence in front of their face for a creator, what sorts of things would he include? The bacterial fleellum. And who's going to break it to him that even if there were evidence for a god that it wouldn't be their zombie Jesus? You hate to see a young mind go to waste. You know, there's no other planet that you could stand on and you can look up that that has an atmosphere that you can look up and behold the heavens. It's just here. Most of the time when there's an atmosphere, you can't see through anything. >> Hey, look. James is pretending to understand astronomy. Now, no other planet with an atmosphere from which you could look up and see stars. How about the one literally next door that we send probes to that regularly take pictures of the stars. Holy [\h__\h] what a [\h__\h] >> Uh uh, as far as the theory of evolution, it is a theory. We certainly see microeolution, small changes. We see it all the time in my own lab. We work a lot with bacteria and you see small pertabbations in in in DNA and and you have you have epigenetics where there's external things that causes changes in us. You know, every time we get we get a new virus, it can change our DNA and that that gets passed on to our children. So, we see small changes. In my lab, every time we had a virus cell, it it remains every time we had a bacterial cell, it remains as a bacterium. Uh, every time we had a mouse, it remained as a mouse. >> Yep. James just did evolution is just a theory. Micro evolution, but no macro evolution. And but it's still a mouse. All rapid fire. I think he's auditioning to replace Ken Hovind when he gets sent back to jail for beating up his seventh wife. Let's see if the Harvard kids are any smarter. if it's possible to derive some of the more complex structures out of a simpler subset of original structures. think about um whether for example in the area of amino acids and proteins if for some of the proteins that have multiple uh functional places for attachment um whether it's possible for the subset of the eight amino acids that don't have such points of attachment if they could potentially evolve out the other amino acids and in particular whether it would be possible to in more controlled environments like for example you know the deep sea vents hypothesis is one that gets kicked around a lot in the abiogenesis circles Or there's also the um the sort of deep sea uh pressure pools hypothesis which is somewhat distinct from the deep sea vents because that's also low temperature which facilitates far far long and high pressure which facilitates far far longer uh half- livives for the molecules at play on the bottom of the ocean. >> Okay. So, so um so first of all, deep sea vents which are hot, the lifetime of molecules is much shorter. Okay, not longer, much shorter. Jesus Christ, James has severe comprehension issues. We will come back to what he said about amino acids because it's a slam dunk. But the guy specifically talked about cooler, high pressure, deep sea regions, and James jumps right to but it's so hot. The guy's brain is fried. Let's watch him stumble. If you deal with the 10 amino acids that don't have active side chains and you say you could make polyeptides from those, you could. But without those reactive side chains, you don't have the ability to do the folding that you need to fold. >> Oh yeah, says who? You. Have you assembled proteins with those amino acids and observe the folding patterns? Because no, you [\h__\h] haven't. And yes, they absolutely would fold and do fold. They still have polar and non-polar groups that would cause folding due to hydrophobicity and hydrophalicity. You have no [\h__\h] clue what you're talking about and you're visibly flailing. >> Could those somehow then form a template that give you the other ones that might help to make the other ones? You you could do that. It'd be hard to come up with a scenario to map out a scenario, but if you're just thinking wildly yes, the answer is yes. Could you make enzymes, but we don't know of enzymes that don't have any of the ones with the active side chains? >> Yeah, extant proteins have all 20 canonical amino acids. That's not the [\h__\h] question. You are flat out admitting that a biogenesis could have occurred without active side chain amino acids, thus completely obliterating your pathetic DK linkage straw man. And yet, instead of deleting all your content from your channel like you promised, you will go on to use this slide another thousand times. until you die because you're an intellectually bankrupt fraud. >> Remember, I've given you the entire deconstructed cell with all the correct uh uh with all the correct polymerization. So, what you're going to make is random and what I'm giving you is with a code. Now, what you still got to and I'll give you all the sugars even with all the code. Even if you had all of those, we don't even know what to do. >> Yep. Just pivot to another dumb straw man. whine about scientists not being able to do a thing that nature never did. And it's funny how when your script is dismantled, you get charitable and basically accept that all the biomolelecules can be accounted for, but then later just revert back to your dumb script about how nobody knows how to get the biomolelecules. You don't have an ounce of honesty in your body. >> Um, just so I understand the time scale, if Earth is about 4.5 billion years old, >> yeah, let's give it the universe. I'll give you 14 billion. >> Okay. And uh life around 3.5 billion years old is 1 billion years not enough time for randomness. >> No, not at all. And in fact, it's not 1 billion because we know that nothing could have happened before the cooling from the great heavy bombardment. So after the earth cooled, then these things could start happening. The earth was just blazing hot. And this is why we have all these elements on the surface of the earth. It's amazing. We have the periodic table right here. All of these is just showered here and and so we have so much and so um it was after that cooled and it turns out that the time between the earth cooling and the signs of life is very very short. It's very short and and uh uh there's no way that the time so the time is actually not 14 billion years. It's not three and a half billion years. It's not even a billion years. It's something on the order of a hundreds of millions, which is way way too short for the for for having life. >> Way too short. Chemistry can't happen in a few hundred million years, you guys. Why? Because reasons. Great work, James. Maybe it's your propensity for saying dumb [\h__\h] like this that there's only like 10 people watching you talk. >> RNA only lasts 4 hours or less because it's probably longer. So, it's not even now hundreds of millions of years. you only got 4 hours and now it's got to find all the the amino acids in that 4 hours. So it's like there there's there's only moments. So hundreds of millions of years isn't long enough for something to happen that you're now claiming is supposed to take only moments to occur. Only creationists can contradict themselves to this degree and not even hear themselves doing it. Also, this RNA only lasts for 4 hours thing is total horseshit that I debunked to Smitherines in my video demolishing his fake paper that makes this precise claim. Check that out if you want to laugh at how dumb James is when he tries to talk about RNA. >> Somewhere between Genesis 1, chapter 1 verse one and Genesis 1:3, something happened and there was a void time. And with that void time, we have no idea what the age of the earth is, right? So, we have no idea anymore. We have no idea from that. >> Yeah, we know the age of the Earth from geology. That's the one with rocks in it. You should check it out sometime, Jimbo. >> What was formerly junk DNA when I started my career is now intergenic DNA and turns out to be super important for all regulation. Uh uh and so now we're nowhere close to being similar to a chimpanzeee. We were told we were 98% the same as a chimpanzeee. Well, that's only for the protein coding part. When you look at the regulatory part, we're very different. So, science is always changing. Uh >> oh, Jimmy's been getting his science from Discovery Institute. Again, the junk DNA thing is one of the most pathetic and dishonest talking points they have. That a small portion of the genome has regulatory function doesn't mean there is no junk DNA. 80 to 90% of the genome has no function. And he got this crap about chimpanzees from Casey Luskin and the propaganda campaign he launched in response to some recent literature, which I debunked to smitherines in this video. Humans and chimps are 98% similar in the ways that matter. Doing a whole genome comparison that results in numbers like 85% similarity also results in different humans being only 87% similar. Just another dishonest distortion of data. Check out that video for the full treatment. >> And and so how do we interpret these things? My interpretation of the Bible is constantly changing throughout my lifetime. And you know I I I get different interpretations. So, I've never seen a controversy between a fact of science and something that is clearly stated in the Bible. I've never seen it. If you've seen it, share it with me. I've never seen it. No scientific inaccuracies in the Bible. I dare you to show me even one. Okay, dumbass. It says the sun moves over the Earth, which doesn't move. That stars can fall from the sky onto the ground. It claims there was a global flood, which definitely never happened. It says men are made out of dirt and women are animated ribs. It says the whole world had only one language until the Tower of Babel. It claims some people live to like a thousand years old. It basically says the earth is flat with a snow globe dome over it. It says pi is equal to exactly three. It says whales are fish and bats are birds. That insects have four legs. Shall I keep going? Oh yeah, plus all the promotion of rape and incest and slavery, which is not really scientifically inaccurate, just morally abhorent. Other than all that, super cool book. Okay, let's try something else. Responding to internet myths. >> People on the internet say they have debunked you. How do I know what's true? You'd have to be more specific. They've debunked what? They've debunked that you can hook amino acids together. The two two amino acids that one has a a side chain caroxyic acid, one has a child side chain amine. And they've they've put that together. That's never been debunked. >> Yes, it has. I debunked that idiotic talking point right to your dumb face in the debate and in several videos since then. I've also debunked literally every single thing you've said on this topic for the past five years. Maybe find the courage to watch my content someday. James, >> has Has that person gone to a blackboard and shown you the way that that could happen? If not, then that's not been so. >> Duh. But did you use chalk? Duh. This is all he has. Dave didn't play with chalk, so science isn't real. It's the most pathetic tactic I've ever seen. Hey, James. None of your criticisms are valid unless you write them out with crayons. Didn't use crayons. Doesn't count. Sorry, kiddo. Let's see what else. Oh, yeah. There was also a back and forth of several videos where James gabbed it up with non-scientist creationist idiot Rob Stadler where they fumbled a bunch of trivial concepts in evolutionary biology. Erica of Gutsick Gibbon and Dan of Creation Myths made some content eviscerating those videos and I participated in a few of them as well, so there's no need to investigate them here. Just check out these two discussions I reposted on my channel, as well as a few other videos they made without me. If you're interested in seeing real scientists crap all over this [\h__\h] these videos are also funny because you can see how hard James is trying to avoid coming off like a raving lunatic like he does in all of his older content. But to some who put out YouTube videos, this is very, very simple. How do you just say synthesis? How? Show me. You got a reference on that? Do you have a reference on that? you know, this this whole difference that people talk about between brain and mind, which is a whole another a whole another consideration. Uh uh but but uh >> it's like the DI sedates him before his videos now. Or maybe he's gearing up to pivot towards creationism ASMR videos. Okay, let's go back a little more and hit some of the older scraps. Ooh, here's an interview where he's whining about his debate performance, and it's with those idiots from Real Science Radio. Remember when I took the world's biggest dump on them? That was fun. >> This is what my frustration was at that debate with Fina. I was dealing with a person that does not understand chemistry. He truly does not understand. So when I would present him with a problem, he didn't understand. Yeah. Your frustration was due to me exposing your script of lies right to your dumb face, which is why you were shrieking like a toddler for 90 minutes straight. And the idea that I'm the one who doesn't understand this chemistry is laughable since I was the one explaining papers while you just played with chalk and said nuh-uh to any science you don't like. >> As soon as you got to go to a blackboard, it calls out all the all the deceivers because you got to write it up there. You can't just wave your hands. All right, show me the chemistry that's got to take place. And that's why I did it on the blackboard. And he refused, Fina refused to go to the blackboard. He says, "I don't need the blackboard." And he put up the title of a paper. Well, why not go to the blackboard? >> No, James. Chemists publish papers. They don't write amino acids on the chalkboard for no reason. Something any freshman undergrad can do. You played with chalk because that was your way of posturing for your idiot followers and pretending you know what you're talking about. These professors fed Fina with a bunch of data. I liken it to this. It's like when you take an eight-year-old and you put a grenade in their hand and you say, "Go up to those special forces and let this button loose." That's what they did with Fina. They sent him in there and he had absolutely nothing. It's really adorable how you imagine that all the origin of life researchers are sitting in one room trembling about your ferocity and collectively decided to send me in their place as though I'm not a grown man with agency and more than enough scientific knowledge to humiliate you. Maybe you should have read all those papers like I told you to, instead of just shouting, "Nuh-uh!" at science you don't like. Around the same time, James decided to have several conversations with Steven Meyer, the only idiot at Discovery Institute that seems to have been cleared for public appearances since the rest of their roster are even dumber than him. If you haven't seen my content on the DI, give it a watch so you can familiarize yourself with who they are and how they lie, especially Meer, who is covered in part two. Here's a conversation where James is still whining about Lee Cronin and the Harvard thing. One of the fun things about our friendship. We've gotten to learn a lot from each other. So, I've been following your work, particularly the stuff on your critiques of abiogenesis, but I love your work on nanotechnology, too. So, yes, anti-science propaganda peddler Steven Meyer is a big fan of the anti-science propaganda that he pays James to make and doesn't understand in the slightest. Isn't that quaint? >> What is it that we're trying to explain the origin of? And what defines success is not a molecule that you might allege is somewhere on the path from simple chemicals to a fully functional cell, but instead a fully functional cell, albeit the simplest one that we can observe. Boy, does he really pack on the stupid. Well, Stevie, it's hilarious that you whine about synthesizing biologically relevant molecules on the path to a cell not being enough because that's essentially a tacid admission that exactly this has been accomplished. Even though James pretends we can't make any of the molecules. And no, origin of life researchers do not have to explain the simplest cell we can observe or life as we know it. They have to explain the actual first life, a protoell which is profoundly simpler than anything alive today. You're never going to get it. You want to morph one animal body plant, evolve one animal body plant into another, you've got to change the developmental gene regulatory network which is responsible for the the building of body plants. But the one thing we know experimentally, Davidson has told us is that that's the that's the thing that doesn't happen. the those developmental gene regulatory networks cannot be significantly altered without crashing the developmental program, shutting down the development of the organism and terminating any possibility for further evolution. So, how you get from one animal body plan to another in light of new things we've learned about how difficult it is to build an animal animal body plan and the intricacy of the choreography, the integrated choreography that's taking place because of this essentially molecular circuitry is is an unsolved problem with all theories of evolution. This is Meyer's version of Tor's interact. Wow, look at this crazy complicated thing. Therefore, God intelligent design propaganda in a nutshell. No, Stevie, new body plans are not an unsolved problem. And your song and dance about all this crazy information and circuitry outside of the genome is [\h__\h] The body plan is determined by hawks and tail genes, which regulate the expression of other genes to determine how embryionic development and cell differentiation occur. This is all these guys can do. Confidently use esoteric terminology to pretend that scientists are hopelessly confused about how life works, which wouldn't prove their god. Even if it were true, >> there was one one origin of life researcher and I said, "Look, you're you are a synthetic organic chemist. You see exactly what I see, but you don't have the ability to say it because you're so engrossed in this field." Now, his reply was telling. His reply was nothing. He said absolutely nothing. Yes, James, that diligent researchers ignore your pathetic trolling efforts is totally an indicator of how right you are. And when the lunatic in footy pajamas is shouting on a street corner about the tracking microchip the government put in his brain, everybody who walks by and just ignores him is proving him right, too. Also, you started this anecdote pretending to be speaking to someone face to face. So, when you say that they said nothing in response, you clearly reveal that you just emailed someone and they didn't reply because they know you're a pointless troll. Unless you approached someone at a conference, shouted at them like a maniac, and they just stared at you bewildered until security dragged you away. Anyway, this dynamic duo kept it going with a Q&A. So, let's take a peek. Uh, what is my endgame here? I think my my game my game is is is is the plan is to expose uh a lot of a a lot of things that are just not true. You know what's happening is that when people in high school, when people in early college get confronted with certain scientific views, it does draw a lot of people away from the faith. But these scientific views that are presented to them are purely theories and a lot of it is hype based on on on these theories. And it draws a lot of people away from the Lord, away from God. How pathetic. James is a scientist with no clue what a theory is. and he is pretending to expose these horrible hyped up theories that he doesn't understand by spewing a script of lies. Yeah, a lot of people who are indoctrinated from birth snap out of it once they learn science and apply critical thinking skills. You must have missed that boat. Evolutionary biology isn't hype just because it hurts your feelings. Also, you can accept science and still believe in God. You should give it a shot. Stevie has a different goal. Of course, I I've been involved in making up the positive case for intelligent design as an alternative uh understanding of of biological origins and with that advancing a research program that flows from that. A research program. Yes, what a robust research program you have over there at Discovery Institute. What with your precisely zero research facilities and zero working scientists? Remember when you tried to pretend that you had a research facility called the Biologic Institute, but it was really just frauds superimposed onto stock images of a laboratory from Shuddertock? That was the closest you morons have ever gotten to doing real science. And it's the closest you'll ever get. actually doing better science framing forming coming making a case for an alternative model of origins that suggests a different way of looking at life that will be more fruitful in the laboratory as we investigate life as a design system doing better science. You don't do any science, Stevie. Middle schoolers who make volcanoes for the science fair are doing better science than you. You write crappy books that say God did it because I say so. Since signature was published 15 years ago, have scientists proposed any other potential chemical or physical explanations? If so, who proposed them? And what are their results so far? >> This is an immaculate representation of the kind of people that listen to these two bozos. Since the crappy book that Meyer wrote a long time ago, which has nothing to do with real science, has any scientist done science? If so, who are they? What do they do? And can you please teach me how to read? Steve, are you aware of any published rebuttal for the waiting time problem and your thoughts about West Virginia bill for ID teaching? The ID teaching thing is pretty simple. We're not pressing for any uh uh legislation requiring the teaching of intelligent design at the public high school level. A why is that? Is it because you tried your hardest already and failed so miserably that nobody took you seriously for at least a decade? Good call. Let's see what else can we make fun of. Ooh, look at this one. Dealing with toxic people. James, of course, has a lot of experience with toxic people since he's been living inside of one for his entire adult life. >> Mr. Mr. This is like when Bill Cosby would try to lecture young comedians about using too much profanity, only for it to come out later that he's a serial rapist. Take it down a notch, James. You're the single most toxic person I've ever met. In fact, the number of people on the planet who are more toxic than you is zero. >> Look at that. He's learning. Here's one more with Daddy Meyer for a real meeting of the minds over at Hoover Institution. the famous Miller Yuri experiments of the 1950s, Meyer comes along and says, "Well, wait a minute, fellas. What about Watson and Crick? Every cell contains DNA, and you're not going to create a three billion item long strand of DNA with hitting ammonia with lightning no matter how many times you do the experiment. Is that not correct?" >> What a perfect sound bite encapsulating the smug ignorance of creationist commentator ass hats. DNA, you guys. Miller Yuri can't make a DNA molecule with a billion base pairs. No [\h__\h] Sherlock. The first living organisms had no DNA. Do idiots like this really think they can overturn an entire field of research by demonstrating that they have no clue what anybody in the field says or does? >> They had a false idea of how simple life was. They thought a couple reactions they figured out, but but now you've got to figure out the DNA. How do you get that out of the primordial soup? Why hasn't the Okay, so no, no, why hasn't the whole scientific establishment said, "Stop presses. We have a problem." >> Gee, I don't know, man. Why don't you invite a scientist who actually works in this field to your pathetic little round table so they can teach you something? Because these two clowns aren't going to do it. >> I mean, you're sensing the frustration. Welcome to my world. I mean, th this is this is the problem. This is the problem. None of this works. It's a it's a it's a bunch of of of science fiction. It's really nonsense what these guys are putting forward. And they're building their careers around this thing. And money continues to this day. 40 million €40 million euros was just designated to in 10 years figure out where life came from. And there's about 40 researchers that in Europe that are going to try to do this. It's really nonsense. We don't even know where to begin. >> What an adorable little pat on the back from Stevie here. as if that will suffice in excusing James for being a raving lunatic who regularly goes into a psychotic altered state when discussing this topic. But more importantly, James really shows his cards with comments like this. He's always feigning charitability. I can't say that we will never figure it out. We're just so far away from figuring it out. Well, idiot, if you're pretending to believe that we might figure it out, then what's the problem with spending money to figure it out? What you mean to say is that you wish nobody would ever work on this problem for the rest of time because the existence of the field and the remarkable progress it has made, especially over the past 20 years, is challenging your baseless faith in ways that give you ulcers. But you don't have to say it. We can all hear it loud and clear. We don't even know what life is. Molecules don't care about life. Molecules are they don't they don't move toward life. There's no propensity for a molecule to move toward life. It has no brain. It has no action that wants to bring it toward life. They don't know. I don't know what you want me to do. I'm just here. What do I do? And then even if we could say, I want you to move toward life. He'd be like, okay, just tell me which direction to go. >> I don't know. >> Jim has an amazing talk. >> It's pretty hilarious watching Meyer stare daggers at James as if to say, hey, take it down a notch, Sparky. We talked about this. Remember, I'm going to cut you off, so take this time to simmer down a bit. There is a repeated intelligent intervention in every one of these simulation experiments. So what's being simulated? >> Every one of those simulations is is you say it's intelligent. It's stupid. It's stupid because it doesn't get you there. They are doing things that in their own mind is intelligent, but it's stupid because it's not moving there. >> Jude, could I ask? Meer tries to cut him off again like he's a hyperactive child embarrassing his parents at a fancy restaurant, but James is just steamrolling everyone. And with what more of his idiotic tirades about how molecules don't know to move towards life? As I've said before, do atoms know to move towards molecules, James, do atoms have brains? No. Well, then how do molecules form? What a mystery. Oh, they just obey naturalistic principles that govern the molecular world. Well, the same goes for molecules and life, genius. I'm done trying to teach you about systems chemistry. So, let's use another example that even you can't deny. Take a look at viruses. These are simple systems of molecules, an RNA or DNA based genome enclosed in a protein casing. That's all. Viruses are just inert sets of molecules. They are not alive. But they clearly care about life. They hijack cellular machinery for the purpose of replication and regularly mutate in order to more efficiently do so. They can even insert their genetic material into the human genome. So, what can we say about viruses? Only life cares about life. According to James, are viruses therefore alive because they care about life? Well, then life is simply a collection of molecules. No special essence needed. We can even assemble viruses from synthetic nucleic acids and proteins, further confirming that they are but molecules. On the other hand, if you deny that viruses are alive, as most biologists do, then you have to admit that molecules do care about life since viruses are just molecules. There are so many ways to pick apart this idiotic argument. And yet James will never wrap his head around it. >> Why is science as a profession so hostile to intelligent design to the notion of intelligent design? >> Gee, maybe because it's fundamentalist Christian anti-science propaganda aimed at eroding the separation of church and state. Try and keep up, champ. Let's see what else. Oh, here he is being interviewed again by that idiot fish hat apologist. >> Origin of life predates evolution. So for evolution to start, you have to have the first cell. Uh evolution starts at at the first cell, the first life, and then carries on from there. >> False molecules observably can and do evolve by natural selection. And I'm tired of explaining this to you. >> And as I started to study the literature and what people had to say about it, uh I was I was just amazed that that uh uh the claims that they were making. And then the question comes, why did I even start studying about this? >> Because a naturalistic explanation for the origin of life triggers you into a frenzy since it contradicts your baseless faith in special creation. Is that really a serious question? >> Then the question is, where does life come from? Which is a pretty fundamental philosophical question. Where does life come from? Now, as a believer, I believe everything that's in the scriptures. But that doesn't do me a whole lot of good when I have to teach this as a scientist. It's actually not a philosophical question. Life is a physical construct and science is the study of the physical world. It's a scientific question. You pretend it's philosophical because you hold ancient scripture above science, which is an absolutely moronic thing for a working scientist to do. >> And uh uh in my classroom, I never bring the Bible in as a as a as an instruction point. And Christians would love for me to do that, but then I wouldn't be at a secular university. I'd be at a Christian university. So, I don't do that. Actually, many students have specifically reported that you regularly inject religion into your lectures and also that your optional Bible study sessions are the basis for discriminating against those who don't attend. >> You described the same thing about how the primordial soup model is basically mythological in nature. It's not evidencebased, but yet it's talked about in widely and it's in textbooks in school. These morons are as bad as flat-earthers insisting that gravity isn't real. For the thousandth time, primordial soup means organic molecules in water. That's all. You think it's mythological that molecules formed life in water? Get an education, fish hat. >> The chemistry fights against moving toward life. Molecules have never been known to move toward life ever. They they move away from life. They entropically. there's entropy in it. They they they try to scatter from the organization because life itself is entropically very low energy. It is genuinely astounding to hear an actual chemist continue to say [\h__\h] like this. High school chemistry students can refute this. Spontaneity is determined by both enthalpy and entropy. Entropically unfavorable processes occur spontaneously when they are sufficiently enthically favorable. like my cell assembly since energy is released when these favorable interactions are maximized. James, you are genuinely stupid. Okay, as a special treat to wrap up, holy [\h__\h] you guys. James went on what I can only describe as the view for brainwashed Jesus freaks. Check it out. >> Today's guest has joined us to reveal how our bodies are constantly changing at the molecular level and how this could shed light on the resurrection. But before we get to that, join me around the table is Cindy Johnston. How are you? >> Hey, I'm doing well. >> You ready to go into a science class today? >> Well, I really didn't like science when I was in high school, but I love science now and I love learning and thank you for having this guest. >> Anna Kendall, how are you? >> I am excited about this guest. I love it when we have brilliant people and this man is so brilliant. It's going to be a great show. >> He really is. Rachel Anne Brown, how are you? Listen, science and math are two of my favorite subjects because there's always a mathematical answer and it was you never had confusion about getting to the right answer and so I guess my brain analytical brain always loved that. So I'm excited to learn more. >> That's good. Your dad was >> amazing at math by the way. He was brilliant. >> Dorothy Newton, how are you? >> I'm doing good. All I have to say is >> is that a teacher is here and I'm going to be a good student. >> There you go. Me and you both. Me and you both. Cindy Murdoch, how are you? I'm good, thank you. Um, biology was my favorite. Biology was my favorite. I love to study the human body. >> Way better math. >> Well, today's guest is a passionate academic and evangelist. Please welcome Dr. James Tour. >> Welcome. >> James is so thrilled to be there with Whoopi and Joy. And I don't actually know who hosts the view, so I'm going to stop there. But boy, is this exciting. It's the most important interview of his career. >> Tell everybody what you do. You are a professor at Rice University. >> Yes. So I I >> I'll let you brag on yourself for just a second cuz I know you won't, but just tell me one of the top 50 scientists. >> Wow. >> In the world. >> That is awesome. >> Yes. >> Wow. That is amazing. That's what they tell me. >> And my friend Donna told me that you drew a picture of Jesus in class and the teacher said it was the best drawing he ever saw. And you got the lead in the school play. Aren't you just a big old ball of talent, Jimmy? All this while James sits there with this ash shucks g whiz face. Is this not the funniest [\h__\h] you've ever seen? >> Dr. Tor, right before we get into that, I want you to talk a little bit about how you came to know Jesus as Lord and Savior. >> I had been addicted to pornography from the age of 14. I started working at a gas station in New York City just just uh on on the highway just goes in into the city. And um uh I would find these magazines and I became addicted. So by 18 I knew that I was addicted and and um when I read that verse I was deeply convicted and I was deeply convicted because >> when Jesus is getting a hold of our hearts there's this amazing power to his words. I mean he could speak one word and and and it it it stops you. And all of a sudden this tremendous peace started filling the room. And then just off to my right, just three feet away from me, Jesus is standing. Hallelujah. Jesus made you stop looking at those naughty magazines with the butts and the boobies. That was so sinful. We don't need to finish this long story since we've heard it before. But if you haven't heard it yet, the punch line is that he hallucinates Jesus in his dorm room and then decides to be a clean boy. I just wanted to see these women nod uncomfortably while he tells them about how he jerked off too much. Oh, wait. We do have to watch this part. Oh wow. >> And it's not a clear image in my eyes, but I knew this is the presence of the Lord. And I didn't hear any voices, but right away I turned my I'm already on my knees and I put my face to the ground just weeping and it he was just pouring out this liquid love on me. You were on your knees and a man was pouring liquid love on your face. Was it white and sticky? James, I'm pretty sure you got molested by a janitor. You should probably get some therapy for that. I heard that repressing trauma can cause violent outbursts. >> Mr. Fern, >> I was struggling with freshman chemistry. I had been put in an honors class be not because I was really good because the adviser heard that I was a chemistry manager. Okay, stick them in the honors. I needed to be in with the masses. I I mean, these kids have been learning chemistry since kindergarten. >> James, there's no honors chemistry in college. That's high school. You can't even tell a simple story about trivial aspects of your life without lying. You are literally always lying. It's incredible. >> How can any educated person believe somebody has risen from the dead? >> Yeah, I was thinking the same thing. >> So then if you look at different pieces of evidence, you have the scriptures as evidence and then you have extra biblical evidence, writings from the time. >> Yeah. >> And you look at these collectively, there is so much evidence. And people say, "Well, I don't believe in the Bible." But well, if you if you say if you just dismiss it, it's because you're an idiot. >> No. People who blindly believe religious mythology are idiots. Smart people understand that every religion as a bunch of stories that didn't happen. And to reject all of the sets of mythologies except one for no good reason makes you a gullible toddler. Pretending that scripture is evidence that the stories in that scripture happened is like pointing to a Harry Potter book to prove that Hogwarts is real. Because you you it's it's like if somebody were to pick up my organic chemistry textbook, it's 1,200 pages, and spend 15 minutes and say, "This is this is nonsense." I would think that I'm speaking to an idiot, >> right? >> You can't look at this book for 15 minutes and tell me that what I'm studying here is a bunch of nonsense, >> No, it's not like that at all, [\h__\h] Anyone can pick up a chemistry textbook, go into a laboratory, and verify everything in the book for themselves by doing chemistry. You can't do that with the Bible because it's a bunch of shitty stories about things that definitely didn't happen. You're dumber than rocks. >> This was so amazing that John looks at this and it says he believed. That was enough to see the empty tomb and the grave closed there. It didn't make any sense other than Jesus rose from the dead. Peter didn't believe, but he left bewildered. He says, "Something something's going on here." Wow. They looked in the tomb. The body wasn't there anymore. And the only explanation is that he rose from the dead. No other scenario is possible. Case closed. Excuse me while my eyes roll out of their sockets. >> Come touch me. He He He commanded them. He didn't say, "Well, touch me if you like." >> Yeah. >> You know, would you like to do this? He commanded them. When the risen savior says, "Touch me." You touch him. >> Is that what the janitor in your dorm room said? James, do you want to show us on the doll where he made you touch him? >> Then he says, "Come here. You stick your hand into the hole in my side and be not unbelieving and believing. He falls on his knees. He says, "My Lord and my God." >> Was the hole in his side or was it more towards the back of his body? James, did you put your finger in the janitor's butt? >> He appeared to them by the Sea of Galilee. It says Jesus cooked a fish breakfast for them on the beach when they came in. >> He told them where to throw their nets for 40 days. Over 500 people saw him at one time. Hallucinations are not shared and certainly not among 500. over and over again. >> Yeah, I can make up a story where some crazy [\h__\h] happens and a billion people see it. It's a [\h__\h] story. You can make up whatever you want. How do you need this explained to you as an adult person? And what these men and women did, they died for their testimony that Jesus has risen from the dead. They died for this. And nobody dies for what they know to be a lie. If they had made it up, they never would have gone to death. >> Uh people sacrificed themselves for all kinds of religions. So, by your logic, those religions are all true, too. Those gods are all real, too. Don't you think he should spend some time praying to those gods as well? I bet they're big mad at you for ignoring them in their martyrs. There's hell to pay, James. >> Lord, forgive me. >> Lord, forgive me >> because I am a sinner. >> Because I am a sinner. >> Thank you for dying for me. >> I believe that Jesus is Lord. >> I believe that Jesus is Lord. And I believe he has risen from the dead. >> And I believe he has risen from the dead. >> Fill me with your Holy Spirit. >> And let me live for you. >> In the name of Jesus. >> Amen. >> If you prayed that prayer today, >> it's the most important prayer you could ever pray. And it is life-changing. It is the greatest miracle that takes place. >> That's right. Of all the super important prayers you can do, this is the most importantest. Getting nice and filled up with that sticky creamy Holy Spirit is going to fix you up real good. Just take it from James. He gave up pornography and became a raving lunatic who lies on the internet. All this can be yours. Anyway, that's enough of that. It's equal parts hilarious and tragic to witness what James has devolved into. from conjuring up his initial script about some science he doesn't understand to whatever the [\h__\h] this is. He pretends to give science lectures where he regurgitates the exact same debunked talking points over and over and over again in between prayers and Bible passages. He's the most cartoonish person I can think of. It's hard to imagine what else he could possibly do to warrant further commentary, but I'm sure he'll think of something, especially if his handlers at the disco have anything to say about it. So, that's it for James Tour and the highlights reel of all the dumb [\h__\h] he said over the past year. If he does something else insane or tries to respond to me, you can expect some more content. Otherwise, I'll probably just let his stupidity accumulate over the next year or so and update you when appropriate. Either way, I'll see you next