Hey everyone, a lot of you saw my recent RFK Jr. debunk. Thanks very much for your views and your comments. I'm hoping that video continues to make the round so that as many people as possible can learn all about RFK and what a garbage human being he is. I wanted to make a quick announcement because activity surrounding RFK is continuing this time in the flesh. That's right. I'm announcing a live event. I am teaming up with Pang Burn to bring you the anti-RFK tour and our first event, we don't have others planned yet, but we do have one that is uh booked and finalized and it is in New York City. So, it's going to be uh at a venue called Bronx Landia in the Bronx uh in New York City on Saturday, September 13th. So, what is the event exactly? Well, on stage it's going to be me and Dan Wilson of Debunk the Funk, another excellent science communicator and debunker of all kinds of medical misinformation and things of that nature. And we are going to be there to debate people who want to stand up for RFK or have issues with our debunking of antivax rhetoric or things of that nature. Really, whatever you want to talk about. So, uh, the way it works is that there is a ticket for general admission if you want to just come and enjoy the show and talk to us after the show. We will be there to hang out and everything like that. Uh, and then there's a different ticket that's a little bit more money. It's like $10 more if you want to be a debater. It's a debater ticket. And so that ensures that you will be uh given access to a microphone and you will be able to interact with us for I'm not sure if it's a particular duration of time five 10 minutes or if there's a limit or anything like that but you are guaranteed that you will be able to ask us questions challenge us on something debate us on whatever you want probably try and keep it within the vicinity of vaccine medicine RFK uh HHS type stuff because that's what we will be uh there for. Um, I'm sure there's going to be some random flat earther that buys a ticket just to yell at me or something like that. So, those are the details for the show. I just wanted to make an announcement video to get the word out as far as possible. If you are in New York or want to make the trip out to New York City, that's where we will be, myself and Debbun the Funk to answer your questions, hang out, sign things, etc. And uh, yeah, we will be in the Bronx at uh, at 700 p.m. on September 13th. Saturday, September 13th. Go to payingburn.com/tick to get your tickets today. And I hope to see you there regardless of what you believe and support.