Welcome back everybody and pleased to have Professor Dave back. Welcome back. Thanks for having me. So I saw this clip and well it's more than a clip. It's it's a video but uh Alex Okconor interviewed John Lennox and John Lennox he's from Ireland. He's from Northern Ireland specifically. He's a mathematician uh and he's an apologist. I find him to be kind of a likable guy. He's a He's a jolly, cheerful, polite dude, but he's kind of a doofus when he tries to do this uh apologetic stuff. And I was watching this and something comes up in this and I said, "There's no way." And so I emailed Dave because I knew Dave would just absolutely love slashhate this. And I want to bury the lead. I'm not going to tell the audience what it is. it'll come up later and you're going to go, "Oh, you got to be It's actually two things. It's two things that are exactly right ripe for me to to to crap on." But in general, it's like these guys like I I keep hearing like everyone's like, you know, religious people will be like, "Oh, you you could never debunk John Lennox or you could never debunk William Lane Craig or like they have like these handful of like apologists that they think are like the smartest guys in the world." And then I'm always like, "All right, let's say." And then I'm always just completely floored by how dumb they are. It's like this is the guy that you're putting on a pedestal. Like it's just I don't know. It really shocks me every time. Yeah. I mean, they're smart. They're well spoken, but there isn't They're well spoken. I don't Yeah. Yeah. There's no substance behind what's what's being said. And uh we're going to we're going to show you what we're talking about here. So, Mhm. I'll uh I'll play this first clip from the interview. Unfortunately, it takes about 90 seconds for him to get his point across, but we'll we'll pause when he gets through it and then we'll uh react to what's being said. As an argument against God, first of all, you've got to know that evolution is true and you've got to define what it does. We need to distinguish between evolution and the origin of life. Now Richard Dawkins as you know who's a brilliant writer I must say um I remember reading his book the blind watchmaker. Yes. And what arrested me uh in reading it and I can almost quote it verbatim. So that's a compliment to Richard. um that evolution, the blind automatic mechanism that dark that Darwin discovered is the explanation for the existence and the development of all of life. He said that yes, it's in the book. Yeah. And it took a very long time for him to realize that the first part of that statement is false. Yes. for a very simple reason because evolution again whatever does or doesn't do depends on the existence of life to do anything. So it cannot be the explanation for life. Now of course people these days get round that by talking about chemical evolution and so on. That's nothing to do with mutation and natural selection and we could go into that but as a mathematician it's the former interests me more that is the origin of life itself because it's almost equivalent though not quite to the origin of information. I see there a huge problem. Okay. Well, that's what we're and there's a lot there to unpack but uh um I I've got I've got some notes but go ahead. Yeah. I mean, f first of all, if if you're going to use evolution to disprove God, literally nobody is doing that. Nobody is going evolution happens, therefore God isn't real. That's not a position that any serious person takes, and there are plenty of uh theists who accept science. Um but yeah, this whole like I love apologists that have no experience with chemistry and in particular systems chemistry talking about oh you know they can't explain that and they get around it by by knowing what actually happens in that field. Uh so yeah sorry molecules evolve uh by not by Darwinian means RNA can evolve by Darwinian means we have observed it many times in the lab and he's wrong. So that's kind of it. Yeah. So, one of the things you said there is Dawkins says in the blind watch maker, I've read that book that evolution is the explanation for the origin and existence of life. I spent about 2 hours going through this book. I couldn't find that quote in here. Maybe it's buried in here somewhere. Now, Denn or uh Lennox, I got I got Dawkins and Lennox mixed up there. He he says that now that idea can't be true because evolution depends on life. But we know that natural selection is something that applies to like inorganic chemical processes that that's been demonstrated in the lab. Organic but non-living. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Organ. Yeah. Sorry. Because organic can mean from life or contains carbon. My mistake there. Um Yeah. But like I went through like I I tried to find some relevant things in here and you know Dawkins says uh does life violate the laws of physics because living that you know if you if you throw a a rock a parabola the laws of physics describe its motion but if you throw a bird it'll start flying and there's no equation in physics that describes that. So he talks about this does life violate physics? No. There's no reason to say that the laws of physics are violated for any living matter and that would include the origin of any kind of living stuff. But entropy but entropy that's I don't know I don't know if Lennox doesn't use that argument but that is definitely yeah a very popular one. He goes on to say that uh I mean the folly of the the logic here is to invoke a creator to explain the origin of DNA um and protein machines by invoking a supernatural designer is to explain precisely nothing because if you're trying to explain something that's complex and you invoke something that's more complex then you haven't you've just created I mean that that's obviously the en enormous fallacy that they commit but we don't even need to get into that. I mean, it's like, yeah, obviously, yeah, you're you're creating something even more complicated to try to explain the complicated thing. So, that's idiotic. But there's we don't even have to talk about it because there's so much to talk about with the science. Like, again, you know, Dawkins is, you know, evolutionary biologist. He doesn't know a lot about systems chemistry and probably didn't even bring it up in that book. I haven't read the book, but um and that's okay. It's not his field, right? But the it like systems chemistry is a field of study that has absolutely exploded in the last uh 20 years or so, 20 25 years. Um I think uh Gerald Joyce got the first uh self-replicating RNA strand first autoc catalytic um uh ribosyme in like 2000 somewhere around 2000 and so obviously at first um you know different mechanisms it wasn't polymerase activity at first but um I mean it's like it's a very very rich field that Linux knows absolutely nothing about and it also it's okay that he doesn't know anything about it but I'm sure that he must have at least heard heard, oh, autocatalysis is a thing, right? Ribos self-replicating ribosymes is a thing. And even if he doesn't really understand the chemistry of it, uh what is exactly is going on mechanistically, you don't really have to, right? It's just if you can accept that there are self-replicating things, then when you have changes and there's going to be replicative error, right? You that the sequence can't be copied infinite times with complete fidelity. There's going to be errors. If there are errors that enhance the survivability or the you know the the the the metabolic activity or whatever the thing is that it's doing um that will be favored and it will proliferate in a in a greater abundance right there will be a statistically significant uh uh uh thing going on and and it's like it's just basic statistical dynamics. That's all it is. And again we've been doing this in the lab for 20 years so he needs to catch up a little bit. Yeah. Yeah. And there's, like you were saying, there is abiotic natural selection. And you know, like Richard Dawkins is extremely famous, but you know, he's not a chemist or anything like this. I I've read one origin of life book by Nick Lane, I think his name is, called Transformer, and like it all went over my head, you know, but you know, this stuff does exist. It's just nowhere near as popular. But I mean to what Lennox was saying, and this book was written in 1986, you know, the blind watchmaker. was a long time ago, but he does invoke the uh self-replicating molecules possibly arising. So, Dawkins isn't saying that it's just life. He invokes this prebiotic kind of stuff. He does talk about RNA in here as well. And then the only the only thing I was just kind of curious if you'd ever heard of this. Again, this was 40 years ago that this book was published just about. But he talks about a scientist named Kairens Smith who had an idea about uh clay crystals possibly being a catalyst for, you know, the first self-replicating molecules. Have you ever heard of that? Yeah. Uh sure. I mean, and that's been demonstrated for decades as well, right? uh clay certain clay surfaces act as catalytic surfaces because the thing is you need you need RNA in order to get the catalytic function of RNA. So how do you get RNA strands right let's say you have nucleotides how are those going to polymerize to make RNA um and uh you know apologists will often talk about well you need proteins right in the in our cells uh nucleic acids nucleic acid formation is catalyzed by proteinbased enzymes and so if you don't have those and how can you do it well okay there's other ways to do it right so there are these catalytic mineral surfaces these different clays mont morlinite clay that uh that act as as just this it does heterogeneous use catalysis, right? The the nucleotides can approach coordinate to the clay and then they uh they polymerize that way. And so this also has been demonstrated for for decades. So that's a different step, right? You have these surfaces whereby uh whereby random RNA sequences, right, RNA nucleotide sequences can can be generated, right? There's the the sequence isn't directed. But if you're getting trillions upon quadrillions of random sequences, you're going to have a certain proportion of those sequences that do something that have a catalytic function by chance. They are able to uh to to synthesize something. They're able to drize uh particular amino acids, right? They're able to to do uh to do that coupling. They're they're going to be able to do chemistry. And ribosymes are incredibly versatile in the types of chemistry that they can do. they're not as reliable as protein-based enzymes. Um, but there's, you know, they played a part in in the evolution of life uh very early on because you just get singlestranded RNA and then number one that acts as a template for its own polymerization uh and then uh or replication rather I should say. Um and then it does other stuff right? It can do metabolic things. It can do whatever. So, um, yeah, it's just we're none of these apologists are ever going to put in even an hour to like to learn about this stuff. That's why I make uh that's why I did my content debugging James tour. That's why I'm planning hopefully on doing like an origin of life series with tutorials so I can explain all this stuff so everybody can learn about it if they want to. You know something you brought up there that even even I have trouble keeping this like in the in the back of my head when you invoked quadrillions of reactions. Yeah. Absolutely. I mean a single cell will undergo something like a billion chemical reactions per second. Yeah. And how many cells would fit in a drop of water? Mhm. It's just the the amount of things happening here and the amount of time for something the amount of events and time for something to be selected that's favorable again prebiotically is that magnifies what you're talking about as a possibility. So well even if we're talking about one in a billion sequences having some important catalytic function, it's fine. We've got billions upon trillions upon quadrillions of iterations of this thing. That's what apologists can't seem to understand is that when you when you have astronomical numbers of opportunities for something to happen, even something with infinite decimal odds becomes certain to occur. It's just it competing infinities, you know. So, yeah. Well, uh we'll get to there will be uh some of that later to bring up. The only other note I had there was what Lennox said is chemical evolution has nothing I said it the way he says it. evolution has nothing to do with mutation and natural selection. Mutation maybe, but natural selection. No, that's not true. Natural selection plays on these on these systems, but we kind of covered that already. I guess mutation too. I mean, we're talking about self-replication and then it's not going to occur with 100% fidelity. And then mutagens too, I assume. I mean, I don't I don't see why RNA wouldn't be privy to to to exogenous mutagens in the same way as DNA, right? um whether that's UV photons or or you know whatever it is um it's going the the sequence that is self-replicating will change over time and if it changes in such a way that it enhances its ability to self-replicate or do a particular thing it will it will uh be more abundant statistically that's just it's just it's basic logic it's really especially because there'd be no nucleus shielding anything so yeah uh any yeah do you have a like a favorite candidate it are you like a RNA world, amaloid world, uh metabol metabolism first or do you just kind of take it all? I guess RNA world but the thing is that it's compatible like RNA world is somewhat compatible with metabolism first. Like it's not like one thing is happening only and then later another like there's all of these things that can be happening. I mean in order for uh for in order for something resembling a protoell to to develop there has to be some kind of metabolic function. But the thing is that you can you like you have these polymers, you have RNA strands. The RNA strands are have some of them have catalytic function. All of a sudden you can be getting deptides, tripeptide, tripeptides, tetropeptides that those already also can exhibit catalytic function. They can do things too. It's you don't need a 200 MR to of a protein to to get some catalytic function. So I just think it's all happening in tandem. You have RNA strands, you have polyeptides that are that are developing. And it's a very messy process that probably took a very very long time. Maybe not. Maybe it only took a couple thousand years, but maybe it took a hundred million years of this mess of chemicals to just find the by chance find these correct functions to make something that resembles a rudimentary cell, you know? I don't know. Okay. Well said. All right. um next thing but staying with now the second part of Dawkins's assertion it explains all the development of life now here's where I think one has to be nuanced and to be fair because Darwin was brilliant he observed things that people had not observed he observed changes oh Darwin yeah for example the famous study of the finch beaks in um the Galapicosils and I have a 1,000page book at famous book on that and I've read most of it and that was hailed as evidence but of what it certainly was evidence of cyclic change what not so many people were aware of is that once the drought conditions disappeared the proportion of long beaks to short beaks actually moved back to what it was before but nevertheless he could see that something was happening that filled niches is and enabled existing creatures to adapt to new niches. Now that seems to me to be uncontroversial because we can observe it. But when it goes beyond that to the creation, if I might use that word of new life forms or all this kind of thing, I think that's a very different matter. Okay. So, you know, to me that sounded like I don't know how often you hear this trope, but I believe adaptation Not macro evolution. Well, not even that. It's I believe in adaptation, not evolution. That seems Tucker Carlson said that. Yeah, I I hear that all the time uh with the people online that I talk to. How the [\h__\h] do you think the adaptation is happening? I know that's this is what I tell people. I magic. I wrote about it in my first book uh because that's one of the claims I go over, but I say adaptation is not a thing that happens. And I walk people through like how does an organism adapt? And we we go through it and like okay so how do they how do they they have to change in some way? And so how do they acquire the change that allows them to adapt by changes in their genes or in gene expression? Well, that's just evolution. So you just I mean you unironically prove that's why they're trying to bring back this like Lamarian this Lamarism uh uh angle because like people aren't understanding no this change doesn't happen within a generation right organisms aren't just magically changing but Lamar said that they do right the giraffe is stretching his neck on purpose and so that's what these people are thinking of when they think of adaptation they're thinking of like oh you and I could adapt to like a new uh a new like social environment and like change the way we behave or something. It's like that's not what evolution is. We're talking about multiple generations, mutations in natural selection, you know. Yeah. I've never I've never heard this thing about the the finch beaks going back to being like stabilized or something, but those were subspecies. Yeah. I I it the only way that they could contract, the beaks could contract to like a a a less diverse distribution or whatever would be in a species, not in all of the different species because the ground finch and the cactus finch and whatever. They have completely different diets. So, the drought isn't going to make the broadbeak finch all of a sudden have a So, I I don't know what that was all about. I never really heard any of But also it's like I I think uh a very dishonest thing that they do here and and Lennox himself didn't really fully do this but obviously a lot of other apologists do is they go like oh Darwin saw the different beaks that doesn't prove anything. God could have just made them with the different beaks. It's like yeah you're right but the point is that he he got an idea and said okay it looks like this is has this feature has been molded according to the environment and the food sources that are available. What if I can offer uh what if I can take some plants or some kind of organisms and in in have my own environmental input, my own stimulus and see if I can generate some kind of uh of you know uh you know observe this kind of thing that I'm that I that I'm hypothesizing can happen. And I think the apologists don't understand like that Darwin did empirical science. I just did a debunk of this stupid pseudoarchchaeology troll and he was like Darwin wasn't empirical. He didn't do it. It's like, what the [\h__\h] are you talking about? It wasn't empirical. Like, empirical science is just mountains and mountains of of of experiments and and observations. And um he did all this science. He did a lot of science, you know. So, I get people that are pushing the idea that in evolution, you propose that there would be missing links, right? And then you dig up the missing links. They call that circular reasoning. They they they say you're just begging a question. I was like empirics is not begging the question. It's circular reasoning. I people either made a prediction and I was vindicated. Yeah. They they act as if we've always had all the evidence and then we formulated a story to tell it. It's like no. But even when you tell them that we later found the evidence, they call that question begging. And I that is just maddening. Or they just say it's not real. Right. It's that's they invoke the two times that a hoax happened and therefore everything is a hoax. Yes. Pill down man. Therefore there are no therefore there are no missing links of anything. Yes. It's [\h__\h] bananas. Or if it's there then Satan put it there. Oh yeah. That Yeah. Okay. And now uh this is the part that uh you've all been waiting for. You just don't know it yet. I have a huge difficulty with that kind of what we may call macroevolution. But much more interestingly is what has happened in the last few years with so-called systems biology where the Darwinian mechanism well natural selection was his mutation was later. But if we put both together and we have the neodyarwinian hypothesis that has been called into very deep question as being totally inadequate here in Oxford, Dennis Noble. There it is. Dennis Noble. All right. There's a little there's a little more here, but that's that's it. one of the most fascinating characters, fellow of the Royal Society and he's debated Richard on a number of ca of occasions and his argument is really in the end that natural selection that neodyarwinian thesis doesn't need to be modified it needs to be replaced because it's completely inadequate. Okay, there we go. So, let's for the moment just sort of not not exactly skip Dennis Noble, but is Lennox even representing Noble correctly? Has Noble been saying that uh Darwinian evolution just needs to be completely replaced? I don't think so. No, I mean I don't I don't think Noble denies the concept of natural selection. Um, no, he's he like he just has this whole grift about pretending that it's basically epigenetic inheritance that he's pretending that that uh is more relevant than what we already understand about evolutionary biology, which is not true. Uh, and I made a pretty long piece going through all that that I put out last week, I believe it was. And um yeah, it's just like this is all that apologists have is they can point at they'll go like, "Oh, Dennis Noble had a conversation with Richard Dawkins in front of people. Uh therefore, this status of evolutionary biology is in flux." It's like, "No, that's not like uh evolutionary biologists kind of don't know who Dennis Noble is and don't care. Uh he just uh he doesn't publish in evolutionary biology journals. Um he's he's uh a little bit of a got a little bit of a James Tour thing going on, commenting on a field that he doesn't really understand and disparaging it. He's just not quite as um toxic, let's say, about it. Yeah. Um but yeah, he doesn't uh he very very clearly doesn't understand certain aspects of evolutionary biology. He pretends that uh that uh the central dogma has been violated, which it's very unfortunate that that Crick called it a dogma. I don't know why he did that. Um uh but uh yeah, I don't know if anyone's interested. I have a pretty long piece just really tearing through all the primary claims of Dennis Noble and showing that he has no idea what he's talking about. Yeah. And even if the modern synthesis were to be replaced, it would still be replaced by something that invokes essentially Darwinian evolution just with extra steps. So, it's I I don't know why an apologist would try to use this. I really don't. Because it's just a narrative, right? Science is bad and a guy proved science wrong and we worship him now. It's just a story. It just point at Dennis Noble and think that that's like a win somehow. Even though none of these I mean uh Lennox is uh Lennox is smarter than the people who follow him and he couldn't even dare try to talk about uh any of this uh anything about evolutionary biology. He just sits there goes oh macro evolution I have a big problem with it. All right, man. Like I guess I guess a leaky faucet can fill up a bucket but not a swimming pool, right? It's like this the micro evolution macro evolution uh distinction uh already is invalid. But uh yeah, noble this is just their guy that they're pointing to now. That's it. You know, it's for Lennis Lennox. It's it's bizarre, too, because I can't imagine he's a young earth creationist. And so I don't get I don't get how you can think earth and life are billions of years old but evolution doesn't happen. You'd have to believe in that really crazy archaic idea of special creation in different epochs with but that would that would that would mean that would predict that nothing would be related there. There certainly wouldn't be predictable hierarchies of the relationships but that's exactly what we see. So I I would like to I'd like to hear how it's supposed to work if if life and everything is billions of years old. Why is evolution called into such question? I don't I don't know that and we won't hear it here. I guess I think part of the problem is that apologists and certainly their followers have no grasp of the the the number and variety of specimens that are known. uh all of those lineages, all of those lineages uh paleontological lineages that have been filled in over the past 150 years or whatever and just they just they just don't even know about it, right? You could Google like uh you know whale evolution or whatever and get a bunch of um intermediary species that are very wellknown very you know pacetus and all these different ones and um they just don't know that. they just don't know that we have these specimens and that they very clearly represent um this transition from from land to to aquatic mammals. Um yeah, it's just a combination of of ignorance and then an unwillingness to to accept uh these facts that they don't look for. Yeah, it's just there. I feel like he it would be weird if he'd never thought about it before because he seems like a smart guy. But if you think life is billions of years old, but evolution doesn't happen, then you would think that humans have been around for billions of years. Or you would think that if you believe humans were specially created, which I'm pretty sure he does, but you'd have to think all the other life was around for billions of years and just didn't change at all, which is just so obviously and stupidly wrong. I don't Yeah, I mean, artificial selection shows us how much things can change obviously on a hyper rapid uh time frame because we're using sentience to guide it. Um, but we we can easily show how much things can change, especially crops and stuff like that. So, it's like we're we've we've shown ho how much change is possible and on what time frame. So if life is around for this uh astronomical time frame like I mean it's just this whole like oh we accept the little bit of micro evolution that we can see and artificial selection and stuff like that but I don't understand how we can get from this particular life form to this seemingly completely different life form which is fine it is something that you have to like learn and wrap your head around but you know just do that like learn about genetics and learn about uh you know embryionic development and learn about what is possible when you have certain mutations and what that does to a developing organism and how that can generate very very significant uh phenotypic change over time. Yeah, I like that. Just do it. Somebody should trademark that. Yeah, that'd be a good one. All right. The problem is, and it's a chicken the egg problem that most simply perhaps can be realized. Here is DNA. You can't get DNA without a cell. You can't get a living cell without DNA. So, how does that work? Magnets, how do they work? So, so where's where's where, you know, substantiate that for me, Lennox. You can't get DNA without a cell. Why? I mean, you can't get a cell or no, actually, that one makes a little more sense. You can't get a cell without DNA. That's the one that's truly uh truly there's no basis for that. Uh and in fact we're extremely confident that the first cells had no DNA. Right. It was life first and then DNA afterwards. We got an upgrade uh when it shifted to DNA. Yeah. I mean we just we already know that you can have uh a virus with DNA in it. You don't have to have a a cell. Oh yeah. Yeah. And really the DNA makes the now a the DNA hijacks a living cell and makes the virus. But I we do have a case of the DNA actually produces the virus. Now that wouldn't have happened the way it happens today billions of years ago if a viral first world is is what happened. There's compelling reasons. Yeah. I mean there's compelling arguments for it. Things like mim viruses um have an actual metabolism and maybe viruses have just devolved almost in a way. they've just reduced to being essentially today abiotic, you know, DNA machines. Yeah. Um but it started the presence of hosts. They Yeah, that that does make sense actually. Yeah. Yeah. But there's no I mean there's no logical or scientific problem with the idea of it doesn't even have to be viruses, but that you can't have DNA without a cell. That's just not that's just not the case. And both of us both of those two statements are demonstrabably false. I'm sorry, John. Yeah. And uh and whatever the first form of life was almost certainly I mean I'm tempted to say it wouldn't have even have been cellular. Um it maybe could have been, you know, the the phosphoipids, they can spontaneously form a bubble and it would have captured. But I I can envision that the first real living thing was literally just an environment of chemicals that just perpetuated their own existence. I guess they were autocatalytic and then eventually they were captured by phospholipids around hydrothermal vents for example. Well, I mean it needs a boundary, right, in order to be labeled as an as an organism. But the the thing is that that that that is one of the that's one of that's not a problem, right? to be because we don't need a phospholipid billayer. This is another thing that apologists like tour do all the time is like look at what we have now. We have DNA now. We have cells have phospholipid billayers now. It could be a fatty acid monollayer. Like there there are many ways to get lipids to create vesicles to encapsulate molecules that are doing chemistry. I think that the first thing that you would call life has to be has to have that boundary. It has a protoell has to have some kind of boundary but it doesn't have to be a phosphoipid billayer. All of these things can be complexified over time, you know. Mhm. Um, all right. Next thing here, the DNA molecule was not simply complex. It was linguistically complex. That is, it gave us a 3.4 billion letter long word in a chemical alphabet and all those letters had to be in the right order. That is a stupendous level of complexity. which has no chance of being generated by random processes. And Richard Dawkins agrees with that. He right he brings in something that the natural selection actually has a different kind of operation but we'll not go into that at the moment. So uh the sort of inevitable straw man of evolution the whole it's all just random processes and that could never do anything. So all the letters have to be in the correct order or it doesn't work. Well, that's just false. Yeah. I mean, literally, even identical twins don't have truly uh like point for-point identical genomes, right? Apart from the zygote. Yeah. The moment it they differentiate. Yeah. Mutations begin occurring. Yeah. No, this is just they do this every time, right? I mean first of all this like putting this concept of information on pestl look if you have a mechanism by which nucleic acids form they're going to have some sequence and whatever sequence it has is the sequence it has right then function evolves right over time um and so they do this for nucleic acids and they do this for proteins too obviously with a protein they're like look at this 200 residue uh protein if it was any different at all it wouldn't work so it's a one in a blah blah blah 10 to whatever and there hasn't been enough time in the universe blah blah blah. It's like dude, you really think that every single that that exact sequence has to be exactly that in order for that protein to have that function? Okay, you don't know anything about proteins then, right? It's just they don't they this this they're pretending everything has to be this exact perfect way and it just doesn't at all. Yeah. You know, if if a protein has 20 amino acids, then it would be or 100 amino acids and since there are 20 amino acids, it's 20 to the power of 100. And there isn't enough time. And it's just like the one part about that that's just so stupid to me is you don't know all of the permutations of amino acid sequences that can make some form of life work. life today the way the way exactly the life we see today and its exact protein sequences sure you can maybe say that those are the odds but that's like saying you know the famous 52 factorial how many different ways you can arrange a deck of cards does it mean that if I have a deck of cards it must it can't exist it it can't exist or it must or God must have shuffled that deck because the odds of that arrangement are 52 1 over 52 factorial. It's like, but it could have been any other way and still have worked. Now, we're not dishonest enough to say that any protein can be in any amino acid sequence and be functional. We're not that dishonest. It's astronomical that like it change any leucine to isoline. You think that that's going to make the render the protein uh non-functional? No. There's tremendous variance at every single amino acid uh residue except maybe a handful in the in the active site, right? There may be there may be two or three critical residues in the protein. That's about it. The rest is like I mean it's just if you're if there's a hydrophobic one here and it change it to a different hydrophobic one that's not going to do change anything about the protein. It's just won't you know uh and so there's it it just yeah this huge number becomes a much smaller number immediately when you have that realization. And then the other thing he was saying is he invokes nothing but random processes. It I what I would assume is invoking the mutation aspect of it and then just completely negates that natural selection happens that there is a selective mechanism. What's actually really interesting is this because what he said is there's no chance of it being produced by random processes. There's this YouTube video or uh channel called Code Bullet. Uh it's a cool YouTube channel. He just he makes codes to program uh something to do something crazy. And I watched one just yesterday or two days ago and he was programming something to play mind sweeper and win. And the way he initially programmed it was he just had the mouse click randomly uh over and over again. And whenever he would die, it would just restart. And he was able to win games of mind sweeper by doing that. And then all he did was after after going through now it took an extremely long like it took a huge number of plays to finally win but it is possible. And so then what he did was he just inserted a very rudimentary extra bit of information in there or in other words a selective process. And it was just if you see these numbers around where you click then he just programmed a very simple way to try to increase the odds of winning. Yeah. It was very little information that he added but that astronomically increased the rate at which he was able to win. And we go back to what you were saying earlier. We have quadrillions of molecules in every cubic centimeter of seawater uh in this prebiotic world engaging in all these things and selection can happen and it like yeah it's just chemistry but chemistry goes by laws too. It's trying to reduce energy for or be in a lower energy state for example. So yeah yeah the the dissipating the free energy gradients drives the complexification. Yeah, that uh that I paper that I talked about. Um but so it's two things. It's denying all of the things that you just said. It's denying all of the the the prebiotic chemistry that can happen, but then it's also presenting what's around today as though that has to be the target of abiogenesis, right? So he's like 3.4 billion base pairs. It's like first of all, abiogenesis didn't produce DNA at all. But second of all, I I assume he's talking about the human genome. Is that how many base pairs are in the human genome roughly? So he's pretending that we that that nature had to randomly assemble the human genome. Yes. Right. What is a bigger straw man than that? Homo sapiens evolved something like let's say three billion years at least after the abiogenesis event into the process. What are you talking about man? Jesus Christ. Yeah. It's like the oh you think the eye just randomly appeared one day. No, I think it gradually appeared over hundreds of millions of years. And there are organisms alive today that have so many different iterations of complexity of of light sensitive organs, right? There are there are organisms that have just a bundle of photo receptor cells. Guess what? That's how it that's what happens first. And then other structures evolve that enhance the ability to uh to to uh to to work with that with that uh input. And uh yeah. Okay. Moving on. With the more recent discoveries of the nature of the living cell and all the chemical factories in it, there are levels upon levels of complexity beyond the genome. And that just beggars into uh unbelief the possibility that any known mechanism can produce that without the input of intelligence. Mhm. Somebody's talking about James Tour's interact. Yeah. I mean, I don't really know what he's even talking about, but he's talking about the interact that James Tour talks about. I've never heard of that either. Hang out, right? Tor and Lennox have had talks and stuff. See, this is the problem. You get this network of apologists that don't actually know what they're talking about and then they just reference each other. Dennis Noble said that Darwin, that neodyarwinism is dead. So, it is. James Tour said that the interact means a biogenesis is impossible. So, it is. They just reference each other. None of them have any idea what they're talking about. It's the funniest thing in the world. I got to do a quick tangent here because I was going to ask you this earlier and I forgot. I'm sure you've seen because it's absolutely everywhere. The meme that you've created of according to Dennis Noble, Dennis Noble is Dennis Noble. Oh, yeah. And that um cuz that came out from your edit of sub we're just saying Dennis Noble over and over again. And like as someone who's edited like thousands of videos as well, you just sometimes part of the next thing accidentally slips in there and so it just comes through funny. Um but like you've you've seen that, right? I've seen I've definitely seen a lot of I mean on my Dennis Noble video, half the comments are some some version of Dennis Noble. Dennis Noble. Dennis Noble. Yeah, but it's it's so funny because your initial thing when you splice them together, he ends up saying according to Dennis Noble, Dennis Noble is Dennis Noble. And it's just pearl pearl of wisdom there. The illustrious Noble. Yeah. I I noticed that Sabore has pivoted to he's doing a lot of like political content now talking about like Pakistan and India and stuff. I think he's trying to be like, "All right, I've I've failed as as a the commenter on biology. So, let's maybe do something else. There's a pretty infamous flatearther, flat zoid. He apparently he's now just doing religious debunking or religious stuff because of how horrible the final experiment went for him and others. Anyways, getting back to what we're doing here. Um yeah, all I heard there from Lennox, the possibility that any known mechanism can do that without the input of intelligence, this is this is just an argument from ignorance. That that's so it can't happen. Yeah. Yeah. Or I don't know, therefore God and you don't know either. Yep. And I mean if we just if we just apply some reasoning we can ask the question well what do you think is actually more likely an as of yet undiscovered naturalistic phenomena or mechanism or magic? Well we know that the former has happened historically over and over again. We don't know that the latter is even something that our universe has. Magic is not a property a known property of the universe. And in this case, it's there's nothing unknown either. He's just talking about the the like the way proteins interact with each other in the cell. It's like, all right, man. Like, just learn about how they interact. Like, I don't know what to tell you. Like, he's literally like James Tour thinks it's a problem. So, Lennox is repeating that. That's that's all it is. Well, if James Tour says it, then it has to be true. All right. So, this is the part where it starts to get weird. Mhm. Does that suspicion go to that depth of evolution? I mean, like, do do you think that there is reason to doubt that I share a common ancestor with the chimpanzeee? Well, you and I are biologists and there's desperate need in the world for some kind of grain that resists, let's say, floods and and so on so forth. He's telling a hypothetical story for everybody here because I I did chop pieces of this up because it takes him forever to get to the point. And we sit in the laboratory and we genetically engineer a new type of wheat that's very successful. A thousand years hence people are investigating the archaeology of this and they're trying to determine what is related to what. Now they know nothing about us or what we did and their research if it's done on the basis of a dominant naturalism will completely miss the fact that there was an intelligent input at one point creating this new level. My faith in God doesn't depend on whether there's a common ancestor or not. Certainly God could do it that way, but I'm not convinced that he has. So yeah, this is I don't know. It's kind of it's it's weird. So he tells the story that you know if we his analogy is basically to say well if God made it that way like either guided ev which he didn't commit to saying really anything specific but could God have guided evolution to get to the way it is today or something else? Well, we'd never be able to know because the science would make it look like we're related to the chimpanzees when in reality God like a like an alien manipulating our DNA like a it's like it's like Scientology in a in a weird sort of way what he's describing. Yeah. or or more of like a guided evolution like uh you know like a like a discovery institute kind of a thing like like God the tinkerer that has to kind of keep coming in and like oh this isn't cool enough let me I'm I'm going to do something here so that I can get the next uh cool thing. I don't really know. I mean yeah it's like he's saying okay somebody in the future couldn't tell that something was genetically engineered rather than coming about naturally. Okay maybe I don't know maybe they would be able to figure it out. Um but uh you know based on archaeological evidence right if you if you know like uh what what humans were capable of doing then I think you can put two and two together. But um a couple of things number one uh there were no humans doing genetic engineering uh 50 million years ago. So we can rule that out as an explanation for uh for what went on uh you know in other eras in other eons. So the only other uh answer is God. And so, yeah, to me it sounds like he is saying that if we are to accept this long geological time that there must have been a god that comes in and goes, okay, I'm going to change this so that I can get that. Okay. And my answer to that is just like, well, which which or give me a species, give me an organism, give me a lineage, give me something that you think cannot be adequately explained by uh by standard evolutionary principles, right? Give me an example. I don't know what that would be. See, to me, it's it's even weaker than that because he's just saying that God could have done these things and then future scientists would be unable to know. Well, let me grant you that and then Lennox, let's have you grant the naturalistic explanation, the purely naturalistic explanation. And what we end up with is those two diff like the the two stories there are indistinguishable from each other. So you haven't explained anything in particular. And then it's it's very odd how in the end he says um I'm not convinced of it. But you just told us that the the other possibility would look identical to the traditional secular scientific account. So what have you not been convinced by if by your own admission that's what it would look like? Yeah. Like if you start to accept more and more of a naturalistic explanation but just keep shrinking the role of the deity down to the point where you're like okay there was a point mutation that happened and it's because God went you know wiggled his nose and made the point mutation happen. It's like all right well we know exactly how that could happen naturally. So what is the purpose of this additional layer? like this God becomes more and more superfluous the more you learn about these naturalistic mechanisms. And so it's like look the the God that you that scientists can believe in is a god that created the universe and and just knew you know uh encoded within it somehow all of these naturalistic mechanisms that spell out all of the science that we know today. Right? So there can be a deity that went like this and then knew all of these evolutionary processes that were going to unfold over billions of years, right? It's a god that's compatible with all of the science that we know. So if you believe in that god, that's fine. But um any this tinkerer god is just really really funny to me. Is just a loser. He's a really lame god. It's like, oh, it's not good enough. I'm going to make it better now. It's like, come on, man. Uh yeah, you can't be omnipotent if if that's how you're going about doing things. Yeah, the other thing this isn't really what Linux is doing, but this this kind of thing is very adjacent to this. When you just simply retreat to, well, yeah, but God could have done it that way. Yes, but you will you will make that excuse no matter what we learn. No matter what things are like or could have been like, that's what you invoke. And so what you end up with here is a an explanation, the the God hypothesis or whatever that explains anything that ever could be. The problem with that is an idea that explains literally everything explains nothing in particular. Right. And I just Yes. I have a problem with that. Mhm. Um is this the part where Okay, so I had to put this disclaimer because this is so bizarre. So, I'm skipping over a part of this because it goes on forever. But what Lennox says is that he finds the fact that it says, "And God said, and the word multiple times throughout the Bible, especially in creation, he says to Lennox, that's evidence that what the Bible's trying to tell us is how all this linguistic complexity that he brought up earlier, um, that he sees in nature came to be." So that's I'm frontloading with that because it takes five minutes for five minutes for Lennux to get it out. But with that in mind, uh listen to whatever this is that lots of things in our universe are mathematically describable. That is we can use the language of mathematics to describe them. And that is so amazing. We discover that in biology life is a word-based phenomenon as well. an informationbearing macroolelecule DNA. So at the heart of the two sides physics and biology, it's word wordbased and that resonates very much with me in the beginning was the word. Okay. No, no, no. Okay. So yeah, go ahead. I was I was just going to say I hear this thing about DNA being a language all the time. It's Ken Ham's favorite way to talk about it and all this stuff, but you go on. So the first part is true, right? There are mathematical relationships that are inherent in the universe, right? Gravitational stuff, whatever all you know they uh inverse square laws and everything like that. That's true. That's not words, right? We have a language of mathematics to describe these relationships. We invent symbols and sounds to communicate these ideas. The universe doesn't have uh little equations floating around in space, right? So that's that's not words. And as you just said, DNA also is not words, right? We have there's four bases and they come together in various combinations. That's it. Um he's really got nothing here. Yeah. What he specifically said, life is a wordbased phenomenon. And I I like the way you were putting that, you know, you describe there are laws of physics that govern the universe that we know about, but it's sort of it's it's kind of like the uh how do you want to put it? It it's it's almost like what people do when they invoke fine-tuning. But but like look, if the universe were finely tuned and we exist in it, the only conclusion we could possibly make by doing observations is that it's finally tuned to be observed. But that's you're just kind of begging the question there. That's a puddle thinking the pothole was made for it. No, a puddle will always be shaped for its pothole. But this thing here, if there are laws of physics that govern it and then we can observe them, then it literally can't be any other way that they get described by intelligent things that talk and use symbols and mathematics. So it literally can't be any other way. So calling it linguistic is is to invoke like you said that there are these linguistics and laws and numbers out there and we pluck them and then things like we pluck them out of the ether and then things begin to be known. It's like no that's literally the opposite of how it happens. We they exist. We observe them. We have conventions for describing them. He's anthropomorphizing the the universe, right? We have language, therefore the universe has language or you know we have language, therefore our deity has language. It's the deity did not uh yeah is trying to pretend that language predates life, right? Uh yeah, silly. Quite silly. I think I think it's Dawkins who said this. He he calls this phenomena something like the tyranny of the discontinuous mind or something like that. And it's his it's his way of saying that we anthropomorphize everything cuz we can't help but do it. uh we think we're special and then if if you think the universe revolves around you then you're going to think the reason I can know and do and see and explain things is because I was supposed to do that like no if you could do it if you could do it then it would be sort of inevitable that it would look like that but that's not the case that's and there's an evolutionary impetus for that but uh we should recognize that and just go okay that's like sort of an artifact in my lizard brain train. Uh let's proceed with that knowledge, you know. Yeah. The the ability to construct a mental model of your surroundings is totally compatible with evolution. Uh that it absolutely is. It's like things it's like random things looking like faces to us, you know. We recognize faces. We we hyperinflate our our me our importance and stuff like that, you know. Yeah. Yeah, there's a great quote about that that seems really simple, but it's actually pretty deep and it gets right at the core of what you and I were just talking about. We we see faces in the clouds all the time. You never see clouds in faces. Nobody ever does that because you're you're hardwired. You're trained to see the patterns that are biased toward you. In this case, I mean like the human species. So, a cloud can look like a face because you want it to in a weird sort of But if clouds can look like faces, then faces have to look like clouds. But they don't. I mean, they absolutely never do. Unless you're on a [\h__\h] ton of acid. Yeah. Yeah. Um, but yeah, these are the things that we're that we're hardwired to recognize. We're we're looking for faces. We want to see faces. Yeah. Absolutely. Okay. Uh, just a couple more things here from Mr. Lennox. God started biology according to the Bible. Mhm. He that is he told human beings to name the animals and tax taxonomy yes is the basic intellectual discipline naming things in all disciplines we use taxonomy and god wasn't going to do it for them he said you go and do it so god is for biology you see and that is a mandate to my mind that we are left to have the interest fascination and enjoyment of finding out a great deal about the world ourselves but the bible does make this steering comment that says it's a wordbased universe. And what I say is that science has come up for the evidence for that. Cool story, bro. Yeah. Kind of the classic science is just the way we discover God's creation. And that's I when people say that, I don't tend to try to debunk them normally. It's like, well, if you think that, sounds like you kind of think science is awesome. So, like, good for you. But this idea, but it's also these assertions that like, oh, I'm really interested in learning. No, you're not. You have been learning about all this crap that you're saying, so you actually understand it. That's a good point. Sorry. Continue. But this uh God started biology. So, I you know, what is your take on um how would you describe classification? Because I say like there's a lot of subjectivity to it. The genetic relationships between organisms is absolutely objective. That's not subjective. But the way we create these categories kind of is. So it it's kind of an art form. So like this thing that God started biology by Adam naming the animals like a biologist wouldn't make a argument like that. No. I mean the Yeah. the way that we demarcate and classify is arbitrary uh in in to to a certain extent. Uh anyway, um yeah, I don't know. I have I've had this really funny thought. I've never told anybody this before, but you know how like cladistically humans are fish. Yeah. So I I've always thought you know we have all the different uh animal fila today birds reptiles mammals amphibians fish you know whatever but if that's all one film cord that's all cordata oh yeah sorry the uh um the classes of of the animals my mistake thank you but if somehow intelligent life was around 400 million years ago and started classifying then we wouldn't call them birds, amphibians, reptiles, mammals. We'd call them flying fish and hairy fish and scaly fish and what would you call an amphibian? A a a land fish. A yeah, a slime fish. So I I I think that's just kind of a funny thing. Like if we had existed in some different era of time, yes, our classification system would look completely different, but and that's why it's kind of an art form and there's some subjectivity to it. But again, the genetics is absolutely objective. Nature nature doesn't care what a phylm is or a class or an order or a genus or anything like that, but the lineages obviously are uh it cares what a species is in the sense of uh you know interfertility. Um but uh beyond that not really and yeah what you said is true like we we began categorizing life in the distant past recently so we have view it from this lens of of the present day but that's also why like um yeah all like like all these different breeds of dogs like at some point we're going to have to be calling them you know different subspecies and stuff like people in the future that would look back at dogs that exist today and be like these are these can't possibly all be the same species that's crazy. We have to start uh subdividing these, you know. Yeah. My another thing I've thought about my candidate for like a a a type of animal that will at some point in the future get like like you know b we distinguish birds and reptiles even though birds are dinosaurs but we distinguish them completely as something different. Um, I think the penguin, it'll be a huge amount of time. But I think the penguin will be that cuz it's a bird, but it's aquatic and can't fly. It just lives so differently than every other kind of bird that to me that's the species where in like 50 million years eventually they're going to say this is this we're not going to call this bird anymore. We're going to call this something else. But but I don't know why. Totally. Yeah. Yeah. Just like we're not fish, right? Fish, but we're not fish also. Yeah. Maybe your grandpa is a fish. But all right, this is the last one here. And that's my big problem with the naturalistic worldview. There's no uh believable generator of word like information that any of us know about. It always is associated in our experience at least with a human intelligence. Uh yeah, pretty short but there you go. Do you have anything really to remark on that? Words are only associated with human intelligence because we make words. Uh that's all it is. Oh. Oh, you know, a couple other species are are capable of uh you know, sign language and stuff like that. So, not just humans, but um DNA is not words. Sorry. You have nucleotides that polymerized in some sequence. That's not a word. Yeah. Yeah. What I what I tend to see I think this is probably what Lennox was getting at. But what people say is DNA contains information. How could that possibly happen? It must have been from God. And what I say to that is look DNA is literally just a molecule. Like it's a pretty cool one. I like it. But it's literally just a molecule. And any molecule has information. In fact, we we can be so reductive that we can go to the level of the atom and say that its veence electrons contain information. But nobody ever invokes that atoms have electrons as requiring a designer to be the explanation for it. But if there's information all the way down at the system, then of course there's information at higher levels of the system as it organizes into that into that complexity. And that that just really blows up their whole talking point because they're trying to say that DNA can't like it contains information and nothing else does because they don't think about these things deeply. Therefore, that couldn't have happened naturalistically. It's like no. Uh I can get you to concede that there's information all the way down, but that's just what we call it, too. Yeah. A system of gaseous particles. Each particle has a has a has a position and momentum, right? That's information. Um, no. It's just that people they they they want to think of information as like this substance, this like ethereal substance that permeates the DNA strand. It's just a sequence of nucleotides, right? They just don't understand basic molecular biology. Like that's all it is. Um, and it's I'll give them that it's very incred like the human genome has these 46 chromosomes that total up to 3.4 billion whatever base pairs he said. I don't know what the number is. That's big, right? That's a lot of That's a lot of base pairs, right? But we're talking about three billion years, you know, or at least two billion years of uh you know, that we can go back and understand from like uh from from single cellular uh unicellular life that resembles let's say bacteria kind of like that. Um we're talking about just so much time and so much complexification, iterative complexification, right? Uh the nature did not produce the human genome out of thin air. That never happened. It didn't even produce DNA at all out of thin air. Um, it produced RNA strands that single stranded nucleic acid by polymerize nucleotides uh ribboucleides polymerizing on hot clay. Right? Start there. Understand that first, then ask what happened after that. And they're very good questions. Right? I'm not going to sit here and pretend that we know exactly what happened to get the first protocell, but start where it actually started and talk about the real thing instead of pretending nature had to make the human genome from out of thin air in order to substantiate a naturalistic worldview. It's insane. Yeah, this whole there's information in the in the DNA, therefore there's a designer. It it it reminds me of the whole uh oh, quantum mechanics. Well, that means that consciousness is fundamental. Therefore, quantum mechanics proves God created the universe or something. Yeah, that's another angle some of these guys take. Yeah, that's I'm not qualified to say anything about that, but I I suppose Well, I did my I had a quantum mysticism is stupid debunk that I did actually quite a while now. Three maybe three years ago, four years ago, something like that. But, uh definitely talk about all it's it all stems from misrepresentations of like double slit experiment and stuff like that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, you'd think one day you and I are going to run out of things to uh address, but sadly sadly we will not. I'm drowning in it over here. I People have been really way more often than they used to sending me things that they want me to debunk and more of them these days have been something where I'm like, "Yes, I should do that." So, I've been trying to pump out one or two of these things a week. Uh just because there's so many such and such goes on such and such uh like right now I'm I'm today I'm wrapping up um Eric Weinstein and Sean Carol and Pierce. Oh, that was great. Oh, it was so satisfying. I was like you guys are right. I have to like 30 people were like, "Please do this. Please do this." I was like, "This is hilarious. I'm going to do this." Um but it's just there's so much to talk about. We'll never run out. Yeah. It's a good business model, but uh it I weep for humanity because of it. I do too. Yeah. Every day. Uh anything else to close out? No. Yeah. John Lennox is I had never really done it talked about him at all. So good to uh a little bit of mock him a little bit in just a reaction format here. Maybe we'll I'll hit him again some other way. Maybe. Yeah. Hopefully. I hope you don't have to, but can't be that optimistic. Thanks for watching everybody.