Hey everyone. You've seen me debunk flat-earthers many times before, but have you seen me do it with one of the flat-earthers I used to debunk? I know for a fact that you haven't, but would you like to? You would? Great. Buckle up and let's have some fun. Most of you are aware that flat earth is the first thing I ever debunked way back in 2019. In this way, Flat Earth is the bizarre cult that is responsible for pulling me down this path that is now a huge part of my channel, exposing all manner of science denial with increasing frequency and ferocity. To give the ultra brief version of the story I've already told so many times, I have a series of astronomy tutorials that I was publishing from 2018 to 2019. To finish it off, I thought I would experiment with some content poking fun at astrology and flat earth as an exercise in applying the basic knowledge that had been acquired throughout the playlist. Much to my surprise, the same day that this innocuous and by current standards uncharacteristically polite flat earth video was published, a group called the Globe Busters decided they were going to do a live stream tearing it apart and showing their followers what a stupid shill I am. This made them the first people to ever experience the Professor Dave clapback. and in a way that is unparalleled to this day. Given that my response to them remains the most viewed video on my channel, sitting at around 15 million views, resulting in a humiliation so extreme that they subsequently deleted all of the content from their channel. Who were these globe busters? Well, there was Bob Noodle, the one who was being an insufferable piece of [\h__\h] the entire live stream. He's dead now. Then there was the Morgile. He spent several years begging for donations from his fans to buy crack. And I'm pretty sure nobody knows where that guy is anymore. Then there was Jiren Campanella who had his own channel called Jirenism. He was the least abrasive of the three by far, but he was running the absurd script all the same. Fast forward a few years, many of you watched my more recent videos on the final experiment, which was the trip to Antarctica to see the 24-hour sun led by Pastor Will Duffy. A 24-hour sun in the southern hemisphere was something that flat-earthers had claimed did not exist for many years, pretending that it was impossible to go to Antarctica to verify this because government NASA blah blah blah. Jiren along with Austin Witset was one of the flat earthers that was given a free trip to check out reality with his own eyes. And I don't think I'm giving away any spoilers by telling you that they did indeed all see it. As is evidenced by all the time-lapse footage and all the drone footage to prove to idiot flat-earthers at home that there were no screens or domes or whatever dumb [\h__\h] so many of them all still pretend was happening because they can't handle reality. If you haven't seen the videos I made about this trip, the one beforehand documenting the leadup and the one after documenting the trip itself and the aftermath, definitely give those a watch as it's some of the most entertaining content on my channel. But to put it briefly, it's been a complete train wreck for the flat earth cult ever since. All the flat-earthers in attendance announced that they did indeed see a 24-hour sun, which disproves the azimoth equidistant projection of the globe that flat-earthers had been using as their map. Most of the lazy flatearthers at home claimed the ones in attendance were stupid shills paid by NASA to lie to everyone and the whole thing was done in some dome studio which is somehow so massive that it can contain this drone that flew like a kilometer into the air. Some said that the 24-hour sun doesn't actually prove anything despite admitting on the record countless times that it absolutely would prove the Earth is a sphere. All manner of transparent coping and backpedaling was on display. As for the flatearthers themselves, Witset continues to try and scam the flat earth cult even though half of them treat him like a pariah because he admitted to the 24-hour son. Jiren, however, immediately disavowed his status as a flatearther and got to work reforming his channel and his identity. As you can imagine, he became a sworn enemy to all remaining flatearthers with the flip of a switch since idiot frauds like David Weiss and Eric Dubet will do and say anything to retain the meager income they earn from this scam. But that didn't stop Jiren from transforming his channel into one that debunks not only Flat Earth, but other similar conspiracy theories like moonlanding denial and more. Now, you're all aware that I couldn't care less about the flat earth cult and the drama within. They're totally inconsequential. But a VFX artist named Gabriel Kerner, who has an interesting tangential relationship with the flat Earth community, reached out to me to see if I'd like to have a conversation with Jiren on my channel. And I thought that sounded like a pretty fun idea. So, that's what you're about to see here. I had some questions for Jiren about his experience in Antarctica and what the fallout has been like since disavowing flat earth. And then we give Jiren a chance to flex his newfound flat earth debunking prowess. So, let's get to that right now. Okay. Thanks everybody. We're here with Jiren and Gabriel. And uh so we're going to do a little bit of flat earth debunking with a former flatearther and uh but uh as as many of you know of Jiren from uh some of the videos I've been making about the Antarctica trip, I have a few questions. I'm very curious because obviously I've been, you know, I'm familiar with everything that happened, but I have yet to hear about the experience from a flatearther or or at least a former flat-earther. So Jiren, I'm just curious. You you get down there, you see the 24-hour sun. What's the vibe? What's going through your head? What is the what what are all the other flatearthers saying? What's what's going on? I mean really it happened in Punter Arenus because in Punter Arenus we were there for three days before we went to Antarctica and I'm watching the sun set right to left and towards the south which is right there is completely against my map. >> So of course I can kind of come up with something in my head. Oh it's a you know coffee cup costic. It's a reflection off the dome. Uh something like that. But I knew that when we went to Antarctica if that was the actual sun that we saw that it meant it was a globe. So, I had already said those things before we went on the trip, which is why I was hated for 6 months before that. I it was clear to me that these are the kind of um uh what do you call them? So, they're they're mutually exclusive observations, right? So, if we saw the sun set, well, that disqualifies the globe. If we saw the sun circle, it disqualifies flat Earth. And I thought that was one of the most impressive things about the trip is that Duffy wasn't afraid to say that. He came out and said, "No, if we see it set, it means you're flat." >> He's like, "Okay, I'm willing to go. I'm willing to go with you. I'm willing to, you know, put my 10 years of what I've been saying. >> Yes. >> on the line. >> Yeah. >> You know, and then you you feel really dumb. So, you asked about how you feel dumb because you start realizing all the the reasons you should have known this or you should have got this. And and now I I feel myself. I'm telling people all the time like, "Oh, anybody can figure it out. You can figure it out by tonight without any help." And I understand that. I'm like, >> people could have been telling me that four years ago and I just would have it just bounces off you. >> So, you know, the other flat-earthers, they all saw the same thing. I mean, every nobody has come back and tried to deny what we saw. They've just denied what it implies. >> So, I do think that uh Elizabeth, the girl that won the the contest, the golden ticket, she is said she's no longer a flat earther. I don't think she's necessarily called herself a glober. You know what's up with him? He's going to uh keep going down that line. Um, and I told them when we got back to the airport in Puna, I went to both of them and said, "Hey, just so you guys know, I don't want you to hate me, but I'm going to be going in a different direction when we get back. What I saw tells me the shape of the earth." And they they both kind of said, "More power to you." And with it said, "I believe you. I don't think you're lying. I think that's what you believe. So, um, you know, what can I do about it?" Like, so that was basically it. I told Will when we were on the plane, uh, we landed in Punto Arenas and he was like three rows behind me and we stood up. We're getting our stuff and I just looked at him and said, "The Earth's here." and he kind of g like what like hey yeah the earth is scary he's like all right all right so I think that made him really happy I think he was happy to at least get one of us and not come back and like nobody believed it so yeah you know it's a nice trip though >> some victory yeah but uh yeah you and Will made falsifiable predictions and one of which was falsified that's how science works right >> but uh so okay so it sounds like so you and Witet are are amicable or what's what's going on there >> I'm not sure if you saw we had a debate um where he just accused me of fallacies the whole time and didn't give any evidence of the flat earth which I even even in my opener I said what wet will do tonight is and then I gave an exact layout of what he would do and then he went and did the exact thing. >> How shocking a complete a perfect duplicate of my debate with him and then I thought everything he would do. Yeah. >> Yeah. And I'm like I know I was like well flatter think he did terrible. They're going to be so so mad at him. Boy was I wrong. They're all oh he just smashed her and he like oh my god these guys are just so desperate. >> No there's Yeah. There's just no accounting for the the wolf ignorance there. >> So, no, we're not like friends. I mean, we don't talk every day. I probably talked to him, you know, twice since that debate, and it's just been very business-like. No, uh we have different opinions of the of the shape of the earth now. I mean, that's what it comes down to. And in that truth or world, uh you're not allowed to really step out of line like that. They're not going to welcome you. They don't want to hear you. Uh I've kind of realized now how the Dave um Weiss how they get away with this is that they block anybody who says anything bad about them. So they don't see anything you do. It's just you're blocked. They don't see it. And then they just go around and they're in their own echo chambers. And so they keep hearing the same thing day after day and it just becomes like fact to them. So they become very cocky and they come become very condescending and it's embarrassing to see because they're going around calling people globe tards and I'm just like oh my goodness. I mean >> it's the cringiest [\h__\h] ever. Yeah. >> Yeah. It's like just so ironic too cuz you know they're calling other people retards and you you just believe what you're told and it's like oh man you guys if you only knew and they don't listen to me. I mean, I thought that they would listen to me for, this is how I know I'm a truther. If Dave Weiss went to Antarctica and got back and flipped, the very first thing I would have done is watch everything he did >> because I would say, "Hey, here's a guy who was a flat earth for 10 years. He just flipped. I need to know what he saw, what he's what he's well, they all just blocked." So, and then I did a series of, you know, 12 videos called um Unplugged, like signed by me. And um and they didn't watch any of it. So, they still come out and they say, "Well, Jiren just flipped because of the light in the sky." They don't realize all the things that come with it like the south celestial pole that I saw for myself >> and then being where we were in Antarctica. Uh watching the sun go from you know it's about 35 degrees high in the north and then down to 15 degrees in the south. And it hit me. I was like oh my goodness if I walk towards the southernmost part of the sun every 69 miles that'll pop up a degree eventually I'll get to where it's 15 degrees and 15 degrees that's 10 degrees away which means I'm 690 miles from the pole. And so everything just started to make sense. um seeing the sun go backwards, seeing the you know the Tropic of Capricorn curves the opposite way that the flat earth map shows, right? Flat Earth map shows it going off to the right, it goes off to the left. So there's there's no more question for me. It's not like oh I still wonder or um and then seeing the sun set a different direction for people in the south. That's one I mean to be honest I don't remember a Glober ever telling me that for 10 years and I think that's one of the most compelling evidences that there are because we all see it every day. You know, anybody in the south goes out, they see the opposite direction of the sun than the nor sees. >> Yeah. To me, that's a little more a little more easily evaded by like, oh, just which way you're pointing or something like that. That's why I focus on the night sky and the clockwise counterclockwise cuz you can't mistake uh clockwise and counterclockwise. Can I chime in on the which way you're pointing thing? That frustrates me so much because an analogy I've seen them use is if you're standing on one side of the freeway or the other side of the freeway, cars seem to be going left this way but right if you're facing the other way. That doesn't work because if you're looking up at a ceiling fan turning on the other side of you're on one side of the room, you're on the other side of the room. It's turning the only way it turns the other direction >> is if the ceiling is transparent and you're above it looking down. Right. How do you get to the other side of the celestial sphere? >> So, so that standing in from different perspectives thing is didn't Weiss try to use that [\h__\h] >> Yeah, they all try to use and they're not >> as well. Yeah, it's uh >> Yeah. >> What I try to say about the sun setting is I say if you're looking west and what that does is it then makes left and right absolute, right? So, if you're looking west and the sun and you're in the south, the sun sets right to left diagonally. And we that's weird to us because we're in the north. So, every sunset we've ever seen sets diagonally left to right. And if you go if you turn around and look at the east now, the sun rises left to right. And so that uh makes sense to us in the north. So I can see where flat Earth kind of maybe made sense to some people because you could look at a flat earth map and the north kind of makes sense. But where it falls apart is the south. The south is a complete um disaster because it's completely not >> Yeah. inverts everything which makes no sense over a flat plane. Why would this guy spin different directions, >> right? >> I got what I got wit on. >> No, but you need a you need spectroscopy. needs a container. >> It sure does. So, my my last question is just what because I don't honestly I don't pay attention to flat earthers. Uh what what is your >> what is your perception of the flat earth community? Is it a shell of its former self? It is is it just as strong as always? What are the numbers? What's the morale? What what's going on? They have their group that's on Facebook and their loudspeakers and the people who make videos and they all think that they're going to change the world, you know, and then you go look and you're like, well, what's the last video that you did that had more than 10,000 views? There there isn't one. So, there's not a and 10,000 views out of just the country of the United States is like 0.002%. So, if you can't even reach, >> you know, a 20th of a percent, you're not changing the world, hate to tell you. But they just uh they they don't accept anything that comes from outside their belief system. So it is an absolute religion. And in my opinion, one of the biggest mistakes is allowing them in any scientific discussion because it's not scientific. You have if you're scientific, you're making claims. You're backing claims with evidence. If you're going around saying we have no map, we have no model. We make no claims. But then asking to be in debates, I mean, it doesn't make sense why they're even allowed in debates. They shouldn't be. That's not a scientific position to hold. So I I no longer look at them in any way scientific. I don't think of them as truthers. I keep saying to people like, "Look what happened to me. I was a truther. I went on a trip. I brought the truth back to the truthers and they threw me under the bus and called me a bunch of names and block me." So, it just tells me that those people were never looking for the truth. They don't want the truth. They want the truth that they believe in. And I think that's really kind of what YouTube is. You know, YouTube is a bunch of people who go out looking for reconfirmation of what they believe or they want to get in a group that all believes the same thing and they feel very proud of themselves. Like I think it helps people who maybe didn't graduate. Let's say they didn't go to college and so you have something on them. You went to college, you were a professor. So if if the flat earth is true, all of a sudden now you're the idiot because you went to college. Yeah, you got a degree, but you actually were just indoctrinated with a lie and they get to feel proud of their not going to college. And when else in life do you really get to be proud of that? >> Yeah. It's a complete reversal of the hierarchy. I'm better than you because I never learned anything because all of it was wrong. >> Right. Right. Right. So, I mean, imagine how funny that and like I say to them, I'm like, well, if they were at least if they were indoctrinated, some of the things they believe are true. So, it's like the difference between flat-earthers and being a truther is the ultimate end of that is when you don't believe anything anymore and nothing is true. So, it's the it's kind of a funny that they call it a truther when you're actually never getting closer to the truth. Like, I'm happy. Granted, it took me 10 years. Granted, I'm a dumb dumb for that, but I told people at the beginning of this when I first got onto YouTube, I'm going to find the shape of the earth. Well, I found it. So, I I did find the truth. Now, granted, did I go, you know, a long path there and did I did I tell some non-truths to people that I wish I wouldn't have? Yeah. But, um, at the same time, I think people getting to see that is helpful. So, I've gotten so many messages from people that are out of the flat earth. You asked how it's doing. I think it's in shambles. I mean, you maybe won't notice that from the creators because they feel like every video they're doing is getting seen by everybody and they think any >> move that's done by the, you know, the media or NASA is like a direct result of one of their videos, which is hilarious. >> Delusional. >> They never even was seen even know they exist. Um, so yeah, they're just um a shell of them former cell and it's because if you expose these people for the back trackers that they are, let's use Eric Dubet for an example. Eric Dubet in his 200 proofs says three or four times about the southern 24-hour sun, that it doesn't exist, that there is no 24-hour sun, that light doesn't go past 80 degrees south. Soon as we go down there, actually, as soon as we said we were going to go down there, he immediately flips to, "Oh, it's been explained. It's completely explained by Lady Blunt." It's not explained in her book in like 1900, she says, "Oh, it's also come to our attention that there is a 24-hour sun in the south and that the light gets uh the daylight gets longer the more south you go or the further away from the equator you go during their summer." And then she says, 'Now, we don't have an answer for this, but as Zetics, we still hold that the earth is flat. That's is that's not having an answer for something when you're just like, yeah, we acknowledge that this thing that goes against us exists, but we don't have an answer for it. So, there is no answer for that and they just look foolish. Uh, you know, now Eric Dubet's like, "Oh, they were in a studio." So, he went from saying, "Oh, it doesn't matter if they see the 24-hour sun." Lady Blunt said it exists, so it doesn't matter. Then, as soon as we get back, he's like, "Oh, they were in a studio and they faked." Well, then we faked it, but it didn't matter. Doesn't make any sense. Yeah, constant flip-flopping and then all the clips of of Dubet saying how badly he wants to go down there and then he's given a free trip, doesn't want to go. Pretty interesting, right? >> Yeah. Same thing with Weiss. I mean that you know Weiss hasn't talked to me since I got back from the trip. >> Shocking. >> Yeah. Just crazy. Crazy indeed. But uh you know what can I expect? I mean you would be if that guy admitted it, he'd be losing his his cash cow. So >> his his meager income. Yeah. >> Yeah. That may not be much, but it's, you know, going to jail from whatever it was is not a that's kind of what's happening to me. It's not a not the healthiest thing to do. But sometimes, you know, if the alternative means you got to lie to people, I'm you'll never catch me good. So, >> all right. Well, I I appreciate the the Yeah. the the perspective and the the additional context. So, now let's uh let's do a little flat earth debunking. I think you want to talk about some flat earthers and things they've said. Whatever you've got, let's uh let's go for it. >> Yeah, I got a lot of stuff. Um, and so let me see if we can bring these up in share screen. >> All right, here's uh first one we're going to look at is uh Eric Dvet as he is, you know, >> I don't want to look at him. >> Fire papa. I don't want to hear him. I can't stand his voice. But here we go. >> Okay. He's spoken with extreme confidence as you will hear for yourself right now. In order to fit the heliocentric globe model, this midnight sun phenomenon must also occur for observers south of the Antarctic Circle during winter solstice. Depending how far south the observer is, the sun should be seen for several days or weeks, never fully setting, just like it does in the north. In reality, however, there is never 24-hour sunlight anywhere in Antarctica at any time of year. You heard it from the man himself. A 24-hour sun in Antarctica fits the he clip. The midnight sun being seen only in the northern regions is evidence against the globular theory. If the world were a globe, the midnight sun would be seen in the southern regions in December. As >> so notice that, you know, if the earth was a globe, then the midnight sun would be seen in the southern regions. And of course, it is. And so, you know, this is the problem is all these guys, they've uh I can have respect for somebody if they're going to make a claim that's out of the, you know, out of the ordinary, uh, as long as they're willing to back away from that as soon as the evidence takes them to that direction. So, uh, if he wants to make a crazy claim like that, that's fine. But the second that it's been now debunked and been shown clearly without, you know, any prejudice at all, then he needs to u, you know, be a man and say, "I was wrong." But he can't do that. >> What What do they say about Wit? because you obviously you're cast out. You say you're no longer a flat-earther. Wits it claims to still be a flat-earther but acknowledges that he saw the 24-hour son and wasn't in a studio or whatever other dumb crap they want to come up with. So what's is he like a pariah as well or what what like what do they what are their what do they say about him? >> I uh I I think in the community's uh kind of got some issues obviously they think he you know faked a vape which means that we you know the whole thing was fake or something. Um, but no, his position is just basically, oh, there's enough wrong with the heliocentric model that it could still be flat, which it's not. You know, there's no uh that's another thing I think flat-earthers don't realize is that they think that there'll be another map coming down the road. And there there is the AE map is the only flat Earth map that there can be because we know the locations of the continents. We know that the sun brings them light and heat every day, every 24 hours. And we know the tropics. Those aren't man-made. Those are the furthest north and south the sun goes. And we know the equator. So once you lay those out on a piece of paper or on a a map, then you have the AE map. So I don't know what they think. Once you've debunked the AE map, you have debunked flat Earth. >> No reason to look into it anymore. But these guys are all like, "Oh, big deal. All you did was debunk the AE map." >> I was like, "Yeah, so if you and then if there's no other map there can ever be, what does that tell you?" >> Yeah, come up with a map, guys. That's what I've been saying since day one. >> And there is no map to come up with because I tried. And you know, once you lay the continents down in the tropics, you are back to the AU map. Uh, we'll just listen a little bit and you'll get to hear Witzik go through his line of [\h__\h] here in a second, too. >> Um, well, why can't I? It's similar to like Antarctica, but why can't I go see for myself? Why are you just telling me, "Oh, it's a globe. It's a little continent on the bottom. You don't fall off because of gravity. You're good. Don't bother going there." Oh, why can't I go and see? I want to go there and check it out for myself and then I'll decide. >> Remember, he was offered a free trip. >> Say, I just want to go down there and pick me. I'll go down there. I want to see for myself, but then offered a free trip. He's like, "Nah, don't go." >> He's like a muppet. This guy's so ridiculous, man. >> And and just to see people like this. I mean, it just talk about disappointing to go from, you know, being so con full of conviction about a subject and you're like, "Okay, he must really believe it. He must really feel it." But then they're so easy, there's so easy for them to just backtrack into a different idea. And because the believers in flat earth are so strongly attached to it, they just allow it, >> right? Because the alternative means that they're wrong. So, >> it's it's really disappointing how few people push back and be like, "Wait, you said you wanted to go. Why don't you go, right?" Instead of just caving to their, you know, their excuses. >> It looks like this is what's it maybe here. Let's see what he says here. >> Him about flatearthers and globes going together to Antarctica. And listen to what he said. Did you did you hear a while back that there was going to be like flat earthers globers and then a bunch of people go to the South Pole? Like I heard that that was a thing. >> Yeah. I I I don't remember the specifics of someone claiming to go to the South Pole, but we're trying to set up an Antarctic trip right now with many truthers. I don't really care about people that are like opposed to the truth of this realm. It's they're it's irrelevant to me, but >> totally. Um, yeah, we want to go maybe next winter in the north, which will be the summer in the south, and try to see what's going on with the sun and make some shadow measurements. Um, so call me naive if you want to, but I think >> Okay, so I got some other ones here for you. So, and then, uh, you know, this is just showing you the before TF and after. It's just saying that they're going to call, you know, statements made after would be AF ATF and before would be BTF or the final experiment after >> anything that would prove the Earth is a globe, the globe science community lies about. For example, the 24-hour sun in Antarctica doesn't work on a flat Earth. >> You know, there you're going to see stories where people saying flat Earth is dead. You know, the circling sun in Antarctica proves it. No, the circling sun in Antarctica doesn't prove anything. You know, this would be easy to prove, but they they hide this from us, too. All we'd have to prove is is is go to Antarctica. If let me and you go to Antarctica, spend a week there in the summer, and let's see if the sun does a 360° circle all the way around us. If so, it's a ball. Let me just say this at at the outset. >> Uh Dave, do you know what he what he changed it to when we got back? >> Uh I don't think I've seen this after clip. I I saw the before one, but this is new to me, so let's let's hear it. what his excuses >> here about the so-called final experiment and them allegedly seeing the sun move in a circle around them in Antarctica. Let me just go and tell you right now. You don't think Satan could pull that off? >> Say, Dave, >> why is everybody up in arms? See, one reason I've sat back and just watched all the hoopla about all this because I'm like, I don't care if you see 15 suns in the sky and they do worldabouts. >> Why in 2024 is it needed for a bunch of >> This is great. Here's somebody who has, you know, talked mess about me and and everybody on this trip. And watch what she says here. the reason that she uh stopped looking into um sky observations >> of amateurs to prove a 24-hour sun in Antarctica. It should have been settled 70 years ago already. Like why is every 24-hour Antarctic sun so obviously fake? Yeah, but I don't think they're going to see a 24-hour sun there. I I don't think it exists. >> So, I don't understand why everybody is freaking out about the sky. Like, some of us have been thinking about this for a while. Some of us started out watching the sun like me and I realized very early on that every single sky observation matches the globe. Every single one that I made matches the globe from 10 years ago. So I stopped doing that. Oh my god. >> When everything is going in one direction, when all your evidence is leading to the answer, stop doing that. >> Everything I look at proves me wrong. So I clo I shut my eyes. Right. Out of her own mouth. That's amazing. I've noticed that's that's the new buzz phrase with flatearthers. Quit looking at the sky to know the shape of the ground. That's >> Oh, they've always said that. Yeah. But >> which has made up and and it's not even something that's allowed in >> it's total cope. It's total cope mechanism because that's how we figured it out over 2,000 years ago, right? All this stuff, celestial navigation, what what you were saying earlier, Jiren, about like your latitude and where it is and all this stuff. That's how we figured out how to navigate like using the stars thousands of years ago. This is how we figured it out. So, >> and it's so cool cuz now like now that I understand it, you could drop me anywhere on the earth blindfolded and by sundown I'll tell you where I'm at. >> I mean, it's like crazy that you teaching that to children. You can know and then by, you know, >> rough latitude wise. Yeah. Yeah. >> Yeah. I mean, based on the angle, but as soon as the stars come out, then you'll know your exact latitude and then you'll by the sun, you know what? Yeah. So, it's pretty amazing. Uh, let's see what else. My my position would be, wow, the the 24-hour sun happens and that perfectly matches the globe prediction. It is not in any way what the flat earth that we understand it to be would predict. I'd have to re-evaluate everything, the entire situation. But I would absolutely re-evaluate the entire thing. I wouldn't lie about any of it. >> What would be your al alternate hypothesis? >> I don't know. Like that's why I would be honest about the whole situation. I just said I would immediately step more in the direction of the globe than I've ever been as a possibility and say, "Okay, I have to reconsider everything." >> To lay out kind of the issue with the South Pole claim and what happened in Antarctica, right? It's really simple. Um it's just an illogical premise, right? Because it is it affirms the consequent and in its core it's an appeal to incredul. This is why I did not flip to the globe. That is my answer is that to to uh maintain logical consistency, I could not have flipped on all the logical foundation, the evidences, the reputations simply because I at one point didn't understand how something worked. If I were to say, "Oh, well, I can't see how this would work on a flat earth, therefore it can't be flat, therefore it must be a globe." Um, that's called an appeal to incredul, meaning I don't understand it, so it can't be true. >> Dave, let me ask you a question. If on the appeal to incredul, isn't it okay to go there if nobody in the history of the world has done? So, for instance, if I come home and my son has chocolate on his face and I ask him what happened and he said, "The dog ate the chocolate." Isn't it at that point, isn't it okay for me to to have personal incredul and say, "Uh, no, I don't believe that." because in the history of the world there's never been an incident where a dog has eaten chocolate and it's gotten on a child's face. So I guess he kept saying that about my debate with him is he was saying oh that's your just because you don't believe that the flat earth can be explained the sun can be explained on a flat earth doesn't mean it's not true but the problem is is that nobody can explain it right like if I do that with evolution let's say I don't believe in evolution and then I say well I don't believe that evolution can exist the problem with that is that is personal incredul because there are people out there who can explain to me how evolution works so that is you using your personal incredility but in the flat earth instant there is nobody who's explaining it to So incredul is okay because it's like >> and and there's chocolate on the kid's face, right? That's evidence that the kid ate it. Now it's you you could say that it's not 100% conclusive and maybe you look for other evidence. Maybe you have a you know a camera in the that you can watch or you can get evidence some other way. But no, like Austin, it is astounding to me that he thinks he sounds intelligent when he just lists random logical fallacies. Uh he does it. A bunch of flats do it. It's like, dude, how do you think that you sound smart right now? It's like, it's really incredible. >> If you ever have a chance to watch our debate, it's just him doing that the whole time. It's embarrassing really because it's just like I thought you don't have any evidence of flat earth. I mean, what are we doing? >> Are you able to answer the question about 24 hours of light in Antarctica on a >> I've interviewed a guy who's not experienced 24 hours of daylight in Antarctica. He spent 18 months there. Have you ever spoken to anybody ever that's been in Antarctica? because I spoke to a chap who was a plumber on one of the rigs that's out there and spent 18 months there and categorically stated he didn't experience 24-hour sunlight. So unless you've been in Antarctica and can top Robert Shortman's personal testimony that that doesn't happen, I think we'll stick with your original claim that there's pictures of Earth from a sky vacuum outside sphere-shaped air. Cuz that's about the 12th time I've put it to you. And like a total coward, you haven't acknowledged it once. >> Sphereshaped air. at least a half dozen people who have lived and worked in Antarctica and their claims would refute your your experts. >> Excellent. Where are they published? >> Well, they published. >> Yeah. Published what? Like like actually prove what I've just claimed even though I'm a nobody nobody's ever met and I'm claiming somebody that nobody's met that hasn't met me is actually proof that there's actually a reputation to your claim of a guy who's actually on videape saying it. Yeah. Yeah. Where's the videotaped evidence of this person's testimony that I can find? Where's the account published? >> I can easily provide that for you. Are you suggesting though? >> Go on then. Now, >> and this is another thing. Any flat-earther that ever asks for any evidence. Uh, it's just a ploy. It's just a meant to buy time or something because if you bring back that evidence, they're going to immediately just jump to the next thing and and it's basically gaslighting you. >> Yeah. Oakley is the single biggest douchebag in the flat earth community. He's so unbelievably insufferable. He just offered uh vacuous anecdotal evidence. The other guy says, "I have anecdotal evidence as well." And he goes, "Where is it published? What the hell are you talking about, man? Shut the [\h__\h] up." >> Yeah, he's the worst. The absolute worst. >> He's the single worst. Yeah, he is >> the worst for sure. Um, so yeah, I mean, you know, I've got some other ones, but you get the point. This is all these uh your top flat- earthers have all just wishy-washed gone back. They've all backtracked and the and the and and the crowd doesn't mind it. I mean that's probably the most surprising thing. I mean there's the what is it six, seven or eight of us kind of bigger names that have left. Um but as I thought there would be much more because I thought at least I believe that the people were at least smart enough to understand what like a falsification is >> you know and how when it's time to hang it up. And one of the biggest things to me is that the earth is symmetrical. And so anybody can go and they can go to 50° north and they can look at the sky and they can look at the sunset and if six months later you go to 50° south you will see a flipped version of the same thing of the same sun, you know, it's just going the opposite direction. But it's it tells you that we live in a symmetrical world. And how could that be the case in a flat earth? It there's no way you could have the uh 50° north be the same as 50 degrees south because really the south is going to be a much larger area. The sun's going to have to heat I mean how does it heat three times bigger space? >> Yeah. equally. You know, there's so many things that start to come out. And I can I can be honest with what my biggest flaw was. My biggest flaw was thinking to myself that the South was a lie and not actually following up with it. Not actually um I think I was I fell for you know how they say uh lack of evidence isn't evidence of lack, right? So >> absence of evidence isn't evidence of absence. Yeah. >> Right. So, you know, I think because we couldn't find very many uh south uh 24-hour sun footage that that meant there wasn't any. But then when you go down there, and get this, I mean, this is something that's very hard for me even still to talk about, but when I go down there, I went down there for one reason, to film the 24-hour sun, right? So, I had all my gear. I had everything down there. We get down there, we do it, the thing goes around. I think I have 24 hours of footage till I get home and we find out that my camera died halfway through the turn. Not the mechanism that, you know, I had the solar quest that turns 360 degrees over 24 hours. That still turned and it was powered by the same thing, but my camera for some reason died halfway through. So, I didn't even come back with a 24-hour uh video. So, here's me for 10 years saying there's no 24-hour videos. There should be 10,000 of them a year. There's so many people down there. And then down there and you realize, oh, wait, we had to stay up all night in order to do that. Um, which is not fun. And people are thinking, you know, when you're down there, you usually have to get up the next morning to go skiing or whatever. >> What's the motive? What's the motive to do it? They're not flat earthers. >> That's why I knew this a long time ago. And one of my very first flat earth debunks, I I said, "Okay, don't go to Antarctica. Go to Ushua uh uh in Argentina or Yeah. Is it in Argentina or Chile? I forget. But um yeah, it's way way the hell down there in lower latitude and okay, so the sun doesn't set for 20 hours. Isn't that good enough to ruin the flat earth? I mean, >> but especially because it's going right to left, right? I mean, that was the biggest thing. If you look back at my channel and all my stuff from Antarctica is still up there and we I went live the 11th, 12th, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17. Every day we were down there. And when we went down there the first night, we're watching the sunset and it's like 11:30 at night and you can see the sun in the south. And I mean that right there is if anybody understands the flat earth map if you're down in South America the sun needs to go to the right. It needs to get over to Australia over there and it's going left and under the earth. So right then I was like oh well the only way it could be lighting >> uh Australia at the same time as I'm seeing it is if it's lighting the other side of the globe. >> So just became like almost uh >> uh embarrassing more than anything. Uh and it was no question of me like you know am I going to come back and and try and find it? No. I mean there was no there is no excuse. there's no dancing around it. I knew the questions that I would get from people and I still get those same questions that people saying that refraction isn't proven and that's not a good enough excuse for why we see Canigoo maybe a little further than we can. I think one of the things that Glober said that I kind of think is a mistake is that they started saying real early that we don't see too far and I don't think that that's true. I think that we always see too far because we the numbers that you get are geometric, right? So yes, you can see a slightly past the geometric edge of the Earth because we have an atmosphere and with an atmosphere, it works as a lens and you can kind of see. That's why we see further than we should. And so I think um that would have been a better way to go than just telling people we don't see too far because then flat earthers go around say we do see too far and you guys are liars. Um but we see too far. We're talking about seeing nine miles when you're supposed to see eight. It's not like you see 40 miles when you're supposed to see, right? It's barely too far. And then we had Melodome do >> from my you know >> MelOdome did a um I just told him to do this. I said hey these guys are all saying there's no evidence of um uh of a refraction. So um you know and then he did a experiment where he had a globe. He put a thumbtack on the back side of it and when you looked you couldn't see it. It's definitely behind the curve. And by just adding a sheet of magnifying sheet in front of the globe and in front of the camera all of a sudden that thumbtack pops up from behind the curve. And so, you know, that alone and you're thinking on the globe, think of how much bigger that is than real life. >> So, yeah, I think that uh you're not going to get through to a lot of these flat earthers. I thought I would be able to and I kind of have given up on that. Like the people who want to know the truth now have the the content that they need. They have the evidence that they need to get to the truth. So, there is no more excuse. And I I would even say there's a slight excuse for people before that because a lot of us were saying that the South's a lie. We don't have evidence from there. So people might have bought into that and believed, oh, we don't have evidence from the south. But now that we do, now that we've seen the south celestial pole, what about lines of longitude? The distance between degrees of longitude in the south, um, they >> it's constant. >> Yeah. Well, they No, the degrees of longitude, so they converge, right? So they get >> they Yeah, >> but they don't uh Yeah, but they Yeah, they they converge uh on the poles. So it's the opposite of the >> right of the AE map. >> Correct. Right. The A map spreads out, right? So you can actually do the math on that. And I think if you if you go to 50° south, it's 40 miles per one degree at 50 mi south. 50 degrees south. But if you do a flat earth map and then you go to 50 degrees south, it's like uh 140. So you're talking, you know, basically three three and a half times. Meaning I mean, how would that not be figured out? >> I mean, somebody would go to drive to their friend's house and they'd be like, "Oh, you're 40 miles away. I'll be there in an hour." But they would get there three hours later and be like, "Something's wrong." >> Yeah. >> I was just going 60 miles per hour the whole year. >> The further south you go, the more ridiculous the math is. And it's just yeah, they've skirted by on the fact that people don't really go to Antarctica very much, but uh >> or the south really, right? I mean, I don't think a lot of people know that the sun sets the opposite direction there. So, yeah, in in Antarctica itself, it's 8 miles per degree. And in the flat earth, it's like 240. I mean, people would be dying all the time. They would get in a plane and think they're flying no distance at all, and they would run out of gas and and crash and die. >> So, all those things. Uh, that's why I'm I'm really trying to push uh people into somehow getting across to them because they just won't watch my channel. I get it. It's as a flat earther, I did the same thing. Did I watch videos that you put out? No. Why? Because you made me feel uncomfortable, right? So, I don't want I don't want you to to call into question my beliefs. I'd rather just say, "Oh, he's not a professor. It's very easy for me to say that. Everybody can laugh at it and we can move on." By the way, when you uh told Lord Jamar, when you made that video about him, I never laughed so hard in my entire life. >> That video when you're like, he's he's making fun of you for being Professor Dave and you're like, "Your name is Lord Jamar." >> Yeah. Give me a break. >> I'm like, "Wait, this guy's not a Lord." >> Yeah. No, the whole not a Professor Dave thing. It's like, "All right, that's pretty predictable. I mean, whatever. I did teach at a university, but uh that's fine, you guys. Whatever whatever you need to do, what are you going to do >> to evade uh evade these very clear points?" But no, that was uh I mean, yeah, people I mean, I'll tell people this at the beginning of the video, but I mean, I'm I've been acquainted with you since the very first you're responsible for me becoming a flat earth debunker. You and the other Globbusters guys. >> Yeah, I remember that. >> So, I kind of owe you a beer for that cuz uh that uh that that response to the Globusters video remains my most viewed video on my entire channel. It's uh the amount of money you made on that video. >> Aren't you like top three or four like flat earth videos? >> Uh yeah. I mean, of the top 10, probably six of them or something are flat earth video. I mean, yeah, it's like those blew up and then that kind of started my debunking path and now I kind of dip in once in a while, but I'm, you know, focus more on like RFK and like actual topical [\h__\h] But >> you'll probably jump off a bridge if you do too much uh flatter stuff, so I would limit it. >> Yeah. I mean, it's diminishing returns, you know what I mean? But it but you'd be s every time I jump back in and do like, you know, the Lord Jamar thing went went semiviral. I was like, "Oh god, I guess people still want to see this crap, you know?" Well, it was just so bad. And then Dave Weiss giving his bucket of chicken ex, you know, a bucket of Kentucky Fried Chicken is a better model than the Globe because a boat can float in there. I was talking >> He kind of sounds like a t-u Dennis Rodney. >> He is kind of even worse than that. He's like >> a t-u Terrence Howard almost. >> Oh, >> you know, one times one is what does he say? One times one is two. >> Yeah. >> That's just huge. That's ground. >> He's been a pay for me as well. >> At least you admit it. Oh yeah, sure. No, I mean it's it's you know I'm putting out a video tomorrow uh uh on a climate change denier. Very very thorough, two hours long, deep into the primary scientific literature. Very, you know, this is respectable debunking and then once in a while and make fun of Terrence Howard, so sue me. You know what I mean? I like to do it's I span the gamut here. >> Hopefully you didn't see some of the videos I made about you. They'd be like little clip. I don't know if you saw them, but they were >> never seen a single one, but feel feel free to play a clip. >> I don't know if I could find one. I used to have these little and it's so bad. It's so cringe now to if I watched it, I would probably be ashamed because >> maybe at some point we should do the Nathan Thompson prank. >> Oh man, has he never seen that? >> Oh man, if you Dave, if you haven't seen there's And it's it didn't get a lot of views, but there's this guy named Reckless Ben. He's got a crank channel on YouTube. Well, Nathan, you know who Nathan Thompson is? >> He's the one who was yelling at the kids at the school, right? Yeah. Yeah. So, they uh call him and they say they want to fly him out to uh California and they pretend to be Harvard students and they're going to uh try to prove the shape of the earth. Well, they call him out to California and >> Harvard students are in California now. >> It's just all it's all a lie and this guy falls for it and it's so bad. Like they have him dress up in a duck suit so he doesn't get electric or he doesn't get radiation from the test that they're doing. They have him try and stack. There's so many times throughout this documentary that anybody would have known that it was a hoax. Anybody except for Nathan because he's so proud of himself that these Harvard students called him and I even called him and told him because he was like showing on his Instagram and I was like I looked at the guy and I was like isn't that we found out it's Reckless Ben. I was like I called him. I was like, "Dude, that's a prank guy. He's on YouTube as a prankster. Go to his channel." He's like, "Yeah, right. You're just jealous of me. I have better discernment than you." Like, >> wow. >> There's this whole documentary that I You did you watch the whole thing, Gabe? It was funny, huh? Which documentary? Many, >> Gabriel, that one. Um, >> I I actually haven't seen all of it yet. I watched like half of it. It had me in stitches and I got busy with real life [\h__\h] But yeah, I figured that would be something that Dave would get a kick out of. >> Yeah, it was really good. I mean, it should have had, you know, hundreds of thousands of views. I think it got like 60,000 views, so nobody even knows about it, but it was really a great prank and uh they they really gave it to them. But I guess it's kind of easy when you're doing it on Flat Earth, so it's not that not that cool. But uh yeah, so again, I think that um my only thing about the way that you went about it and I my thing with YouTube is I let people run the channel, their own channels. That's what YouTube's about. Um but I'm not sure, you know, being as abrasive as you are, is is that's just going to turn all the flat earthers away. But it's still it's not like being nice is going to help to many. >> No. Yeah. There's plenty. Everybody has their own style and you're going to hit a few people. And I did, you know, I did I did turn a few people. Um, there was that seek truth, speak truth, I think he was called. >> Oh, yeah, I know. >> Who was like, "Hey, he I mean, I don't know, just he made a video and was like, I'm not a flat earther anymore because of this Professor Dave video or whatever." Um, yeah, I definitely got some and and you know, I'm sure Simon Dan got some and and everybody got a few. It's it's a it's a hardcore cult. So, us debunkers, we have this fantasy that we're going to convert 100% of the people out of the cult. It's never going to happen. It does not matter what you say, how you say it, doesn't matter. If you get 5%, that's a that's a huge uh victory. So, I do the style that is the only style that I can do because I'm an [\h__\h] And uh and just, you know, I'm I'm going both for debunking and for views, obviously. And uh yeah, that's what we get. So, >> as long as you know you're an [\h__\h] then we're all good. As long as you're being >> to people who deserve it. I mean, I I treat people the way they deserve to be treated. And flat-earthers deserve every ounce of vitriol that they get from me. Yeah. And I go around I try telling them that. I I say to them that um if you just want to have a religious belief, that's fine. I don't even care. Go have a religious belief. You can have meetings on Sundays and have cookies. Nobody cares. But you're actually in Facebook uh yelling and screaming like you have some profound truth and everybody else is [\h__\h] and you're the smartest person that ever lived and it's like really cringe and you have no evidence. So it's, you know, those things don't add up in any other walk of life. We don't see people going around screaming things like that. um unless they admit they're in a religion. >> Yeah. >> Like really I don't see that many scientific people in >> the feeling of being special negates the need for evidence. >> That's why they believe things so ridiculous. That's not just flat earthism. That's a whole variety of things. As long as it gives you that feeling of look at uh Scientology, something like that. Same same manner of thing. You're you're you're Jehovah's Witnesses. You're you're the unique few that have the truth. The capital the truth. And and so as long as you are made to believe that, you'll believe [\h__\h] anything. Anything. >> Yeah. And anything other than you, right? So like when I got back, your choices are Jiren's telling the truth. Uh and you know, you've respected me for 10 years as a flat-earther. You've listened to me. You've watched me. You've agreed with me. But when I come back and say something different than you believe, you'll immediately go to I'm sold out. I've been like, if the government has secrets, the way they keep them is not by paying out everybody. >> That wouldn't make any sense. You would have a bunch of liabilities all around the earth that could at any time say, "Oh, actually, I don't like lying for this anymore. I'm going to tell you the truth." And there's never been anybody in any walk of life that has come forward and said, "Hey, they're faking the shape of the earth, and this is what they're faking. This is how it works. This is how it really works." There's nothing like that. >> The trillions of dollars per year in payoffs would dramatically outweigh the secret oil and coal or whatever the [\h__\h] they're pretending is beyond the ice ring wall thingy. >> It doesn't make any sense. Yeah. No, >> but you think but but you you took some people with you, don't you think? Like, you have, you know, audience of X size, whatever it is. Some of them were like, "Oh, [\h__\h] All right, I guess I'm not a flatter anymore either." Right. >> Yeah. I've gotten probably, you know, 25 emails from people. They're they're not known. They even make that clear in the email. I've watched you. I've been a part of this. I've fallen down that. But then they just say that, you know, you've been logical and uh calm since you got back explaining. And it wasn't like I just got back and went into hiding, which is kind of what it did. I got back and got right to work of producing videos saying why I knew the shape of the earth now. And I get it. I get why people look at that weird is because they're like, "Wait a second. You just got done telling us how wrong you are and now you're telling us how right you are." So I get it. That's But sometimes when you are >> wrong and now you're right. What's the problem? I don't get it. As I said, if my truth is is, you know, hard for you to hear. I'm sorry that that's just works because once you've seen that and you see the sun going left, well, they can't be going over there to Australia to bring light and heat, which we know happens. So, it means that Australia is on the other side of the ball. And um yeah, and then people get really mad. They're like, well, you don't think we're spinning, do you? And I'm like, well, yeah, now I do because I think that that answers all the questions that we have. And so, once you have things that answer the questions, uh I don't have a reason to doubt them. And so a lot of people are, you know, well, how do you explain dark matter? I'm like, dude, I got into flat earth because I thought we were being lied to. Once I realized we're not being lied to, I I'm not a high professor of physics and I don't >> What the [\h__\h] does frontier astrophysics have to do with this [\h__\h] We figured out the Earth is a sphere 2500 years ago. >> Correct. And that's all the claim I'm making, right? I'm trying to tell them that these, you know, the claims I'm making are based on, and I made sure that I didn't use NASA. I didn't use authority. I didn't use government. I said, "You can go fly to Buenosirus. you can watch uh sorry uh punteras you can watch the sunset on December 14th that only costs somebody 1,500 bucks probably to fly there and back. So the excuses of oh Antarctica is too expensive you can't go there uh that was proven wrong. I mean, >> yeah, >> you know, there is a million- dollar assessment you have to do to go down there, but there's these companies like AL that have already paid that. They've already done the assessment. They know what to do with your waste product. They know what to do with trash. They know what to do with your urine. And so, um, those companies can take you down there. And so, yeah, is it an expensive trip? Yeah. I mean, I think that it's worth it if you have that kind of money. Um, you know, I already miss it. I already wish I could go back. So, um, >> how did Will get all that money? Uh he was an investment banker uh prior to being a pastor I think. >> So that's personal money. >> Well for the who did he pay? So he got to go for free because he brought a certain amount of people I think. >> Oh okay. Yeah. Makes sense. Yeah. >> But then he paid for myself. He paid for wits and our gear and then Dave McKean. So I mean he's in it for >> overund. Yeah. Easy. Um, so I mean I think he had some extra money and he has a friend that brought this up to him and he thought she was joking and he kind of like went I think what happened was he went into Facebook and started arguing with her and realized he didn't know [\h__\h] and so he looked bad because she had answers to everything. It looks like flat earthers have answers to everything, but they're just they already know what you're going to say. >> And it's like a it's almost like a game that you play where if somebody doesn't know the earth, you could just start by saying do you know how fast we're spinning? If they say no, you already have this in where you can embarrass them, right? So, because you can start to because you know how fast we spin and you know how fast we go around the sun. So, you can just make them look silly by not and then they question themselves like, "Wait, why don't I know these things and >> Yeah. And to be fair, this is what evolution deniers do and what antivaxers do. It's not unique to flat-earthers. This is what science deniers do in general. Yeah. >> Yeah. So I mean that's from the outside looking back now it's just so clear and and embarrassing and um uh you know sad because you you see what happened. I mean just so people know it's not always uh just an absolute refusal to listen to what people are saying. There is a mental block that I don't know how to explain it. It's like soon as I started doing flat earth and you get a couple accolades meaning somebody comes and says hey you're really funny. Hey I really like your videos. Hey I feel that you're on the right track. That usually doesn't come to somebody who's not being honest right? It comes to people. So to you, you feel like that's validation. Oh, I must be on the right track. So you keep going. Then you get invited to speak at a conference. So who goes and speaks to at conferences that's lying? Nobody. So you kind of feel like, oh, I'm now that I'm going to a conference, I'm speaking. I must be. So you almost like create this world where you are being truthful and honest. >> Everything you say you feel like is being truthful and honest because people are there listening to you and then after they're coming up to meet you. So, it's kind of like that your brain puts up a barrier like it doesn't want you to lose that good cushy feeling of being considered smart, of being considered funny, of you know, it doesn't want to do that. But >> yeah, you base your identity around it. I mean, I I get it. We've all known that. Yeah. >> Yeah. So, the observation though is really I mean, if anybody can get somebody out because seeing it is what kind of kicks that block out from under your head and you can't put it back if you tried. >> I could put it back if I tried. I mean, I wish I could. I really don't. I mean, I really wish I could just put it back. And, you know, they say ignorance is bliss. Sometimes you're like, um, things were a lot easier. My life was a lot easier. Everything was easier. >> I I think I think there's greener pastures ahead than from being a flat earther. Let's not, >> you know what I mean? Yeah. You're going to be fine. >> Yeah. But um, no, and I think like you said too that you do have this feeling like, oh, the whole world knows and they're all going to look at me this way where it's a small little section. >> Almost nobody knows who you are, >> right? It's a >> I mean, a lot of my viewers who watch my flat earth content know who you are. Honestly, a lot of them even don't. But um that's no you you are known only in a very small niche community. >> Correct. Yes. That's why I've never been recognized in public. So that's pretty small. I'm sure you have you probably you know go everywhere. Um so yeah. So I mean for for me I think that uh I just want to help people get out if they can. I'm not worried about the ones who don't want to get out or who are don't want to hear the information. I mean I don't have any love lost for those. But the people that I do feel like were duped into this or um cuz I think people who watch YouTube usually are I don't want to say lazy but sometimes um people want something cheap like they want you to tell them how to do something they so they want they're kind of lazy and so they get to start watching truthers and they just begin to believe everything that truther says and that's very dangerous because I recognized that very early on and I kind of stopped uh saying things that I felt like if I didn't know fully about something I wouldn't say it because I didn't I would hear it repeated Right. I would hear people eat it and you'd be like, "Oh man, people believe me no matter what I say." >> Yeah. And I mean, to be perfectly fair, one could say the same about me. I think that there are a lot of people who, you know, I've built my brand on integrity and I think that there's a lot of people who might implicitly trust me. But that's why I'm constantly citing as much, you know, primary literature as possible, constantly interviewing experts in whatever field I'm talking about. Just like I'm trying to drive home that like I'm in the middle here. I'm the my job is to convey the scientific information to the public. But here, listen to this climate science expert, listen to this archaeologist, listen to this per, you know, read the literature, whatever you want to do. Um, yeah. So, >> so that's pretty much all I had. I mean, I think that um, you know, I I have to apologize to a lot of people that I've already done. I apologize to you, to uh, you know, Wolfie 6020. There's people that actually reached out and tried to help and I rejected them and and said that they were lying to me or that they were trying, you know, part of some cabal or whatever I would make up. Um, and so, you know, I've had to apologize to those people. And to anybody that I led astray, anybody who's still a flat-earther, uh, I want them to know that the earth is not flat. That is, uh, a fact. It's not even It's embarrassingly wrong. It's tragically wrong. Flat Earth is tragically wrong. It has no >> It's the most wrong thing. Yeah. >> Yeah. I mean, other than you could say if we if you're just talking very locally and this is all you have and you have a blinder above your head, you're not allowed to look at the sky and you live where Okay, I can see somebody saying the earth is flat. Once you uh start to put things together and realize how planes fly and how you know the Google Earth itself is hilarious to me because everybody you know and ever known and every place you've ever been is on Google Earth and if you go to that location and look at the sky it will match real life. >> So that happens for everybody on Earth then guess where we live. I mean it's not it's not it's like it becomes almost impossible. This is a new thing I've said. I think it's impossible to lie to people about where they live unless they're blind because everybody can make observations. So they can't tell us we live somewhere we don't. People would make observations and go now you're full of it. Um but unless the reason that you can lie to people about where they live if they want to be lied to. So that's what this has become and that's talk about irony is I got into this with us saying oh the schools are indoctrinating children. The schools are lying to us. Everybody's science is lying to us. And it turns out now come around here now there is somebody lying to your children. There is somebody indoctrinating your children. There is somebody lying about the shape of the earth. And it's the side that you joined. And that's uh embarrassing and sad because I don't think a lot of those people would expect that they actually feel like they are combating some big evil enterprise. And the biggest mistake all of them made I never made this mistake because I'm not religious is by joining it to their religion. Now it's at the point where if they drop flat earth it means that they are on Satan's side in their head. Right. Yeah. >> So that's you know once you've done that you've tied it to your religion. I mean this is the same experience of millions of millions of evangelicals leaving fundamentalist Christianity or Islam or whatever it is. Um yeah it's it's not unique. I mean flat earth is unique as a conspiracy but the mentality is not unique. >> No I think you can see it in lots of places and it is just like a cult. I mean I noticed that soon as I left um you know I get death threats on on Facebook from people. They they try and block me. I always I had another one yesterday where I'll just go on to Facebook and I'll be like, "You're banned for eight hours due to I'm like, "What? People are just reporting me for nothing." >> Yeah. >> I heard isn't there there's like a flat earth Discord where you get banned if you just mention my name. I think >> I don't I don't do Discord, but wouldn't I wouldn't doubt that. >> Yeah, you're not allowed to bring up Professor Davis. >> Even mention him, you're banned. It's crazy. >> Somebody will get in there and say he's not a professor and then everybody will cheer because that's >> okay. Yeah, that you can mention. Yeah, >> they have that one thing. So, give them >> So, okay. Okay. So, Gabriel here, we I think you were going to present something, but you don't have your computer, but you you uh had some stuff to say about VFX and oh, that's CGI and all these kinds of claims. Let's let's get some of your expertise in here. >> Most certainly. Well, that's that's pretty much most of what I'm qualified to talk about. And I I don't when when I when I have debates and discussions with flat-earthers, I don't try to overstep my reach. I basically just say right off the bat, you're going to get me with a lot of scientific gotchas. Your pre-rehearsed Eric Dupe copy paste. you're going to get me with a lot of those because and just cuz I'm stumped in the moment, I still know you're full of [\h__\h] But what I can do with qualified expertise is talk about your claims about computerenerated imagery and how it's a key part of this gigantic hoax to fake this shape of the earth for for reasons. And I guess part of what fascinated me about flat earth a bit was that I have a very close lady friend in my life that I've known for a long time and I've been trying to deep she went that way and uh she's not stupid but she's superstitious and I've been she's going to be watching this. I've been trying to deprogram her for some time with with limited success. I got I was able to get I was able to convince her that NASA does not mean Hebrew in and that does not mean >> to deceive you. >> My god, it's not even the same alphabet that represents the same sounds with the same number of characters. That's acronym. But anyways, that's a digression. So, um, then I started, you know, I started noticing, oh wow, flat-earthers talk about my field of work a lot with faint expertise without knowing what the [\h__\h] they're talking about. So, uh, I saw one amazing meme that was that said it was an astronaut in front of a blue screen and it was a material that's used for presentations. It's blue, but it has a white grid on it. And some flat-earther did not realize that the entire purpose of a blue or green screen is to have a single solid color to isolate and remove. So why the [\h__\h] would we put a thick white grid all over it? Stuff like that. And and I also saw a meme where it's one of the it's one of the claims of underwater filming where, you know, of course they have the ISS training simulator and they they do underwater this and that and they claim that all of that is filmed in an underwater tank. They claim they can see bubbles coming out. Um, and so I saw one meme that claimed that it was a blue screen, but then one panel was of the underwater tank, then they painted a green screen into it for some reason. And then the third panel was just a really badly composited just you know what a flour does in Photoshop pretty much. Um I don't have to say any more than that you know. Um >> and it's it's flabbergasting because I I'll talk to them and >> they will they'll they'll be aware what I do for a living and they know more about what I do than I do. It's it's it's it's quite astonishing. I I like I said, I wanted to show a lot of these memes, but my workstation decided to take a dump on me this week, which is great. Um, but yeah, that's >> yeah, I mean, uh, the obviously all the videos they make, but then also the inevitable, uh, green screen debacle in Antarctica, the with the patch started with the patch and everything. And it was so bad that I even saw a clip of of Weiss going, "You guys, it's not a green screen." Like when the flatearthers have to explain it to the other flat-earthers, it's just bananas to me. >> Yeah. So, one good thing that Weiss did though when we got back is he did go and debunk the first five things that came out because people were like, "Look, the shadows are off." And he would go, he took his wife outside and had her do something that did the exact same shadows. So, at least he did that. But, uh uh yeah, then he changed over to it was a plasma ball in the sky shot by a laser that uh they switch he said they switched it out when we were on the plane to Antarctica. They got behind us and switched out the sun. I mean these things and like >> switched out the sun with what? >> I don't know. >> What about to everybody else? What do you mean? Like >> switch out the [\h__\h] sun. >> Like you have a personal son. Like what's it's just the sun for everybody. I don't understand. >> Well, see the flatters will go now. They say there's multiple suns. >> So it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter where you There's always an out. Uh even though we you know they'll keep saying oh is a reflection. Well, we tested for that. Reflections are not polarized. Dave uh uh McKean tests for that. I tested by taking a magnifying glass and burning paper when the sun was in the north and burning paper when the sun was in the south. Showing same intensity. This is not a reflection. It we have a 24-hour time lapse of the sunspots. Uh people want to see that. That's all in Dave McKe. >> Yeah, I suggested that everybody Yeah. Look at the sunspots at the same time. Make sure they're the same. And that's uh there you go. >> They were flipped from the, you know, people taking the videos in the north. It was flipped upside down and but the sunspots stayed the same as it went around 360. So that tells you that there's no reflection. And there's no moment of uh it's picking up the reflection now. And we would see two suns. One would have to kind of go off as the other one came. >> Yeah. >> So there is no extra land. There is no um you know nothing. The the South Pole is beautiful. It's um breathtaking and it's clean and it's pristine and you see why uh you actually look at it now, you're like, "Oh, thank God the governments did what they did. We don't want people down there um doing a bunch of shit." they would die, number one. But I mean, there's creasses the size of cars out there. But, uh, it's still just I think everybody needs to take the time to kind of just watching videos. If you go and watch my channel, I have a five and a half hour, um, chess cam footage from the whole trip. That's what baffles me so much is the people saying it was fake. There there's so much video evidence. I mean, uh, I don't think people get like you can't just say something's fake when there's six 360 cameras and two other cameras filming that. There's so many came and the drone going like a kilometer up into the air. Like what are you talking about? How what what dome is this big? >> Like I understand if you're talking about the moon landings, but if you're like, "Oh, there's one camera." Okay, you can talk about that, but this is totally different. >> They didn't get it. And then you got people that make these claims like they like you said, like they know what uh like they went and they said, "Oh, we found a seam in the sky." Uh but that's how 360 cameras work. the 360 cameras, they have cameras facing out and then in this software it pieces the things together and sometimes you get a little seam uh you know up the wall and those people are like oh that's because they're in the sphere in Vegas. >> Lack of understanding of basic photographic principle is a core tenant of being a flat earther. >> Yeah, you could actually >> understanding exposure. >> You could eliminate half of what their arguments are if they just went outside for 20 minutes with a camera >> and just played around looked had the sun go behind a telephone pole. watch what happens because it's like they don't uh like you know the sun's going around and it kind of squishes a little bit. That's what the 360 camera does to it and they're like, "Oh, it's fake. It's got to be fake because there's a squish sun." And what they really did is expose the moon landing to me. >> But this happens in all other 360 footage from all other 360 cameras, >> right? You just need to go look just take five damn minutes to go research something before you make a video and make some claim that then you because what I noticed is these people once they make a claim, they stand behind it. even if it's just garbage and it doesn't make any sense and they didn't put any thought into it because they said it. It's like it's more important to them to not admit they were wrong. Uh and that's just a problem because you got a bunch of liars out there just telling stories. Uh because they want to save face and it's it's you know that's just terrible. It's >> what they said on Tuesday is true on Friday regardless of what they learned on Wednesday. >> Right. It's and it will always be that way. Right. So I mean they keep going back to these water finds its level and they they don't get that. Yeah. That's a globe claim. The globe says water where you're at, water finds its level. Okay. So, what are you saying that doesn't that doesn't make the earth flat and >> learn what level means? Uh, the 10 things all flat earthers say. One of my early hits. >> That was a great one. That was a good one. >> Yeah. Because they all have these and they and you think that they would pick up on it and start to move the conversation if they But that's what would happen if they were really uh believers in I don't want to say that. It's like that's what would happen if they actually cared enough about what they believe in that they wanted to correct things that were wrong, refine things that are missing. uh come closer to the truth, but they just Earth's flat and that's it. And if you are a glober, then anything you're saying is a lie from NASA. And if you're a flat-earther, then anything you say is true. And that's why you've got these guys. Have you seen the fittest flat-earther? Have you seen this guy? >> Oh man, there's some And by the way, >> oh boy. Yeah, that guy. >> Tik Tok is garbage. I mean, I mean, I'm not I'm against like censorship, but I wouldn't be mad if somebody burned the whole thing down. >> Tik Tok. That creepy Caleb kid, the blonde guy. You know, >> he disappeared though. He's gone after FTV. Nobody's >> Does he really? That guy looks like his like favorite childhood hobbies were sniffing his niec's bicycle seat while microwaving kittens. That guy's weird. >> I wouldn't think of that, but maybe right. Yeah, he's gone. He just disappeared. But yeah, the people on they like moderate their own debates and they think that that's like impressive when you just sit on TikTok and you have somebody come on and then you're just able to boot them and it's just really bad. And you just notice that people's attention spans are getting so reduced that they love their information in those little 30-cond spots. And uh if you want to a >> That's why they love memes. >> Yeah. Just a little bit. Just little bits. >> If you if you go to Tik Tok and you search Antarctica, literally 75% of the videos that come back are faked. They're either AI or something. They're showing blood statues bleeding or something. But it's like what's scary is when you go look at the comments and you see how many people believe it. That's when you're like, "Oh shit." Because like I'll let's say I put myself in the middle of a group of hundred in intelligence. I can go there and I can say, "Oh, those are all fake." But I know there's 50 people behind me and then you start worrying how many of those 50 can do that. Um because it's >> imagine when even the smart people can't tell that it's fake. >> Right? And that's coming and >> that's coming. >> We're right around the corner from that. So >> it's kind of scary. And I just think that I that's why I was so happy to go. When I did when I heard about this trip, I was like, you know what? There'll never be another opportunity like this and um you know hearing from somebody else or having to see somebody else's video is okay that's not as good as going and seeing it. There is no I get to see it, you know. So >> yeah, let's settle it once and for all. >> Yeah. And that's that's why it was very easy for me to back away even in 10 years of doing it. I knew that uh you know my audience at least deserves to know I no longer believe it. They can believe it, >> but I want them to understand why I don't. So >> So what is your content looking like these days? Is it mainly flat earth oriented or are you branching off into other stuff or what? >> No, I haven't been doing much. I mean, I have this like fact down show where I'm just doing like this quiz show. The kind of the purpose of that was to remind people that facts exist. I think when you become a flatearther, you start to think that there is no truth and that, you know, everything's malible and you get into the Mandela effect and everything is like flooding you with this um disinfo that there is no objective reality when there is. >> Yeah. And so I'm trying to, you know, doing this quiz show just to get people back in line with facts. Um, my channel's kind of taken a a dive because of course I had 160,000 subs, but all of them were flat-earthers or most, and a lot of people have gone away in the years anyway. But when I came back and said that, I everybody blocked. I even saw text messages. Somebody would show me, look at this text message going around that said, hey, we're all blocking Jiren. We're all not watching his content. So, you know, real quickly, my numbers went from getting, you know, whatever it was, 10 or 15,000 views a video to one or two thousand. Um, and it was mostly Globers and it was, you know, some of them have been very nice, but some of them have also been, and I agree with them when they're like, uh, you don't deserve any accolades for taking 10 years to get to the truth. So, I I get it. You know, I get those people, but what that does is it just shows you if I lost all the flat-earthers and lost most of the Globers and I only have left this small group of Globers that likes me, uh, that's going to be tough to get that channel moving again. And so I did come up with a new channel called interesting uh which you can I think it's just interesting isism. So youtube.comsign interestingism. And uh what I want to do with that one is I want to start tearing it down all the things that I've uh believed were conspiracies and things like that. I think now with a open mind to see both sides. Whereas before and I've talked about this before when you get as a flat earther what I would do is I would read like a whole book and it would be about Cook's second journey right? So, I would read all about the globe and I would read all the things that they're doing, but I would find that one paragraph that said something that sounded flat earth. Yeah. >> And you forget all about Yeah. You forget all about the entire book being So, that's not how you should research. You need to research uh unbiasedly and uh look at both sides and then reach a conclusion. So, that's what I want to do is take a a situation, whatever it be, let's say Trump being shot or let's say something in the past that I may have said was fake like the Stman Dun Stoman Douglas shooting in uh Florida where now I want to look at it. I want to take the side uh the pro side and take the the people who say it's a hoax look at their best evidence and then make a conclusion by the end of the show >> keeping the you know one topic keeping it 30 minutes and I think that that's good. Now is it the best way to get views on YouTube? No. because YouTube you do well if you cater to an audience or you uh talk about something they want to hear whereas what I'm going to be doing is kind of taking something weighing both sides and coming to a conclusion and I think that some people are going to be >> could cater to like a skeptic type audience. I mean yeah sure it's fine >> except for I you know I'm afraid that most my content will kind of get them to see that uh we're missing a lot and you just get to this point where you start believing other truthers are doing good evidence and you're also finding things at the wrong time. I'll just use Trump for an example. When Trump was shot, um, right away, I mean, because there is no money and let's say you're like, you know, I'm going to take this, I'm going to look into it really deeply, and you take two weeks to do an a real great film on it. By then, it's too late because what has been happening for those two weeks is people have been putting out live stream after live stream and that's getting all the views because people are interested at that time. The problem is is everybody's basing everything off of faulty information, not full information, and so what you get is just a a bunch of crap. Yeah, that's what was happening the first two, three days after that event. And so people today, if you ask them about that event, they will remember those things that were wrong in the first three days that come out because that's how >> so I want to kind of get people to take time to go back and look at things and really weigh what happened and then uh come to some conclusions. And I'm open now clearly to knowing that I can be wrong, how easy it is to be wrong, and how if I am wrong, then I want to correct that. And it obviously not going to take 10 years at this point. If I get something wrong on one of these episodes, I hope somebody >> learned learned a hard lesson. Yeah. >> Well, that's cool, man. We'll we'll send some some folks your way and maybe, you know, get some they'll get some critical thinking skills, you know, be able to look at a wide and, you know, you cover a wide variety of topics. You get viewers that are looking, you know, looking for a particular topic, stumble upon you, no context to flat earth or somebody that's looking at uh, you know, this issue and uh, yeah, it's it's a good direction. Broaden broaden the scope. I think it's going to do well for you. >> Thank you. Yeah. And I just hope that people recognize that it's okay to um admit that you're wrong because I've just noticed that that doesn't happen. That people just have a hard time doing that and they're very shocked that I did it. They're that's most of the you know shake my hand. People are just like, "Oh, thanks for being honest. Thanks for having integrity. That's doesn't exist." And I get it. I get why it doesn't because of what's kind of happened. I kind of realize in a world that we live where you're innocent until proven guilty to just uh kind of incriminate yourself and be like, I was wrong. I got is sometimes not the most uh it's the definitely the right thing to do, the moral thing to do, but as far as you know like that guy uh who's that guy Jesse Smlette who did that you know he faked his own >> faked his attack. Yeah. Yeah. >> Right. So we'll never see that guy admit that he did that because it's in his best interest. >> It's too destructive. Yeah. >> Yeah. So exactly. So I just want people to learn that it is better to tell the truth and sometimes you come out on the top. >> Moving forward with integrity, inspiring others to do the same. Thanks guys for the chat. That was a lot of fun. >> Thanks. >> And uh yeah, see if we can do it again. >> That was great. And Dave, I I envy that you got to look dog [\h__\h] Dave in the face and just tell him what a undigested cornfilled piece of [\h__\h] he is. >> Oh. Yeah. >> And and Jiren, I absolutely loved your story. I'm glad I was able to This This was great. I really enjoyed this. >> Yeah, it was awesome. Um I think that uh with Weiss and those kind I'm going to challenge him to a debate just because I know he can't he can't debate me because Right. So >> he'll refuse. Yeah, >> you got Yeah, he'll refuse and nobody will care. They'll just all go on and now he's like doing interviews at schools. Have you seen this? Where he goes in front of high school classes. I'm hoping that the teachers are bringing him on as like a like after he leaves they're like now did you see how crazy that guy was? Now we don't get to see that because we're just seeing him interact with the students, but I'm pretty sure that's what the teachers are doing. I don't think that they're bringing him in for like here's a good knowledge, here's a good >> more of a more of a spectacle. More of a don't become like this guy, >> right? Look at what he did to get to his evidence because he he's continued to show the same picture. It's like a picture of uh rocks and then there's like a plant in it and he keeps saying in every one of his interviews he's like this is a NASA picture of Mars and right away you're just like no it's not. >> No it's not. But he says it in every single interview and >> you can't again he blocks me. He blocks you. So who's going to tell him that he's not being on? I mean there's nobody there. >> All right. Well rock on dudes. That was a lot of fun. Uh yeah >> really enjoyed it. You guys got great chemistry. We should do this again sometime. >> That's fine. >> All right, Dave. Thanks. I appreciate it. >> Cheers. >> Take care, Dave. Great to meet you. >> Thus ends another chapter in the saga of the slow deterioration of the single dumbest cult on this entire spherical planet. It seems like they really are in complete shambles. And I'm happy to promote anyone who's helping to snuff out the last few embers. So, let's all head over to Jiren's channel to subscribe and throw him some views. Perhaps he'll find his new voice and make more content that can help other people avoid falling for cults, whether it's flat earth or some other one, which is undoubtedly a positive thing regardless of who it's coming from. As for me, I don't actively think about flat earth at all. I look at it as the toddler bike with training wheels that got me to where I am today. But since I am focusing so heavily on the most damaging pseudocience in the world coming from RFK, other figures in Trump's administration, climate change deniers, Christian nationalist propaganda, medical hoaxes, Weinstein and Hosenfelders, and all the rest. I deserve the right to stroll down memory lane and [\h__\h] on some flatearthers whenever I damn well please. Thank you very much. So, you'll probably hear more from me about it sooner or later. Until next time.