Hey everyone, as some of you are aware, loser apologist Sabur Ahmad finally found the courage to debate me online after pretending to have organized a live debate. And it went very badly for him. Needing to spin things for his flock so that they keep paying his rent. He's been posting an avalanche of content in the aftermath. So, I thought it would be fun to check out what he's been doing and make fun of it. If you missed the debate, it's linked in the description. But if you'd rather just get the gist of it, it went something like this. Is Darwinian evolution a fact? Dennis Noble. Dennis Noble. Dennis Noble's Dennis Noble. Dennis Noble. Dennis Noble is Dennis Noble. Dennis Noble here. Dennis Noble. Dennis Noble is a complete clown. Dennis Noble. Dennis Noble. Dennis Noble. Dennis Noble is Dennis Noble. Dennis Noble. Dennis Noble. According to Dennis Noble, Dennis Noble. Noble. I can make a replica of you. Dennis Noble. Noble said Noble. Another Dennis Noble can come out. According to Noble. According to Dennis Noble. According to Dennis Noble. So according to Dennis Noble. Dennis Noble is Dennis Noble. Dennis Noble according to Noble has Dennis Noble's eye Dennis Noble Dennis Noble Dennis Noble Dennis Noble is Dennis Noble is a complete clown Dennis Noble Dennis Noble Dennis Noble Dennis Noble's Dennis Noble is Dennis Noble wrong Dennis Noble is a joke Dennis Noble Dennis Noble's Dennis Noble is Dennis Nobles in Dennis Nobles Dennis Noble Can you explain his perspective on Aristotle's distinctions and the nature of causality yes in the most stunning display of apologist sliminess iness I've ever seen, even worse than Kent Hovind. Sabore literally refused to debate the topic he himself chose, Darwinian evolution, and spent the entire time blindly referencing Dennis Noble as though he understands a single thing Noble says, or as though it does anything whatsoever to contradict well understood evolutionary biology. The irony is that just like with other frauds I've debated, I began my opening statement by predicting everything that my opponent would do, only to watch him spend 90 minutes doing exclusively those things. It's just breathtaking. Here is Sabore whining about the definitions of words and deliberately distorting them. Remember, there's two different ways that you're using the word Darwinian evolution. When I referred to Darwinian evolution, I referred to the idea that random mutations plus natural selection can generate mind and body. Here he is desperately running away from science and just whining repeatedly about irrelevant philosophical concepts to try and sound intelligent. I'm going to define I'm going to You're already changing the subject though, by the way. You're already changing the subject. I'm going to I'm going to explain this. Okay. Let me explain this to you in very simple terms. Aristotle made distinctions about causality. I know you're nodding your head because it's too much for you, but let me just explain. No, you're just like, we're talking about science and you're jumping to philosophy because you can't talk about science. You can't do it. And there was plenty of quote mining and deception as well. There is a framework issue that Subur has raised which I is a big mistake. His mentioning Io Wilson on on on uh on behalf of his idea is a huge distortion. I felt that Sabore had misrepresented what I had written. Like the painfully long section where Sabore vomited up his distorted Dawkins quote over and over again. So what we are really speaking about is does natural selection plus random mutations. Can he create mind and body as the selfish gene purports it can? Of course, anyone who isn't a complete [\h__\h] understands that Dawkins meant exactly what I said, that the genome is the instructions for an organism like a human, both body and mind. Genes are the necessary prerequisites for building a body and mind. Not deterministically, they're just the blueprint. But every time I said gene expression, Sabore tried to change the subject because he doesn't know what that means, even though he was supposed to learn it in nth grade. Here is proof that Sabore doesn't know what gene expression means. So are you saying that gene expression generates an organism? Can we just say that? What are you saying? I never use the word gene expression. That's epigenetics. By the way, by the way, gene expression is epigenetics. Every time you try to talk about science, you get this gem of stupidity. Like gene expression is epigenetics. One at a time, gentlemen. What the hell does that mean? Oh yeah, he doesn't know what epigenetics is either. Anyway, to put it succinctly, this gene-entric view of evolution posits that genes are the primary units of selection, not organisms, and that genes use bodies as survival machines to propagate themselves. That's all. Honestly, I'm not sure that Sabore even knows what a gene is. He's that clueless. So, this strategy did not bear much fruit for him. And let's not forget about his fourth tactic, shouting and constantly talking over people to try and prevent them from making any points or prove that he's lying about something. Here's a great example of him doing that. Why are you giving evidence for Darwinian evolution by citing common ancestry? I didn't do that. I invited you to a separate I didn't do that. Where did I do that? I invite Look, go back to Muhammad's channel. Go back to channel when I said that that Darwinian evolution factually occurs. I cited mutations of bacteria. I cited mut. Shut your mouth. Shut your mouth. I'm responding to the dumb thing you said. You're trying to prevent me. Thanks for muting him. I said as evidence for evolution by natural selection. I was citing mutations in bacteria producing antibiotic resistance. That's something we observe, right? That's Darwinia Darwinian evolution by natural selection. I didn't bring up common ancestry as evidence for Darwinian evolution. I'm talking about mechanisms that we can observe today and then we can extrapolate that into the past and then we find other evidence from the fossil record, paleontology, biological anthropology, all these other things. I love the look on this douchebag's face when he realizes he's been muted and I'm actively proving him wrong for everyone to hear without interruption. It's beautiful. Apart from these four tactics I readily predicted, his other main strategy was to just toss out as much random terminology as possible, demand that I define or explain it, even though he absolutely can't do that himself, and just hope that by doing this enough times, he could get a short sound bite of me appearing to not know something so that he could make a YouTube short out of it. This also repeatedly backfired, like the time he put up a slide that just said transgenerational epigenetic inheritance, asked me to explain it, which I promptly did, and then he just pretended he wanted me to talk about something else he also doesn't understand. Why don't you explain to me first what this is, and if you failed to do so, then I'll do it. Okay. So, epigenetics, we're talking about modifications to the genome that alter the uh when genes can be expressed. So, DNA methylation and stuff like that. there is uh some pretty decent evidence for uh a little bit of inheritance of this over a generation or two. Uh so mainly histone modification, right? If a histone is coordinated to a gene, then it can't be expressed. Uh and if it's not, then it can be expressed. So there are environmental influences that can determine whether uh whether the gene can be transcribed at any given time. And it's actually pretty cool. Over the past couple decades, we've figured out that there is some element of inheritance uh here, maybe a generation or two, but that's it. You have no uh evidence that this is uh the same as like random mutation mutations being inherited. So um have fun trying to talk about this. Okay. You didn't mention genetic assimilation. Pretty embarrassing. No. And he did this while repeatedly claiming he was giving me an education. The complete reversal of reality with schmucks like Sabore is just delicious. As for the constant references to Dennis Noble, to put it as succinctly as possible, Dennis Noble is not an evolutionary biologist. He's a physiologist. He's been paid by the Templeton Foundation to put out rhetoric for public consumption that can be interpreted by creationists as a challenge to evolution, and his work in this area is a joke. Given that I will soon publish a lengthy video entirely on noble and is deliberately deceptive rhetoric, there's no need to discuss it further here. But for the context of this exchange, Sabur would be very sad to learn that Daddy Dennis does not support his bastardization of terminology he doesn't understand. What we refer to as neodyarwinism is not Darwinism. That's the first thing to make very clear. I wonder what Daddy Dennis would think about Sabore spending 90 minutes avoiding the topic of the debate. You titled the debate, is Darwinian evolution a fact? And then your entire opening statement had nothing to do with the title of the debate. And then you got mad at me for having an opening statement about the title of the debate. How insane is that? It's ridiculous. Everyone is laughing at you right now. That doesn't make any sense because I was using Dennis Noble's definition of neodyarwism. All right, gentlemen. I'm going to bring it to neodyarwinism. Is neodarwinism the same as Darwinism? Sabore, answer the question. No. Pretty pathetic. He also would be the first to tell Sabore that none of these concepts he doesn't understand challenge Darwinian evolution in any way. Genetic assimilation is just adaptive traits being assimilated into the genome. It's entirely Darwinian. Somatic hypermutation occurs in the immune system and has nothing to do with germline cells that would be relevant to evolution since only mutation in gametes are passed on. Literally none of it was relevant to the topic in even the slightest way, no matter which evolutionary paradigm he thought he was talking about. Oh yeah, one last thing. Let's add racial slurs to Sabor's arsenal of depraved debate tactics. Or is that the way that a pajet talks? You acted like a pajet and you threatened to [\h__\h] on the guy's face. I don't know what pit is. I don't know what that means. That's right. Neither myself nor the moderator knew what page means. But as multiple people have now informed me, it's basically like the n-word for Indians. To put the degeneracy of this behavior into perspective, how do you think people would react if I called Sabore a sand in the debate? That would be pretty uncalled for, don't you think? Could be grounds for some measure of cancellation, don't you think? Even given how much of a toxic, deceptive, slanderous piece of [\h__\h] he is, I would never stoop that low. Sabur apparently does not have such moral standards. It would be a shame if tons of people were to inform his institution of study that they are affiliating with such a racist [\h__\h] wouldn't it? Take a look at this guy in Poland using the same slur. You're you're from the world's you're the world's most irresponsible breeders. You're in the whitest country possible. What do you mean? Yes. You're a biological weapon in this country. Hey, Pajit. Pajit, you're a biological weapon in this country. You should be ashamed of yourself. You're a white You're a white woman. What are you going to do? Mix your genetics up with the shitkin? What do you mean? What do you mean? What do I mean? There's 1.3 billion of those uh pajets. What are you thinking about me like that? There's 1.3 billion pajets. This is the whitest country on earth. You should be ashamed of yourself. Should this guy be allowed to study at an institute of higher learning? I'm not so sure. Anti-Indian hate is not something that should be expressed in seriousness or as a joke. And I'll link to this report in the description for those who want to learn more about the terrible impact of precisely this hate speech. Anyway, as you can see, the debate was a total train wreck for Sabore, and his obligatory damage control isn't any better. To be honest, I recall seeing that he had done some kind of debate analysis on his channel just a day or two after the debate. But when I went to look for it just now, I couldn't find it. Maybe he canled it, or maybe it was so pathetic that he just deleted it after the fact. But he's done several interviews about it on other channels, so let's look at those instead. Here's one that appears to be in the same library study room thingy where he was standing during the debate. How did that go? Remember back in the days our debates in Speaker's Corner? This is one of It's basically one of those but sitting down. Yes, it was just like speaker's corner where you regularly act like a raving lunatic pretending to be intelligent. What's your basic idea? Selection through mutation. That's the basic idea. Natural selection through mutation. Let me just tell you something. I am not someone who gets angry often. But I'll tell you something that just really piss me off when somebody tries to make claims and you shoot down those claims and then as you beaten them on the floor they decide to shout something back at you like what did he say? And then they try and defend themselves. You're telling me the basic that you understand about Darwinian evolution is this. It's natural selection plus mutation. Well, guess what? That's not even Darwinism. It's natural selection plus random mutations. If it's natural selection plus mutations, guess what it becomes? Epigenetics, autogenetic evolution. So even though you are slapped on the floor, you said, "No, I do understand something." I'm just going to tell you this is what I understand. Two frigin terms, mutation and natural selection, and you still got it wrong. I'm glad you can admit that you are a complete buffoon in our debate as well, since everyone who watched it has probably been telling you that non-stop. If you look at James Foder who I debated Aaron Ra um Alex Okconor there was a structure there was a flow there was a a way of okay let's dissect this dissect this dissect this with this guy he was not engaging so my opening he didn't engage with my second opening he didn't engage he didn't engage with those things yeah with those other people you actually debated the topic you chose that's why they engaged with you because you were talking about the debate topic. Those are the debates I watched to prepare for this one, which is why all of my slides were responses to or critiques of things you said in those other debates with the same exact title. For some reason with me, you refused to talk about the topic you chose for the entire 90 minutes. So, I don't know what the [\h__\h] you're complaining about. Your reaction video is nonsense. Now, he tried to defend it and even his fans now are trying to say he even admitted a point. Oh, it's just a reaction video. Yeah, just a reaction video. thing is, oh, it's just off the cuff or whatever. Would a historian ever say World War II took place in 1960s? Never. Hey, dumbass. People are making fun of you because your entire opening statement was whining about one off-the-cuff statement I made in a three-hour reaction video while drinking whiskey where I got a date a bit wrong. Biology isn't about memorizing a bunch of dates. It's about understanding natural processes and mechanisms in a fundamental way, which you don't. That's why you're humiliating yourself whining about dates. What I mean by Darwinism, you clearly know because you reacted in a three-hour long video. So, you know what I'm talking about when I say neodyarwinism. You just switched terms midsentence. You started with Darwinism and then switched to neodyarwinism and then your dumb face as the balls to repeatedly accuse me of false equivocation. Are you immune to shame? Is this just a game for you to see how transparently dishonest and stupid you can be and still have your gullible flock send you money? I've never seen anything like it. It's almost impressive. Do I need to have Daddy Dennis scold you again, Sabore? The important thing here is to reiterate what I said much earlier on in our discussion, which is that Darwinism is not neodyarwinism. The definition of Darwinism, which I've been hopping on about for years, is natural selection plus genetic mutations, random mutations created body and mind. Well, again, that's literally meaningless. So maybe you should try and learn the definitions of the terms you're using, a [\h__\h] Dennis Noble understands Darwinism means neodyarwinism. Darwinism is not neodyarwinism. Four pillars of neodyarwinism, which Dennis Noble has said has been demolished. There are no pillars of Darwinism. Science is not a religion. Google pillars of Darwinism and you just get one or two shitty books written by creationists. This is why nobody takes you seriously, kiddo. The man came into the debate not wanting to debate. He came in just trying to damage control. Survive through the whole ordeal. Basically, that it was like he's trying to keep, like you said, his pajamas up. I'll never get used to this manufactured bravado. Just pretend that the other person is nervous or jittery as though that makes it true. As I've demonstrated before, all these Dawa [\h__\h] do this. Why are you shaking? I've got five on your pocket. Come on. You're You're getting excited here. I know it's your sexuals are inclined. You're the sex rabbi. Now you're back. You're getting over excited. This is all they can do. Sabore, you're a bug under my shoe. I looked bored because I genuinely was bored. I played with you for 90 minutes and then threw you in the trash where you belong. Cry about it. I made it explicitly clear in the beginning. I want three debates. I want universal common ancestry and I want uh Darwinism and I want intelligent design. Now he said no, I want one debate and and I bought out the email in my slides and I made it very clear. Listen, I don't want you to gish Gallup. You asked for three debates over a week and a half in Birmingham so that I would justifiably refuse and you wouldn't have to debate me. And we just saw that the topic of the debate is literally irrelevant to you. You just talk about whatever the [\h__\h] you want and evade direct questions the whole time. So whining about gish galloping just makes you look like an [\h__\h] I told him this. Why didn't you read my book? My book came out how long ago? For a month or two months. And how long does it take to read the book? A few days. You are debating me, Subie. Nobody cares about your 100page pamphlet where you graphically describe yourself felating Dennis Noble on every page. But don't worry, maybe one day if I'm a little dry on ideas for content, I'll [\h__\h] all over it for you. My man came to a debate about Darwinism and in the environmental selection pressure, he was shown to be incompetent and cowardly. And he has been muted, domesticated, and deselected. And that's the final word. He is finished. What a cutie patootie. Rehearsed catchphrases are totally better than actually understanding science. Okay, let's take a quick look at this other one. A person with about 3 million uh following and a person who has no problem with his this brash style of dismissing people, calling them names. You mean like your boy and his revoling racial slurs? I see you're just another brainwashed hypocrite. Your hero gets to insult anyone he wants and slander them all day long, but nobody gets to do it back to him even though he actually deserves it. Got it. The first is to do with the definition because the definition I used of Darwinism is the definition that I showed on the screen is the same definition as Richard Dawkins and Dennis Noble. Nope, it isn't. You're lying as always. He committed four uh fallacies, three formal fallacies. One informal fallacy, the fallacy of equivocation, the nonsecator fallacy and the genetic fallacy, which are formal fallacies, and the informal fallacy of red herring. Only pseudointellectuals list random logical fallacies as a way of deflecting from their inability to actually discuss anything. That's why flatearthers do this all the time. So, you've already beg the question, you stupid [\h__\h] False equivalency fallacy. That's called an affirming the consequent formal logical fallacy. That would be an argument from ignorance fallacy. How many more fallacies have you got? And in this case, you're just listing things you do all the time, like your false equivocation of Darwinism and neodyarwinism. And why people like Noble should be taken seriously. And why people like Richard Dawkins and then the people who are influenced by them and get worse than them are not intellectually honest. Yes. Anyone who explains basic biology you don't like is dishonest while you do nothing but lie all the time. Amazing. Also only creationists take noble seriously. Sorry. There is a sentence which you use as a mode of communication to express what you're going to talk about. But that sentence itself is not what the conversation is limited to. It's what it carries. So for example, when we say Darwin and evolution, it's not that you're going to discuss the grammar or the syntax of that sentence. It's what it carries. And what it carries is that the selection mutation mechanism allegedly is good enough to give rise to mind and body because that is Darwinism, neodyarwinism. Wow. I guess all these douchebags talk like this. Nobody was discussing grammar or syntax. I was discussing the topic of the debate Sabore chose. He wasn't. And the fact that you just said Darwinism and neodyarwinism backtoback as though they're the same thing is blatant damage control by proxy. Did you think that all of Sabor's lies and rhetoric are somehow going to sound more convincing out of your mouth on your claim that the mind and body cannot um come into existence simply because of the what your idea of mutation and selection is? Well, that is exactly what the debate is. This dumb catchphrase also will not magically begin meaning something just by repeating it. A zygote's genes are expressed and an organism develops. All of its parts. Mutations in the germ line can occur and can be selected for which alters how progeny develop. You're saying nothing. So basically what he did is this. He said Darwinian evolution is simply natural selection and random mutations. And and he also put in common descent. Jesus [\h__\h] Christ. How are you this addicted to lying and misrepresenting everything that everyone says literally all the time? I did not say random mutation. That's what you say. I did not say common disscent. I said disscent with modification and natural selection. What's your definition of dominism for the context of this debate? Descent with modification and natural selection. I said it in my opening statement. That's what it is. That's what everybody acknowledges that it is. I said it repeatedly because that's what it [\h__\h] is. Whining like a little [\h__\h] all over the internet is never going to change that, buddy. Neither will lying about what I said since everyone can go and see what I said and conclude that you're a lying [\h__\h] stain who accuses people of the fallacies he himself is committing. Darwinian evolution, if we define it in a very trivial way that random mutations to take place, do they take place? Yes, they do. Do those organisms get selected out that have random mutations? Yes, they do. This is a fact. This is well known. Nobody disagrees with this. Thank you for conceding the topic of the debate and admitting that I won. You know, for him to say that this paradigm is not good enough and obviously when he's talking about the the neodyarwinism, I mean, his entire career is based on that. That's number one. Number two, he debated against uh for example James Tour and he defended his idea of neodyarwinism. Holy hell, this jerk is even dumber than Sabore. My entire career is based on neodyarwinism. So, you have absolutely no idea what I do for a living. Are my calculus tutorials based on neodyarwinism? How about the ones on organic chemistry or modern physics? And for [\h__\h] sake, when I debated James Tour, I was defending neodyarwinism. It was about origin of life research, you brain dead hick. It's abundantly clear that this guy's definition of neodyarwinism is just any science that hurts his feelings. Pathetic. Even if you look at the doboard case for example, you have the court cases saying that this is the only form of evolution you can teach. You cannot teach intelligent design. Cannot teach Lamar and cannot teach anything else. Yeah. Intelligent design is religion. You can't teach religion in science class and students do learn about Lamarism in the context of how it was posited and then rejected since it isn't true. Want to cry about it? What about freedom of speech in academia? Right. So freedom of speech when it to Darwinism is is not something which is highlighted in the media but freedom of speech when it comes to other things like religion it definitely is. You have freedom of speech [\h__\h] you are free to say insanely stupid things which you do on a daily basis and I'm free to make fun of you for it. Hooray freedom. in the in terms of the term Darwinism I said during the debate yes no problem that trivial definition of Darwinism is fine and what did he do he didn't say okay let's now tackle did it create body and mind and this type of thing he simply didn't know what to do he was confused himself and he didn't actually understand the fallacy of equivocation even though I gave him the example of the doctor you know doctor you you falling down on the floor saying I have a heart attack and then someone coming forward and saying you know I I'm a doctor they try and help you and they they don't know what they're doing and you find out they have a PhD in gender studies, right? He's like the T1000 of pulling things out of his ass. He did not concede the definition of Darwinian evolution that he is calling trivial because that would mean conceding the debate. He never told this dumb story about a doctor. So, I have no idea what he's trying to do there. And it doesn't change the fact that he's the one guilty of false equivocation. And then, of course, he has to throw in a jab at gender studies to reach peak anti-woke douchebag. Amazing. his psychology was such that he couldn't basically hide the fact that he was being degraded over time in the Q&A. You could see it and do you know I thought that was really insightful because that for me is more important than just the content. Yes, you inventing body language out of thin air to pretend that I was losing is more important to you than being able to explain it in a rational way how I lost because you can't since I didn't. That's why all you DAWA [\h__\h] constantly proclaim that your opponent is nervous or upset or defeated or whatever you want reality to be and instruct all your idiot followers to repeat it over and over again like a mantra so that they don't ever have to exercise critical thinking. You are the exemplar of the post-truth era. You should be in Trump's cabinet. First of all, he did have a tendency of attacking your arguments in his opening statement. That shows the lack of calmness. Uh, in my opening statement, I debunked a bunch of dumb things Sabor said during other times he debated this topic, and that equals the lack of calmness. The level of delusion and stupidity with these people is just immeasurable. It's so insane and meaningless that there's nothing to even respond to. At least flate-arthers say something concrete that can be debunked. With these [\h__\h] it's just he wasn't calm, which I definitely was, and which wouldn't make me wrong anyway. This goes on for another hour and a half, but there's just no point in watching any more of it. It's a feature film length whining session interspersed with delusions. There is literally zero connection to reality. What else has he been doing? Oh yeah, he dropped this turd. It's him giving a talk that he pretends was supposed to be our debate. I already provided all the receipts in another video which proved that he definitely did not set up a debate. But if you need even more proof that all he did was rent a room, this video is edited so that there is no introduction and never pans to any audience because there is none. He delivers an entire talk to complete silence. Not one stitch of applause even when he's all finished. And then two dudes ask short vague questions off camera. Probably just the guys running camera and audio. Assalamu allayikum everyone. Welcome. It's supposed to be a debate, but it's no longer a debate. It's actually going to be a talk. He He's not going to show he's incompetent because to show he's incompetent, he has to show some level of competence. Thank you to the Islamic Society and the Student Union for facilitating this talk and I look forward to your questions. I know that was very detailed and heavy and um who comes here from a Bali background. A level. Okay, good. He's speaking to nobody. What a terrific audience that would have been for a live debate. A Sabore pathetic. Here, I fixed your thumbnail for you. Apart from that, he's been frantically uploading short after short after short of brief moments with no context that he can pretend are at all relevant, which makes sense since he flat out admitted during the debate that's all he was really there to do. And that's going to be a very nice short, by the way. A a very nice short where it's saying absolutely nothing. And he's also been posting relentlessly on his community tab, continuing to distort definitions and endlessly contradicting himself. Was I bored? Was I uneasy? Was I agitated? It seems like none of these idiots can make up their minds. It's like the guy has no identity outside of wanting to be smarter than me. It's just the most pathetic thing I've ever seen. Here he is claiming I changed the debate title from my upload of the debate. It was Darwinism, not evolution. Well, it was Darwinian evolution, which is a subset of evolution. So, this is like whining that the debate was about apples, not fruit. Also, he refused to discuss the topic he chose, so I just titled it accurately. Cope and see, bro. He sounds like an incel. Anyway, there's really nothing more to say here beyond being the most pathetic debater I've ever encountered. Sabore might be the biggest loser on the internet. He's worse than any flatearther I've encountered, which is saying a lot. They actually attempt to discuss the relevant topic, even if they fail miserably. And when they get humiliated, they might deny it, but they don't go around parading some kind of victory. Sabore drags the goalposts into a pond, slaps a hockey puck with a tennis racket, shouts, "Touchdown!" and struts off like a champion. Even a pigeon knocking over chess pieces has more intellectual integrity than this guy. I genuinely feel sorry for the few thousand brainwashed idiots who can't see right through him, and there's absolutely nothing anybody can do to reach them. And so Sabore goes straight into my pile of punching bags to be picked up and smacked around when I feel like it and then tossed right back into the pile. Who knows, maybe after I debunk Dennis Noble to smithetheriness, he'll have a hissy fit and I can make fun of his damage control. Maybe I'll make fun of his adorable pamphlet. At the moment, I have bigger fish to fry. Thus ends the Sabore saga. At least on my end, I'm sure he'll keep making videos about me every week for the rest of his life. But there's really nothing he can do to reverse the damage caused to his reputation over this whole fiasco. And I think the mockery he receives on a daily basis is the perfect reward for him. I'll see you next