Professor Dave again, let’s work some more with fractions. We just learned how to add and subtract fractions, so let’s go ahead and cover multiplication and division as well. First let’s see what happens when we multiply a fraction by a whole number. Take one third. If we multiply this by two, then the whole number will multiply the numerator only. Two times one is two, so we get two thirds. If it was a ten, we would get ten thirds. The denominator will not change, because it is telling us the magnitude of the fraction, not how many there are. If we have a slice of pizza, which is one eighth, when we multiply that by two, meaning we have two slices of pizza, we have two eighths, not two fourths. Two eighths represents two slices, or one fourth of the pizza. Now let’s see what happens when we multiply two fractions. This is a little bit different from adding fractions, because when we add two fractions, they must have the same denominator, and then the denominator stays the same while we add the numerators. With multiplication, we can multiply any two fractions together, they don’t have to have the same denominator, and we end up multiplying the terms in both the numerator and denominator. Take for example two thirds times one half. On the top we have two times one, which gives us two. On the bottom we have three times two, which is six. That gives us two over six, which will reduce to one third. That makes perfect sense, because we had two thirds, so after we cut that in half we should have only one third left. In this way, when multiplying two fractions, we can think of it in terms of multiplying by the numerator, and then dividing by the denominator. This is why multiplying a fraction by a whole number only affects the numerator, because we can think of a whole number as a fraction where the denominator is one. One times anything is one, so the denominator will not change. Let’s try another. Five sixths times three fourths. Five times three is fifteen, and six times four is twenty-four, so fifteen over twenty-four is our answer. Now in terms of division, it’s a little trickier. Just like when multiplying a fraction by a whole number, when we divide a fraction by a whole number, we only divide the numerator. So two thirds divided by two is one third. This is because dividing by a number is the same as multiplying by its reciprocal, which is just a fancy word for one over the original thing. That means that dividing by two is the same thing as multiplying by one half. This makes sense if you think about it, since dividing by two gives you half of what you started with. This will work the same way when we divide fractions by other fractions. Two fifths divided by three fourths is the same as two fifths times four thirds. We take the second fraction, flip it over, and then multiply to get our answer, which in this case will be eight over fifteen. The only thing we have to be careful of is that we can’t divide by zero. Dividing by zero isn’t the same as not dividing something up at all, that’s what dividing by one does, because the same number remains. If we divide by zero the result will be undefined, and this is a fact that will come in handy later in our study of mathematics. For now, we’ve learned how to multiply and divide fractions, so let’s check comprehension.