Do you think every scientist has an obligation now to speak publicly through social media or do you think it's better to leave it to professionals like yourself? Like what what are your thoughts on that? >> I think obligation would be a strong word, but I think every scientist should be encouraged to do it. Um many or most won't and that's fine. Um but if you are one who is not interested in doing SyCom I would I would say at the very least please make yourself available to science communicators. Lend your expertise either um if a science communicator is contacting you about some of your research if you could just be available by email to help them understand a particular paper of yours or whatever it is. Um, and even better if you are willing to appear in their content. It lends a tremendous amount of credibility particularly to generalists such as myself who do not have the highest level of expertise in any particular area. Right? I don't have a terminal degree. I don't have a doctorate. So, um, I I should not be regarded as the world's foremost expert on any academic field. That's obviously true. And I would never pretend otherwise. But the way I get around that is first of all by just being a good generalist and just understanding the science that I'm trying to uh explain. But then also handing it over to requisite experts. Right? If I'm talking about archaeology, if I'm talking about origin of life research, if I'm talking about, you know, very niche molecular biology, whatever it is, here's a 10-minute conversation with somebody who is an expert in the field. And here is them corroborating what I'm saying, explaining it to you with greater depth, reinforcing the things that I've said, thanking me for taking this on on their behalf, right? Um, it just adds a very strong layer of credibility to the content. And so I totally get it. You you're a researcher. You don't have time to have a podcast. You don't have time to sit there like I do and make YouTube videos, right? It it's very timeconuming. Don't worry about it. Just appear in in in our videos, please. That's all we're That's all we ask. Yeah. >> Yeah. No, I think that's that's terrific. I mean, yeah, it >> it takes a lot of the burden of the production off of Yes. Someone that's trying to >> I'll do that >> apply for a grant or whatever. >> Just do a Zoom call. >> Yeah. >> And lay out the facts. >> Right. That's it. >> Right. That's awesome.