professor Dave here, let's name some ionic compounds as we just learned, sometimes atoms steal electrons from one another to become ions there are many ionic substances and we should be able to name them but first we must understand that ions come together to form compounds in ratios dictated by their charges. positively charged ions or cations will bind with negatively charged ions or anions to form neutral compounds by whatever combination necessary. we can know the most common ion an element will form by looking at where it is on the periodic table. if an atom is in group 1 it needs to lose one electron to attain noble gas electron configuration so 1+ is what they tend to form. atoms from group 2 will tend to become 2+. looking at the other side elements in the group called halogens need to gain one electron to attain noble gas electron configuration so they will tend to become 1- anions these will become 2- these 3- and so forth. to find out the ratio in which ions will bind just put them together in a way that the positive and negative charges add up to zero. sodium and chloride are 1+ and 1- so one of each will do nicely. if we use magnesium instead of sodium magnesium is 2+ so each magnesium ion will need two chloride ions to make a neutral compound. if we have magnesium and nitrogen we will need three of the 2+ and two of the 3- to get plus and minus six. you just need the lowest common multiple for the two charges and use as many ions of each as you need to get there. when we write out ionic compounds we always list the cation first and then the anion. usually the cation is just referred to by the name of the element but the anion, if it's monatomic will have the suffix ide. that makes this sodium chloride. some metals can have different common charges or oxidation states. copper can be 1+ or 2+ and we represent that with Roman numerals in parentheses copper I means that it is a 1+ ion and copper II means 2+. if there is an element with two common oxidation states the lower one bears the suffix ous and the higher will be ic so a copper one ion is the cuprous ion and copper two is a cupric ion. for similar polyatomic ions with different numbers of oxygen atoms in them the one with more bears the suffix ate the one with less bears the suffix ite so this is the nitrate ion and this is the nitrite ion. if there are more still we can use the prefixes per and hypo in addition to the suffixes so this is chlorate this is chlorite this is hypochlorite and this is perchlorate. these prefixes and suffixes are used as necessary depending on how many variations a particular ion has. there's not very much memorization in chemistry if you understand what's happening but unfortunately knowing the names and charges of these polyatomic ions is a case where you're just gonna have to memorize a little. these are the most important ones to know by name and their charge putting it together if there's an ionic compound you want to name just list the cation and anion by name inserting prefixes and suffixes if necessary like magnesium chloride. if the cation is a transition metal from the d block we need to refer to its oxidation state. here the sulfate is 2- so we know the chromium atom must be 2+. so this is chromium(II) sulfate. we can also go from a name to a formula unit. if we have the name iron(II) phosphate we know that we have iron atoms that are 2+ and phosphates that are 3-, so we will need three irons and two phosphates to make a neutral compound. the oxidation state of the iron atom is implied by the ratio in the formula unit but it is not implied in the written name, that's why we specify with the Roman numeral. if we are looking not at ions but at binary covalent compounds which contain only two elements we use a different set of prefixes to say how many atoms of each element there are. we can have carbon monoxide or carbon dioxide or something like tetraphosphorus trisulfide. these prefixes are not necessary when there is only one possible combination between two elements so it's just magnesium chloride not magnesium dichloride. let's check comprehension thanks for watching subscribe to my channel for more tutorials and as always feel free to email me