hey everyone its professor Dave, I wanna talk to you about natural versus synthetic vitamins nature makes them and humans make them in the lab. are they the same? surely natural is better and synthetic is a cheap imitation right? it's tempting to think this way because of analogies we can make in the macroscopic world this synthetic fabric is a shoddy imitation of this naturally occurring fabric but that kinda logic doesn't work for molecules. let's take a look at why a common nutrient that our body needs is ascorbic acid or vitamin C ascorbic acid, among other compounds, qualifies as a vitamin because we do not produce it in our bodies, we have to eat it. what vitamin C does in the body is it's a cofactor in several different enzymatic reactions many will fit into an active site of an enzyme and by interacting electrostatically with certain amino acids it will induce a conformational change activating the enzymes function such as repairing tissue it will do so on the basis of its precise three-dimensional shape that's why any molecule that's these specific atoms arranged in this specific way must be the same molecule: vitamin C so how's it made? in plants it's made like this. using enzymes to catalyze each step glucose is cyclized and then oxidized to get ascorbic acid in the lab, since we aren't limited by organic materials or physiological pH we can use a simpler approach oxidizing with platinum metal that's the strength of synthetic chemists, we can start with a simple molecule subject it to a series of reaction conditions using acids, bases exotic organometallic compounds and step-by-step build just about any molecule we can conceive of so here's our naturally occurring vitamin C, and here's the one from the lab. can you tell the difference? guess what, neither can the enzyme. they have precisely the same shape so they have precisely the same bioactivity. vitamin C is vitamin C is vitamin C. that's not to say that vitamin tablets are better than eating real foods in broccoli there's a vitamins C, A, D, E, K and loads of other nutrients. but the vitamin C produced in the broccoli is no different from what we make in the lab. in fact when we make it ourselves we can be sure of a high degree of purity efficient syntheses of these compounds make them available at a low cost to everyone in the world since making it ourselves can often be cheaper than isolating it from nature and recognizing the link between certain compounds and related diseases like vitamin C deficiency and scurvy allows us to eradicate disease through an intimate understanding a biochemical processes. the moral of the story is that molecules can have all kinds of effects on our bodies adopting a general attitude of natural: good synthetic: bad, is very misguided. the most potent toxins known to man are naturally occurring and synthetic drugs can cure us from disease. instead we should try to realize that every molecule must be examined on a case by case basis to see how its shape causes it to interact with the body regardless of its origin. so next time you're at the store and you see the vitamin C bottle with the pretty trees boasting that it's organic and all-natural, maybe think twice before shelling out the extra dough thanks for watching professor Dave explains see you next time