Partitive in Italian describes an undetermined part of a whole, or an unknown amount of objects or people. For example one could say things like: May I have a little bit of pasta? Or… some tea? some flour? Now does this mean half a plate of pasta? A small cup of tea? For the flour, is that a pound? A cup? A tablespoon? Similarly, if one says: Could you lend me some money? Does that mean five dollars, or five hundred? Finally, if you’re looking to have some fun and you declare that you are going to call a few friends, how many friends is that? Three? A dozen? These situations will require use of partitive. Italian has several ways to express partitive. One phrase that is often used is UN PO’ DI. This works best with uncountable nouns, such as liquids and small edible items, when we are not specifying the volume or the weight. On the other hand, if using easily countable nouns, such as books, cars, people, or cherries, there are several options. One option is to use indefinite adjectives. We can use qualche plus the noun, which will always be in the singular. This will be accompanied by the plural noun. However, if you are tired of adjective agreements, you may also use an easy alternative, the preposizione articolata DI plus the definite article, which means “of the”. This is a contraction between the preposition DI and the article required by the particular word you are using. One must still keep in mind gender, number, and the first letter of the word you are using, but this choice might be easier for some people. The contracted form will be the same as the preposizione articolata you use when you are expressing a specification or possession. If you need to review you can go back to this tutorial from earlier in the series, otherwise let’s quickly refresh our memories. Here are all the possible contractions as we learned in that tutorial. So we should understand that if we wanted to say “the student’s backpack”: Now to put this in the context of partitive, here we are going to use DI followed by the definite article in a form that does not have a direct correspondent in English. This will be a bit confusing for English speakers, as the kind of phrase we will be using will translate literally to: “May I have of the sugar?” though it will actually simply mean “ May I have some sugar?” Let’s see a few examples of this type of usage with uncountable nouns. It is actually also possible to use this approach with countable nouns as well, though they will imply an unspecified number of items. So that covers a few ways that we can use partitive. There are a few situations in which we want to avoid using partitive, and those are as follows. First, in negative phrases. If you want to say “I don’t eat fruit”, you would say non mangio frutta, and not della frutta. Second, in the presence of a quantifier adjective. We would not use partitive with a phrase like this because of the presence of troppi. And finally, when making a list. We would not insert partitive in such a list. Let’s check comprehension!