Hey everyone, most of you are aware of my recent live debate dunking on antivax charlatans, Steve Kersh and Pierre Corey. I promised follow-up videos on each of them to further expose their fraudulence. And with Steve already covered, we move on to Pierre. If you saw the carnage that was the live debate, you know exactly who Pierre is. But if you missed it and you haven't heard of him before, here's the quick rundown. Most of us became familiar with a drug called Ivormectin during the pandemic. And the reason for that is Pierre Corey. Pierre is the ICU doctor turned misinformation mogul who has spent the last 5 years pedalling Ivormectin, an antiparasitic, as a miracle drug for COVID. Even though he had no firm evidence for the claim when he first made it, and it was then quickly proven to be totally ineffective, he made a lot of money off of that grift. But any good grifter knows how to pivot when the time comes. So, we eventually started branching into all manner of antivax conspiracies, bogus claims about measles deaths not being from measles, weaponized viruses, and more. You may remember from the debate how Pierre was trying to pretend that some kids who died of measles in Texas didn't actually die of measles. Then Dan and I humiliated him by explaining immune amnesia where the measles virus destroys previously acquired immunity for a variety of pathogenic bacteria leading to severe secondary bacterial infections. So the bacteria he was whining about wouldn't have infected those kids if they hadn't been infected with measles which wouldn't have happened if they had been vaccinated. More on that later when we illustrate how Pierre has shifted from lying about Ivormekin to just pedalling generalized science denial regarding vaccines and infectious diseases. He's also part of RFK's cabal of disinformation super spreaders, most of whom now sell snake oil, like Pierre's pal Mickey Willis and his measles treatment and prevention protocol, which is just a bunch of pointless supplements for hundreds of dollars. This is somehow supposed to be more desirable than preventing measles with the typically free MMR vaccine, which has been proven to be profoundly safe and effective for decades to the point where measles had been declared eradicated until this most recent wave of extreme vaccine hesitancy, which has swept the nation thanks to frauds like Pierre. Now, the interesting thing is that Pierre Corey wasn't always this fringe grifter douchebag. He was once a legitimate ICU physician. He was board certified in critical care, pulmonary disease, and internal medicine. But then COVID hit, and for Pierre, so did the spotlight. In April of 2020, he co-founded the Frontline CO9 Critical Care Alliance or FLCCCC with his colleague Paul Merik. They published two protocols, Math Plus and IM Mask Plus, intended for treating hospitalized COVID patients and prevention of COVID illness, respectively. They specifically touted Ivormectin as lifesaving early in the pandemic, but as data began to shed doubt on its effectiveness, it quickly became obvious that this was nothing but a marketing scheme. Nevertheless, Pierre became a household name later that year when he testified before the US Senate's Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, branding himself as a pharma whistleblower and declaring that Ivormectin is effectively a miracle drug against COVID 19. This was his big moment. So let's get some highlights. >> We have now come to the conclusion after 9 months and I I have to point out I am severely troubled by the fact that the NIH, the FDA and the CDC, I do not know of any task force that was assigned or compiled to review repurposed drugs in an attempt to treat this disease. Everything has been about novel and/or expensive pharmaceutically engineered drugs things like toolsumab and renesa and monocodal antibodies and vaccines. There is a drug that is proving to be of miraculous impact and when I say miracle I do not use that term lightly and I don't want to be sensationalized when I say that that is a scientific recommendation based on mountains of data that has emerged in the last three months when I am told and I just had to hear this in the opening sentence that we are touting things that are not FDA or NIH recommended. Let me be clear. The NIH their recommendation on ivormectin which is to not use it outside of controlled trials is from August 27th. We are now in December. This is 3 to four months later. Mountains of data have emerged from all from many centers and countries around the world showing the miraculous effectiveness of ivormectin. It basically obliterates transmission of this virus. If you take it, you will not get sick. We have evidence that Ivormectin is effective not only in prophylaxis in the prevention. If you take it, you will not get sick. We just came across a trial last night from Argentina by the lead investigator of Iron Benton in Argentina, Dr. Hector Carvayo. They prophylaxed 800 healthcare workers. Not one got sick. We now have four large randomized control trials totaling over 1,500 patients. Each trial showing that as a prophylaxis agent, it is immensely effective. You will not get sick. You will be protected from getting ill if you take it. In early outpatient treatment, we have three randomized control trials and multiple observation as well as case series showing that if you take ivormectin, the need for hospitalization and death will decrease. It is proving to be a wonder drug. It is critical for its use in this disease. Any further deaths are going to be needless deaths and I cannot be traumatized by that. I am not here as a politician or a dramatist or or sensationalizing what I'm recommending. You know who's dying here? It's it's our African-American and Latino and elderly. It's some of the most disadvantaged and impoverished members of our society. They are dying at higher rates than anyone else. It's the most it's it's it's the most severe discrepancy I have seen in my medical career. And we are responsible to protect those disadvantaged members. We have a special duty to provide counter measures. The amount of evidence to show that Ivormectin is lifesaving and protective is so immense and the drug is so safe. My colleagues have talked about it. It must be instituted and implemented. I'm asking the NIH to review our data and come up with recommendations for society. Pretty bold claims there, Pierre. There's just one problem. His so-called evidence came exclusively from unreviewed preprints, low-quality observational studies, and unverifiable anecdotes. What he called mountains of data collapsed into dust the moment anyone actually followed up on anything. Plenty of professionals spoke up to expose Pierre's lies. But since Dan Wilson have debunked the funk so masterfully humiliated Pierre in our debate, let's give him the honors this time around as well. This video is from December of 2020, about a week after Pierre ran his mouth. Currently, there are no published peer-reviewed studies showing that this drug ivormectin has any effectiveness in preventing CO 19. However, there are a few preprint studies that show that there might be an effect here. Now, keep in mind these papers are not peer-reviewed. That does not make them wrong, but it does mean we should be cautious in interpreting their meaning. So with that in mind, when we read the results of these papers, we can see that even though their sample sizes are small, there does appear to be a decrease in COVID cases in groups that were treated with ivormectin. So right away, two takeaways we can see from these studies is that one, it is not 100% effective. So this doctor saying that if you take ivormectin, you will not get sick is sensationalist. that is misleading and he should not be saying that. We can also see that there might be an effect here. But we don't know for sure. These results are far from conclusive and we would have to see much larger studies in order to make any strong conclusions and recommendations based off those results. >> They prophylaxed 800 healthare workers. Not one got sick. >> I can't find this paper published on any preprint server or anywhere. So, I can't really comment on it, which means that he probably shouldn't be talking about it in front of Congress because again, it's not peer-reviewed and it's not verified by the scientific community yet. >> It is proving to be a wonder drug. >> No, it's not. And the simple reason is that the evidence is much too thin at this point to be making such a huge statement. Not only are the existing studies few in number and low in quality, but another thing that complicates these results is that these patients weren't just receiving ivormectin. They were also receiving other medications alongside it. So, it's hard to say how effective Ivormectin really is in these cases. At the end of the day, we just need more studies in order to say whether or not it's effective. And we certainly can't say that it's a wonder drug. I mean, don't say that, >> please. I'm just asking that they review our manuscript. >> And like we said, that takes time. Submitted manuscripts are being reviewed and more clinical trials are underway. But he knows that, which is why it's hard for me to believe that he's not here as a dramatist to sensationalize the idea that this medicine might have some effect in treating CO 19. I can't say why he's doing this, but I can say that it is utterly irresponsible. >> As you can see, Pierre's testimony wasn't about any scientific breakthrough. It was the official launch of the FLCCCC's IM Mask Plus Protocol, a cocktail of vitamins, melatonin, and Ivormectin that Pierre baselessly claimed could prevent and cure COVID. It was a marketing campaign, hence the precise sensationalism he explicitly claimed he wasn't engaging in. He said there were over 20 well-designed studies, 10 randomized, all showing dramatic benefits. That's a lie. Not embellishment, not hyperbole. It's a lie. There were zero randomized controlled trials at the time that he made that statement. Dan proved this in my video on the debate. There was no peer-reviewed research of any kind demonstrating what Pierre is claiming at the time that he gave this testimony. None. just a handful of unpublished preprints with small sample sizes and without proper randomization that didn't control for confounders like other medications taken simultaneously. And even those hinted at minor or inconsistent effects, not the sweeping 100% prevention claim he pulled out of his [\h__\h] while under oath. Not a mountain of data, not even a molehill, just a house of cards. and he made sure to sell the idea of prophylaxis or action taken to prevent disease in addition to treatment. This is because he knew that he'd make the most money by convincing people to take ivormectin every week for an indefinite period of time. And it gets worse. Independent reviews later confirmed that many of the preliminary studies Pierre was referencing were misrepresented or outright fraudulent. For example, the Egyptian Elgazar at all preprint he leaned on was retracted for concerns regarding data fabrication and plagiarism. Hm, I wonder why someone would do a thing like that. Another example, which ended up being the nail in the coffin for his math plus protocol, was his inaccurate reporting of data from Centaur Norfolk General Hospital, which called him out for misreporting hospital mortality data. This passage explains in detail how Pierre fabricated the figures he reported. So, I'll link to this retraction notice if you want to read the whole thing, plus a few other notices of retractions, corrections, and expressions of concern from major journals. Didn't think the hospital would catch you telling lies. A Pierre, this is where a normal person, temporarily led astray by delusions of grandeur, would bite the bullet, accept the loss, and quietly back away from the spotlight. But not Pierre. Now firmly committed to his new grifting lifestyle, he decided to [\h__\h] about it endlessly on the internet, acting like a complete toddler and blaming everyone else rather than taking responsibility for his lies like a [\h__\h] adult. Neverending tweets spewing jargon to try to muddy the waters and provide some kind of plausible narrative as to how everyone is wrong but him. Complete with non-stop whining about mainstream collective thinking and censorship of alternative approaches. Apart from this narrative being objectively false, since cheap generics like dexamethasone were indeed repurposed to treat COVID, the precise thing he is pretending was prevented by evil money grubbing pharma. This is just the general script a grifter uses to get the gullible masses to accept their lies over the facts that are agreed upon by every expert in the world. Look at this pathetic Twitter interaction with Andrew Hill, whose metaanalysis Pierre cited to claim Ivormectin works. Hail re-evaluated his work after studies in the meta analysis were shown to be fraudulent. So, he set the record straight. In response, Pierre throws a public tantrum, accuses a diligent researcher of being a paid shill, gets a [\h__\h] ton of likes and retweets, and what happens? Daily death threats to Andrew Hill and his entire team. This happened to healthare workers everywhere. Constant harassment, which contributed to increased healthcare worker burnout and mental health issues during the pandemic. You have earnest public health servants throwing themselves off the roof of hospitals due to the trauma of being surrounded by a sea of death. Most of which could have been prevented by vaccination once available. And the ones who stuck it out were harassed endlessly by the minions of frauds like Pierre, who capitalized on human lives to fill his own pockets. This is what the antivax cult is. They clutch their pearls about imaginary corruption that claims millions of imaginary lives while at the same time physically threatening the lives of well-intentioned medical professionals actually helping real people in the real world. The delusion and hypocrisy is off the charts. So to summarize, when the noise was stripped away from Pierre's [\h__\h] claims, systematic reviews, including Cochran in 2022 found no reliable evidence that Ivormekin prevented infection, shortened illness, or saved lives, which has since been echoed by the World Health Organization and National Institutes of Health, which only recommended use in clinical trials. The medical community being as open-minded as it is did indeed run large doubleb blind randomized controlled trials like the active six sample size of 1300 and together sample size of 1500. These studies confirmed the same result. Ivormectin offers no meaningful benefit in the context of recovery, hospitalization or death. The better and more thorough the science, the weaker the results became. Countless studies, low dose, high dose, early treatment, extended treatment, you name it. Every legitimate study showed that Ivormekin does jack [\h__\h] to treat or prevent COVID. Even Pierre's mechanistic pitch that Ivormectin kills the virus in vitro turned out to rely on lab doses more than 35 times higher than what people actually observe in blood after oral ingestion while fasting. Here's the study Pierre was flexing. Inhibits replication of the virus in vitro. than the follow-up study which shows that the concentrations with inhibitory effects were 35 times greater than the maximum plasma concentrations. That's an amount that would kill a person. And rest assured, people did overdose and die from Ivormectin. Funny how there's no outrage for those casualties, huh? So when Pierre told Congress that all studies show positive statistically significant benefits, that was a lie. He was lying like a liar. The reality is the precise opposite. From a starting point of unverifiable weak evidence, the better the trials got, the smaller the effect became until it vanished altogether. Pierre's insistence that Ivormectton obliterates transmission wasn't just totally baseless. It was reckless. And it was a claim that was made with one result in mind, profit. His testimony was a free commercial for his grift, which promptly landed him on the conspiracy podcast circuit with frauds like Brett Weinstein and gullible idiots like Joe Rogan, which Pierre milked for all their worth to launch his business hawking Ivormekin on the internet, which made him filthy rich by the time the pandemic died down. And here we are in 2025. Despite Pierre's continued insistence that Ivormectin is the bee's knees for COVID in the reality shared by professionals who care about facts, Ivormekin's obituary is official. Annals 2025, no effect on outcomes in 7,035 patients. Antibiotics 2025, no difference in viral clearance. Cochran 2025, low certainty evidence, no measurable benefit. In other words, Pierre's miracle never materialized. He calls it censorship. The rest of us call it accountability. Science didn't silence him. In fact, every jerk who claims they're being censored seems to be shouting about it on every gigantic platform they can find. Science looked at his claims and found them to be objectively false. And lying is the least of Pierre's transgressions. As we said, his relentless promotion of Ivormectin for profit contributed immeasurable harm. Let's start with the poisonings. dozens of very serious adverse reactions, including a handful of deaths, and this is limited to what was reported to one particular database. Here's a report from Oregon of five people hospitalized from Ivormectin use. Then from September 2021, we can see official reports that the doses recommended by frauds on the internet are way too high and can cause health problems. Does any of that stop the antivax cult from endangering themselves with ludicrous doses of an offlabel drug while endangering others by not getting vaccinated? Of course not. If experts say it, it must be a lie, you stupid sheep. Then let's not forget that Ivormectin is a legitimate drug with an important function as an antiparasitic. Do you think that many thousands of people getting tricked into buying it to treat COVID could result in some kind of shortage of the drug for people who actually need it for their parasitic infections? Of course it would. Increased demand caused shortages for patients with scabies and other parasites. And this disproportionately impacted vulnerable populations, the ones Pierre made a point to reference, as though he gives a [\h__\h] about any particular demographic and wasn't just white knighting for social karma points. Then don't forget all the thousands of victims who couldn't find ivormectin for people because it was in short supply. So they went with veterinary ivormectin instead. Countless simpletons flocked farm and feed supply stores, bought this stuff, and took it like it was for people, which also caused a wave of overdoses, as well as shortages for livestock that need it. FDA and CDC issued warnings about this activity, even trying their best to speak directly on the level of these morons with tweets reading, "You are not a horse. You are not a cow. Seriously, y'all, stop it." Should have been pretty relatable. No, even idiot antivaxers understand that they are not horses, right? But no, the evil government is lying again. Grab that horse paste and lather yourself up, Cletus. Poison centers were inundated with calls due to veterinary Ivormectin misuse. Many patients were hospitalized and some died. And then, most importantly, delayed care. Thousands of unvaccinated people with COVID fell for the ivormectin scam waited patiently while their condition worsened for pills to come in the mail that weren't going to help them at all. And weeks later in critical condition, finally realizing that Ivormectin doesn't do [\h__\h] against COVID, it was too late. Nobody at the hospital could help them. They gasped their last few breaths in a state of confused panic and they died. We may never know precisely how many people fit this description, but it is a huge number. Obviously, I would never suggest that anecdotal evidence is some kind of gold standard, but it's worth something. And there are countless testimonies from healthcare providers outlining the overwhelming number of cases of delayed care where people arrived at the hospital already in critical condition because they attempted to self- treat with unproven remedies like ivormectin and hydroxychloricquin. The disinformation spread by Pierre and others like him claimed a lot of lives and he has zero remorse about it because he's a grifting moneyhungry sociopath. Was there any backlash for this jerk? Of course there was. In August 2024, the American Board of Internal Medicine revoked the medical certifications of Pierre Corey and Paul Merik for spreading COVID misinformation. That's the medical community's version of a red card for fouling the facts. When you continue to tell millions that Ivormekin obliterates COVID, even after mountains of highquality evidence shows otherwise, you're not just wrong, you're lying, and you're dangerous. If you were in the ICU, intubated, critically ill, and unable to consent to anything, would you want Pierre doing experimental treatments on you for self-enrichment, treating you like an expendable statistic for his own personal gain, withholding treatments with good evidence of success because of his own [\h__\h] up agenda? Of course not. That's why Pierre isn't allowed to be a doctor anymore. Not because big pharma Rockefeller academia something something. But common sense doesn't stop frauds like Pierre from leaning even harder into their grift. After all, when mainstream science tries to cancel you, it can only be because your truth is way too truthy for them to handle. Right? Fast forward to present day and Pierre has officially gone full antivax crank. He sells books full of lies. He promotes spike detox supplements like nattokinise, the one that made Steve Kersh blind in one eye, even though Pierre denied it during our debate. He charges outrageous fees for teleaalth and vaccine injury sessions. Here's his Twitter profile, which advertises tellahalth right at the top. And here's his website with all the consultation types listed, including one for medications on hand, where he hawks his bogus products. And of course, he's now quite the public figure given his heroic fight to save the masses from evil big pharma. So he frequently speaks at events like the very recent Children's Health Defense Moment of Truth Conference. This is the propaganda organization that RFK Jr. led for 8 years on the way to becoming the world's most powerful and influential antivaxer. And he has essentially become the Pied Piper of antivax frauds at this point with virtually every grifting antivaxer on the internet getting brought into the fold. Let's check out the roster for this little PR stunt, I mean conference. There's Joseph Latapo, the Florida surgeon general who compares vaccine mandates to slavery. This is the [\h__\h] who along with Governor Ron DeSantis is in the process of repealing vaccine mandates for school children for all of Florida, which will 100% result in child deaths. Senators Ron Johnson and Rand Paul, who accused Fouchy of creating the Corona virus and being a traitor to the United States who should be jailed for life. A video about the cartoonish Fouchy fervor is coming soon. Russell Brandt, the English comedian who got caught sexually assaulting and raping everything that moves. So, he found Jesus and pivoted to conservative grifting since the right protects rapists and pedophiles, especially if they're white and Christian. I covered this douchebag in one of my Terry videos, so watch that for some laughs. Suzanne Humphre, the fraud who appeared on Joe Rogan pushing medical history misinformation, claiming vaccines are harmful and useless and that polio isn't even a real virus. She will probably get her own video at some point. Dell Bigtree, full-time conspiracy broadcaster and general pile of human excrement, who is the CEO of antivax group IN, and who produced the garbage pseudo documentary Vaxed based on Andrew Wakefield's [\h__\h] Speaking of whom, Andrew Wakefield is there, too. The disgraced former doctor behind the fake MMR autism link based on one fraudulent retracted study, which required that he physically abused children. A non-existent link that will never die no matter how many times it's debunked. I've done that twice myself and people still worship this worthless criminal. Peter McCulla, the one who pushes the spike protein detox supplements we talked about that made Steve Kersh go blind in one eye and who is behind the recent weaponization of predatory journals to try and bring fringe claims into the mainstream. His video is coming soon. Brett Weinstein, the pointless podcaster who pretends to be a scientific genius that I've debunked to smithetherreens in several videos along with his idiot brother Eric. both of whom are on the Peter Teal payroll. Let's not forget RFK's wife, Cheryl, who is there for some reason. It's a star-studded affair. Pierre didn't get top billing, surprisingly, so he's down here without a picture. And even little Stevie Kersh is in the fine print at the bottom. His set must be in the Sahara tent or something. Neither of these jerks are mainstage material. Honestly, I'm shocked Joe Rogan isn't on here since he lives in Austin and he would give them some great promo. Anyway, as you can see, Pierre has no interest in maintaining the company of legitimate doctors and scientists anymore. He's surrounded by podcasters and get-richquick conspiracy entrepreneurs, and this setting fits him like a glove. There's almost nothing too stupid for Pierre to amplify at this point since his legitimate career is long behind him. He reposts dog [\h__\h] takes like this crap from Steve Kersh, claiming that vaccines make you gay and trans. Surveys are awesome, right? I wonder if he saw my recent work exposing all the cases of vaccine induced turbo penis, also via anonymous survey. Here's a post where he says, "Native Americans are saying the quiet part out loud that COVID vaccines are biological weapons of mass destruction, and they would know best, right? They don't need medical knowledge. They're natural healing wizards with magic powers. Don't listen to every doctor in the world. Listen to Leaping Ram." And why not return to his idiotic claims that those kids who died of measles didn't really die of measles? Claims like this can be found on all the ALT health propaganda websites. Texas girl died from a hospitalacquired superbug, not measles. The hospital killed her, you guys. Measles isn't even real. In our debate, he went on a long rant where he pretended to have been officially tasked with finding the cause of death for these kids. Though upon interrogation, he admitted that he just scoured for medical records and made up his own [\h__\h] conclusion. He whined about antibiotics being stopped early in her second hospital stay while simultaneously acknowledging that the pneumonia was antibiotic resistant, which would make the antibiotics useless and deliver nothing but unwanted side effects. He whined about several other particulars in protocol. Who knows which aspects are even true? But the main point remains that pneumonia was contracted because of a weakened immune system due to measles infection since measles infects memory B and T cells and destroys antibodies, including the ones that protect against bacterial pathogens. If she had gotten the MMR vaccine, she would not have gotten the measles. She wouldn't have had her immune system ravaged. She would never have been admitted to the hospital, so she would not have gotten pneumonia, and she would not have died. The child in question would still be alive if she had been vaccinated. And yet, the propaganda campaign against safe and effective vaccines rages on. What are the consequences? More measles outbreaks. There's one happening right now in Utah. Dozens of cases. Arizona, too. Numerous hospitalizations, primarily children, all unvaccinated. No deaths yet, but if the MAGA minions get their way in Florida, plenty of deaths are coming. And if other states follow suit, we will have an enormous problem on our hands. Anybody who willingly allows children to die should be in jail for life. And one day, there will be retribution for all these worthless piles of human filth. So that's what's left of Pierre Corey. Stripped of his credentials, he can't refer to himself as a doctor anymore. So he's been recast as a victim of big pharma censorship and a hero in the conspiracy zeitgeist. a small group of vicious, persistent grifters that have infected millions of people with a mind virus that renders them incapable of seeing their heroes for the lying frauds they truly are. These are hypocrites like Pierre, a former ICU physician who knows precisely what these diseases can do and why we need to prevent them from ever returning by rigorously vaccinating to achieve her immunity. This is an infant with ptasus. This is what hooping cough looks like. Okay, that's okay. Okay, take a honey. Come on. Almost there. There we go. It's okay. This is what Pierre wants to see more of. He wants thousands of children to die of preventable illnesses by fear-mongering about the entire vaccine schedule so that our ability to prevent them is eroded only to then push treatments that don't do a [\h__\h] thing. About 160,000 children die of pertasus each year, though typically only 10 or so in the US because we have DTAP vaccines. But when people stop vaccinating their children, these diseases come back. Pierre knows the social cost of claiming that literally all vaccines are harmful. An insane generalization that he made emphatically right at the top of our debate. How is it that we're always fixating on the COVID vaccine and then all of these people here that are supporting you are just magically against all vaccines? Right. If you're not antivaxers, how did that happen? Exactly. >> I'll help. Yeah, it's all of them. Keep going. >> Huh? >> It's all of them. Keep going. >> Okay. So, he admits it. Okay. So, you are just against all vaccines. >> Yeah. >> But he says it anyway because it suits his interests. Pierre overstates data or fabricates it, refuses to admit fault when exposed, and just monetizes the outrage. When all the double blind randomized controlled trials prove him wrong, and Ivormectton's miraculous abilities evaporate into thin air, all that's left is the grift. books, tellaalth, sketchy podcast appearances, and pseudo conference circuits that sell validation to the gullible people who were never interested in reality in the first place. Let's wrap things up by getting some commentary from a few professionals. First, let's talk to Gideon Meyer of its cats. He's a senior research fellow in epidemiology at the University of Wallingong in Sydney, Australia, who has quite a bit to say about the COVID pandemic and ivormectin in particular. In fact, he has authored research regarding the efficacy of Ivormekin, specifically examining the effects of medical fraud on how this data is reported. So, his expertise will be quite welcome here. Gideon, thanks so much for joining us. Uh, I'm pretty eager to get uh the benefit of some of your expertise here. I know that you have a number of publications uh addressing the efficacy of of Ivormectin against COVID, but also you've done a lot of work addressing retractions, corrections, fraudulent studies as they pertain to ivormectin. So, I'd love to just turn it over to you to talk about all of that um in whatever capacity you think would be useful. >> Yeah, sure. I mean, so my main job is I'm an epidemiologist. I've been doing that for quite a long time now. Um, my side gig I like to call it or one of the things that I do is look into we call it unreliable research. Unreliable research is a broad term and it kind of relates to studies that are made unreliable for a variety of reasons. And the reason we say unreliable is because someone like myself who's reading a study or looking at the data cannot necessarily say with any certainty what happened. You know, you're we're not following people with cameras. Um but we we can say for sure that that study uh didn't happen as it was described or there are significant errors that get in the way of us using that as evidence. Um I've personally been responsible for retraction retracting somewhere in the region of 100 studies um uh so far. Um, and not all of those or a a substantial minority of those were definitely not fraudulent, but in many cases the authors didn't do what they said they did in the paper. >> Um, so there's there was one case where I was involved in a study um where it was very obvious that the uh randomization had completely failed and the authors had described it as a randomized study. had been published as a randomized study, but you could very easily tell from the uh baseline characteristics of both of the groups of of these randomized groups that they were not randomly allocated. And the authors admitted very quickly when the journal puts them that in fact they hadn't randomized the groups and so the journal decided to retract. Um the author said that was unfair at the time, but you know this is this is how it goes. >> Yeah. Um so when I I did a lot less of this actually before the pandemic um because I was very naive to the possibility that that science could be baked or could be significantly problematic. I had a great deal of trust in the peerreview system. Uh but when the p pandemic came around um I saw quite a lot of this. I was involved if you if you've heard about Sergeisphere. >> Uh yes, >> I was involved to some extent in the uh uncovering the fraud there. Um the Sergio Sphere was this company that claimed to have this huge database of hospital records and also claimed that hydroxychloroquin was killing people and they published several very big papers in in the Lancet in the New England Journal of Medicine. And what in in one of the papers they said they had data from Australia and I'm Australian and I looked at that data and I said that's not possible. We don't have that many cases of COVID in hospital in Australia. Um so that they can't have that data and I sent that to a journalist who then investigated the company and that led to >> um the whole scam falling apart. >> So what was the in that particular case? Ah, look, I think in most cases that I've come across, it's hard to know precisely what the authors are thinking, but the most likely motivation for people to do stuff like this is um career advancement. Um, publishing a journal uh any paper that you publish in the New England Journal of Medicine will basically guarantee a successful academic career. Mhm. >> Um, having a paper in the New England Journal of Medicine and the Lancet and another one coming in the BMJ puts you at like the top tier of researchers in America. >> And if it's a bombshell, a highly publicized something that's very highly relevant to public health that that goes that way because it's interesting. Obviously, uh, fraudulent studies that would indicate efficacy of a particular drug. I understand the financial motivation there, but yeah, you're just saying just generally any any interesting research that will put you on a headline, there's a motivation there. >> So, an interesting point um and I think this is commonly misunderstood. I would say the vast majority of fraud currently is not for financial motivation and certainly not in the pharmaceutical in in studies run by pharmaceutical companies. And the reason for that is not because pharmaceutical companies are good or because um you know there's any lack of motivation. It's just because they're very very highly regulated. If you have someone looking over your shoulder at your data and you have to give all of your information to an independent statistician who's not paid by your company, uh you cannot allow there to be any fraud because the second there is even a suggestion that you've you've done anything incorrect, um they'll audit your company and they'll find every mistake you've ever made and that'll be terrible. Um, so I think the FDA requiring pharmaceutical companies to provide them data really limits or limited the amount of fraud that um the industry got away with. Now that the FDA is being gutted, I I wonder if it's going to start skyrocketing in the future. >> Yeah. >> Anyway, but the the vast majority of misconduct that I have personally seen is not does not appear to have a straightforward financial motivation. Like the researchers don't own a drug company producing this drug. Most of the time it's people who've uh confected results simply and it appears to be simply to get citations to to build up an academic career. >> So how how would you characterize very early research regarding Ivormectton that Pierre Corey was referencing? Obviously we know now that there were no RCTs but there he was he was basing his rhetoric on something. Would you regard that research as misled or poorly done or specifically fraudulent or what was retracted? What was corrected? Let's talk about sort of that early phase. >> Sure. So, this is a fascinating question. I have to say uh I haven't spoken about ivormectin much in years. Hasn't really been an issue and I understand it's becoming more of an issue in in America because of the current administration. So, it's it's very interesting to be asked about all this again. >> Yeah. The very earliest so the very earliest Ivormectin fraud was Sergeisphere I referenced earlier. It was this fake company. They claimed to have uh hundreds or thousands of hospitals across the world and they faked a paper that they published on the um Lancet preprint server or well it's SSRN social studies research network. It's now owned by the Lancet. It wasn't originally their preprint server and they faked a paper saying that Ivamekin worked incredibly well. Um that paper was based on some preclinical work done in Australia um showing that very very high doses of ivormectin killed COVID 19. >> Mhm. >> Um so the idea and and that paper to be clear that paper had serious impact. There are news stories from um from mid 2020 talking about how when that that paper on SSRN when they deleted it from the server and it was retracted there had already been governments so I think the government of Peru based their policy decisions on that paper by Sergosphere. So a lot of the follow on came directly from this fraud. A lot of the reason why we are even talking about ivormect, not all of it, because ivormectin was always a popular choice for people to sort of focus on. It's an incredibly safe drug and it works really really well for the thing that it works for, which is killing um parasites. >> Yeah, it's it's an incredibly effective, incredibly safe drug that's literally all but eliminated several diseases from humanity. Um but and there was some preclinical work that showed that it might help with COVID maybe. So there was always going to be some focus on ivormectin but I think that the massive international uh concept that the the fact that you've got these hundreds or millions of people looking into it is because of that fraudulent surgere paper that we know just completely fake. And then what happened was you you got a series of these papers mostly published on preprint servers um that appeared to then show I would call them uh I don't know the best word monumental benefits for ivormectin. So uh when Pierre Corey so I I don't know what specific quote you're referencing there but when Dr. Cory was talking to I think it was the US Congress or some someone in the US government in November 2020. Yeah. >> Uh and called it a perfect medicine. There's that quote that went viral online. >> Yeah. Miraculous. >> Um he >> Yeah. Miraculous. Right. He was specifically uh referring to um a group of studies that had that had been published online mostly on preprint service at that point. uh as well as some of this sort of uh less robust evidence such as the um fraudulent surges for study. I think there was also uh at that point there was a business consultant who who' done like an MBA who had done what he called a multi-country analysis or something and posted it online. And so I assume I I don't know precisely what what um Pakori was referring to in the moment, but I assume it was it was a collation of that sort of evidence. >> Yeah, it's it's hard it's hard to imagine what percentage of that was specifically queuing up this ivormectin industry, right? Uh as opposed to just sort of bad science, generally bad science, you know, it perhaps we'll never know. Um personally myself I have always assumed good faith in people because it's I it's rare that people um who promote medications even people who own drug companies it's rare that they think that they are solely in it for the money maybe you know in the back of their mind but you you look at interviews with FISA's CEO and FISA has regardless of how fantastic the vaccine is and was uh they have profitered enormously from the pandemic. and and done some things that they should be ashamed of. Um, and the CEO is passionate, very earnest, passionate, saying he's saving lives in every interview. And so I think most people see themselves as the heroes of their own stories. And that's the way we should probably assume they behave. >> Well, and they did save lives. And then they maybe do other things that are bad. But I think that people at that level uh have an ability to appear earnest uh maybe when they're not entirely. I don't know. So I I don't want to speculate on him in particular >> anyway. Yeah. So I I don't I don't think I'm I'm not going to comment on the reasons for uh people's behavior. Um but so to to go back to the research, right? What happened was um I saw a bunch of this research popping up late 2020. I saw the the viral meme and I thought that that seems a bit silly. These studies are bad. You can tell that they're bad just by a quick look. You know, there was a study by a guy called Hector Carvayo in Argentina. Um, at that point wasn't looking into misconduct or any sort of unreliability. I just looked at the the paper posted online and it was a very obviously um predatory journal. And the study didn't make sense. A lot of the writing in it was just bizarre. And I said, "No one who has ever done a scientific degree would believe that this is a real that this is worth basing their opinions on." >> And then we fast forward to June July 2021. Ivame is going mega viral um or even May 2021 I think it might have been. um and a uh master's student called Jack in the UK, he was uh doing his master's degree and he looked at a study, one of the the biggest study at that point. So 600 person RCT that had been posted on a preprint server called uh research. Oh no, I can't even remember the name of the preprint server now. I apologize, but it was a study by a man called Muhammad Al Gazar and his team and Jack noticed that the paper had a bunch of plagiarism in it and it was fairly obvious plagiarism particularly in the methods. That's really bad because you don't if you've plagiarized your methods, it calls into question whether you actually did the things that you say you did in your methods. >> And the plagiarism was not concealed. basically the entire introduction, the entire methods, large parts of the discussion had just been copied from previous pieces of research that were publicly available online. And so he sent um and then the next thing Jack did was he he went to look at the data for the study because it said the data is available online by request. And it the data for this study was available on a link. If you go to this website, it was this super dodgy website. uh if you clicked to the link there were a million ads and it said here's the data you need a password to download this data so you have to ask the lead researcher to get the data but then underneath that was a button that said if you pay $10 to our company you can download the data even without the permission of the lead researcher uh not a great idea to do that if you're the researcher in question so Jack did it and he downloaded the data the password the pass the Excel spreadsheet was password protected but the password was 1 2 3 4 um and So he also had access to data. And so she sent all this information to Nick Brown who's a very probably the leading I would say leading expert in um scientific error detection and fraud analysis in the world. He also sent it to me. Um, I don't know why he sent it to me because I'm much less uh I was m certainly at that point much less experienced than Nick >> anyway and asked us what we >> sorry >> but vocal online so I think you can be traced to various Twitter threads and view >> yeah probably because of Twitter. Yeah. Anyway, uh he sent it to both of us and we we we had a look and I went and I downloaded the data sheet separately myself um as did Nick. You know, you pay $10 and get the data yourself just to be thorough. Uh and that data sheet was very clearly fake. Um >> we posted all the details publicly online at the time but that's speci specifically the data sheet uh it had patients who had been include who died before the study started. It had multiple repeating patients had all sorts of characteristics that were not um consistent with real patient data. And so long story short the study was retracted. It was definitely the um most I would say the the most obvious case of unreliability that I've I've worked on. Maybe not the most obvious but one of the most obvious uh because it had everything you know it had um had plagiarism. It had impossibilities in the publication alone and then it had a data spreadsheet which was very very fake. >> Mhm. um or or rather I shouldn'TNE fake is is a complicated word I would say it was not consistent with a study done on real people and certainly not consistent with the study that they reported having done >> and that was the biggest study at the time so 600 people the only large the only study above 200 people at the time and it was complete nonsense and you remove that one study uh so at the time um Dr. Cory and a group of his colleagues had published a systematic review of metaanalysis looking at ivormectin. You remove that one study from the equation and suddenly the picture dramatically changed. Instead of this huge benefit, you're looking at a much smaller benefit that was either not statistically significant or just barely statistically significant depending on how you analyze the data. And that made a big difference. And because of this study, then myself, Nick Brown, James Heathers, who's and Kyle Sheldrickch, who are another two people who work in the fraud and integrity space, and Jack, we all went and we looked uh at all of the Ivan Mex research that had been published at that point. And suffice to say, uh, it was riddled with similar studies. Few that were as obvious, but riddled with similarly problematic research. >> Yeah. It makes you wonder how this research came to be in the first place. those that stand to profit from selling Ivormectin possibly could have been involved in uh you know uh making this happen having something to point to and uh that's you know >> again I don't think so personally my personal opinion is that the people who are currently benefiting from Ivormectin >> yeah um I mean there there were a couple of examples where you could argue that there was some financial conflict of interest um there's a company called Medin cell that um in during COVID they had a proprietary ivormectin formula. They had a long acting injectable form of ivormectin that they were trying to sell and they did a study that uh they claimed shows massive showed massive benefits. Um that's a odd story because they published that or they never published the study. The only information on the study was a poster that they put online in 2023 after ivormectin had stopped being a concern and they've never fully published the results and they no longer sell that product. So, who knows what happened to Medinel, but broadly speaking, I don't think anyone who's currently profiting off the ivormectin stuff um in any way was motivated. And most of the people who ran these studies back in 2020 and 2021 had no financial conflict of interest whatsoever. >> Mhm. No, I believe that certainly. But then you get to a point where claims are made. Let's talk about Pierre in particular because this video that this interview is going in is about Pierre. But um you know this is he's had the benefit of three almost four years now to reflect on all of this. All this information is very available. the work that you've done that a number of other researchers have done to demonstrate the fraudulence of all these studies, the studies that he himself propped up in order to substantiate his claims about about Ivormectin as this miracle drug and everything. Um why why the inability to admit fault? Why the inability to go, you know what, we jumped the gun and I got a little overexuberant and uh and then uh and and just in the context of how much money how much he has truly profited off of selling Ivormectton, not through bureaucratic means, but just on the internet, you know, um as a as a as a thing on the side, you know, an informal marketplace. Um, what is your impression of Pierre, the guy he is, the statements he's made about Ivormect, about saying all vaccines are bad, literally all of them. He said that in my in debate against him. That was the first thing he said. What do you think of Pierre? Honestly, I have no strong opinions about Pierre Corey. Uh, he has said some very nasty things about me online. I think his he's regularly claimed that I'm funded entirely by the pharmaceutical industry, >> which is not true. I've never received any pharmaceutical funding uh in my career. In fact, of the four the five people who worked on those studies, I don't believe any of us have ever received any pharmaceutical industry funding uh because it would bias our work. >> It's sort of a copout, right? That's just a way of of dis of of getting people to reject anything you say without taking the responsibility of uh of actually addressing what you're saying. Right. You you've shown very like you've told me very specific things about how these studies are fraudulent. Right. The >> or unre or unreliable. Not all of them are fraudulent. >> Sure. Unreliable. Yeah. Done. Done poorly or with, you know, with ill intent. One or the other. But um you know the it's a way to just paint with a broad brush and say uh you know disregard these people disregard them pharma bad this is pharma man so he's a bad man uh without looking at the data sets and you've made you've said very specific things about how the data you know is fraudulent in that one particular case. So um yeah, you you cannot really conclude anything other than um I mean you you cannot conclude anything other than bad faith uh from a character like that. So look I I mean as I said I have no strong opinions or I I haven't thought about um Pierre uh since I last watched a someone sent me a snippet of a video in which uh he implied that I was being paid by the pharmaceutical industry. I think that was in 2020. Gosh, 2022. Since then, I genuinely have not once thought about the man. Uh I haven't really, as I said when we started talking, I haven't really thought about Ivamekin in years. >> Um it's a fantastically effective drug for a for a small number of diseases and doesn't really work for anything else. Um, and I also but I also think um it's useful to to understand that none of this requires that people um none of these problems require that people are acting in bad faith. So all of the there are I I even regardless of of what you think about Pierre um I would say there are absolutely people who believe that Ivamekin works who are 100% good faith actors uh and they have just been conned essentially by tricksters and and and frauds >> um because if you approach all of these studies with a sort of uh firm belief that no one would ever try to trick you, then you are very easy to fool. >> Yeah. >> And also a deep misunderstanding of how scientific research should work. >> Sure. I think you know if you're if you have I don't mean to be mean to to non medical researchers but let's say you had a a very intelligent physicist who who went after this problem um in a in a good faith manner they might conclude that Ivamekin works because they're not um familiar with medical research. Mhm. Yeah, of course. Yeah, you a different field. But um yeah, I guess we're we're uncovering sort of the the the difference in in the sphere of focus of a of a researcher, an epidemiologist versus a science communicator. I think about people like Pierre every day. So I sometimes envy u you you can sort of just go, well, this guy doesn't matter. >> I just don't talk about I don't talk about uh people's uh intentions. I'm not here to litigate anyone's intentions that because I don't think I think people do things for many different reasons and sometimes >> sometimes those are monetary but sometimes they're not. >> Well, I'm here to elucidate intentions. So, I'll do that on behalf of you. You don't have to do it. You don't have to uh impose yourself. So, let's pivot just I have one more question because uh you know you are an epidemiologist. You live in a in Australia. I was curious as to any thoughts you had regarding the differences between Australia and America in terms of COVID response, vaccine hesitancy, discrepancy in the types of mandates that were implemented. Just an just a broad impression of uh pandemic Australia versus America. What do you think? >> Um ah yes, just an easy quick three or four hour response. Is that what you're looking for? Yeah, >> I think the um you know Australia and America are very different countries. And to answer that question, I think it's important to talk about countries being different. And I think broadly speaking, the thing that people often miss when they discuss um what we should have done um when COVID came is that what we should have done was highly locally specific. And so you you can't easily compare different countries. So like Australia, right, we've got nine states and territories. America has 50 states and a wide number of territories. um we had a very cohesive response because there were only nine people in the room when they were having those discussions. You know, you have or 10 people, the prime minister and then the heads of state, >> heads of each state. And in Australia, the heads of the state are it's a much more um powerful position, at least within that state, because in America, you have a governor, you have a state uh legislature, which often includes two two houses. And so there's a very wide pyramid of people you have to you have to sort of work with when you're trying to implement things from stateto state. In in Australia, you've got a state premier who basically governs most of those decisions. So I think Australia had a not uniquely but uh globally very uh unusually cohesive response because we were one of the biggest countries that that was not an authoritarian state um that managed to have such a cohesive and and consistent response over the two years. Um and I personally think that if you look globally, the biggest thing that uh that led to pandemic success um at a national level was not the specific policies that individual countries um went after. It was how cohesive and how uh consistent their responses were. And yes, I mean, so Sweden, the the classic discussion is Sweden versus the their closest neighbors. Did Sweden do better or worse than Norway and Denmark? And I think if you look at the responses from Sweden and the responses from Norway, Denmark, Iceland, Finland, they were more similar than they were different. >> Um, and that's probably because culturally those countries are almost identical. You know, they have great deal of similarity. People talk about how Sweden never did lockdowns, Denmark did lockdowns, Denmark's lockdowns were very different to the lockdowns in in America and the UK and Spain. uh and I would uh when I was talking to my friend who lives in Denmark in 2021, I would hazard a guess that no people living in the UK would not recognize sort of life in Denmark as sort of as pandemic life at the time. So um >> Sweden had a second wave and they did implement some kind of mandates because uh yeah the second wave was worse than >> again it's it's also complicated because when Sweden uh Sweden's response Sweden has a very very high trust in government so many of their measures when they re recommendations from the government were adopted more widely than United States mandates. >> Right. >> Yeah. >> And the same with Japan. So actually Japan is a wonderful example. In Japan they never implemented a mask mandate. Yeah. Um, Americans are like insulent pre-teens. They'll just like do the opposite of what the government tells them to do. >> America, Brazil, lots of countries have have a deep mistrust of the government. But yeah, so Japan, right, they they never told their citizen, they never find anyone for not wearing a mask. No one was ever put in prison for not wearing a mask. And yet they had close to 100% mask compliance. I went there at the beginning of 2023 and maskearing was still nearly ubiquitous in every public setting. And the reason for that is because if you didn't wear a mask, every single person on the street would look at you like you were insane and you would get old women like swearing at you and crossing the street to avoid you. >> Well, Asia had had a lot of maskearing for quite some time because there was another uh what was the other pandemic? The uh the the first SARS >> SARS one was >> one um and and other they just generally have been more >> aware of communicable diseases. I think uh over there. So it wasn't as weird. We were Americans were not used to wearing masks. >> I think that's part of it, but I also just think it was a cultural difference in that if the government in Japan says people should probably wear masks, every single person in the country puts on a mask. >> That's right. If if the government in the if the CDC posts online that Americans should wear masks, you know, a third of the country will burn masks in their front yard just to show that they're not obeying what the >> not which is like insane because it's like I understand that the American government is awful and I understand that we have this just the our foreign policy and we do horrible horrible things, but it has nothing to do with hey maybe cover up your face where the viruses come out of and go to you what I mean like it's just I don't know it's it's people are unable to like compartmentalize aspects of government um which is frustrating you know >> yeah and I think there's also something that happened in America which has happened to an extent in most most of the places in the world but was much much bigger in the United States was the politicization of >> science uh there is no other country that I'm aware of in the world where vaccine hesitance is almost entirely uh predicated on political party. >> Yes. >> You know, in Australia, the right-wing group is slightly more vaccine hesitant than the leftwing group, but both of the major parties are ve 100% on the same page, aside from, you know, the occasional weirdo >> about vaccines. >> Yeah, America is unique. Uh trying my best to help depoliticize science. Um, yeah, that that's about all I wanted to talk about. I guess just to close, is there any thing in particular that you wish the general public understood about epidemiology or or what epidemiologists do in particular? Anything like that? >> Honestly, not really. Most of my job is boring. I I call myself a doctor of spreadsheets because most of the time that's I'm doing some sort of statistical analysis. >> Sure. Um I guess when it comes to Ivamekin, one thing I did wish the general public understood is that Ivamekin is a fantastic medication and if your doctor prescribes you Ivamekin um if it's for the right indication, it's a you should probably take it. There is still I think it was very unfortunate that the um >> sort of backlash against the ivamein turned into its own form of pseudocience. >> Sure. >> There are still people when I post about ivormectin online today, there are still people who who told me ask me why I'm >> Yeah, exactly. But actually it almost eliminated river blindness from the world which was a horrifying disease. >> Yeah, there's nothing wrong for good reason when used as indicated uh for parasites. Yeah. >> And it is genuinely one of the safest drugs that we've ever come across. You know, we um in in 2009 to 2015, the World Health Organization had this amazing program where they gave hundreds I think over a billion doses of the drug to over billion people, not doses. So over a billion people got doses of the drug to to treat uh river blindness and and it almost eliminated this horrible disease from the world. It still happens because there's an animal reservoir. But amazing thing. Yeah. And enormously safe. Very very few adverse events. Uh but if you give it in the correct dosage if you take >> that's not so great. people took veterinary doses and there were a handful of of deaths uh from ivormectin o overdose. So, but that's the fault of disinformation and people using it not not in in inappropriate ways. That's the danger of somebody like Pierre Corey or Simone Gold or these other figures that take things out of the traditional health care system and just start selling things online uh or or encouraging people to go to where you know where people get Ivormectin for livestock and take that and then consume that or apply that topically or whatever. Um it's just crazy. It's just absolutely >> I mean honestly ivormectin is so safe that if unless you take entire tubes of livestock medication, you're still probably not going to be at the sort of dangerous level. The people who've died from overdoses are taking truly like an entire tube of horse medication a day. >> Sure, >> that that will kill you. But if you if you take a tube of force medication over three weeks, uh you will probably have some vision issues uh because it does cause um visual processing problems, but it's very unlikely that that would cause severe long-lasting health problems because it's so safe. But yes, >> it's a shame that we had to find out what that did to anybody in the first place because humans should not have been using it. So yeah. >> Yeah. Yeah. You shouldn't use it's ideally you should only use doses uh for specific parasitic diseases and you should use the doses prescribed that are indicated which is a very low dose. >> Yeah. >> Compared to what some people are recommending for CO. >> Yeah. And now that the pandemic is over, they're pivoting and saying it treats cancer, it treats this, it treats that. Um the grift the grift goes on. So yeah, >> I haven't looked in any detail at the cancer claims uh but I have looked at some of the pre-clinical work and it's very unimpressive uh and there have been no RCTs that I am aware of looking at the cancer. So I would say currently uh it's very unlikely that Ivamaxin works for cancer uh but we don't have sufficient data to make a definitive conclusion. >> Well maybe we'll circle back for a part two >> one day. >> Yeah. Anyway, >> I haven't seen any fraud. So that's a bit different to co. >> Oh yeah. Uh this was very elucidating. Uh yeah, thanks very much for your time and your insight. >> Thanks Gideon. Now let's talk to Greg Tucker Kellogg, professor of biology at the National University of Singapore. He's done some work exposing bogus publications regarding Ivormectin as well. Let's get the full story. >> Greg, thanks so much for joining us. Uh eager to talk to you here about uh your perspective with regards to Pierre and some other topics. Uh just to start, you've worked in industry, you've worked in academia, so you have a lot of perspective here on on how research is conducted. What do you make of Pierre's narrative, the way he presents himself as this persecuted truthtelling medical warrior? Does it hold any water? What what's your perspective here? Well, so if uh so he's uh yeah, he he has this perspective of this this uh sort of persecuted this sort of righteous uh person who's a bit contrarian and he's had that for a while. He had that before CO and I think CO was I suspect something of an opportunity to um kind of lean into that role. Uh so he had it before with his mentor uh Paul Merrick um on some protocols related to treatment of sepsis, acute um treatment of sepsis and then he really really leaned into it with uh with COVID uh it just fit I think who he wanted to be what the kind of uh public figure that he wanted to he wanted to represent. >> Mhm. Yeah. I like that you that you call it an opportunity. I I see it that way as well. Um what do you make of his rhetoric in terms of like I think that many people would maybe give him a pass on possibly presenting Ivormectin as a possible treatment for COVID. Maybe not the emphatic manner in which he uh overstated the potential. But since then, since December 2020, all of the research that's rolled in, have you stayed on top of his rhetoric? >> Oh, yeah. Yeah. >> Yeah. >> Tell us about Yeah. So, so you have to go back right to early 2020 when the first uh the first paper, it was an in vitro paper on ivormectton came out from Kylie Wagstaff's group in Australia and that was an in vitro paper and you know people were excited about it. There was a lot of work on trying to identify repurposed drugs uh and there was interest in a lot of these. They were pursued quite seriously. So people took them seriously in that sense. He wasn't alone in taking them seriously early on. However, uh once the evidence started coming in, the evidence was uh both the the empirical evidence just in the efficacy and so on and and in better in vitro studies uh didn't hold up. Uh the clinical evidence when it came in eventually didn't hold up. Uh, and none of that stopped Corey. Uh, so Corey got on this bandwagon very, very early, started referring to Ivormectin as a miracle drug very, very early and he just really stuck with it. It became, you know, just part of his um, his message of who he was. And it was actually how I wound up getting dragged into this whole thing in the first place because somebody I knew was listening to him. So, somebody I knew here in Singapore uh had reached out to me, somebody without a scientific background or medical background had reached out to me to ask me if I could help them understand this drug. And um and they were also concerned about vaccines and this was in late 2020. They asked me to help them understand this. They said, "There's this guy Pierre Corey who's been talking about this. He had just given his testimony and there was there were some groups, you know, online groups, Telegram groups, things like that that were talking about this and they were very worried about vaccines and uh she asked me to help her understand what that situation was. And I I'd known this person for a long time and we ended up having a conversation and I ended up going kind of more deeply into all of that rhetoric. We had a conversation for about it, this was I guess November of 2020 and we had that conversation for about 9 months. >> Uh and eventually in late 2021 uh she decided to go ahead and get a vaccine. >> Mhm. And then at that point, uh, she and her husband invited me over for dinner and I said, I, uh, I, I was great. I had never met her husband before. And I wasn't sure where he was on this at all. And I went over to their house. He met me at the door. I wasn't sure what to expect. And he said, "I want to thank you for, you know, like getting my wife back to reality and, you know, possibly saving our marriage." And it was uh it was really meaningful to me, but it was also I was it was really frustrating because it was Corey's rhetoric was really responsible for for this rabbit hole that a well-meaning person had gone down. Right. It's interesting that uh she wouldn't listen to her spouse. Uh I don't know what the what the educational background is of her spouse, but um >> she wanted somebody with a scientific >> Sure, that makes sense. >> Somebody who could really talk about those things. >> Yeah. I mean I mean I you know these people like Pierre are persuasive. So I don't fault people for falling for it because he does have a medical background and he does you know come off very confident. Um, but good on her for listening to you and and and uh and listening to you for an extended period of time, then eventually making the right decision. If only we could say the same for everybody, especially uh Americans. Um, I don't think we'd be in quite the situation that we're in in terms of this administration and Bobby Kennedy and everything. Uh, that's just going down the toilet now. But, um, speaking of the pandemic in general, I mean, so so for my viewers, you you're in Singapore. You've been there for quite a long time. So, you were in Singapore for the pandemic. What was that like over there? What are the Not that you were living in America, but I'm sure on the news you you know you could get a sense of what it was like here. Can you contrast those and and and comment about it? >> Sure. Well, Singapore is a small country. It's a city state, right? And uh it's extremely efficiently run uh and and they did a fantastic job. They were uh they were very uh they were very clear and specific about uh what they called tracing and tracking early on about contact tracing. Um of course they had restrictions. They had non-farmaceutical interventions. They did have a lockdown uh that began in April. uh and uh but they did an incredible job of managing all of the uh the aspects of the of the the pandemic and public understanding of the pandemic, education, uh you know, the kinds of of of changes that people needed to make in lifestyle and so on. They handled all of that really well before the vaccines were available. And then when the vaccines were available, they did just an just a bang-up job. Like it's I couldn't ask for anything better in terms of managing the vaccine roll out. >> Um so to this day, I can I can look on my phone and get a uh get the schedule like when did I get my vaccines, where did I get them? It has down to the lot number. I can get that information. >> Um and it was done nationwide. They were rolled out in by age groups um and free and just fantastic job. >> Absolutely fantastic job. >> Is is there is there some antivaccine rhetoric in Singapore or in Asia in general? Just not a lot of it or what does that look like? >> Yeah, so there is there's quite a bit in uh in neighboring countries. Um, so there's uh uh there's quite a bit in there is uh quite a bit in Singapore. There was a group in Singapore, the antivax group. That was what my my friend where the she heard the rhetoric. >> Mhm. Um uh there there was actually there was a a trial recently of um uh of some people involved in uh basically get I mean the I don't want to go so much into the details in in the sort of Singapore legal context but basically somebody who was uh involved in some folks who were involved in um uh kind of getting people to take uh to to appear to have taken the vaccines basically without actually having taken the vaccine. >> Okay. >> Um uh and uh that came out um there's also quite a bit in neighboring countries. So one of the larger trials of ivormectin uh was done in Malaysia. Uh and that trial of Ivormectin was done in part in response to some of the uh antivaccine um uh you know the communities in in Malaysia that were antivaccine and you know the antivaccine and pro ivormectin folks are pretty much joined at the hip. >> Mhm. >> Uh and this was a trial that was put together by concerned physicians and researchers in Malaysia. Um and they ran a really nice trial and like all of the other good trials on ivormectin uh didn't show a benefit a clinical benefit. So yeah. >> And did anyone find that persuasive or were they ready with uh pharma shills are lying? Uh >> so they of course they were they were ready with the same pharmaceills are lying but but this one it wasn't a pharma sponsored trial at all. It was >> oh that doesn't stop them from making that accusation. Right. Pharma bought the bought the results, >> right? >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Uh, of course, the people who are convinced about the Ivormectin story are not going to be uh they're not going to change their view. Um, because it's really it's such a they become so passionate about it. It's beyond really any form of reason. >> Um, I I don't mean that as you know, it's just the the the rhetoric is so strong. Um the reason is almost beside the point um at that point you know >> yeah it's there's a market hypocrisy to it too because with ivormectin in particular I find it hilarious that it's almost certainly the case that more people died of ivormectin overdose than of co vaccines. Um there's only about 10 confirmed vaccine deaths and you know a few dozen I think of ivormectin but there's no outrage there right they they don't want to talk about that or acknowledge that. Um >> so >> I think it's um there's another irony here which is the idea that Ivormectin in particular has been is represents this this great opportunity uh and but they can't make money on it but Merc which uh developed Ivormectin has never really made money on it for humans because they just give it away >> you know and they've always given away they even did the clinical trials knowing that they were going to give it away, >> right? And I mean, not that they're like what, you know, it makes the stock go up or what, you know, it's not like they're they're just it's pure charity, but like it's true. It was never a money maker. And um I don't know but but I and I had to say this in in the debate to Pierre's face as well just that the whole the whole narrative falls apart completely because there were other generic drugs that were repurposed to treat COVID and as you said uh right when we started the conversation that people were looking for this stuff everyone was act actively looking for a cheap generic to repurpose. Um, >> yeah, you know, in in Corey's one of Cory's uh hearings before, I guess, Senate Homeland Security, Ron Johnson's group, >> in one of his hearings, maybe more than one, he would complain about this. He said, "Oh, nobody's looking for these repurposed drugs." And so, the NIH had a very systematic screening program looking for repurposed drugs for COVID. They were basically putting multiple drugs through systematic screens looking for antiviral activity looking for, you know, so the idea that this wasn't happening is just uh it's just fantasy. >> Yeah. And that he didn't, you know, this is how we know he was a fraud from day one with the ivormectton thing because he's a physician. He is in this world. He knew that. He absolutely knew that that research was being done. Uh Joe Schmo on the street might not know, but Pierre did and he said that and you know when he misrepresents the medical and scientific community that way. That's a that's a gigantic problem. I mean speaking of the I mean it's just now in this post-truth era particularly the postcoid era this is such a proven business model uh have any kind of um pedigree whatsoever use that leverage that to then go on the internet go on the podcast circuit say I'm being censored my truth is too hot to handle I'm this whistleblower whatever it is and then rake in the cash via you know whether it's AdSense revenue John Campbell or something like that podcasting, Brett Weinstein, there's there's just dozens or even hundreds of these guys. Now, where this is obviously the million-dollar question, and this is the business that I trade in, but what do you have any perspective on what we can say to people who have been ins snared by these types of figures, this type of rhetoric, the charisma, the story of the underdog versus the big evil pharma, whatever it is, how can we snap them out of it? How did you snap your friend out of it? I know it took nine months, but if you >> Well, okay. So, the nine months is is important, right? I mean, you're familiar with Brandolini's law, right? The [\h__\h] asymmetry principle. And it really struck me in this uh in this experience with my friend just how much work it is >> because the uh you know that the that business that grifting business which is always very much about stories. There are these villains these villains that are they're not realistic, right? They're very much kind of James Bond >> style villains. >> Yeah, it's literally Dr. Evil stroking a cat and all of Yeah, it's it's >> Yeah, they're just they're just so cartoonish. Uh but they're necessary for this kind of thing and uh it takes so much work. So you have to there it has to be countered. It has to be countered by you know you know like your effort, right? so countered by by folks who take it seriously and uh and are and are willing to put in the considerable work to do it. In fact, I I will say after I went to that dinner with my friend and her and her husband, I came home and then I think it was the next day, Campbell, John Campbell had put up a video about uh Ivormectin. He he made this video claiming that Ivormectin worked using the same mechanism of action as what is now Fizer's drug uh paxlovid but at the time it was uh it it had a code name PF one of their uh compoundings it didn't have a commercial name and I was so mad about this I was so furious because I saw that video and this is now you kind of right in my wheelhouse. I had been paying attention to this Fiser agent which is a brilliantly designed drug. I will say you know the way Fiser did this and they learned a lot from designing drugs for SARS one and then they improved the design with what became Paxloven in in in a number of very clever ways. So there there's a lot of things about the drug design of that thing that are really impressive kind of beautiful science. >> Mhm. >> And I had been following this story and the mechanisms proposed for ivormectin as uh in co in the first place don't really make much sense. But then Campbell has this long thing where it's even more conspiratorial because he's now got oh it's work. It's just basically this new drug is just uh Fizer's way of selling Ivormectin at a million times the price or whatever, >> right? >> And uh I was really mad and I I don't think I'd ever made a YouTube short before. I had I had a little YouTube channel uh where I just put on occasional like educational videos for that related to the things that I was teaching. So, but I I was pissed off and I got out my phone and I just ranted into my phone and I was like, "What the hell is this [\h__\h] Uh, I wonder if I should make a response video." And uh I just did that. This was just venting, right? And then I I uploaded the video and then I I don't know went away, went to lunch and I came back and it had thousands and thousands of views and people were commenting and you like, "Yeah, put up or shut up. You better all this kind of stuff." And so my first >> antagonizing you or supporting you. >> Yeah. Yeah. Antagonizing me basically saying, "Who am I uh to go up against the great John Campbell?" >> Yeah. and u nurse John Campbell. >> It was because of these responses uh and people kind of challenging me to put up or shut up or do a video in response which I had I don't know suggested off the cuff. That was what led to my first video, my first entry into this whole mis misinformation world. >> Yeah. >> Um and I realized, you know, I did videos for a couple of years and then I've stopped. I've been doing some other things going back more research and so on but >> it's it's just it is so much work >> and it needs people who are working scientists also doing real science communication >> uh to challenge this because otherwise it's just filled with grifters. >> It's great. I I do think that that different tiers of sycom are necessary. I appreciate when researchers such as yourself do some cyclom because it's it it obviously has a lot of rigor because you have expertise and it sort of makes some of that information more accessible to someone like me who's a generalist who can then take that information from sources of yours and other researchers um and just you know as many references as I can get and then package it together in a way that's more accessible to the lay person and just like disseminate that information even further. It's sort of a tiered approach to psychiccom. I I do this full-time. Researchers can do it part-time and be part of that pipeline. Just we all kind of need we need a synergy here. And I think we're starting to figure that out uh right right around now. >> Yeah, I do think it's very much tiered and it needs uh it needs all of those tiers because it is a lot of work, right? If so, if there are folks like you who are really committing to it, it makes it possible for folks like me to put out an occasional video that's um you know that that contributes to this. >> Yes. >> Um >> but is you know it it doesn't seed all the ground all the communication ground >> right >> to um you know to this really malevolent uh >> machine of disinformation. Yeah. we need to up the volume. I'm trying to do my best to kind of crank out content as as quickly as I can. Um but yeah, absolutely. There's just so much out there and so many people just because of how profitable it is. But um yeah, that's that's all I wanted to ask. I definitely thank you for for your perspective here. Uh is there anything pleas >> No. Um, I'm I I hope we'll hear less of this particular story, but there's always, you know, this is a uh a whack-a-ole world if ever there was one, right? So, there's going to be more of this. >> Yeah. And uh from other figures and other drugs and other things, but even Ivormekin itself, because now that the pandemic has died down, guess what? Ivormectin cures cancer now, too. And this other thing, and this fourth thing, and this 10th thing. Um, it's absolutely insane to me. uh if people don't learn their lesson, but we'll be here. We're we're working on it. So, uh thanks very much. >> Thanks, Greg. Finally, let's chat with an individual named Peter who wishes to remain relatively anonymous. This is a professional who was on the front lines during the pandemic, and they have a lot to say about their experience. Peter, thanks so much for joining us. I'm very excited to speak to somebody with uh some experience uh in terms of dealing with the pandemic uh in in a healthc care setting. uh please go ahead and tell us just generally what your experience was as a healthcare worker during the pandemic, what you were up to and uh whatever you'd like to start with. >> Um so my experience as a healthcare worker during the pandemic um started out um I was working actually as a cardiac monitor technician. Um there's few different pseudonyms for that but essentially I my role was monitoring 50 patients on continuous electroc cardiograms. um and I would be the one who would notify nurses um when uh things were going wrong and they needed to check on a patient. So I was kind of like the lifeline almost I I guess would be a good way to put it. Um during the pandemic as well I was um going to nursing school and um over time I had kind of developed during the pandemic an understanding of a lot of stuff going on. Now, I'm currently a nurse and I work in um specifically a cardiac unit. Um and so I feel I'm pretty well qualified um to talk about cardiac stuff as well as um kind of an overview of the pandemic. Um and you know, certainly while I wasn't necessarily the first in line, there were a lot of emergencies I responded to during the pandemic. Um, whenever anything went wrong, I was occasionally you had to step up to get into a room to save somebody when nobody else was there. >> Let's talk about kind of thick of, you know, the the the the the meat of the pandemic, the most stressful times there where there were the most deaths per day. What was the treatment protocol like? How was that changing on a day-to-day basis? What did it look like in terms of people who were dying of COVID? Um yeah, give us a sense of what it was like. >> Um so my level of care was um telemetry. There's four levels of care in the hospital. There's um med surge and telemetry and then there's intermediate care and uh intensive care. Um so just briefly to cover that. Um but um over time the pandemic um let's see March of 2020 we shut down. Um obviously as a country we had probably that one week whatever it was shutdown. Um and uh in my area in particular um it started off slow. I know in New York things kind of hit the ground running. Um but I would say very much um at the beginning of the pandemic we were sort of flying blind um in terms of what our treatment protocols were. Um, a lot of it was aimed at kind of just well COVID kills via hypoxia. So, oxygen, uh, prophylactic antibiotics. Um, slowly over the course of the pandemic that shifted. Um, things slowly kind of picked up where I was. Um, I'd say some of the worst periods of time um were uh during kind of that holiday season of 2020 all the way to February of 2021. Um, in my area, it got really bad. Um, during those delta that Delta wave we had, I believe it was around August or September of 2021. Um, things got really ugly. Um there for sure were a lot of times that um we had patients die uh as somebody who had to um I had to watch all these hearts um on the monitor and then oftentimes the staffing resources we had were short. So we used we've had stuff like safety sitters before where um you know it's one person who's dedicated to going into just dealing with this one patient because maybe they're confused. um maybe they need a little more extra care. Um but we were short even on those staff. So we kind of went to where they would hand me like an audio video baby monitor and say here watch this person. Um so I'd be watching up to three of those along with maybe 30 40 hearts at a time. Um and responding to alarms, making phone calls. Um so you kind of could get a sense of um what it was like for these patients. A lot of them were alone. Um there were certainly people um one of the signs of hypoxia as people get low on oxygen they become confused. So you'd see people who would get really confused and they'd rip off their oxygen. And we'd have them on my floor at least. We'd have them maxed out on oxygen externally. We didn't intubate on my floor. Um, but we'd have them maxed out on what we could do externally to supplement oxygen and these people would rip off their oxygen and oh, they'd be blue within seconds. Um, I recall there were definitely times where, you know, by the time you get into the room, patients passed out in the bed and you'd have to put the oxygen back on. Um, wait there about 5 10 minutes, probably five. I'm probably um but 5 minutes and you'd have to wait for them to come too again and you'd repeat this over and over again all night for 12 hours. Um in some ways the way I view it is almost like uh if you put a plastic bag over somebody's head and wait till they pass out and then they take it off and wait for them to come too. Um, I I'd say it was practically torture at times for some of these patients >> and that probably had quite a traumatic impact on thousands and thousands of health workers, I'm sure. >> Um, yes, it definitely did. Um, I'm a bit ashamed because my role wasn't nurse at the time, but I mean I definitely still struggle with PTSD. I have faces that are blurred. um sounds that um I've heard people's last words, which I'm not going to go into all of those. Um but I've definitely had my fair share of moments that I'm still trying to work through. Um, and so I do actually want to thank you for the opportunity because uh to talk to you here today because it in some ways is a little cathartic um to be able to share this with the public because I don't think a lot of people know what we went through during that time. >> What about so to to bring it to this topic of the video here uh all of these alternate therapies ivormectin hydroxychloricquin etc. Uh, do you have any experience with patients bringing that up, wanting to be treated that way because they heard on the internet that that's what needs to happen? People requesting vaccines, but it's too late. All of this kind of stuff. What can you say about that? >> Well, so, um, a lot of the emergencies I'd respond to were, um, somebody has to cover my monitors real quick because I have to go run a 12 lead EKG on somebody because an emergency happened. Um, and you get to talking to some of these people. Um, for sure, um, I can't necessarily speak to Ivormect, um, because it really kind of didn't pick up until people like Joe Rogan kind of brought it to the mainstream. It was a little bit in the background there, but, um, I would say it didn't pick up national consciousness in terms of, uh, everyone knowing what Imekin was until a bit later in the pandemic. Um what I can say is um Kier Corey for example who we're talking about obviously um at the time when he was making that um I believe he made the miracle drug claim um about December of 2020 if I'm not mistaken. >> That's right. Yes. >> Um and that was probably an all hands on deck. was a disaster hospital to hospital across the country. And some of what he had said, I'm probably getting a bit ahead of myself, but some of what he had said probably got some people, I'm sure, to feel more comfortable. Oh, if I take this drug, I can't spread it. I can't do it, you know, I can't get sick. Um I definitely heard quite a few patients who had requested um the vaccine and you know at that point it's too late. We kind of give vaccines as prevention not as a treatment. >> Yeah. >> Um >> you're already infected my friend. >> Yeah. Um I mean and our TR regarding other medications. So there's stuff like hydroxychloroquin which um to defend hydroxychloroquin just a bit and I'm not going to defend it hard. It did have a sound hypothesis and it was investigated including in my hospital um I believe my hospital in particular had probably given it um as a trial for about a month maybe a month and a half I can't quite recall. We had a very robust education program in my hospital where throughout the pandemic, at least once a month, our head of medicine and infectious disease would update us on what they're trying, what's working, what's not working. Um, and we did try hydroxychloricquin. Um, it's a drug that's given for lupus. Um, and a lot of what was killing patients was, um, the autoimmune response to COVID. Um so there were you know COVID killed via hypoxia but there were two mechanisms for which it cause hypoxia. The first being it's causes the bilateral pneumonia um and so that impairs gas exchange but the other um insidious way that it killed at least in the early variants up through delta um there was this concept of um a cytoine storm. I was going to say that. Yeah. Cytoine. >> And um so what we'd see often with these patients is they'd have this pneumonia that we're working them through. Um and we'd get maybe about 10 days into their illness and they'd have a day where they got better. Um their oxygen demands were going down. Um they were feeling a little bit better and then the next day they would just tank. um as this autoimmune process effectively destroyed their lungs. Um and so hydroxychloricquin was worthy of investigation at the time. I guess where I find Ivormectin interesting um is that uh there's no proposed hypothesis for why it would work >> in any way for viruses. Why would an antiarasitic mechanistically speaking, how does that work? Of course. Yeah. >> Um and I looked a little bit into it um just briefly today before I got on here with you. Um I mean I suppose there's been a few studies that are in vitro, but you know, an in vitro study is about as useful as me saying, well, fire kills COVID. >> Yeah. And it was only one in vitro, and it was a dosage that that an insane dosage that would kill a person. So, and in fact, people did overdose on on ivormectin. So, >> quite a few. Quite a few. Mhm. But that's I I like what you're saying here because this is the thing is that what these frauds want to sell as a narrative is the health care professionals as these closed-minded people that don't want to try anything. It's the complete opposite. I mean the the the the chaos and the panic that was occurring in 2020 um as people tried to search for some kind of protocol. They tried everything. You guys tried hydroxychloricquin. You tried it rigorously. people did RCTs on ivormectin even though there was no reason to really think um from a you know from a theoretical standpoint why that would work they did the they did the studies anyway right like professionals are trying everything and then ruling out things that don't work so that's one thing that I wish people would understand um yeah well being that you're your expertise is uh is cardiac stuff let's also really quick touch on these claims about uh covid vaccine causing these uh extreme cardiac events. Um and then compare that to the same uh the same issues uh as a result of co infection. >> Well, so I work on a heart unit. Um we deal our bread and butter is heart attacks, heart failure. Um and that includes other things such as um these proposed complications of the vaccine um of paricarditis, myocarditis um which is a fancy way of saying inflammation of the heart. Um now what I've obviously uh anecdotes aren't data um but anecdotally I could say from experience um I've seen probably I'd say three to five cases of um myocarditis endocarditis just in my area of uh in people that I've dealt with um I've seen maybe three to five cases where it was induced by the COVID uh virus itself. Um now what I haven't seen yet is I haven't seen a single person who's been admitted to my hospital for a complication for a vaccine um regarding uh myocarditis or endocarditis. Um I that's not to say it doesn't happen. Um >> I'm sure it does. >> Yeah. It's like it's compared to everything in medicine is always a risk benefit. And the way I like to say it with risk benefit is um you know there's a chance when you get in your car today that you're going to get into a car accident and die horribly. Um and it's kind but the benefit of I need to get to this place in the next hour outweighs kind of that small risk that you take. Um, and it's kind of the same thing with vaccines. Um, vaccines I I wouldn't ever say a vaccine is 100% safe. Every time we give a vaccine, we give out a data sheet that says, "Hey, monitor for these side effects." You know, my uncle got the COVID vaccine. He had a fall because it made him have a fever and it made him just a little loopy for a day. Um, I wouldn't say that there's no possible risk of complications ever, but the benefit outweighs the risk. You know, if my uncle got COVID, he would probably die. Um, at least at the time when we were giving those COVID vaccines for sure. Mhm. Yeah. And even these particular ailment, right, myocarditis in particular is 7 to 12 times more likely to occur from co infection and and more severely as well. >> Absolutely. Yeah. >> Um okay, let's let's uh you know, just before finishing, I definitely want to give you a chance to uh talk about Pierre, your general impression of him, and um yeah, just have at it. Um, Pierre Corey, I I I find interesting because um I I'd taken some notes um after reading your or watching your debate um and some of the things that I found kind of rather stunning um just were there there seems to be this um desire to have recognition. Um I noticed it early on and when he mentioned corticosteroids and nobody listened to him about cortosteroids. Now obviously we went in to using c cortosteroids. Dexamethasone has been amazing at treating covid. Um I have no way of telling if he actually proposed that internally. Um and I don't know if maybe he did run into some push back. Um, unfortunately, healthc care is a little bit of a bureaucracy. Um, you know, but, uh, it seemed early on like I feel like he wanted some recognition and then he made his pitch to Congress about Ivormect and it seems like ever since then he's just doubled down and doubled down. Um, you know, we make mistakes in healthcare all the time. Um I I'm sure you know it to to we're all human. Everyone makes errors. Um the important thing is to catch those errors and say how do we prevent repeating them? >> Mh. >> Um and in fact over the years in healthcare we've developed very robust systems of reporting when errors happen and trying to find out a root cause that's really not punitive. Um, so if Pierre Corey had made that um, pitch to Congress and then came out and said six months down the line, a year later, I made a mistake, data didn't pan out, I probably would feel a little bit better about him. Instead, what he did um, >> was he was a member of um, the frontline COVID critical care alliance or whatever they call it, >> CCC. >> Yeah. Um and quite frankly what I've seen with that group is something that I see feel like I've seen with a lot of um other pseudocience pseudo medicine topics um such as you know people who report uh miracle mineral solutions which is drinking bleach um other other items of you know pseudo pardon me um other items of pseudo medicine um where now It's kind of shifted into Ivormectin is this panacea. Um >> yeah, >> quite frankly. >> Yeah. And that scares me at a certain point. You know, we in medicine, um a lot of our protocols that we have for COVID um stuff like remir, we strictly use that at this point for CO. I'm sure there's probably a couple other niche uses, but I'm not going to come out here and say everyone should be taking Remmes desir. It's the most amazing drug ever. Um it'll cure this, it'll cure that. Um and I think what frustrates me most about um Pierre, and you touched on this in your debate with him, um and it's the first time I've ever seen somebody say this to somebody's face like Pierre. Um you called him a murder which is probably pretty apt in my opinion. Um you know did he directly cause those deaths? No. But he kind we have this concept in medicine and nursing of informed consent. um with the disinformation he gave throughout the pandemic and went viral with um he robbed these patients of being informed. Um and thereby he just robbed them entirely of their best chance at survival. Um and I don't know if it's an ego thing, if it's money. >> Yeah, I think it's a combination. And I I I think that it's uh began as an ego thing, like you said, wanting recognition, then uh realizing that this was an avenue to a much larger income than he ever ever made as a as a doctor. So that's it. >> Yeah. And um I mean what's also frustrating is just the fact that um I think at one point he had mentioned we didn't talk really about this but I I had watched the measles portion of his debate which by the way I found it funny at about the one hour mark when Steve Kersh took over and uh you just have to have Pierre Corey sitting there like this listening to the dumbest thing ever. >> Yeah. just wishing just thinking why did I agree to this debate? This is going on. >> But um >> I I find it funny that um he mentioned um that there were two deaths from measles that are slam dunk lawsuits, yada yada. >> Yeah. >> And uh the one portion that stuck out to me was um he had he claimed that he had a case where that to this day gives him nightmares. And I'm sitting here thinking, well, I still have nightmares about everything I saw in the pandemic. I mean, what? >> And that he helped a cause. There are so many thousands of people that were in the hospital that shouldn't have been there because they should have gotten vaccinated instead of sitting there waiting for for Ivormectton to come in the mail. That wasn't going to help him announce. So, he is responsible for these nightmares for other people. Yeah. Um, and you know, I don't want to poo poo poor me. Um, realistically, I mean, part of the reason I wanted to talk to you was just I don't think anyone has advocated for what these people went through. Um, I think I mentioned in my initial email to you that, um, this was a disease that killed more Americans in two years than the entirety of World War II. Um, and history is going to forget because I'm bound by HIPPA to not talk about specifics necessarily. Um, I could talk in general terms, but nobody's going to remember any of these deaths. Um, I'm sure some of the families do. Um, but at the end of the day, nobody's there to speak for what these people went through. Mhm. On that note, just what's one thing that you wish you could convey to the general public who who don't understand what healthcare workers do and what their ethos is? Um, how can you help them see you in a more accurate light? >> That's a very good question. Haven't thought about. Um, I guess what I'd say is that at the end of the day, we're human. Um, and I'm sure people have had bad experiences in healthcare. Um, I certainly have had bad experiences. Um, I think it's important to keep in mind that especially in the hospital, um, I could go from one room where I just had to deal with somebody who died horribly, um, and I have to go into the next room without even processing it and act like nothing happened. Mhm. >> Um now is that to say that um you shouldn't advocate for yourself as a patient, you shouldn't No, but um I think there needs to be a little bit of understanding as to what we go through as healthcare workers. Um and it's not a perfect system. It's far from it. Um, you know, I tell people a lot of the time that when you go to the hospital, you're kind of essentially at the DMV. You're going to be waiting. Um, you get to the waiting room and then you get admitted and you have some tests. You have to wait for the doctor to get those tests and then if you actually get admitted to the hospital from the ER, then you're going to be waiting for that doctor to give you meds. Then you're going to be waiting to see the response to those meds. Um it's all a waiting game and we try our best to kind of keep in mind the human being at the end of it. Um but uh at the end of the day, I mean, it's all a very big machine that we're working with and my job as a nurse is to try to help patients navigate as best I can. >> Yeah. And we should set our we we should be focusing on how to smooth out the bureaucracy from the top down rather than trying to throw accusations at well-meaning healthcare workers who are just there trying to do the best they [\h__\h] can. You know, >> well, this is a tangent that I could go into, but quite frankly, I would say one of the beacons during the pandemic was Dr. Fouchy. Um, and I don't know if you want to include this at all, but to see how that man was demonized ever since CO is beyond understanding. In a way, it feels like a slap in the face to healthcare workers around the country. I'm actually planning a video on that topic just to sort of uh like exonerate slashexpose the insanity with which you know about how science deniers just target and demonize individuals. Uh it's pretty crazy. >> Well, seeing how he was treated, I was almost apprehensive to even speak out, but um >> because I'm sure even just with my first name, people can try to find me and we'll see. Um, I'm willing to take that risk. I, you know, I'm at the point now where I'm a bit jaded in my career and I just whatever. >> Yeah. Well, I do thank you for for your perspective. Um, yeah, hopefully this won't come back to you in any significant way. I don't think it will. Um but uh yeah, it's uh it takes it takes as many people as possible to speak out and offer their perspective and and help the viewer come to uh you know an informed stance on what everyone's saying, what what's happening and who can be trusted. So thank you. >> Yeah, thank you. Thank you for your time. >> Thanks, Peter. It helps to hear from the real professionals, doesn't it? For every million underpaid and underappreciated scientists and doctors putting in the real work to gather data that informs treatment protocols and saves lives, there's an [\h__\h] like Pierre who sacrifices lives with his determination to ignore all that data and stay wrong for fame and profit. Because hype and false hope will always be more popular than empirical data and statistical analysis. This is the true pandemic, the plague that threatens the survival of mankind more than any other. And there is no cure for science denial on the horizon. But as futile as it may often seem, we fight. We expose. We set the record straight. We get in the trenches and we fight. We fight the two big grifters. We fight the [\h__\h] White House and everyone in between because human civilization is worth fighting for. So that's it for Pierre Corey, the former doctor who loves killing people with lies for money. Sadly, this game of antiax or whack-a-mole is nowhere near complete since more of them pop up every year. And I just made promises to debunk at least two more of these jerks in this very video. So, I guess it's back to work for me. I'll see you next time.