ok this practice problem is going to be about significant figures so let's take a look at the question number one perform the following operations and list the answers with the appropriate number of significant figures. so we have an addition, we have a subtraction, we have a multiplication, and we have a division, and then next we have another question. a sample of some metal weighs thirty nine point one five grams. when placed in a graduated cylinder filled with water up to the sixteen point six milliliter mark the new volume reads twenty point two milliliters. what is the density of the metal. so this all has to do with significant figures. if this seems unfamiliar go ahead and check out my tutorial on this topic before moving forward and when you're all set go ahead and give these questions a try. all right let's take a look at these one at a time first we have seven point zero six five plus four point nine. so we can just go ahead and put that in the calculator and we're gonna get eleven point nine six five but we have to remember the rule for addition and subtraction that states that the answer should have the same number of decimal places as the value with the smallest number of decimal places. so we have to look at the things we have to look at the numbers we're adding and we see that the first number has three decimal places and the other value has one decimal place, so our answer has to have the number of decimal places as the one of those that has fewer so the one that has one decimal place determines that our answer must also have one decimal place. so we're looking at eleven point nine but remember when we're rounding we have to look at the next digit and if the next digit is five or greater which in this case it is, we have a six that means we have to round our number up so eleven point nine six is going to round up to twelve point zero. so that is our answer to one decimal place and that's the correct answer for that addition. now looking at the subtraction one thirty-four point four minus 55.77, we can go ahead and put that in the calculator and we get seventy eight point six three. now once again we're going to go by the same rule we have to look at the number of decimal places so the first value has one decimal place and the second value has two decimal places, so the smaller number of decimal places is one decimal place so our answer must also have one decimal place so we've got 78 point six and then we have to see how we're going to round this, and this is a three so we are going to round down which means we can really just get rid of it and our answer is going to be seventy eight point six with one decimal place. now looking at the multiplication, eleven point zero one times eight point three again we can just go ahead and put this in the calculator see what we get we get ninety one point three eight three, so now let's remember the rule for multiplication and division, this states that our answer should have the same number of sig figs as the value with the fewest sig figs. so we're not looking at decimal places we're looking at significant figures in general, so let's see how many we have, our first value has four sig figs and our second value has two sig figs, that means that our answer should have only two sig figs because two is the fewer number of sig figs out of the numbers that are being multiplied. so now we have to look at the next digit to see how we're going to round it. that is a 3 which is less than 5 so we round down and we can essentially just get rid of those decimal places and our answer is going to be simply 91 which has two sig figs. and then finally we have 267 point nine five four divided by one hundred nine point zero so let's put that in the calculator we get two point four five eight two nine etc, there's a lot of decimal places. so now how many sig figs do we need in our answer? well our first value has six significant figures and this one has four, remember that final zero that trailing zero is significant because it is a decimal zero. if it was to the left of the decimal place if it was 1090 then that last zero would not be significant but point zero is more precise than simply 109 so that is four significant figures and that means that our answer should have four significant figures we look at the next digit, that's a two so we are going to round down and we can just get rid of everything to the right of the eight so our answer is going to be two point four five eight to four sig figs. now let's look at this second question. remember we have a piece of metal with a mass of thirty-nine point one five grams which we measured on a balance presumably and then we have some water in a graduated cylinder. it initially read a volume of sixteen point six milliliters and then we put the metal inside and the new volume read twenty point two milliliters. and we want to find the density of this metal so the density of any object is equal to its mass over its volume and we have the mass of the metal so all we need is the volume and in this case the volume of the metal is equal to the volume of the water displaced so when we put the metal in the water the change in the reading of volume on the graduated cylinder is equal to the volume of the metal the metal has displaced exactly as much water as its volume so what is the water displaced well that's just going to be the difference in the two readings so twenty point two milliliters minus sixteen point six milliliters that gives us three point six milliliters to one decimal place because each of those values has one decimal place and it is a subtraction so we need one decimal place in our answer. and now lastly let's just be sure to understand that when we're discussing volumes of solids we typically don't use milliliters, it's more common that we could use centimeters cubed or cubic centimeters and those are equivalent units, one milliliter is equal to one centimeter cubed, so let's just call that 3.6 cubic centimeters. now we're ready to do mass over volume so we've got the mass of the metal divided by the volume of the metal, and if we just plug that into our calculator we get ten point eight seven five grams per cubic centimeters. but let's be aware of sig figs in our answer. we see that the first value has four sig figs, the second value has two sig figs, and we are doing division so our answer needs to have a number of sig figs that is equal to the fewer number of sig figs in the values that we are using here so the two sig figs in the volume are gonna dictate that we need to have two sig figs in our answer. so there's our 10 and then we look at the next digit and that is an 8 so that is greater than 5 which means we need to round up so ten point eight seven five to two sig figs will become 11 grams per cubic centimeter, so that is going to be the density of our metal to the amount of precision that we are allowed given the values that we were using and that is the answer to this problem,