Congratulations! You’ve got a newborn baby. And since you’ve become so proficient in building physics apparatus, you decide to try your hand at building baby stuff. Your first task is to build a mobile of the solar system. This is your proposed plan for the mobile, with all the arm lengths given. If we approximate the arms and string as being massless, what must the weights of all the planets be in order for every single to arm to balance in precise horizontal fashion, given that Mercury has a weight of 5 Newtons? To answer this, we need to understand torque, so check out my tutorial on this subject if you need to, otherwise let’s get to building. What we must recall is that the torque that is produced by a force, whether it is an applied force or the force of gravity, is proportional to the length of the lever arm. That’s why sitting further away from the fulcrum of a seesaw allows you to lift a person that’s much heavier than you if they are sitting closer to the fulcrum. The precise relationship is that the force times the length of the lever arm on one side will be equal to the force times the length of the lever arm on the other side, if equilibrium is to be maintained, since the positive torque and negative torque must cancel each other out. So let’s split this mobile up into seven systems, and start at the bottom with what we know. Looking at system seven, Mercury has a weight of five Newtons, the lever arm is the same length on both sides, so Venus must also have a weight of five Newtons. Now for system five above, the total weight on the right side is ten Newtons, so we multiply by twelve centimeters, divide by the eight centimeter length on the other side, and we get fifteen Newtons for the weight of Uranus. Let’s go up one system again, to system three. The right side has a total weight of twenty-five Newtons at this point. Multiply this by the twenty centimeter length of the lever arm, and divide by the twenty-five centimeter lever arm on the other side, and that means this whole left side must have a weight of twenty Newtons. Since the arm in system four is split up into equal halves, then we can split that weight in half, so Saturn must be ten Newtons, and these two must add up to ten Newtons. Given the four centimeter and six centimeter lengths for system six, we could do a little algebra, or we could just see that Neptune must be six Newtons, and Mars must be four Newtons. Almost done now, systems three through seven have a combined weight of forty-five Newtons, so we can multiply that by this ten centimeter length and then divide by the thirty centimeter length on the other side, and we see that jupiter must have a weight of fifteen Newtons. Lastly, that gives all of this a combined weight of sixty Newtons, so we multiply by ten and then divide by thirty, and we get twenty Newtons as the weight of the sun. With all of these weights, we could simply divide by the acceleration due to gravity to get the respective masses, which means dividing by roughly ten, and that will give us kilogram values to make sure our planets are just right to make this thing look great. This kids gonna be an astronaut, I bet.