today we're gonna practice naming ionic compounds. so first given the name we want to provide the molecular formula. so we have aluminum oxide, potassium sulfate, and iron 3 sulfide. then given the molecular formula we want to provide the name. so we have Mg3N2, Mn3(PO4)2, and FeCl2. so if you're not sure how to approach this go ahead and check out my tutorial on naming ionic compounds that'll tell you everything you need to know and when you're ready give these a try. so let's take these first three where we're given the name. now let's try aluminum oxide. so we know these are ionic compounds so what we have to do is figure out exactly what ions these are. so if we have an aluminum ion what's going to be the charge on that ion? what is the common charge for aluminum? well that is going to be Al 3 plus and we can tell because of where it is on the periodic table. we know that if it loses three electrons it will gain noble gas electron configuration, so that will be the common ion for aluminum and thus in aluminum oxide we know we have Al 3 plus. then for oxide we know that that is going to be O 2 minus. the suffix IDE whenever we see oxide or fluoride or chloride we know that that is an anion with noble gas electron configuration so oxygen has to gain two electrons to attain neon electron configuration so that is the oxide ion so we have Al 3 plus, and O 2 minus and if these are going to come together to form aluminum oxide which is a neutral compound what ratio must these come together in in order to form a neutral compound? well we know we're gonna need two aluminum ions for every three oxide ions because that is going to add up to six positive charges and six negative charges right 2 times 3 plus is 6 plus and 3 times 2 minus is 6 minus that is how we're going to balance the charges on these ions so that is the ratio of these ions in this compound and so we can just write that out as a molecular formula Al2O3. now let's move on to potassium sulfate so potassium, what is a potassium ion? well that is going to be K plus because if potassium loses one electron it will attain noble gas electron configuration so that is the common charge for potassium now how about sulfate sulfate is a polyatomic ion it is SO4 2 minus and that's just something we kind of have to know we're gonna have to memorize some of these polyatomic ions so sulfate is SO4 with a 2 minus charge so once again what is the ratio in which these must come together in order to generate a neutral compound well we have a 1 plus charge and we have a 2 minus charge so we're going to need 2 potassium ions for every sulfate ion so that we have 2 plus and 2 minus and that will generate a neutral charge overall so we put those together and we get K2SO4 that is potassium sulfate. now moving on to iron 3 sulfide well iron 3 without the 3 we wouldn't be too sure because iron as a transition metal is capable of multiple oxidation states but here that's what the Roman numeral is for 3 means 3 plus so when we see iron 3 we know that we have Fe 3 plus ions and then sulfide just like oxide is S 2 minus. sulfur needs to gain two electrons to attain noble gas electron configuration so that is the sulfide ion. now once again what is the ratio in which these ions must come together in order to generate a neutral compound well we have three plus and we have 2 minus so what we have to do is have two iron ions and three sulfide ions that will give us 6 plus and 6 minus that is neutral overall so we have two irons and three sulfides and we can write that out as Fe2S3. so these are the molecular formulas that correspond to these names now let's look at these molecular formulas and write the names so we have Mg3N2 so Mg3 those are three magnesium ions those are Mg 2 plus ions and we just refer to the cation by the name of element so that is just going to be magnesium and then the anion therefore must be the nitride ion. we have N 3 minus, that's when nitrogen gains 3 electrons to attain neon electron configuration and so we have 3 Mg 2 pluses and 2 N 3 minuses and that gives us magnesium nitride. now moving on we have manganese we have 3 manganese ions and in this case these are going to be Mn 2 plus and we just refer to them as manganese. and then we have 2 phosphate ions those are PO4 3 minus, and so we have 3 manganese ions, we have 2 phosphate ions, those come together to form manganese phosphate. and lastly FeCl2 we are not sure immediately what kind of iron ion this is but let's look at the anion first. we have 2 chloride ions those are Cl minus anions those each have a minus 1 charge so that totals to a minus 2 charge overall in that formula unit so in order to balance out the minus 2 charge to generate a neutral compound we are going to need to have iron 2 plus or iron in oxidation state 2, that means this must be iron II chloride as opposed to iron III chloride which would have to be FeCl3 so we have iron 2 chloride and a nickname is ferrous chloride we can also call this ferrous chloride whereas if iron was in oxidation state 3 that would be ferric but it's in 2, so this is iron 2 chloride or ferrous chloride. and these are the names associated with these molecular formulas.