so let's look at a problem regarding isotopic abundance and atomic mass. the question says the abundances of the following silicon isotopes are as follows: silicon 28 is ninety two point two three percent, silicon 29 is four point six seven percent, and silicon 30 is 3.10% so that means out of all the silicon atoms in the universe ninety two point two three percent of them weigh twenty-eight atomic mass units, four point six seven percent of them weigh twenty nine atomic mass units, and three point one zero percent of them weigh thirty atomic mass units. so the question is what is the average atomic mass of silicon. so if this is confusing go and check out my tutorial on nuclides symbols, we want to understand atomic mass we want to understand atomic number and mass number and we want to understand what isotopes are, so if you are unclear go ahead and check out that tutorial first, if everything makes sense give this a shot. so here are the relevant values, now what are we going to do with them? as it turns out to get the average atomic mass all we need to do is multiply the mass number of each isotope by its abundance, so let's do that now. first we have silicon 28 so let's put 28 times zero point nine two two three that is 92 point two three percent of one, or a whole. to that we will add 29 for the mass number of silicon 29 and multiply that by zero point zero four six seven, that is four point six seven percent of one or a whole, which represents the atomic mass of silicon. and lastly we have 30 for the mass number of silicon 30 and we will multiply that by zero point zero three one zero, which is three point one zero percent of one. and now all we need to do is add these up. let's also be clear that our answer should have three sig figs because these values in the parentheses have four sig figs, three sig figs, and three sig figs respectively, so that will limit our answer to three sig figs. and if we plug all of that into a calculator we do get 28 point one and that is the average atomic mass of silicon that we would find on the periodic table. so that means if we took a sample of silicon atoms and added all of their masses together and then divided by the number of atoms there are, we would get twenty eight point one atomic mass units as the average mass of all of those silicon atoms.