let's practice assessing atomic radii and ionic radii the first question says place the following elements in order of increasing atomic radius so we have lead, germanium, Krypton, flerovium, and bromine the second question says place the following species in order of increasing ionic radius so we have O 2 minus, Mg2 plus, F minus, Na plus, and neon, a neutral neon atom so if this seems confusing go back and check out my tutorial on the periodic table and periodic trends one of those trends is atomic radius and we also talk about ionic radius so that will give you the understanding you need to answer these questions so first let's do the atomic radius trend we need to find these 5 elements on the periodic table we have gotten lead we've got germanium we've got Krypton we've got flerovium and we've got bromine so those are the five elements that we are looking at so now we want to put them in order of increasing atomic radius so what do we know about atomic radius we know that atomic radius is going to increase as we go to the left as we go to the left there are fewer protons in each nucleus and that means there is less of an electromagnetic attraction between the nucleus and the electrons. so the nucleus will not pull on the electrons as tightly as we move to the left, that means that the atoms will get slightly larger moving to the left on the periodic table. we also know that atomic radius increases going down the periodic table because each time we go down one period we're adding an entire shell and so that certainly is going to make the atom quite a bit larger by adding an entire new shell on the atom. so we know that atomic radius increases going left and down and that means that if we start at Krypton and go to the left, Krypton must be smaller than bromine and bromine must be smaller than germanium. separately going down this group we know that germanium must be smaller than lead and lead must be smaller than flerovium. so now this is actually quite easy we can just combine these two trends because germanium is the biggest one in the first trend and the smallest one in the second trend so let's just put them together and the correct order in increasing atomic radius is Krypton bromine germanium lead flerovium. now let's talk about ionic radius. here we have some ions let's find them, we've got oxygen there we've got magnesium there we've got fluorine here we've got sodium here and we have neon here. so with ions it's very important to know how many electrons are in each species so looking at oxygen first we know that a neutral oxygen atom has eight electrons for a neutral atom the number of electrons is equal to its atomic number right same number of protons and electrons so neutral oxygen would have eight but this is an O 2 minus ion that means there are two additional electrons two additional negatively charged particles so 8 plus 2 is 10. O 2 minus has 10 electrons. looking at Mg 2 plus, a neutral magnesium atom has 12 electrons but this is a 2 plus ion so it has two fewer negatively charged particles it has lost two electrons so Mg 2 plus also has 10 electrons. neutral fluorine has nine electrons but this is F- so it has gained one electron, F- or the fluoride ion also has 10 electrons for sodium plus neutral sodium normally has 11 electrons but it has lost one so Na plus also has 10 electrons. and lastly neon is neutral so that will just have the same number of electrons as its atomic number and that is 10 so that means these are all isoelectronic species these all have the same number of electrons and specifically they all have neon electron configuration because they all have the same number of electrons they are all going to experience the same amount of electron repulsion so 10 electrons are going to push against each other and push outwards in the same way for all of these species so the number of electrons is not a factor in determining this trend. instead the ionic radii are going to be determined by the number of protons in the nucleus. so they all have 10 electrons but how many protons are pulling on those 10 electrons the more protons there are in the nucleus the more they will pull on the electrons and pull the electrons in towards the nucleus which means the more the ionic radius will contract so for iso electronic species the ionic radius will get smaller as we add more protons to the nucleus that means that fewer protons will pull on the electrons less and the ionic radius will expand so as we take protons away from the nucleus the ionic radius will increase. so in order to get this trend we have to start with the species that has the most protons because that is going to pull the electrons the most and that is going to be Mg 2 plus because there are 12 protons in that nucleus followed by Na plus which has 11 protons, neon has 10 protons, the fluoride ion has 9 protons and the oxide ion has eight protons. so fewer protons going to the right that means less and less attraction between the nucleus and those electrons so the ionic radius will expand as there are fewer protons in the nucleus and this is the correct order to place these in increasing ionic radius.