ience. As we already know, in Latin, all verbs are divided into four main groups called conjugations. It's very easy to determine which conjugation a specific verb belongs to because each group shows a specific ending in the infinitive. The infinitive is the second principal part and it will always appear in the dictionary. We have already seen that the first conjugation always ends in a such as with amoare and the second conjugation ends in with a long e such as with mono mon. Today we will introduce the third conjugation which also has an infinitive that ends in similar to the second conjugation but with a short e. The third conjugation includes both regular verbs and the so-called verbs in eio. Here is one example of each. Mito missio capum. So while in the second conjugation ere was long in the third conjugation ere is short. This is very important. The consequence of this is that while the long thematic vowel e does not change throughout the second conjugation once it becomes short it is more likely to go through changes. To be more clear, look at the following chart which compares verbs of the second verbs of the third in O and third in eio. Also listen carefully to the pronunciation. Mono monet mono monet monos monetis monet mito mto mitis mitimos mitis mun capio capis cap Capit, capimus, capitis, cap. Let's mention some key points. First, for the normal third conjugation, the e disappears completely in the first person singular of the present tense and then changes into an i in the second and third person singular and the first and second person plural. Then in the third person plural, it changes into a u. However, in the case of the verbs in eio, the I will stay for the entire conjugation, making the verb actually resemble the fourth conjugation. This can get very confusing. So, the best advice is to just memorize the endings. There are many verbs in the third conjugation, both regular and in eio. Let's memorize the most common. Be brave as these are likely the hardest principal parts you will ever learn. Let's start with the regular verbs. Ago, a dare dy dy dictum. Scriptum, try. Winko, winker, wiki, wum. Lego, ley lectum. Pero peri ludo. Lud ly lotoy wer intel intelle intellectum amum kuro kur kuri ksum frango Fraggy fractum disco. Now let's learn some of the third conjugation verbs ending in eio. Capio cap capum. Aio, aptum, kio, kiwi kum. Fakio fak faky facto fugio fuger fugi fugurum. Yakio yak yaki yakum pario parum rapio rapo rapum sapio sappiioum. Now, as unexpected as some of these principal parts sound, if you pay close attention, you may come up with many English derivatives coming from those very principal parts. For example, from tractum, you get attractive, tractor, extraction, and distract. Paying close attention to these will quickly build your vocabulary. Let's see these verbs in action. De liberttos anos numam periculum s periculo wink possummia forum oulosum Let's check comprehension. Thanks for watching. Subscribe to my channel for more tutorials. Support me on Patreon so I can keep making content. And as always, feel free to email me. professor dave explains@gmail.com. Heat. Heat.