Hey everyone, it's time for another reaction video. I have been working very hard on some juicy debunks that I will be releasing through the rest of the month. But in the meantime, I thought I'd give you a short little reaction video to sink your teeth into while you wait for those to come out. So, this one is going to be nowhere near as long as the last one I did with the Jubilee and the antivaxers. That was very excessive. So, we're just going to do a pretty short one here. No booze today. Just uh you know, it's a short video. So, the video it's about 15 minutes long and this is something that a few people sent to me and it's called the first ever scientist to explain how to shift into higher frequencies. That sounds pretty juicy. Um, and it is on a channel called video advice which has close to 4 million subscribers and the video itself has about 3/4 of a million views. Uh, and it was released last year. So, um, you know, pretty pretty decent, uh, chunk of views. And the person narrating here, apparently, it's a video and then or somebody is speaking whose name is Robert Edward Grant. I don't know who that is. Um, but it but he's he's the first scientist to explain this groundbreaking concept, which I can already tell you is literally meaningless. So, this should be fun. Uh it sounds like it's going to be a bunch of quantum mysticism [\h__\h] which many of you know I have uh debunked quite a bit before. And so I chose this one because you know I get a lot of suggestions but I've been doing so much I've been doing mainly all like antivaxers and medical misinformation or creationist discovery institute like that kind of stuff. And so I have more videos of that queued up to react to at some point. Um, but I just thought, let's throw in one a different thing. Let's just mix it up a little bit. This is going to be quantum mysticism, I think. So, probably some physics and and and dumb, you know, pseudo philosophy and stuff like that. So, it's a short one. Let's just have a little fun. Uh, so that you have something to watch while I continue to work on some of these debunks that are coming up pretty soon. So, that sound fun. I think it's going to be a good time. Uh nowhere near hopefully as aggravating as the as the Jubilee one was. Although who knows? This could get me pretty worked up. Uh this stuff does kind of piss me off. So uh the first ever scientist to explain how to shift into higher frequencies. Let's start right now. As you move into higher frequency, the world around you shifts to that frequency. As you move into higher dimension, the world around you starts to shift to that new reality. >> Okay. So yeah, this is we're we're off to the races here. Uh this is I knew obviously from the title itself and also from the main thing that all of these quantumics say uh or the main tactic I should say is that they just uh use buzzwords improperly uh to sound deep. And the main one, their absolute favorite one is frequency. None of these jerks have any clue what frequency means. I've talked about this before, but [clears throat] if I if I haven't made myself clear to you yet, um, frequency means number of cycles or repetitions per unit time. Okay? So, this has to be applied to some natural phenomenon in order to mean anything. There could be a frequency with which I use the bathroom on any given day. Usually, we're talking more about a ver a more concrete uh physical phenomenon. So light uh waves of light have a frequency right there's a wavelength and a frequency uh so the wavelength would be the distance from from crest to crest or trough to trough or whatever right one the length of one wave and then therefore a frequency because as that as that light travels at the speed of light what is the number of waves that will pass by some arbitrary point per unit time. So per second is a unit called hertz. So however many iterations of that wave pass by a point in one second that's that's hertz. Uh so uh same with sound. Sound is waves uh mechanical waves traveling through uh a medium such as the atmosphere. Um it's all you you have to be defining frequency of what what are you talking about? Um you could talk about a frequency of revolutions of something that is spinning. Right? That's that's it. But uh to just say a higher frequency is literally meaningless. Um I [clears throat] think what they want it to mean is like higher frequency like being better and smarter and happier. Uh none of that has anything to do with a frequency. Uh so none of it means anything. And then he talked about uh higher dimensions. Uh same thing uh higher I mean we live in three spatial dimensions which can be measured in length, width and height. Uh if you're talking about higher dimensions, they're usually talking about like another realm or something. Um which that's not what dimension means. Um so yeah, not not a great start. Let's let's see where this goes. >> Your perspective. So that also creates changes retrocausally. the entire universe is mental. That what you perceive in the reality around you is >> okay. So, let me get a good >> not Okay. Yeah. Uh so, [clears throat and snorts] yeah, this is looking like some Terren Howard stuff. We got a little flower of life uh looking kind of a thing. Uh so, let me read this here. Uh we've got principle of mentalism in the middle and then we have principle of correspondence, principle of gender, principle of cause and effect, principle of rhythm, principle of polarity and principle of vibration. Uh so are are any of those really principles? I don't think that's the way that we use principle. Uh these are none none of them are things and then they are arranged very arbitrarily on a cool looking shape to make it seem like it is deep and meaningful. Um yeah I mean I guess okay cause cause and effect we could we could say that that's a a principle that's I'm fine with that principle of gender. Uh that's that's uh that's just aimed at uh the types of people who fall for this kind of woo. They're very into uh into gender related phenomena. That's a gender is a well gender is a biological and sociological phenomenon. Uh principle of rhythm, principle of vibration. These are just things. Rhythm is a thing. Vibration is a thing. Um okay, material. It's a it's a compelling belief that you have that actually forms the world around you. Your expectation becomes your reality. Just like the double slit phenomenon, this is why double slit phenomenon does what it does. You have a unique. So, uh this is why the double slit phenomenon does what it does. Prompt promptly moves on. Um doesn't even try like this dude does not know what the double slit double slit experiment is. Uh doesn't even try to summarize it. He just knows that whoever falls for this [\h__\h] watched what the bleep do we know or some other idiotic pseudo documentary vaguely remembers oh double slit experiment is where a kooky thing happens that that proves all the [\h__\h] that I want to be real. So he literally just mentions the double slit experiment like to elicit like a Pavlovian response and then moves on. Right. And then all this is uh what did he say? uh an ex yeah it's all just this uh expectation creating reality or we can we can manifest whatever real this is this is self-help [\h__\h] quantum mysticism is always uh self-help [\h__\h] so I'm sure that we will see a lot of this so what's what's next here >> light signature that is you but you're not really that color you think that you're the color that you are but actually that's just reflection color you have a whole another spectrum of you that's the absorption so let's take an example of hydrogen Okay. So that's not really you. We call things the color that we perceive, right? Be so every every atomic matter interacts with light. You have atomic nuclei and then you have electrons and these electrons can be on various energy levels and an electron can can absorb a photon of a particular uh a particular wavelength and be go to an excited state and then it can relax down to a lower to a lower energy level and emit a photon and if that photon hits our eyeballs we can perceive it and we see it and we see a particular color. Um so I don't think he's getting really philosophical here. I think he just doesn't understand uh what any of this means. Um so he he's teeing up the bore model, which we were all supposed to learn in 10th grade chemistry. Let's see how he screws it up. Hydrogen. This is what the spectral reflection of hydrogen looks like. So if you looked at, you know, spectral analysis of hydrogen, it would have a color purple, another color that's more violet, and then kind of this bluish color, and then this light blue, and then this red pinkish color. That combination of colors is how we know hydrogen exists. So when we look into outer space and we use a telescope that does this spectroscopy and we could see across the entire cosmos, we know where hydrogen pockets are, where there's a high preponderance of hydrogen based on the color reflections that come out. That's how we know what something is. We know that copper, like if you're looking at some material and you don't know what the material is, you can look at a spectral reflection analysis and be able to tell exactly what that material is just based on the colors that are reflected. >> I love how this dude spelled reflection with an X. That's pretty good. Okay, so this part isn't too bad. Uh uh it's not that's this is this is okay. Yes. So the the thing though is that he's like I I don't think he understands that each of those spectral lines is a specific transition, right? It is a specific electronic transition from you know so like for hydrogen you uh an electron can relax from n equals 2 to n equals 1 and that emits a photon of a particular frequency or it can go 3 1 or 3 to two or 4 to two or 4 one right there's a characteristic uh uh energy gap there from from any energy level to any other one and therefore a characteristic frequency that goes along with that transition uh or the the photon that is either absorbed or released in order for the electron to undergo that transition. So uh he is almost certainly going to take this and distort it and try to apply it baselessly to all manner of esoterica. The unique combination of colors that are reflected. Now you understand that you have DNA. Your DNA is a unique signature of you. There's never been another DNA like yours. And there never will be another DNA identical to yours. Even though you're 99% the same as a monkey, that 1% that makes you different makes you infinitely different in >> Okay. Okay. So, we're 98 to 99% uh similarity with chimpanzees, which are not monkeys, right? Apes are not monkeys. Um, but at least we're not uh this is at least not not the typical creationist uh denial of the of genetic similarity. Um, but no, you're not infinitely different. What the hell does that even mean? If you're if you're quantifying the percentage of difference and putting a number, a finite number that describes how different you are, then you're not infinitely different. Like, you're 1% different. So, you're infinitely different. What the hell does that even mean? >> Inside that differentiation is what makes you. So that means that you have a persona, right? Which would be these colors right here, your reflection. And then you have a shadow, which that shadow would be the exact opposite. So uh so that's not a shadow, right? It's it's it's not an inverse. Uh it is that an object can be irdiated with light of all wavelengths and some are absorbed and some are reflected or most are absorbed and some are reflected. The ones that are that are not absorbed are reflected. Right? So that's why you see the lines in the uh you see the lines in one and then the bands in the other with the with the black lines the thin the thin black gaps where it is not uh being absorbed because it's being reflected. So it's the inverse in the sense that uh where it is not absorbed it is reflected but it's not like the mathematical inverse right the wavelengths are the same the wavelength where all those arrows are right for each particular uh emission line uh that's the same wavelength on the reflection right the you could put the same scale under each of those and put 400 nmters 500 nm 600 right it's the same scale we're not inverting any numbers uh most are absorbed Some are reflected. What is reflected is what we see. That's what we perceive. That's how we see color. So all the colors that are used for the reflection are not part of the absorption. That's why you have blacked out lines here. So that means you have all the rest of the colors in the light spectrum that are not you. Well, you perceive they're not you. Well, what if those colors >> Okay, what not you? Like we we're looking at hydrogen. There is not a simple spectrum like this that corresponds to a human being. This is a singular element hydrogen. There are many many different uh types of atoms in the human body arranged in very complex ways. There is not a simple absorption or emission spectrum that that is characteristic of of of a of a macroscopic object of complex chemical composition. Um he's literally showing the hydrogen absorption spectrum and talking about how and and pretending that it somehow correlates with the human. It doesn't simply get projected back to you as reflection in the world around you. The mathematics of this is something called the Ryberg formula. And Neils Boore who was a famous Danish physicist in the 1930s and4s who worked closely with Einstein he was more on the quantum physics side of things. He basically found that you could exactly predict based on the frequency of hydrogen its spectral emission of color and it was exactly accurate and this is called the bore atom model and the mathematics of it is simply x and 1 /x. So they used here lambda. So it's lambda and one over lambda. >> It's not x and what what are you talking about? You're showing the whole formula. You're why aren't you talking about? So n1 is a particular energy level and n2 is is another energy level. Right? So if you if the if the electron is going from n= 5 to n= 2, then you have to plug in five and two. And this is a way of calculating the the the energy discrepancy between those energy levels and therefore the wavelength of the photon that will be emitted or absorbed to induce that transition. Um we all learned this in 10th grade. A lot of people forgot it. That's fine. But um so lambda and one over lambda. What are you talking about? There is a lambda in the formula. It it's written as as inverse lambda. It's not lambda and one over lambda. The variable lambda which corresponds to wavelength is in the formula and then there's other stuff in there. Okay. So you have this differentiation that would then tell you these specific nanometers of light would be converted directly from the spectral or frequency rather of hydrogen. >> What do you mean converted? What do you There's no conversion uh converted directly from spectrum frequency hydrogen. None of this means anything. There's no conversion. Uh it is the same formula that is calculating all of these lines whether it's reflection or absorption. They're the same lines, right? It's just absorption or reflection. It's the same thing. which then I can derive to know exactly and predict exactly based on the frequency of hydrogen based on its 1 /x calculation what its nanometers of light signature will be. It's it's exactly these lights right these lines right here. So this is measured in nanometers. This is 400 nmters 500 nm 600 nmters. What we're really looking at is one octave of light. We have 89 octaves. >> No they're they're God damn it. Uh this so yeah uh Terrence Howard must uh must uh work closely with this guy because this is the crap he was trying to pull as well. Um there's no octaves that doesn't mean anything. Uh it's just it's a bunch of frequencies. If you want to if you want to arbitrarily uh match them up with notes on a keyboard, you can do that. It doesn't mean anything. Okay? it that that you can map some numbers onto another thing uh doesn't mean that they correlate in any way or that you can use the language of one to describe the other. There's no octaves of light that doesn't mean anything. Or 88 octaves of experience across sound thought at the very basis becomes sound becomes microwave. It becomes infrared becomes >> What are you talking about? What are you talking about? Light is not sound and light is not thought. You can't just say here is a thing that has to do with light. Therefore, it's also about sound and thought. What are you talking about? That's not how physics works. Ultrasound. And then it as it goes higher and higher, light is just the 55th octave above sound. So, you just keep taking up to higher and higher octaves of frequency. And now you're in the terraertz. >> Light [cough and clears throat] is uh is oscillations within an electromagnetic field. Uh it is orthogonal electric and magnetic fields oscillating. Sound is mechanical waves of atmospheric particles being perturbed. They are completely different and unrelated phenomena. Light is not sound. Sound is not light. A thing that has to do with light doesn't automatically have to do with sound. They are totally different things. Period. Frequencies. So what happens is you you just go all the way up until the 55th octave. The 55th octave from the very beginning is light. And that's the only octave of visible spectrum. Beyond that are all the other octaves. Then you get into cosmic rays, gamma rays, etc. Right. >> Okay. So what like one an octave like the there [laughter] the there there's a range of visible light and if you're operating in nanometers it's a few hundred it's a range of a few hundred nanometers and so how are you calling that an octave right? If you're talking about eight notes in an octave or if you're including all the half steps there's there's more. What is it 12 or something? Um, so those numbers don't match. You can you can scale them and force them to match. Uh, but you're just arbitrarily scrunching something and placing it on top of something else. There's nothing profound going on here. Um, and yes. Okay. So, you've got IR, you've got UV, you've got X-rays, you've got gamma gamma rays. Higher frequency, lower frequency. So, what? Everybody already knew that. You're not saying anything. it goes x-rays all that. So what happens is this visible light spectrum is the same as looking at a piano keyboard and it's just the note G on the piano keyboard, middle G, because that's the 55th note on a piano keyboard. Why? Why is it that note? What are you talking about? You just took it and you put it there and said it's this note, the 55th note. Wh Why is it the 55th octave? That doesn't mean anything. You're just making up numbers which is a Fibonacci number. So basically you look at the piano keyboard you've got the entire spectrum as a microcosm right which then we can expand and just put lots and lots of 88 put 88 piano keyboards next to each other and the 55th one is the one that yields light and the other ones are not yielding light but they're yielding different forms of sound that we have different senses to be able to sense. No, because light is not sound. You can't take one phenomenon and force it to transform into another one. You're do you're doing this thing where you're taking frequencies of electromagnetic radiation and you're arbitrarily mapping them onto a piano keyboard and saying, "Look, because I just said that this goes on top of this, that means light is sound." It isn't. You can take any set of numbers. You can take any set of numbers that correspond with anything. The frequency of uh I don't know man like um ju something that has to do with like traffic on the freeway or something like literally [\h__\h] anything. And then you can just go look I'm placing them along a keyboard. Therefore that thing that I am talking about is sound. Like what are you talking about man? >> And the ones we can't sense we can sense through the pineal gland. A lot of people think that darkness is the absence. >> What the [\h__\h] are you talking about? It's the pineal gland. What is sensing? What? How? How is it? How how does sensation work? How do the senses work? How does the brain work? Right? We're not It's just is just throwing out absolute nonsense >> of light. Darkness is not the absence of light. Darkness is the opposite condition of light. The opposite condition would be you've got a field of little nodal points that are cubes. Each of these cubes has a little LED inside of it. Think of it like an LED. And there's an onx excitation and an offexitation. So the opposite condition of light is the offexitation. The condition of light is the onxitation. It's a field just like a gigantic LED screen in three dimensions or four dimensions or multi-dimensions. Very very high high knowledge technology. What's >> Yeah, high knowledge technology. What the [\h__\h] is this guy talking about? Um I This kind of [\h__\h] is like what what what do you even do with this? Like there's it's it's very much like Terren Howard's stuff, although slightly more coherent. Um there's just nothing here to deconstruct. Uh you are like an LED screen. Okay. What? Why? Um because you say so. Because it sounds neat to say that. And there's cool pictures that uh somebody made that make you go, "Wow, look, I'm understanding something really profound here." I guess >> what's happened is the pixels that you thought were you are not actually you. They're just reflecting the light signature of you. And as you move to another place, it's just like the wave transitioning. You move to another position, then a whole new set of pixels have been on excited to represent your light signature. >> Okay, we're we're not pixels, right? We're not uh in a computer. But also light signature reflected. Yeah. It's reflected off of you. You are made of atoms and those atoms reflect light so that other pe other so I mean so people can see you if they're if that light that is reflected by you hits their eyeballs. But what is this thing of what the light that is that it reflects off of you somehow isn't you? Well, I mean, the light isn't you, but uh right, you are matter. Matter reflects light. Like, what? There's there's there's just nothing there's nothing to to to dig into here. Just as if you're in a screen on a TV. What's happening is that there's a whole new set of pixels that are reflecting you. The only limitations that exist, therefore, are the ones that you persistently believe in, including time. world around you is just your spectral absorption being reflected back to you and your X and the world around you is your one overX. That's why what the [\h__\h] man. Uh this is harder to react to than I thought just because it's like it's just rapid fire meaninglessness. Um it's hard to even like he immediately brought in the like uh your expectation. Now he's you are X. the world around you is one overx. Like why? What the [\h__\h] are you like why? How like how are you demarcating uh like just I I don't know man. There's just nothing to say with this. >> I call it the U inverse. This is where it goes to hermeticism. The first principle of the seven hermetic principles is mentalism. Mentalism means the entire universe is mental. It's not. This is where it goes to the other unrelated thing that I want to talk about and pretend is profound. Uh, all is divine mind. The universe is mental. Says you. Uh, based on what? Because it sounds cool. Because this is how you sell your self-help. Uh, mind over matter. You can manifest anything you want for five easy payments of 1999. Um, nothing you just said, all of the [\h__\h] you just said about the electromagnetic spectrum just it it was a hard 90° turn to now mentalism. It's just we're talking about the mind manifest like it's like just wave after wave of unrelated jargon to just trick the the viewer into thinking that they're that anything is being said that they're learning something that incredible realizations are occurring. Um the man this is snake oil of the nth degree. >> It's not material. You have to realize the entire universe is mental. that what you perceive in the reality around you is not material. It's a it's a compelling belief that you have that actually forms the world around you. Your expect >> based on what you got any evidence for that? Uh seems pretty seems pretty solid to me. Uh I think it's material. Uh I think it's material that existed long before minds ever came about. Um and that's a that's a pretty that's a pretty consistent way of looking at the universe. Um, our our our brains are made of matter. Uh, mind is matter. Mind is an emergent property of matter. Um, and I'm not much of a philosophy buff, so I I I know that there are plenty of people out there who who engage in in uh in in in lines of thinking that that that are not so materialistic. But uh you know I I have yet to hear any compelling evidence uh that runs contrary to materialism uh as much as frauds that like Discovery Institute would uh push back on that. Um yeah, mind is an emergent property of matter. Change my mind. Let's go with that. [snorts] Expectation becomes your reality just like the double slit phenomenon. This is why double slip phenomenon does what it does you know in one context and it works the [laughter] we so is like did he really just repeat himself word for word and again not say anything about double slit experiment or did somebody who somebody like I I don't think this guy like I think this is a channel probably that just like takes narrations and then like [clears throat] makes shitty visuals to them. Um, so I don't know why they chopped this up to It sounds to me like it was just the same sound bite again. Uh, if not, that's absolutely hilarious that he's just like double slit is a thing. Moving on. What are you doing, man? [snorts] Retrocausilally even. So that means that if a photon of light is either going to be a wave or a particle and its dependence on whether it'll be a wave. Okay, just want to point out that they put photon and quark. Uh quarks have nothing to do with uh photons, right? Quarks are the building blocks of barons. So th those make up uh protons and neutrons uh which are not at all uh so photons are particles of light which also have wave nature. Um so yeah I don't like the randomness of the visuals is is is very irritating uh as well here favor or particle is going to be dependent on whether or not it will be observed. It will even know before it's observed if it's going to be observed and retrocausally it will know if even if you didn't observe it that you might observe it later on and so it will act as a particle because there is no such thing as linear time as we construct it. >> Okay. Jesus. [laughter] Okay. So, he did he did try to talk about the double slit experiment. No, there's no f uh uh light can't know things. Light is not sentient. And all of this misunderstanding of double slit experiment like, oh, it knows it it changes its behavior when it's being observed. No, it's because an observation when you're performing an observation on on on a quantum system, you have to interact with it. So if you if you try to measure something about light about a photon or an electron or an individual particle you're affecting that system. So so the uh the the wave function collapses and it just uh it's been a while since I learn did all this physics stuff all that physics content but the point is that you're not just passively observing something and then it changes its behavior. It's not you you can't observe a photon the way you look out your window and and spy on your neighbor. In order to observe something like a photon, you have to interact with it and that is what changes its behavior. Observation on the quantum level is not passive. It's an active uh thing. Um and so yeah, the double slit I talk about this in my quantum mysticism is stupid video. If anyone is interested in more of this kind of stuff, check out that video. Uh I go over all of these common misconceptions about these landmark experiments. Okay, let's move on to there is no linear time. Uh what tell us about time dude? That's just an illusion that we create for ourselves to experience this linearity of time but actually everything's happening now. I don't believe that there's a different universe for every decision point we made. The >> every everything is happening now. Everything is happening simultaneously even though no it definitely isn't. And if it was, you could demonstrate it somehow. You could make some kind of prediction that those of us stuck in linear time would have to grapple with, would have to reckon with when you say exactly what's going to happen at any given moment in the future. Uh or or observe something in the past that would be impossible to observe. Um no, you can't do any of that. you're just spewing mumbo jumbo to sound deep >> that you can jump into different decision points and not I'm not of that. What I do believe though is that what is explicable uh from the perspective of Mandela effect which is when a group of people have a memory of something that didn't really happen like millions of people like people remember Nelson Mandela's death in the 1980s it never happened I mean he died in the 2000 something he didn't die in the 80s but people remember watching his funeral they remember watching it for hours and mourning it and everything like millions of people well as you move into higher frequency the world around you shifts to that frequency. As you move into higher dimension, the world around you starts to shift to that new reality. >> Okay. Yeah, there he's they're doing it again. I'm pretty sure that that was exactly the first sound bite of the video. Um, doesn't mean anything. And this [\h__\h] Mandela effect that conspiracy theorists like to talk about, like it's not that hard to wrap your head around the idea that people can remember something incorrectly. they can remember wrong things and then that spreads mimemetically through society. uh people talk and then that affects the collective consciousness right it's not happening in a vacuum like it's like I remember when I was uh when I was like a teenager people would say this phrase correctly they would say I couldn't care less they would say I couldn't care less about blah blah blah which is the right way to say it and then slowly I observed this happening and I became very perplexed that around college age or like in my 20s or at some point everyone started saying I could care less. I could care less. But it's like, no, you couldn't care less. If you could care less, that means that you care some. Um, so obviously what happened is that a few people started saying it incorrectly. That spread and more and more people started saying it incorrectly because language is a shared phenomenon, right? We learn we learn it from others and we're influenced by the way others use language. And then all of a sudden, you know, or not all of a sudden, it took a little while, but over some number of years or or or however long it took, uh, it spread like a virus and now [\h__\h] everybody says I could care less. Everybody says the wrong thing. Is that the Mandela effect? No, it's just like it's sociology. So whatever that I actually I mean I was a kid in the 80s so I don't remember the Nelson Mandela thing but there's other examples like uh burn barrenstein bears Bernstein bears or it's just people remembered something wrong and then shared their incorrect recollection with other people and that infected everyone with this incorrect like it's not like how how like how far gone do you have to be to believe in some magical ical revision of of time and history over just oh people knew a wrong thing seriously of your perspective. So that also creates changes retrocausally so that throughout time you literally live in what people would refer to as a different timeline. things change. Things that you might remember from the past, [music] now you look them up. Like, Luke, I am your father. Which was the famous line, right? He didn't really say that. Go back and look. I remember growing up with Jiffy Peanut Butter. There's no Jiffy Peanut Butter. There's GIF. these very slightly different nuanced things that I remember so strongly like Freze stuff like so you stuff you put with the drying you know it's not spelled the way that we thought or the Flintstones right it's all these things are retrocausally changed no they're not people just remember wrong things and share the wrongness with other people and the wrongness spreads okay Luke I am your father like yeah it's that's Not the exact quote, but people just said it and then other people heard people saying it wrongly and then repeated it. Like, come on, man. Like, just it's so easy to explain. You have to work so hard to not accept the most trivial and obvious explanation for things like this. As you move into higher dimension, your past, present, and future now reflects the new frequency that you're at. and things that were not part of that frequency, little aspects of it start to dissolve in you. You are not at a frequency. You can't go into a higher dimension. None of this means anything. We live in three spatial dimensions. Anyone who has observed a fourth, bring me some evidence for that. Right? If you can if you've uh if you've uh seen and touched a hyper cube, can you bring it back for us? I sure would like to see it. Uh, I sure would like to wrap my head around a fourth spatial dimension. I'm pretty sure the human brain is incapable of that. Um, and there's no I I mean, uh, I think that they like to use things like string theory, uh, as an excuse for why the like it's it's these higher dimensions that are that are curled up in the three spatial ones that we are familiar with that are hypothesized in in in these theoretical constructs. Um, but they take that as an excuse to go to pretend that a higher dimension is like like going like heaven is another dimension, right? You can be transported to another realm. Um, uh, it just it doesn't mean anything. You can't be at a higher frequency. That doesn't mean anything. Frequency of what? What are you talking about? Uh, none of this means anything in the past and in the future. So, it's not that I'm jumping through different timelines, per se, because in one lifetime, I decided to be with one woman in another uh circumstance. The guy can't spell woman. Uh, by the way, um, yeah, this is this is uh like like you're pretending that Back to the Future Part Two is like on the table for like how we are actually discussing how time works. Um yeah, time travel to the past not possible and uh this is a fun experiment for you with different women but sure I decided in the same lifetime to be with a different one and so I could jump into a different lifetime if it didn't work out for me one way or another. No, I don't believe that. What I believe is that as we raise consciousness, the reality around us through all dimensions of time also changes it. >> What is raising consciousness? Can you explain to me what that means in a way that isn't just utterly vague [\h__\h] Uh describe for mechanistically uh with physical phenomena what consciousness is. Um how do you quantify it? How do you raise the number of what that is? Uh yeah, I know you can't do it. I'm just kidding. >> It's a mind-blower. No matter how you look at it, I can go through the detail right of okay, here's what you do. But I think throughout time when people come to this understanding, they don't explain in the end all the scientific methods that they derived it and how their perception shifted. >> Of course, of they don't they don't explain it scientifically. No, that's a waste of time. That's totally not me deflecting for for the fact that I have zero ability to describe any of this with any uh w with any true scientific basis. I'm just throwing out buzzwords. But in the meantime, let's let's this is clearly the pivot. Uh there's people in understanding and compassion and empathy, reduce negativity, meditation, manifestation, manifestation. You guys, this is let's pivot to the self-help grift, right? If you can understand these deep truths about the universe and the quantum realm that I that I am that I am bestowing upon you, you can manifest whatever you want. Right? buy my book, buy my video series, come to my expensive seminar where all I do is uh vomit all this jargon uh onto your face and you sit there and nod and go, "Wow, I'm learning and I'm totally going to make my life super awesome because of your super cool motivational speaking." What they say is the result of it, which is yes, they'll always say that we're in an illusion. And that I kind of had an inkling of quite some time ago. And then finally it really locked into place. And uh okay uh this fabric of the universe and apparently the backdrop against which reality plays out is a hologram. Uh so a hologram is not an illusion. So uh an illusion is something that does not exist. Uh the hol this is okay maltena. Uh so yeah holographic. [sighs] All right. All right. I don't know a lot about it, but we're talking about a projection. It's like a It's a projection from a two-dimensional surface to create a three-dimensional construct. It's something like that. I don't remember about it, but that's not that's not elucery, right? Have you seen a hologram? It exists, right? Yeah. Yeah. Totally. It's I think what I said is right because we're talking about something. It's it is flat, but it appears to be three-dimensional. Um, yeah. Uh, not nothing elucory about it. You're just vaguely referencing physics you don't understand that has absolutely [\h__\h] nothing to do with what you're saying to make it seem like your magic is science. That's the essence of quantum mysticism, right? Uh, physics uh, physics seems like magic because you don't understand it. So, if I can describe magic using physics terminology, ma my magic is real and you can use it to get that promotion or get that date with that girl you want, right? Uh, bunch of [\h__\h] Bunch of [\h__\h] >> And now science is actually paring exactly that. But >> no, no, it is not. >> What they do say is that it's all about the transcendence of judgment, the transcendence of duality. this notion of looking at the world as being either good or evil. It's realizing also that the things that we judge negatively are the things that we attract in our lives over and over again. We literally become a hammer that's seeking a nail of our own self- validation of being a light worker, right? The thing that's going to fight the bad thing when all along maybe you're the designer of your own game experience. All of it for the you can have the great the big apartment and the cat and the money and two babes. Not one but two. Look at [laughter] this [\h__\h] man. It's like the IQ of the person that's just like, "Oh, he said a bunch of science stuff, so if I buy his book or go to his seminar, I can have the nice apartment and the and the cash and the two girls." Like this is this is how dumb th this is the demographic that he is catering to. Uh he like he can't spell it out more. I mean, okay, he didn't I guess. Okay, somebody else made this video. He didn't make it, but it doesn't matter. Like this is this is what this grift is, right? If you can quantum transmogriphy your vibration to the frequency of the higher higher plane of the flower of life of the blah blah blah, you can bang hot chicks. Like that's what it is. That's what this grift is. the benefit of your own conscious expansion and to realize and remember who we are and also to realize that the reason we're here is not to learn more judgments but rather we're here to learn how to love. We're here to learn how to love and how to receive love because that's really what happens when we look at ourselves. The things we don't like about ourselves start projecting over and over and over again in the world around us because those aspects of the higher self of us of the self the full self when you are in your complete authentic nature combining both the part of the you that you want the world to see in one light like I had my LinkedIn on one aspect and then I had my Instagram on another. When you finally combine and become the authentic you and you fall in love with your experience, that's when you become enlightened because then you fall in love with everything around you as well. It's a love fest. Even when bad things happen to you, you realize, well, wait a minute. Throughout time, what I thought was a bad thing that happened to me actually turned out to be one of the best things that ever happened to me. So, yeah, bad things are good things. When somebody murdered my entire family, that was actually a good thing. What a [\h__\h] vacuous and tr like it's just it always it's this longass pseudocientific preamble to just the most trivial like oh don't have anger have love instead. Just have love. It's so much better to have love and and just expect people to go, "Oh, yeah, quantum physics and so love." Like, it's just there's nothing in there's there's not even an attempt to say something even remotely insightful after all of that [\h__\h] Like, it's just there's nothing here. So, time has this aspect of polarity and it's just like music if you know musical interval. So I could play a note C and then go to E. And that's the one of the most beautiful chords in music. It's called a major third, but it's inverse. And most people when they hear a major third, which is just da da. And often you'll hear it with a perfect fifth. Da da da. Right? And you play all three together on a piano. Sounds great. Fabulous. Whoa. It's like love. Ah, it's awesome. But if you play them backwards, if you go in a descending arc on that, so I just played an ascending by going da da da. If I do a descending arc of that and inverse the order of it, so it becomes instead of C to E, it goes from E to C and it's going down. That becomes a m a minor 6. >> You okay? Uh no. So if you go ascending and descending with the same notes, it's the same [\h__\h] chord. If you go d and d, it's the same [\h__\h] chord. And whatever jackass made this video change the G to a G sharp. That's a different note. It's a different chord. So I don't know like that. That's obviously the guy talking didn't make this, but um no, if you change the order, you like you can like when you outline a chord with an arpeggio, it doesn't become a different chord as you go up and down D. It's the same [\h__\h] chord. You're just arpeggiating it. Um god damn it. Like they always go to music. They always try to make these analogies with music and they always [\h__\h] it up every time. God damn it. Minor 6 is negative. People when they listen to that they're like, "Oh, that sounds like heartbreak." So, isn't that interesting that chords of music one direction through time because the only difference in music could be like a time tracker is that I play the order different. It's not a different order. They're different [\h__\h] notes. Look at the goddamn thing. It's It's C and G and C and G sharp or A flat, right? a flat minor 6. They're different [\h__\h] intervals. It's not a different order. They're different notes. Like, what are you talking about? You put the the person making the video. How are you this stupid? You're literally lighting up different notes. And below it, it says, "I played the order different. You didn't play the order different. You changed the notes. It's a different chord." It is fascinating to think about why uh why uh why major chords sound happy and minor chords sound sad and and and the cultural context in which we arrive at that and how that actually does change from from culture to culture. Right? There are cultures which do not uh treat uh minor uh a minor key as as sad but actually some as triumphant or other some other emotion. Um, but uh this jackass doesn't have the the the cognitive ability to uh wrap his head around something like that. He's busy talking about I played the order different. It's a different chord. No, it [\h__\h] isn't. God damn it. But the same two notes that I play, I play in the descending order through time and it turns from joy and love to sadness and heartbreak. What does that say to us? What it says is that the experience we have of love houses and embeds the seed of heartbreak. The experience of sadness has within it the seed of love and joy. Because I don't know how chords work. Sadness equals joy. You guys, what a what a [\h__\h] words of wisdom here. What a guru. What a sage. What a wise sage this man is. And that's true across all chords of music. And what I'm going to tell you about the pyramids is that there are chords in music, right? The major third that I just told you is five over four relationship. It's 1.25. 5 / 4. It's simple. So if you take the hertz frequency of a C note, multiply by 1.25, you're going to get an E note in Pythagorean tuning. It's perfect. Now, if we take the inverse of these and we start looking at all of these different relationships, a perfect fifth would be da da da. So that's the first and the third note. So it's da da. >> It's not you you said a perfect fifth and then you're doing a triad. The guy just if you don't know music, don't talk about music. Don't pretend that you understand music. And what the [\h__\h] does a pyramid have to do with this? Like he's just like here's a here's you know par pyramids are cool, right? Pyramids are cool and music is cool. These are all cool things. So the [\h__\h] I'm saying must be true because it's over a backdrop of of cool things. Yeah. That's a perfect fifth. Perfect fifth means stability. It's stability. You feel secure, stable, safe. That >> How is it stability? Why isn't an octave stability? A a fifth is is stability but not an octave. What is an octave then? Is it uh is it uh vanity? I don't know what like you just pick a random word and you say duh a fifth is stability obviously right I like why why is it stability what's so stable about a fifth that's not the same with a third or or an octave right I I would I would I would arbitrarily choose the octave is the most stable feels that way to me that is a relationship of three over two and then the sound that we have when Darth Vader enters the room is what I already did. That is a diminished fifth, [music] which is like the most terrible sound of music because it always makes you feel like a villain just entered. It's a reframe on everything in your life because now everything that happens to you isn't happening to you. You chose it. So, stop asking why did this happen to me and start asking why did I choose it? And if you're an athlete, a some uh some jerk slammed their car into me on the freeway and now I'm paralyzed. Why did I choose that? Why did I choose paralysis? It's because I really want paralysis and not because it was a freak accident that wasn't my fault at all. Like this is it's just the the the [laughter] like the the the whiplash of going from here's some notes, therefore you choose bad things that happen to you. Where the [\h__\h] does this guy get the balls to talk like this? You're not going to go into a sport where you're not going to be challenged. You're going to go into a sport that's going to tear the muscle. You're going to go into an area where you're going to be challenged because that's the most fun. when you finish that game or that sport, you're like, "Whoa, that was tough, but I did it." So, we cannot assume how everyone would assume to come into this world and what they would assume that they would want to experience. When when you finish a sport, you're like, "Yeah, I did it." Uh, guy clearly has never played any sports either. How How do you finish a sport? When are you finished with a sport? When you finish a game, you could just play another game after that. When you finish a race, what's the next race? Like just like how can someone be so like every single sentence is either objectively wrong or cripplingly vacuous. It's like it's it's almost a skill to be to sound this [\h__\h] dumb when you talk. Now, Helen Keller is a good example of this. She was deaf and blind and a parapollegic and yet she came up with Helen Keller was not a paraplegic. Uh what the [\h__\h] are you talking about? Do you just not know what that word means? Uh she had full use of all of her limbs. Uh she was blind and deaf, which holy [\h__\h] that's quite a setback. Um not paraplegic. Why would you say that? Why would you say that Helen Keller was paraplegic? with profound quotes that impacted the world over tens of millions of people by saying the only what was that graphic 880 million people when I mean I don't remember when she was alive but I don't maybe no that can't be the ca that can't be have been the global population at that time had to be more than that whatever tiny detail thing worse than blindness is have sight without vision and I was thinking what would it be like if I couldn't hear what would be worse than not being able to hear and I and I was thinking about Beethoven who saw the legs off his piano so he could write through vibrations the ninth symphony which is one of my favorite symphonies and I that's the moonlight sonata. [laughter] Oh god damn it. Like the person who made this video is even dumber than this jerk who's talking. Like couldn't you get like it's all create it's all uh uh copyright free. He's been dead for more than 75 years. Can't you just put a snippet of the [\h__\h] ninth symphony? Why are you putting Moonlight Sonata in there? [laughter] I can't I can't do it. And I thought, well, the only thing really worse than deafness is probably to be able to hear without empathy. I think that's what the world is missing. What I've tried to do is share my story and my experience. >> Cool little logo, bro. Uh you're trying to share your story and your experience. That's it. Your experience of uh of making up [\h__\h] about physics and and distilling it into absolutely vapid vacuous uh uh self-help to cash in. Uh what a grifter. Look at this jerk. Look at his [\h__\h] grifter face. Goddamn. And to me it's it's been a beautiful journey and it has helped me to reconcile all the things that have in my life I thought were irreconcilable. But sharing it has been powerful because I know I'm just sharing it with the world around me. And it has increased also my empathy towards other people's condition and what they are experiencing because I I don't believe I'm here to judge. I believe I'm here to learn to love and learn how to receive love. And that's what's important. That's what's important. You got to love. You got to have empathy and you got to love. And you also have to be a grifting douchebag uh who sells snake oil. And I don't know. I mean, I I I guess I could have looked this guy up and see like what what he like what he actually does. Like does he have a website? Does he sell, you know, does he sell supplements? Does he, you know, have expensive seminars? I don't know. Worth a Google. had never heard of him. Would prefer to not think about him ever again. Um, but yeah, that's that's uh yeah, that's that's more or less what I expect. Actually, to be honest, it was a little light on the quantum mysticism. He just kind of uh dabbled in it and then and pretty quickly pivoted to the self-help stuff. I mean, he did all the the music uh [\h__\h] but that was not uh that's not your traditional quantum uh jargon. So yeah, that was uh you know um I I don't know that that just that just irritates the hell out of me. Hopefully you enjoyed uh that a little bit. As I said, this is this was just I wanted to give you guys something to enjoy as I'm uh am working on I have about at least four uh pretty meaty uh debunks planned that will be released within the month. Um I think you guys are going to like those. So, uh, none of the targets will be terribly surprising. They're kind of continuing on some threads that I've been, uh, working on lately. Um, but they're good ones. They're important ones. and uh yeah, just kind of getting closer to um unraveling a lot of the uh [clears throat] transfer of power that's been happening and the state sanctioned uh pseudocience and um really nasty predatory stuff uh that has to be addressed. So, I've been working on that. Uh you know, this is something that you know, I've been sitting here for uh yeah, it was a little while for what 50 minutes or something like that. Um, but uh, yeah, I don't know that just a little that was more than anything a break for me from working on some of these scripts. So, kind of fun. Hope you had fun and I'll see you next