Hey everyone, as you know by now, chemist and proponent of intelligent design James Tour wasn’t a fan of the debunk I made regarding his anti-science attack on origin of life research, so he made a 14-part series about how dumb I am in retaliation. Well, it was hilariously stupid from top to bottom, so I’ll need a second video to get through all the errors and all the lies. In the first video we examined his self-professed expertise in the field to show that in actuality he has none, and then we talked about all the research he ignores regarding homochirality. So now let’s move on to major theme number three, and the one that James spends the most time on. In contradiction with my claim that biomolecules are trivial to make, he insists that they are very difficult to make, or even impossible to make without pre-existing biological systems, or the more silent implication, divine intervention. In making these claims, he either ignores or misrepresents enormous amounts of research on the subject. And of course he starts off by misrepresenting my video. He plays the following clip an excessive number of times throughout his series: Any biomolecule is easy to synthesize. Jim knows this he’s a synthetic chemist. This of course is in response to where James had said this. James: First of all, we don’t know how to build the molecules, the four classes of molecules that are needed for it. This is ridiculous, and being caught saying this ridiculous thing, he has to qualify it somehow. James: Well first of all, every video where I’ve spoken on this has been a video on abiogenesis. The questions were abiogenesis. So when you pull one sentence out of context, yeah, you’re gonna get that. Of course he can pretend to have been taken out of context, but then why also say this? James: Any biomolecule is easy to synthesize is as wrong as wrong can be. That is probably the most wrong statement in that entire video that we’re looking at. That is the most wrong statement. Any synthetic chemist is gonna probably just be getting up out of their chair right now, because their palpitations caused them to collapse on the ground, to hear a statement, any biomolecule is easy to synthesize. Well which is it, James? Are biomolecules easy to make and you did in fact mean they are difficult to make prebiotically, or are you doubling down on the idea that they are so super hard to make, and every chemist in the world would agree with that statement with no qualifiers? You can’t have it both ways. Not surprisingly, he plays the latter approach pretty hard, given the number of times he plays this clip so as to set up lectures within his irrelevant expertise as a baseless flex. Of course I was simply talking about the main classes of biomolecules shown here, and not the random synthetic targets he focuses on throughout the series that are totally irrelevant to prebiotic chemistry. He goes even further, launching into a diatribe about how laboratory peptide and nucleic acid syntheses are so overwhelmingly complex. James: That’s how these syntheses are done. This is not easy. Just because you have a machine to do it, it’s not easy. The machine has to do a lot of things that’s based on chemistry that people have programmed into it, and put into it. Quite clearly, he is missing the point. When I said it is easy to get peptides and nucleic acids, this is true. Again, we have machines that make them for us. That doesn’t mean the technology isn’t amazing. It means it has become a routine and trivial exercise for specialists in a well-equipped lab. Is it easy to fly from Los Angeles to New York? Yes. You buy a ticket on your phone, go to the airport, sit in a chair doing nothing, and six hours later you’re there. Easy. Trivial. Does it mean that airplanes and associated technologies are not incredible? No. The same goes for peptide synthesis. You go up to the machine, load the cartridges of amino acids, make sure the solvent cans are full, dial in the sequence, and go home. The next day you cleave the peptide from the resin, shoot it through an HPLC for purification, and by lunch you have your pure peptide. Minutes of effort, and a routine operation. We make certain peptide drugs and oligonucleotide drugs by the kilo this way. We are producing billions of doses of COVID vaccines which have synthetic mRNA in them. It’s no problem. So given that he now must pretend he meant that we are clueless in a prebiotic context, which is also false, what does he resort to? James: The reason you can make polypeptides, the reason you can hook amino acids together, is because you buy the amino acids from a company that has isolated them from a natural source through the digestion of proteins. Through the cleaving of the amide bonds there in the proteins. These were all obtained from living systems. They were taken from biology, but when you don’t have that, what are you gonna do? Right, all biomolecules like amino acids are so super hard to make, and we can only isolate them from living things. False. There are plenty of ways to make them via a racemic synthesis followed by resolution, or by enantioselective synthesis, and then there are biocatalytic syntheses and industrial fermentation methods which utilize living organisms. Using one method because it’s cheaper doesn’t mean the other one doesn’t exist. It is also totally irrelevant to bring up the fact that chemists buy reagents from commercial suppliers, as though this invalidates their work. When scientists are focusing on a very specific research problem, that’s their focus. They don’t have to synthesize all of their materials from scratch in order to investigate that one problem. That would be insane. Different scientists work on different problems. This is like saying architects shouldn’t be able to claim they are able to build a house unless they personally go and chop down all the trees to get the lumber, and mine all the ores that will be used for the steel. Or that chefs shouldn’t claim they can cook food if they don’t personally hunt and farm all their ingredients. These are different tasks that can and should be done by different people. Ok, so let’s start with amino acids and peptides. We have known for decades now that amino acid formation is no problem. Again, we can literally see them and many other biologically relevant molecules in space. They form in outer space. Then of course there is the Miller-Urey experiment, which showed that amino acid formation on early Earth would have been no problem, and in the previous video we outlined multiple routes for their deracemization. Now for the peptides. I talked about this briefly in my original video, and he didn’t like it. James: You’re gonna do condensation reactions in water? I don’t understand why some would suggest that you do condensation reactions in an ocean like this, in water. How can that be? Tell me about that. How do you do condensation reactions in water? Have you any references on these claims? Uh oh, someone didn’t do his homework. Peptide synthesis in water is not a problem, James, because it is not a matter of equilibrium. He bets I don’t have any papers on this, but sorry, I have many. Here are just a few. First, one by Chen and Yang from 2006. What does that say? Condensation of amino acids to form peptides in aqueous solution. Whoopsie. The introduction even refers to a variety of prior studies that have done this as early as 1978. This one uses sulfites and sulfur dioxide for activation, and it goes through the validation of multiple different sources of sulfur. Scheme 3 and Table 3 show the reaction and observed products. In their conclusion they stress that this is a probable candidate for prebiotic peptide formation, while supporting the hypothesis of involvement from volcanic vents. James stated multiple times that he would grant oxidizing or reducing conditions for abiogenesis, but let’s say you don’t like the conditions used here. Let’s try some others. Here’s one from 2016 dealing with carbonyl sulfide. This bit on the last page is quite relevant, saying that the self-assembly of peptides is well-studied, observed under a variety of settings, including prebiotic conditions, and that the amyloid-like precipitates studied here reveal an unexpected ease of creating a higher-order structure. And of course beyond these techniques in water, James displays his total lack of imagination regarding any relevant environmental processes or geological surfaces. To start, let’s check in with Lee Cronin again regarding peptide formation using wet-dry cycles. Lee: So peptides, proteins are made of peptides, and the way you make peptides is you take things called amino acids and you put them together. In the chemistry laboratory we cheat and use activating agents, and we heat them up quite hard, and we use these agents to make them. But what we showed, is if you could just put the amino acids together and dry them out, and have cycles with water and drying them, you could actually make these proteins with no activation. And actually for me that was kind of obvious, right, everyone was saying, oh it’s hard to make the proteins, it was a kind of hard, of easy, sorry, they said it was hard, it was obviously easy to challenge that by changing the conditions. And that’s what systems chemistry is teaching us. It’s not just about keeping, doing chemistry under one condition, by varying the conditions, by making dissipative, or having cycles, we could do interesting things. And so the really nice thing about this, you’ve got these amino acids, you add water, you don’t make any proteins, you don’t make any peptides. You dry them down, then you start to get formation. Then when you make them wet again, they fall apart slightly but slowly, and then you dry them down and they reform again. And you think about this kind of wet, dry, wet, dry, actually what you get is a type of basic evolution where it’s almost a bit like if you’ve got a piece of clay and you’re trying to mold it around a shape, and you let it dry out and harden, and it’s not quite right, but then you make it damp and then push it a bit more and it gets better and better over the cycles. And of course some, there are night/day cycles on Earth, and things get hot and things get cold, and there’s rainfall. So you can imagine how cycles are very important for driving complex chemistry and that’s exactly what this paper did. And when we published that, there were three or four other people who published similar stuff almost at the same time. So we were kind of happy that there was already a community of people that recognized we could move things along. Then, there’s even the notion that prebiotic peptide bond formation can occur in absence of bulk solvent entirely. Here’s a paper from 2020 using mechanochemistry. This time we see that “mechanical forces and prebiotically plausible and ubiquitous minerals as activators enable the oligomerization of amino acids such as glycine in the absence of bulk water and at ambient temperature”. What’s that James? You haven’t heard of ball milling? Well as you can see from these figures, this requires an understanding of geological processes, which is why you don’t know anything about it. And how about this approach from Bruce Lipshutz of UC Santa Barbara. He’s a synthetic organic chemist, just like you, James! He has devised some interesting methods using designer surfactants to form peptide bonds in water at room temperature. James: I really want the synthetic chemists, my synthetic chemist colleagues to critique me. Is there something that I’m teaching in here that’s synthetically incorrect? Let me know. Well you asked for it. So let’s chat with Bruce a little bit. Bruce: This is not new. What we have advanced of course are designer surfactants that enable synthetic chemistry to take place. But it’s within this overall realm of biological-like molecules that have been around forever, that enable chemistry to take place in water, and that includes chemistry that leads to the extrusion of water. And so for example if we have a reaction that generates water, cycloaromatization for example we’ve done, the byproduct is water. Now it’s counterintuitive one would say, well how could you do that? You’re in water. Doesn’t the water shift the equilibrium such that it’s almost impossible to kick out water when you’re in water? Well the answer is no, it’s not impossible, in fact it happens all the time, because we are inside of a hydrophobic pocket. The water is surrounding, the soap, the micelle, the vesicle, the surfactant, whatever you wanna call it, it’s surrounding it. But it doesn’t matter. So when a reaction generates water as a byproduct, a condensation reaction we talk about all the time in sophomore organic chemistry, it doesn’t matter, that water gets kicked out into the water. But no problem, because inside of that pocket, that’s actually the driving force to kick that water out. The fact that it goes into the water is irrelevant. There’s no shifting of any equilibrium, the reaction is over, the product is made. Beyond what Bruce said about involvement with lipids, peptide coupling with a suitable activator in water is exergonic, so this chemistry is not specific to hydrophobic pockets. Of course neither those reagents, nor Bruce’s methodology are prebiotically relevant, although the concept sure is, but more importantly they demonstrate that peptide synthesis in water is absolutely not a problem. And given the fact that Bruce is a synthetic organic chemist just like James, and not an origin of life researcher, James has no excuse for being totally unaware of this aqueous chemistry. But beyond this, regarding prebiotic peptide synthesis, we are far from clueless. In fact, we are aware of too many completely plausible pathways to be able to say with certainty which one occurred. That sentence pretty well summarizes the current state of origin of life research, as we will continue to see in assessing the other biomolecules. But to continue briefly with proteins, beyond being clueless as to their synthesis, James also oddly pretends that they fall apart in water. James: But when that enzymes degrades, and proteins do degrade in water… This is totally idiotic, since they objectively do not degrade at a significant rate, or life could not exist. The activation energy for peptide bond cleavage under ambient conditions is quite large, and peptide bonds have an average half-life of 7 years at room temperature. Here’s a JACS paper from 1988 to prove it. Figure 1 shows the radiolabeled polymer-bound amide they used, and the rate constant they calculated can be applied to get the half-life we mentioned for a model peptide bond. Naturally enzymes can cleave peptide bonds, that’s how life does it. But without a catalyst, peptides are extremely stable hydrolytically, so James is just dead wrong yet again. He is mixing up kinetics and thermodynamics, something that even an undergraduate student might be embarrassed about. Isn’t that right, James? James: Huh? Of course yet again, James has to pretend not only that he knows what he’s talking about, but that other scientists agree with him, which they don’t. That’s why James brings up the work of Matthew Powner, but in a totally misleading manner. James: There was a paper published in Nature in July, 2019, by Matthew Powner. Now let me just say, Matthew Powner is an excellent synthetic chemist. I only have the greatest things to say about that young man. Great synthetic chemist. Quite predictably, James props Powner up for two reasons. One, to appear like a reasonable, respectful person, and two, because he is about to pretend that they are in agreement, when in reality he is just quote mining him. James: Peptide biosynthesis is now orchestrated by a complex host of genetically encoded enzymes. But it is inconceivable that these sophisticated and coordinated molecules suddenly emerged at the origin of life. It is inconceivable! To a great synthetic chemist who is publishing his synthetic chemistry papers in nature, he says it is inconceivable that these sophisticated But to some, who put out YouTube videos, this is very, very simple. Very simple. He grabs the word inconceivable out of context, shouting it repeatedly like a preacher, pretending that Powner is saying it is inconceivable that peptides can have come about by prebiotic means, in a paper where he is outlining their synthesis by prebiotic means. What kind of a stunt is this? To anyone who actually takes one full minute to read the abstract for themselves, it is very obvious that he is saying it is inconceivable that peptides initially arose through the same complex mechanisms by which they form today. He wasn’t saying it is inconceivable that they formed at all. He is an origin of life researcher. He isn’t debunking his own field in the abstract of his own paper. I don’t know what’s more depressing, that James thinks his audience is stupid enough to fall for this, or that they actually are. The most hilarious thing is that he then continues on to discuss more of the paper that contradicts what he just said a moment before, knowing that his viewers won’t even know what he’s talking about. He even quotes the section that references “previously reported prebiotic peptide bond forming reactions”, like the ones we discussed a moment ago, and then shows the relevant diagrams, basically conceding that this is a valid method of peptide formation, so he then just whines about how it doesn’t also address homochirality. James: To afford racemic and mixed diastereomeric products. He doesn’t solve at all the stereochemical problem. None of this is solved. Shift those goalposts, James. That’s all you can do when the research is staring you in the face. Things do not get any better when he tries to discuss nucleotides and nucleic acids. Starting with the former, he insists that there are no prebiotically relevant routes to nucleotides. James: Small molecules, synthesis, and you form your RNA nucleotide. How? When you’re making a video like this, how do you just say synthesis? Show me! You got a reference on that? Do you have a reference on that? Well let’s consult the literature. We already covered this paper from Donna Blackmond, which once again gives us the building blocks for RNA. Plenty of other work has been done in this area. Here’s a paper from 2019 in Science on the unified prebiotically plausible synthesis of both pyrimidine and purine RNA ribonucleotides. Here is a detailed figure outlining the syntheses from prebiotically plausible molecules. There are many other such papers, and James conveniently ignores all of them, knowing none of his viewers will ever lift a finger to check for themselves. As for nucleotide polymerization, James is equally incredulous. James: And then they polymerize. How do they polymerize? They don’t just spontaneously polymerize. Cuz you’ve got these two free hydroxyl groups. Those are gonna compete. And how do you get these different bases? So you’re gonna mix all of these different ones with different bases? And why don’t these free hydroxyl groups compete? Why doesn’t this hydroxyl group compete? Well again, the literature is quite clear on this. But surprise, surprise, it involves geochemistry James doesn’t understand. Remember, he didn’t seem to like my discussion of tidal pools, and mocked it as though it was of my own invention, claiming that no origin of life researchers would back me up. James: So there’s a lot of speculation here, but it couldn’t come from your favorite place, your tidal pool. Well, sorry James, I didn’t make it up. There are dozens of papers describing this concept, even in top journals. Here’s one from 2015 in Astrobiology. The introduction references geophysical conditions that are conducive to the origin of life, including precipitation on volcanic landmasses that produces “hydrothermal fields characterized by geysers, hot springs, and clay-lined freshwater pools”. It references the cyclic fluctuations that would be relevant between the minerals, water, and atmosphere. Table 1 compares the merits and limitations of this venue vs. deep sea hydrothermal vents, which is food for thought. Here’s one from 2019 in Life that specifically deals with polymerization of nucleotides. The first bit references prebiotic reactions that would produce important amphiphilic molecules, the formation of RNA oligomers, and their encapsulation in vesicles. The paper goes on to discuss nucleotide polymerization without lipids as well, first referencing other previous work that has demonstrated this happening on montmorillonite. Remember in my original video when I talked about polymerization on hot clay? That’s this. It also talks about “the protective effect of minerals that protect RNA from degradation” and references the enhanced stability of RNA adsorbed on silicon dioxide when compared with RNA in solution. In reality, all the common talking points against the RNA world hypothesis have been addressed by many researchers, but this 2012 paper neatly counters all of them, from prebiotic RNA synthesis, to instability, propensity for catalysis, and all the rest. James must not be aware of such literature or he probably wouldn’t say things like this: James: How long is that gonna last? How long’s that RNA, not gonna last ten thousand years. Even after a day you’re gonna have a bunch of decomposition. Like, within a few hours. Remember, it’s supposed to be stored at -112 degrees Fahrenheit, or -80 degrees Centigrade? And then what are you gonna do? Tell me what happens. Tell me about the RNA hypothesis, this mumbo jumbo about RNA hypothesis. How somehow this is life. You wanna try to explain that to me? We also see in section 5 of the Life paper that they use an apparatus to simulate prebiotic conditions, so when James complains that researchers are always unfairly using pristine lab conditions that don’t correlate with reality, he’s just wrong. James: To do degassing you need a vacuum pump. No vacuum pumps on early Earth. There was an atmosphere. How are you gonna just make the atmosphere go away? This is supposed to be a prebiotically relevant synthesis. He is clearly missing the point of what researchers are doing in such scenarios, because this apparatus has to simulate cycles associated with geothermal hot springs and fluctuating pools. There are other such cycles we will see later that have to do with things like plate tectonics, and even geochemical cycles involving cycling of gases and other such phenomena that must be simulated. So these types of experimental setups are not “cheating”, as James frequently claims, pretending that in order to be prebiotically relevant we should just throw everything into a tub and walk away. James: The ideal experiment has no human interaction. This is how scientists replicate or mimic specific physical and environmental conditions that are relevant to the research question. You know, science? Beyond these types of experimental setups, David Deamer’s team has been doing relevant research in the field for many years now, carrying out vesicle formation at Yellowstone, as well as RNA polymerization and encapsulation in vesicles through wet dry cycling in actual hot spring conditions in New Zealand, as is described in this paper. So James should be thrilled to hear that the “pristine lab conditions” he is always whining about have indeed been expanded into prebiotic analog settings, achieving similar results and in some cases even greater polymer yields than in the lab. The gel electrophoresis data clearly shows the formation of RNA-like polymers. This is experimental evidence that polymerization reactions do occur within drying films, and upon rehydration the polymers become encapsulated within membranous compartments to form vast populations of protocells that can undergo selection and evolution. For still more we turn to a very recent paper from another Nobel laureate, Jack Szostak, which outlines the emergence of RNA from the heterogeneous products of prebiotic nucleotide synthesis. This one solves the problem of RNA needing to be formed in homogeneous fashion from a specific type of nucleotide out of a mixture of substrates. This diagram outlines the nonenzymatic template-directed primer extension that was observed to enrich for homogeneous RNA over the course of multiple cycles of replication. They try altered nucleobases and sugar moieties, variations in backbone connectivity, but to summarize, this study demonstrates clearly how in complete absence of any enzymes a chemical selection mechanism arose that allowed relatively homogeneous RNA to emerge from a complex mixture of prebiotically synthesized nucleotides and oligonucleotides. Of course throughout this series, James expresses his disdain for the work of Nobel laureates like Jack, and this animosity is nothing new. A couple years ago James got in some heat for mocking Jack at one of his sermons, even calling him a liar, while lying himself numerous times. James: You say well that’s a book from 2009. Well let me show you the primary literature. 2018 in the journal Nature. This is our top journal. You wanna see what Nature will publish in this area? None of us could get away with this, except origin of life researchers do. This guy is Nobel laureate Jack Szostak. Here’s what he writes on “How did life begin?” Let’s go through it. I’m interested in it, how did life begin? I mean, the guy’s the Nobel prize winner, he must know. The early atmosphere had no oxygen. It consisted mainly of nitrogen, carbon dioxide, and smaller amounts of hydrogen, water, and methane. Lightning, asteroid impacts, UV light from the sun, acted on the atmosphere to generate hydrogen cyanide, a compound of hydrogen, carbon, and nitrogen. Raining into volcanic or crater lakes, the cyanide reacted with iron brought up by water circulating through rocks. The resulting iron-cyanide compounds accumulated over time, building up into a concentration stew of reactive chemicals. Ok, cool. Where are we. Life as we know it, requires RNA. Some scientists believe that RNA emerged directly from these reactive chemicals, nudged along by dynamic forces in the environment. Huh? Nudged has no, you can’t put nudged in any of our articles. No scientist knows what nudged means. They don’t know. Nucleotides, the building blocks of RNA, eventually formed, then joined together to make strands of RNA. Some stages in this process are not well understood. You think? How do these things hook together? Show me the chemistry. It’s not there. Once RNA was made, some strands of it became enclosed within tiny vesicles formed by the spontaneous assembly of fatty acids (lipids) into membranes, creating the first protocells. As the membranes incorporated more fatty acids, they grew and divided; at the same time, internal chemical reactions drove replication of encapsulated RNA. That is nonsense. Next slide. Here is, next slide, the figure that he showed. This is the figure. From Nature, this is his figure. Cyanide derivatives and simple sugars. Those are not sugars! He says this is oxygen, carbon, nitrogen, phosphorus. That’s fictitious. I don't know any sugars that have that chemical composition. You don’t know that. He’s lying to you. That’s not real. Is this HCN? I mean there should be a carbon, a nitrogen, and a hydrogen if that’s HCN. And you know, I’m color blind, but I can see that’s not really HCN. I don’t know what that is. Maybe that’s phosphate. I can see that’d be phosphorus, oxygen, maybe that’s phosphate. Okay. And then all of a sudden, boom! You get an RNA nucleotide! But the problem is, that’s not a nucleotide! It’s the wrong structure, by far it’s the wrong structure. He didn’t even put the right structure! At least he could have put the right structure! He begrudgingly apologized but apparently didn’t learn his lesson, as he is seen in this series repeating the same absurd accusations, and doubling down about his mischaracterization of some simplified figures he didn’t like, because they were illustrations lacking structural details. The problem is that this was not primary literature, even though James lied and said it was. James: And then you have your base here. Alright? So there’s a lot of things wrong with this. Sorry James, all of these diagrams are just fine for where they are found, an article for nature.com, which clearly is not peer-reviewed research, but rather is specifically for laypeople. The picture at the top of a bird foot coming out of an atom egg, massive dazzling illustrations, and lack of any scientific data should probably have tipped you off to that. But to get back to the structures, again, they are just fine, given that hydrogens and pi bonds are omitted for simplicity. This is glyceraldehyde, the basis for all sugars. These are cyanide derivatives, cyanamide on the left, and cyanoacetylene on the right. This is a nucleotide, cytosine bound to ribose with a phosphate. Look how they line up precisely with the structures in line notation if you ignore hydrogens and pi bonds. This is undeniable. It is truly despicable that James continues to try to justify his rhetoric that day, going so far as to call Jack’s work “utterly ridiculous”. James: Nudged along by dynamic forces in the environment. That is utterly ridiculous. I wonder if it has anything to do with the fact that Jack has a Nobel prize and he doesn’t? Tsk-tsk, James. Envy is aromasin. Continuing, I also made the suggestion in my original video when discussing small pools that an inorganic catalyst displaying chiral faces may have promoted diastereoselective coupling in an imperfectly homochiral environment. James: Mineral surfaces could have acted. So in other words you’re not sure. If you look up mineral surfaces, people have tried this. People have tried to take mineral surfaces, and done enantioselective catalysis. Let me know how well that went. Let me know their enantiomeric excesses. I’d really like to see. It’s way below homochirality, way, way below under the best of conditions in a pristine laboratory. Doesn’t work very well at all. Well James, you are essentially dismissing the dynamic field of heterogeneous catalysis, which accounts for an enormous percentage of industrial synthesis and does indeed utilize reactions with stereochemical control, but of course you will always back pedal to your mutable definition of prebiotic relevance, and so when you complain about how I’m not sure, of course I’m not sure. I wasn’t there. Origin of life research is about providing rational pathways, not repeating the entire several million year process of abiogenesis in the lab. You know this quite well, but like to play dumb anyway, which is quite easy for you here since you don’t seem to know anything about mineral surface catalysis. To begin, consider just the Murchison meteorite. It contains 70 amino acids which arrived on Earth partially resolved. A huge piece of rock, essentially a collection of minerals, containing enantioenriched amino acids. Doesn’t this suggest that chiral mineral surfaces could be functional prebiotic and enantioselective catalysts? It doesn’t take 700 papers to see the relevance here, and whining about low yields or having less than 100% ee will only further demonstrate your inability to comprehend origin of life research, as we’ve mentioned several times by now. There is plenty of literature on the catalytic role of mineral surfaces in this field. For example, here is a review by Hazen which also examines the formation of enantioenriched molecules. Quoting, “Such surfaces provide the most abundant and accessible local chiral geochemical environments, and thus represent logical sites for the prebiotic chiral selection and organization of essential biomolecules.” This is followed by plenty of experimental science, which if you are not bluffing when you say you are aware of them, you seem to flippantly dismiss by just saying “it doesn’t work very well at all.” So if prebiotic mineral catalysis in water doesn’t work as well as peptide formation in a lab or a plant, it’s irrelevant? We are talking about how these first imbalances arose. Hazen says minerals are the obvious choice, and this is supported by experiment. Quoting again: “Nevertheless, the widespread occurrence of local chiral environments provided the prebiotic Earth with innumerable sites for experiments in chiral selection and organization – experiments that may have led, through a process of chiral amplification, to a fortuitous, self-replicating homochiral entity.” So clearly, a racemic mixture of amino acids can lead to diastereomerically enriched peptides, due to the effect of chiral mineral surfaces. Beyond this, to refer to a paper from the previous video once more, no matter what the stereochemical excess, heterochiral polymer mixtures may be subjected to replication at different rates, leading to selection and amplification. This is supported by theoretical studies. These computer simulations suggest that partially enriched biopolymers tend to become homochiral by chemical evolutionary processes. Of course James will just whine about how a simulation is not real experimental support, but it definitely is, since it is a well-established tool for studying selection processes occurring over extremely long time spans. Quoting, “Now computer simulation has become a significant approach in the field of the origin of life: the very reason is just that it is apt at tackling the evolutionary aspect of the procedure.” So again, we don’t even need total homochirality at the monomer level, it can have happened at the polymer level too. Quoting once more: “As the scene suggested in the present study, the arising of homochirality at the polymer level is still more a typical case demonstrating the significance of evolution.” So L-amino acids like to form polymers with other L-amino acids, which is clearly a factor in explaining homochirality. This is not an isolated fact, there are biopolymers containing D-amino acids, for example in bacterial cell walls. This just further demonstrates the versatility and creativity of combinatorial evolutionary chemistry. And all of this strongly supports the role of an initial, even if modest, diastereoselective function provided by differential activation of enantiomeric amino acids on chiral mineral surfaces, as I suggested in far fewer words in my original video for laypeople. Got it, James? James: Huh? Let’s check in with Lee again for how this type of chemistry can yield complex sugar-like molecules and RNA precursors. Lee: So in this paper, in this paper we showed the formose reaction, which is a really simple way of making sugars or a big mess. Normally when you do the reaction, it produces billions of products, literally within a few seconds or hours. When we added minerals, we were able to steer the formation, so not quite so many got made and other interesting things happened. And you could imagine a type of catalysis was occurring. It’s still a bit too complex for us to interrogate, but we showed a number of important things. Number one there was catalysis, number two we are making some interesting biological-like molecules that weren’t present when the minerals weren’t there, and number three we were steering the chemistry, so it wasn’t just getting more and more and more messy, we were able to make it less messy. And that, I think is really important for the onset of evolution. Continuing from there with RNA itself, James hates when people bring up ribozymes. James: The RNA world hypothesis is a bunch of nonsense! Of course given what we’ve already discussed from Joyce and Szostak, I think we’ve said enough here. And finally going back to individual nucleotides, there is the tidbit where I called James out for his weak argument regarding Cannizzaro reactions. He thinks that because sugars undergo these reactions in competition with the formose reaction, prebiotic synthesis of sugars will be a total mess. Well it’s a really weak point, because again, Cannizzaro reactions would not lead to the type of molecules which are known to self-replicate and thus would not be selected for by molecular evolution. Yes, that pesky concept of selection that James pretends doesn’t exist. But furthermore, because I correctly pointed out that such strongly basic conditions are not a given, he had to reference the original paper from 1861 that invokes catalysis by calcium hydroxide, as well as a Wikipedia entry which says that in mineral form it’s rare, but can be found in some rocks, in order to pretend that strong base is indeed a given and inescapable. Well to catch up to current thought, ideas regarding prebiotic synthesis of sugars suggests organocatalysis, not hydroxide ion catalysis. Here’s a paper by Breslow in 2010, about how L-amino acids catalyze the formation of an excess of D-glyceraldehyde and thus of other D-sugars, under credible prebiotic conditions. That’s right, this paper shows experimentally that the formose reaction is likely organocatalytic and employs amino acids like proline as bases. Of course James needs numbers to quantify this excess, and this is listed clearly as 92 to 8. This D center in glyceraldeyde would be carried over into the prebiotic syntheses of larger sugars. And there it is. Breslow solves both the homochirality problem and the Cannizzaro problem. There is plenty of other research that invokes this concept. Here’s another paper where dipeptides catalyze the stereospecific synthesis of tetroses, in a way that is prebiotically relevant. Are you up to date on this stuff, James? James: Huh? By discussing sugars present in nucleotides, we have already moved on to the third class of biomolecules, carbohydrates. Again, his approach focuses on misrepresentation and unrelated tangents. He laughs at the point in my video where I show a polysaccharide which is a homopolymer and pretends I believe that all polysaccharides are homopolymers. James: And carbohydrates consist of the same monomer over and over. It would be hard to be more wrong on that. I’m confused, James. I know you can’t wait to jump to the lab syntheses of oligosaccharides that have nothing to do with abiogenesis, but are we talking about life, or aren’t we? Most biorelevant polysaccharides are homopolymers. You know, cellulose, which is all beta-glucose? All forms of starch, which are all alpha-glucose? Even the ones that are heteropolymers are still repeating disaccharide units, like peptidoglycan and chitin. This is all James can do. Misrepresent people and mock the straw man, knowing his viewers have no clue what he’s talking about. James: And we’ll look at modern methods for making those, not prebiotic methods. They’re really hard to do. All these make it really, really complex to make these things. Really hard to hook these things together. I’m gonna show you that, this is just crazy hard. Of course our ability to synthesize carbohydrates goes way beyond what James describes, who exaggerates the challenge to a cartoonish degree. You can see from this 2017 paper what level of complexity we can handle synthetically. 92 monosaccharide units! These schemes will make your head spin. I rightfully conceded in my video that this is harder than making peptides and nucleic acids, but even still, the process can be automated, just like with the others. Here in JACS in 2020, Peter Seeberger from the Max Planck institute in Berlin describes his automated glycan assembly. Just take a look at the complex targets he can handle automatically, with regiochemical and stereochemical control. So when James says we don’t know how to make complex polysaccharides, it’s just not true. Of course, like with the other biomolecules, this is all moot, because after getting caught pretending we have no idea how to make these molecules in general, he has to then deflect and shift his language to the claim that our syntheses are not prebiotically relevant. How does he do this? He spends virtually his entire 50 minute carbohydrate video dissecting lab syntheses of oligosaccharides and marveling at the complexity of the approach. James: And then you start doing all of these steps, just to do that one little change. These are all human-made steps. And then all of these steps just to do this one little change. And this group is gonna end up coming off anyway. And then you do all of these steps on it, just to, you do all of these steps to do this, and then you start hooking these together. It’s just crazy hard chemistry. Wow! All the protecting groups! All the stereochemical possibilities! Big scary numbers! Yes, for certain targets it can get pretty tricky in the lab. Well you know what really cuts down all those possibilities, James? Enzymes. Remember what we just learned about prebiotic nucleotide synthesis? And about spontaneous polymerization to get RNA? And about ribozyme-catalyzed protein synthesis? There you go. James: Enzymes can do it. Right on the nose, James. Whether considering ribozymes or potentially even protein-based enzymes, some biocatalyst can certainly have come about first to then bring about polysaccharides, which means nature never, ever had to make these by anything remotely resembling any of the synthetic routes you fixate on. We can say that biologically relevant polysaccharides have always exclusively been the product of enzymatic reactions, and there is no problem at all. How about that, Sherlock? James: Huh? Finally let’s move on to lipids. This is probably the weakest part of Jim’s whole series. He spends about half his lipid video attacking a paper by Neal Devaraj, after already using it to try to debunk one of my previous statements about simpler early membranes, which we will get to in a moment. Apparently the paper is great when it suits James and horrible when it doesn’t. In this video it doesn’t, so he resorts to his usual tactics. Where is the yield, how do you purify intermediates, more utter denial of systems chemistry and pretending his own lab is the only game in town for reactions to occur. I found it particularly hilarious when he had a conniption about the part where I show micelles forming spontaneously, saying that “nothing forms spontaneously”. He says this multiple times. James: Nothing arises spontaneously. There’s no selectors, and there’s no spontaneous arising. Nothing arises spontaneously. Chemistry is not like that. Actually, James, everything in nature forms spontaneously, because we are not discussing the tinkering of an omnipotent deity, or are we? What is driving this totally nonsensical statement expressed with such religious fervor? James: Again, this word” spontaneously” here, is a code word for “we have no idea”. It sounds dumber every time you hear it. No, James. Spontaneous is not code for “we have no idea”. It means nature does it on its own without intervention. There are no mechanistic implications, it’s thermodynamics. If nothing happened spontaneously, the word spontaneous would not exist. James: Fatty acids do not arise spontaneously. Also, I was saying that the bilayer formation was spontaneous, I was not talking about the fatty acids themselves. Oh, and let’s see what other dishonesty he can pack in here. He has some arrows here saying that cell membranes are not analogous to soap micelles. Well first of all, yes they are. Bilayers are similar to micelles, and indeed both of them form spontaneously. That’s precisely what you’ve written here, taken from my video, isn’t it? Maybe he means they aren’t identical, and of course they aren’t, which I definitely never implied, that’s why they have different names. But what does he say out loud? James: Furthermore, this is not how soap works, as some have claimed. Um, yes it is James. This is indeed precisely how soap works. He is trying to make his viewers believe that the way I described how soap works is not actually how soap works. Or maybe he really doesn’t know how soap works? Is he just lying through his teeth knowing that his viewers have no clue what’s happening so he can get away with it, or does he know less than a college freshman about this topic? James: Huh? Then he cherry picks a quote out of a review by McCollom, in which the authors cautiously conclude that there are still some unknowns. This is just the language that prudent scientists use. It doesn’t mean we are clueless on prebiotic lipid synthesis, and in fact, here is another paper also by McCollom. Lipid synthesis under hydrothermal conditions by Fischer-Tropsch-type reactions. Yes, this has been demonstrated experimentally, despite his claims to the contrary. Reading from the conclusion, “organic synthesis can proceed quite readily in the presence of water. The lipids which form in these experiments, particularly the long chain alkanoic acids and alcohols, are dominant components of lipid-bilayer membranes of all living cells. Accumulations of these compounds in aqueous environments can coalesce into membrane-like vesicles (micelles) and thus provide precursor substrate for proto-cells.” This is in complete agreement with what I said in my first video about simpler lipids acting as membranes prior to the development of phospholipids. So when James pretends I was pulling that out of thin air, he is just admitting that he hasn’t dug into this topic at all, choosing instead to pull a vague line out of a paper to pretend science is on his side, deliberately ignoring other literature by that very same author, and even the body of that paper itself. James: When membrane phospholipids are added to water, and particularly when they are subjected to shear forces, they undergo a self-assembly to spontaneously form a phospholipid bilayer. First of all, I find it hilarious that James does indeed know how to use the word “spontaneously” when it suits him, and in a way that is absolutely identical to the way I was using it, if you undo his deliberate misrepresentation of what I said. He doesn’t even attempt to hide his hypocrisy here. But second, this is all James can do. Talk about phospholipids present in modern cells and play dumb. The key point that James can’t grasp is that there are dynamic equilibria between micelles and bilayers in the case of single-chain amphiphiles like fatty acids. Therefore early bilayers were formed in part or even completely by single chain amphiphiles. This is not mere speculation as James pretends. They have been shown to form. Yes, bilayers from fatty acids. Here’s a review by Segre called The Lipid World that goes into further detail. This is a long paper but one can just skim the abstract to see how relevant it is to this topic, then these other sections on amphiphiles undergoing self-assembly, and lipid-like amphiphilic molecules predating the origin of life. So predictably, when James cherry picks a quote from Devaraj about bilayers with fatty acids being too leaky to hold a proton gradient, he is just avoiding all the literature which shows that this leakiness is not a problem. It is entirely likely that early membranes were leaky to protons and yet functioned very well. For more we turn to Nick Lane at University College in London, who proposes that early protocells formed at the interface between the sea and alkaline hydrothermal vents. If James wants to learn about chemiosmosis, this is a good place to start, as he will see how the proton gradient can be maintained by the pH gradient between bulk ocean and the alkaline vents. This is not a flight of fancy, there is real data here regarding the permeability of early membranes, which again are postulated to be made of fatty acid bilayers. According to this model, these slowly evolved into phospholipid bilayers once the protocells gained the capacity to develop their own proton gradients, achieving independence from the alkaline vents, just the way that homochirality in lipids can certainly have evolved later once enzymes developed, which is another part of my first video that James protested without any basis whatsoever. It’s true that there are issues with the deep sea hydrothermal vent model, and it is being largely abandoned by the field in favor of wet-dry cycling in hot springs, but it just serves to demonstrate that there are entire areas of research that address every single one of Jim’s objections that he is either oblivious towards or deliberately ignoring. There’s more here by Lane as he studies the membranes of bacteria and archaea, in particular the divergence in their membrane chemistry, namely permeability as it relates to proton gradients. To summarize Jim’s problem with this area, let’s read from Lane’s introduction to this paper. “Reconstructing the traits of the last universal common ancestor requires constraining the relationship between the three domains of life, the archaea, the bacteria, and eukaryotes.” In other words, if you want to have anything meaningful to say on the origin of life, deep knowledge regarding the simplest known biological systems is a prerequisite for deriving a possible structure for the earliest ancestor. That means biochemistry and biology are indeed quite crucial here, in addition to geology and astronomy. James would throw up his arms and shout in protest, but by now I think we can all see why. So that covers the four classes of biomolecules. After seeing all the research James pretends doesn’t exist, and watching him completely fumble all the research he chooses to acknowledge, what can one say about a statement like this? James: To date, nobody has even made the building blocks of the building blocks for the necessary four classes of compounds needed for life, while using the chemicals that would have been avalable on an early Earth. Yet somehow, under a rock someplace, the syntheses happened, and bingo! Life was birthed. You think that? When James says that no one has made the building blocks of the building blocks, he is deliberately misleading his audience, and his rhetoric always follows the same pattern. This molecule? Nobody knows how to make it. Oh they made it? Well they can’t make the building blocks. Oh they can? Well they aren’t enantiopure. Oh, homochirality has been explained? Then they bought their starting material. Irrelevant? Well their setup isn’t prebiotic. Oh it is? Then I’ll just baselessly call the study “hype” so that the viewer will reject it on faith without having a clue what it says. James will always redirect to his desperate script in order to avoid addressing research that is inconvenient for him, just like any other creationist. Let’s proceed to major theme number four. With biomolecules out of the way, it’s on to cells. James insists that in order to substantiate abiogenesis as a viable process, we need to build a living cell from scratch using exclusively prebiotic chemistry, pretty much the way you assemble a car. That’s why he keeps talking about cars, over and over again, like he’s selling Mazdas on the side. This is a gross mischaracterization of what origin of life researchers are trying to achieve and what they ought to be trying to achieve. Scientists in this field are investigating the pathways by which abiogenesis may have occurred over millions of years on a prebiotic Earth. James is just regurgitating a classic creationist straw man such that he can instruct all of his minions to simply say “Can you make life in a lab? No? Then we are clueless.” Which translates quite nicely to “God did it.” In presenting this argument, James reveals a new level of cluelessness regarding this field, as he does not even know what the goals of the field truly are. In reality, the task of origin of life research is to elucidate plausible pathways in which each step can have taken place, and firmly demonstrate their plausibility. We get our experimental confirmation from systems chemistry, which shows us that abiogenesis was not the result of totally random and unpredictable processes, but rather ones that followed underlying physico-chemical principles which can be understood and utilized. This is what these scientists have been doing for decades, and the progress that has been made is quite impressive. As for what we can do with this knowledge, a reasonable application may involve building artificial life, not which necessarily resembles the first protocell that came about on Earth, but potentially something rather different, nevertheless comprising a highly ordered open system that generates flows of energy and matter, able to grow, replicate, and evolve. Of course we can all predict the creationist response if and when this is achieved. They will just push the goalposts back and whine about how the protocell doesn’t evolve into a lizard crawling out of the soup. There is no end to the intellectual dishonesty of your average creationist. But for those of us who don’t have dogma to abide by, origin of life research has been removing the aura of mystery from life, and will only continue to do so as these more complex systems are achieved. There is a point where James even goes so far as to claim that because we’ve never personally watched abiogenesis occur, abiogenesis can’t have occurred. James: Molecules have never been shown to evolve toward life. Never! This is insane. It took millions of years, and could not possibly occur again with life already everywhere on Earth, consuming any existing biological material. This talking point is equivalent to asking why we’ve never seen a monkey give birth to a human. It is astounding that he would say something so incredibly stupid, but then again, he’s speaking to his congregation, not to rational, educated people. This is also a great opportunity to further demonstrate how the principles required to discuss early cell formation are way, way beyond Jim’s expertise. Geology is crucial here. Some interesting work has been done by Christian Mayer in Germany in collaboration with geologist Ulrich Schreiber. Here’s one paper on the selection of prebiotic molecules which addresses the issue of dilute environments as well as those pesky side products and purification that James is always going on about. Selection and accumulation of relevant biomolecules can occur at tectonic fault zones. Vesicles form spontaneously, yes spontaneously, and selectively trap amphiphilic molecules, like peptides composed of hydrophilic and hydrophobic amino acids in a suitable sequence. It even elucidates possible mechanisms of molecular evolution in vesicle membranes. From the diagrams we can see that concepts like hydrothermal chemistry and sub-critical and super-critical carbon dioxide are involved, and that this paper physically demonstrates a selection process. Here are a few quick highlights from a clip of Christian explaining his research himself. Christian: Now we are looking something more exotic. We are looking at a periodic change of the phase state of carbon dioxide in the water-carbon dioxide two phase system. So we have water-carbon dioxide and if we change the phase state of carbon dioxide from supercritical where it’s a very good solvent to subcritical where it’s a very bad solvent. Ok and that’s exactly the environment we want to simulate in the laboratory. So this is our laboratory device. It’s a high pressure device. Whenever we bring the carbon dioxide in the supercritical phase it suddenly takes up water, so we decrease the chemical potential of water, and we reinforce the condensation process to occur. So if we have amino acids here, we will get more of the condensated products. When the carbon dioxide becomes subcritical again, then the water is coming back, and this reinforces hydrolysis. So each cycling of the pressure means one cycle of condensation and hydrolysis. So we have many generations of vesicles which are formed by the following mechanism. When we are in the supercritical state the carbon dioxide is saturated with water, contains the amphiphile, contains some of the amino acids, and then the supercritical carbon dioxide becomes subcritical, so it’s a bad solvent, first the water droplets will condensate in the mid-air, in the gas phase, and the other constituents have nothing else to go, nowhere else to go than to go inside of these droplets or on the surface of these droplets, which the amphiphiles will do. When these droplets settle down on the surface, the monolayer on the droplets and the monolayer on the surface will interact, and this will lead to the formation of vesicles. And of course these vesicles are thermodynamically unstable so after a short period of time, especially when the carbon dioxide becomes supercritical again, they fall apart, so that means that every cycling of the pressure means one generation of vesicles. So now we have a pool of peptides on one side and we have vesicles on the other side. Now what we expect of course is interaction. Not that much of the hydrophilic ones, or the completely hydrophobic ones, they will have their own things to do, but the amphiphilic ones. Some of these peptides are amphiphilic, and they are capable of migrating into the bilayer, and when they do that, they will get protected against hydrolysis, and therefore they will accumulate over time. So I believe we have this integration and accumulation step which is visualized here. But we can have more, and the peptides get longer. They get the property of stabilizing, or they may get the property of stabilizing the vesicles. Especially when they are longer than six units, seven units, eight units, they may stabilize this vesicle. And when they do that, there is a mutual advantage for the peptide as well as for the vesicle, and that means those peptides will get a much stronger selectional advantage as opposed to the others. The full clip is linked below, and there are several subsequent papers that outline the formation of selected peptides and their accumulation, as well as some great figures by the geologist in his team that visually depict some of these concepts. Have you been studying plate tectonics in your lab, James? No? Any comments on these ideas? James: Huh? There is a lot more similar work from other researchers involving vesicles, like this one that deals with nucleic acid amplification. And let’s check in with Lee one more time regarding membrane self-replication and protocell evolution. As a quick disclaimer, in this clip Lee uses the word “cell” a few times in reference to simple oily protocells, he is not talking about modern living cells with genomes. Lee: The one thing here is we were able to show that you can combine catalysis with molecules that would make a material that was cell-like, and that would drive the replication of the cell. So nothing other than a bit of catalysis and, because cells form naturally, like oil and water, so you just take some oil and put it in water, and you can get little blobs. So all we did was we synthesized some molecules that would autocatalyze their own formation to get oil. So what you have is you have this basically water, and this water over time, and oil droplets start to appear. And when they start to appear they were better and better at making more of themselves, and they got bigger and bigger and bigger, until they just naturally underwent a replication event. The surface tension of the oil is such that it splits. So what we showed is that you have this process where you naturally make daughter cells with no information. You know, no DNA required, no genetics required. No complicated machinery. So that we could replication before genes. And that is a very important process to have in the available repertoire of chemistry. And that was just autocatalysis. So, autocatalysis makes an organic molecule, that organic molecule becomes an oil, that oil grows and grows and grows, that droplet, until it’s so big it naturally undergoes fission to make two daughter droplets and then carry on in the life cycle process. The really important thing to understand is when the first organic oil droplet emerges, that acts as a crucible or a nursery in which other oil droplets are born. And that just happens with no information in the environment, just spontaneously. So for James to say that cell formation is fantastically incredibly difficult is ignoring the laws of physics, because it’s basically surface tension, and the gravitational force on Earth, and the availability of the sun, and all this stuff, that allows these things to work very nicely. So that’s quite a lot for anyone who wants to understand origin of life research to dig into. James has no interest in discussing or even acknowledging the existence of any of this science. Instead, he chooses to mislead his viewers. All throughout the series, and especially at the end when specifically discussing cells, he shows dazzling computer animations depicting processes that occur exclusively in eukaryotic cells. This is something I mentioned very clearly in my original video, and yet he persists. It would already be dishonest enough to pretend that the first cells had to be as complicated as modern bacteria, but no, he shows us all the ultra-complex inner workings of modern eukaryotic cells, and their “interactome” which he drones on about for twenty minutes. Once again, these cells did not evolve until well over a billion years after the first prokaryotic life came about. This is not applicable to this discussion, period. James: Lipid bilayers surround subcellular organelles, such as nuclei, mitochondria, they all have their own lipids. So you have your outer vesicle, the lipid bilayer, and then inside you have another lipid bilayer around the nucleus, another lipid bilayer around mitochondria… Again, this is a classic creationist straw man. Nobody thinks the systems James shows here suddenly appeared, and he knows it. But he shows them anyway. It is the perfect example of his agenda shining like a spotlight right into the eyes of his viewers, to blind them from all the real research going on that he doesn’t want them to see, and that he doesn’t want to see himself either. James: Quote: DNA replication, repair, restriction, and modification. All those genes would need to be there. And not just those, it goes on. A basic transcription machinery. Aminoacyl-tRNA synthesis. tRNA maturation and modification. Ribosomal proteins. Ribosome function, maturation, and modification. Translation factors. RNA degradation. Protein processing, folding, and secretion. Cellular division, transport. And energetic and intermediary metabolism (glycolysis, proton motive force generation, pentose phosphate pathway, lipid metabolism, biosynthesis of nucleotides and cofactors). Quote: The authors did not include, the authors of this paper are citing previous authors, he says quote: the authors did not include rRNA or tRNA genes, and they recognize that the basic substrate transport machinery can not be clearly defined, even though this minimal cell would rely greatly on the import of several substrates including all 20 amino acids for which it had no biosynthetic ability. So even with these 206 genes prescribing that functionality, at least 206 genes, protein-coding genes, you’d need exogenous all 20 amino acids coming in because it doesn’t have any way to make those, because we’ve brought it down to the bare minimum. That’s what you would need to have the simplest functioning cell. More of the same. He’s talking about research that addresses modern DNA-based cells, while the first cells were almost certainly not DNA-based. We don’t need any DNA-based genes, or any DNA at all, to get early life. So we don’t need any enzymes that operate on DNA either. Josh: It’s possible, Jim, that you need zero in the first cell. Zero protein-coding genes. It’s a possibility. James: And how do you do that, Joshua? How do you do that? It’s possible you need zero. You should listen to your friend James, he knows what he’s talking about. If you somehow haven’t gotten it by now, this last section should seal the deal. All James can muster is pathetic arguments from incredulity mixed with straw men. A giant straw man of incredulity constructed to falsely insinuate that the entire field is a sham. In this way, James is the perfect mascot for the creationist movement, as that’s all any creationist has ever been able to do. So that pretty neatly covers James Tour and his anti-science crusade. To his die-hard fans, I sincerely doubt any of you had the courage to even press play on this video, let alone watch the whole thing. But in the off chance that you did, hopefully even you can now see that your idol has clay feet. To anyone who blindly believed him based on his qualifications, you can now see that in regards to origin of life, he has none. To anyone hiding behind his alleged intellect, you can now see that when it comes to this topic, he simply does not get it. If you were duped when he went on lengthy tangents about synthetic chemistry to sound like a bigshot, you can now see the desperation with which he clings to his expertise hoping it has some kind of relevance, where in fact it does not. And if you bought into his charade that the scientific community is somehow on his side, you now see the reality of the matter, that James does nothing beyond misrepresenting the researchers in this field behind their backs on YouTube. And make no mistake, these researchers know precisely what James is doing. In corresponding with these researchers for this response, many of them offered notes and encouragement but declined to appear in person due to the inevitable nuisance of dealing with an onslaught of harrassment from creationists, but luckily a few had the courage to speak, and they put it quite nicely, as Lee does here. Lee: James is trying to turn an individual history lesson into some kind of science fact. Whereas we need to look at the general principles that give rise to biology. And those principles are alive and kicking, and he’s ignoring them. He is ignoring complexity, he is ignoring reactivity, he is ignoring selection. In fact, the number one thing he is ignoring is selection. James is a designer. So he has to, he himself when he designs chemistry, designs molecules himself, he is the creator. What James doesn’t understand is that molecules can create themselves by selection. I think that, it’s very difficult for me to understand whether he misunderstands the term, or if he’s just deliberately trying to mislead because it doesn’t generate the correct narrative. And I guess maybe it’s a little bit of both, it’s something from kind of a, kind of cognitive disconnect, because he’s so, he believes that his view is so correct. But it seems rather contradictory, because he uses catalysis in his laboratory to make molecules all the time, to make molecules that you could not make in a billion years without that catalyst. Yet when he adds the catalyst, he gets his molecule and he is able to accept that. So for me, his understanding of catalysis seems to be selective use of science and non-science when he then disses it in the next, so I think there’s something rather nefarious in his statements. I don’t think it’s because he’s being stupid, I think it’s because he’s being selective, and he’s misquoting information so that people can go into the literature, and see something and then make a connection without fully understanding it, come to the conclusion that James wants them to do. In addition to Lee, I was able to speak with Steven Benner, a former Harvard Professor, founder of the Foundation for Applied Molecular Evolution, the first person to ever synthesize a gene, and an enormous figure in this field. His statement on James deserved to remain intact, minus light edits to remove Zoom glitches, so I saved it for the end. So you’ve gone through much of Jim’s little series here, so I just wanted to see if you had any thoughts on it. Steven: Yeah, I mean well, Tour’s position is fundamentally what we would call god in the gaps. The god in the gaps argument, so which, sort of is if we don’t understand something, it’s not understandable. Yeah I notice that they are maybe cleverly disguised, they don’t seem like it, but they fundamentally are god of the gaps arguments. Steven: Yeah, I mean scientists don’t find it useful to argue in this way. And the origins of life field is a great example of illustrating why. Because scientists for half a century did not take Tour’s advice, prebiotic chemists have filled in actually many of the gaps that then existed say in the 1950s and 1960s. And Tour doesn’t seem to appreciate that gap filling that has happened, and doesn’t even seem to appreciate that gap filling is what science actually does. Right, yeah I mean, he tries to claim that nothing has happened since Miller-Urey, but it’s like, there’s been 70 years of incredible progress. So I mean, given that, what do you make of his criticisms? Steven: Yeah so Tour is more clever than many creationists like Kent Hovind who I think you have argued with. He does not start by advocating transparently false things like new Earth creationism for example. But instead he starts by appropriating arguments against sort of, classical practice in prebiotic chemistry. And these are arguments that actually originated from the scientific community itself. And this is a very good rhetorical strategy for him. Like which one specifically. Steven: Well okay, so he has got a nice chart showing, or saying that all prebiotic chemistry just is a bunch of chemists in the laboratory mixing ultra-pure compounds that they bought commercially and under very strict control, making a mess and then extracting from the mess, you know, a few compounds that may have biological relevance and then claiming that this has something to do with the origin of life. And then his complaint is that the press runs away with this in a way that deceives the public. You know in 1986 Bob Shapiro, who was an expert in this field, wrote a whole book that made this criticism. He took about a hundred pages, several hundred pages to do so. So it sounds like maybe it had validity in one or two instances within the field, but he’s trying to paint it as though it describes the entire field. Steven: Yeah I mean, scientists are human. We like our theories also, and we will advocate them. So Bob in 2009 for example did criticize some of the work that John Sutherland, who is a very prominent individual in this field, did. And Bob’s analogy was that John was behaving like a golfer who had played a golf ball around an 18 hole course, and then concluded back in the clubhouse that the ball could play the same course in the same way but propelled not by a rational scientist but by the wind and the rain. And so, some of John’s work still suffers from this criticism, and you can still find papers, but most of the rest of the community of people who we would call origins of life, prebiotic chemists, most people take this criticism from Bob Shapiro quite seriously, and we work very hard to not make that criticism apply. So in regurgitating this criticism, is this a valid contribution on Jim’s part, or what do you think? Steven: Well no, I mean, it’s always good to not make the press run away and exaggerate claims, but no. Tour starts here, but he ends in a very different place, or at least he wants to. He wants to persuade his audience to conclude that life could not possibly have arisen from non-living matter without a literal miracle. He then wants his audience to conclude that anyone who suggests otherwise is ignorant, or lying, or stupid, or perhaps all three. Corrupt, or… yeah. Steven: Exactly. But to get from where he starts to the conclusion that he wants, Tour really must ignore pretty much all of what we know about chemistry and geology as it relates to origins. So what are some examples that you’re referring to specifically, recently. Steven: Well, yeah, let me think, there’s a couple things that have happened over the past few years that I don’t think Tour acknowledges. And he may not know about them. But, so first we have come to know a lot more about how rocks on the early Earth interact with organic molecules that were coming in from the early Earth atmosphere, how they interact. So for example, we used to think that R-ribose, which is the R in RNA, which is thought to be the first genetic molecule, we used to think that ribose was impossible to get prebiotically, in fact in 1996 Stanley Miller, the great Stanley Miller made a comment saying that it was impossible to get. But now, you know, we’ve gone through a lot of understanding of what the early Earth mineralogy looked like. Elisa Biondi here at the foundation for applied molecular evolution has done experiments showing that rocks can make long RNA molecules. These rocks that she’s using are clearly present on early Earth. And she does not need either pure starting materials or constant human intervention to get these things. Okay, so, and what are some of these minerals specifically? I think you had described one to me privately. Steven: We’re a great fan of minerals that contain borate, which has the element boron, which has to do with borax that is found in Death Valley for example. And, yeah, let’s see. So, Hyo-Joong Kim here, by the way, Tour repeats that. That’s a big part of one of his pieces. And this is a view that’s now maybe a quarter century old. But Hyo-Joong Kim here also at the foundation has shown how borax minerals in dry valleys, and you can think of Death Valley as an example of modern Earth where this kind of chemistry would have taken place. They can make nucleosides for RNA, that is the building blocks of DNA and RNA. They can make triphosphates. And all without human intervention. And we know a lot about the rocks containing borax, that they allow the formation of otherwise unstable carbohydrates, which is one of the big points that Tour was mentioning. Right, yeah, I think carbohydrates, he tries to knock that out because that’s one of the classes, and then also another class, nucleic acids, rely on carbohydrates. So definitely not telling the whole story on his side when he omits this kind of research. Was there another example that you wanted to cite? Steven: Yeah I mean, so for example we worry about whether borax was present on early Earth, and everybody now, in the good old days, this is how science works, right? So, we came up with that model, Bob Hayes and his at Carnegie Institute in Washington DC attacked it, we had a back and forth on whether or not borax was available on the early Earth. And pretty much now everyone agrees that it was, and that’s in part because borax is present on the surface of Mars, which still has a very, very old surface, three and a half billion years old, to look at. And so, with borax present on early Earth, then carbohydrates are present on early Earth or at least available, so that part of Tour’s criticism of the field has resolved. And it’s been now twenty years where people have been showing that. Yeah, I do find he’s a bit behind on the resolution of some of these problems. So we can definitely say that some of the problems that James tries to bring up have been solved. Would we say that all of them have been solved, or where are we at? Steven: I mean, let me give you one last example, just for fun. I mean Tour points out, and he’s correct, that the atmosphere that Stanley Miller used in the 1950s to create amino acids by sparking lightning through primitive atmospheres, those atmospheres are not believed to have been present most of the time during the period of time, the Hadean, where Earth likely generated life. But you know, we now know that there have been impacts on Earth, during those impacts that atmosphere that was present was reduced, and actually it doesn’t look very much different than Stanley Miller’s atmosphere. And so for brief periods of time, after large meteors hit the Earth, there was a window of opportunity where life could have emerged, combining now the oxidized minerals and rocks on the ground, like borate and the carbohydrates they generated, with the bases like adenine and guanine that you learned in school as the components of RNA to make the ribonucleosides. But whether the problem is solved I guess we’ll know, I suppose, most of the, many of the big paradoxes have been solved, including many that Tour mentions. So to sum it up, would you call James clueless on this topic? Steven: I’ve never met him, but from the ten hours of video or so that I’ve watched of his, I would not consult James if I wanted enlightenment about the chemistry behind the origins of life. With the science covered, we now arrive at the root of the issue. When it comes to the origin of life, James Tour is a grotesque caricature of authority fit only for the church pulpit. What does he really expect the viewer to believe? That everyone who works on origin of life is either stupid or corrupt, and big brain James is the only one on Earth who gets it? If so, he should do everyone a favor and publish his critiques in a reputable journal, to graciously steer the scientific community back in the right direction. After all, whoever does not submit to the process of peer review is implicitly admitting their own irrelevance. So why doesn’t he do this? Given his Ken Burns documentary length YouTube series, it certainly isn’t for lack of time. In reality, it’s because he knows he doesn’t have a leg to stand on. In the end, James is just another evangelical huckster of intelligent design, with one small twist, he knows a lot about one tiny area of science. This enables him to pretend he isn’t selling intelligent design when he really is. This is totally transparent, since he uses precisely the same deceptive tactics as his brethren. One, they pretend the entire scientific community is in deep crisis and has made zero progress on the issue, thereby opening the door nice and wide for religion to take a stab at it. This is idiotic, and amounts to nothing more than him conveniently ignoring the last twenty years of research. We aren’t clueless about the origin of life by a longshot. And two, they pretend there is some massive conspiracy to hype up research and that anything which doesn’t fit this “mainstream narrative” is censored. This is how they get away with shouting like preachers in churches or on YouTube rather than going through reputable outlets like journals and conferences. Poor, poor little organized religion. Always on the receiving end of persecution. You see, it is a textbook tactic of the evangelical to attack science and then pretend it is they who are being persecuted. That’s why Jim’s followers accuse me of attacking James because I’m just some religion-hating heathen. Well sadly for them, James isn’t wrong because he is religious. He says wrong things because of his religion. Even though he will deny it when convenient, because it’s a big, bright anti-science flag waving in the breeze, James believes in intelligent design. He believes that God created Adam and Eve from dust and a rib. He literally says as much on his website. He outright states that faith and belief go beyond evidence. When he talks like this, it is clear that he is ready to abandon science when it is inconvenient for his faith. It is totally insane that anyone would suggest that this statement is not relevant to this issue, since you can’t believe in Adam and Eve and also that life arose spontaneously through natural processes, unless you’re willing to engage in the extreme mental gymnastics that some now advocate in a desperate attempt to reconcile miraculous creation in scripture with modern science and a natural origin of life. He even closes episode one with a very telling statement. James: Molecules have never been shown to evolve toward life. Never. They don’t evolve toward life. There’s no impetus to evolve toward life, molecules don’t move toward life. That’s right, molecules never ever evolve to life. Well they sure did, because here we are. This statement of his is anti-science. He is speaking exclusively as a creationist in saying this. His promises to remain anchored in science are dashed to pieces on the rocks irreparably by this singular statement. James complained in his introduction about how I psychoanalyzed him. James: So he psychoanalyzed me for, it just went on and on, his psychoanalysis of me. But do you really have to be Sigmund Freud to see what an angry and confused individual James is? The religious and scientific halves of James battle in his mind every day, and the religious half wins every time, desperately guarding his blind faith from his more logical faculties. He has put religion before science, so when in conflict, he must deny science, while pretending he uses science to reach his conclusions. I’m sure it’s very stressful, given that he has chosen to present himself as a rational, science-minded person in order to become such an influential evangelical. That’s why he shouts so much. But no amount of shouting can hide the fact that James is clueless on this topic, and can do nothing beyond regurgitating the same lies he’s been spewing for years. This is why the only venues where James feels comfortable speaking on this topic are churches, Christian radio, or his YouTube channel. Because he knows he won’t be held accountable if he’s preaching to his choir. That puts him right at home in working with the Discovery Institute, which has been launching an attack on science for over 15 years, aimed primarily at evolution, but now with help from James, abiogenesis as well. This is part of a conservative initiative to get religious dogma into public school science curricula. So anyone shouting at me to leave faith out of the discussion is just desperately trying to mask their own agenda. In conclusion, James is an embarrassment to the scientific community that never seems to learn his lesson, even when he is caught publicly insulting colleagues and has to apologize to Nobel Prize winners that he mocked like a petulant child. In response, instead of focusing on his chemistry, he continues to give his sermons. Why? To soothe his damaged ego? To win god points? Or maybe to collect waves of adulation, all thanks to an alarmingly large flock of willfully ignorant sheep, the ones who couldn’t care less what he is saying, only that he is saying something they want to hear. For all they care, he could be making Charlie Brown teacher trumpet noises and they’d all be giving standing ovations like he’s the messiah himself. That’s how James manages to play the senior statesman, falsely humble, pretending to be a concerned scientist looking out for the rest of us, a noble mentor for the confused youth. James: Why would I do this? Why would I do this, and discourage students from going into the laboratories of certain people? Well in my job, part of what I do, is I work with graduate students. And I keep them from going down rat holes, where they will spend a year working on nonsense if I didn’t redirect them. My job as an advisor is to find out where those rat holes are, know that, and redirect them and say you don’t wanna work on that. That’s gonna dead end right here. Now, sometimes they’ll push back, they say no, I think this is good. Okay, I say show me those steps, show me what we’re gonna do. But if it’s not getting anywhere after a few months, I’ve gotta redirect them. Because I’ve gotta get them out of here in four years. I don’t like to have them stick around for seven, eight years. Not in my group. My job is to work with these precious young people and not waste their lives, going after something that’s not going to do anything to address the fundamental problems. It’s to put them on something that has the chance to win, and to work. That’s why I’m doing this. And that’s what this video is about. We are clueless on the origin of life. And don’t let anybody try to tell you differently. In reality James just hopes people stop going into origin of life research because as this field progresses by leaps and bounds, his job of denying its entire existence gets harder and harder, leading to even more outbursts like this desperate 14-part series which is worthy of the Dunning-Kruger hall of fame. Is James even aware how absurd his behavior is? Maybe not. Maybe he is so hopelessly paralyzed by his faith that he really thinks he’s standing for the truth. But that’s a mess to be untangled by a professional therapist, and I wouldn’t envy the task. So James, I’ll leave you with this. You have a choice. You can be a scientist, or you can be a preacher. You can’t be both. You can either continue to do your legitimate work on molecular machines, and stop misleading suggestible religious laypeople, or you can go full prophet, continue your sermons, and leave the scientific community behind. I would suggest you think long and hard as to whether you want to remain on this anti-science path, which is an embarrassment to both you and your institution. If instead you decide you’d like to even contribute to origin of life research, you have a lot of studying to do, but I’m sure you’ll be greeted by the community with open arms if you stick to the science and learn from those who actually understand the field. To everyone else, I’ll see you next time.