Hey everyone, as you know, I debunk charlatans and science deniers of all varieties. But there is a special sense of urgency when such characters are in positions of political power. And thus, by overwhelming popular request, we arrive at RFK. If you are someone who is not aware of what a massive fraud this guy is or just how harmful he is to America and the world, please watch this video. Let's get started. Robert F. Kennedy Jr., son of Robert F. Kennedy Senior, the attorney general and senator who was assassinated in 1968 and nephew of John F. Kennedy, the 35th president of the United States who was assassinated in 1963, is an apple that has fallen quite far from the tree. In contrast with his uncle, who prioritized scientific advancement and integrated it into his policies, from funding scientific research and education all the way to the legendary Apollo missions and the space race, RFK holds a plethora of bafflingly regressive and objectively erroneous views on a variety of topics. He thinks vaccines cause autism, Wi-Fi fries your brain, measles outbreaks are no problem, and in fact, germs might not even be a thing in general. This would be business as usual if he were just some random jerk with a podcast. But in this nightmare of a universe, he's been appointed by President Trump to head the Department of Health and Human Services or HHS, which oversees federal agencies like the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention or CDC, the Food and Drug Administration or FDA, and the National Institutes of Health or NIH. Since being appointed as head of HHS on February 13th of this year, it's been a non-stop train wreck that in certain timelines could end as disastrous as Stalin's backing of Trophim Lysenko, a dark chapter that I described in a previous video, which illustrates how dictatorial power destroys science when it forces science to adhere to a predefined political agenda. Nearly every single day since RFK's service began has been a circus sideshow of breathtaking ignorance and monolithic damage being dealt to the American people, which will have generational effects. While there will surely be more buffoonery to address as his term unfolds, let's cover what's happened so far. First, we can start with a brief overview of Bobby's background, career, and how the guy with the worm in his brain became the guy with the worm in his brain running America's health programs. More on the worm later if you aren't familiar with this little tidbit. After his father's assassination, Bobby dabbled in heroin and environmental activism before recovering from addiction and eventually becoming a lawyer. He was admitted to the New York Bar in 1985 and began taking on environmental cases on behalf of a nonprofit organization called Hudson River Fisherman's Association, renamed to Riverkeeper in 1986. He won cases that forced cleanups of the Hudson River, punished polluters, and set precedent for environmental legal standards. At the time, it seemed like he was doing great work at first, but in the year 2000, during a board meeting for Rivereper, he took a detour onto Batshit Boulevard when he pushed for hiring someone who had just served three and a half years in federal prison for running an international wildlife smuggling operation, including smuggling eggs of endangered cockatu birds from Australia. Some recurring themes that we will see throughout this piece are Bobby's association with grifters, playing fast and loose with scientific data, and being called out by his own family members. His own sister Rory nailed it in an interview. He can say some crazy [\h__\h] even though he might come across as an expert, remarking how thoroughly all of his interviews have to be fact checked because he just says pretty much anything. Before the Senate hearing on his nomination to head of HHS, his cousin Caroline Kennedy sent a letter to Congress urging them to reject his nomination. She wrote in her letter that Bobby is a predator who prays on the desperation of parents and sick children using antivaccine rhetoric and that both his father and uncle would be disgusted by his conduct. I'm sure she's just paid off by big pharma or something, right? Moving along. In 2015, he became the chair of Children's Health Defense or CHD, a group that has been pumping out vaccine disinformation at Mach 5 speed for a long time. The organization's revenue, primarily consisting of individual donations, grew from 13,000 in 2014 to 470,000 in 2015 when Bobby joined the board and ramped up unimaginably during the CO9 pandemic, reaching 6.8 8 million in 2020, 15 million in 2021, and a peak of 23.5 million in 2022. Hot damn. Who knew lying could be so profitable? In 2023, revenue dropped to 16 million, coinciding with Bobby's leaving for his presidential campaign, demonstrating how influential he is in positions of power. While running for president, he spread his gospel to millions of people on platforms like the Joe Rogan Experience. Since Trump despises credentials and rewards loyalty in quidd proquo fashion, RFK endorsed Trump in 2024 to then find himself being handed the keys to the HHS earlier this year where he currently chairs the Make America Healthy Again Commission or MA pushing policies based on complete whimsy or science fiction at best. All of this should be no surprise because once again, Bobby is a lawyer. He has no scientific training of any kind and couldn't pass a ninth grade biology quiz. The level to which he is deliluding himself into thinking he's in the right versus just straight up grifting for cash is something for a psychologist to dissect. Here we just set the record straight on the science. But it seems to be the case that Bobby is unaware of what an incompetent [\h__\h] he is and how damaging it is to steer research funding for the entire country based on his own science illiteracy rather than assembling a panel of experts to advise him. But this is the defining theme of the current administration. So it's not even remotely surprising. In this video, we will dive into more of the specifics than most people want to hear. But in general, much of what we can expect out of his misinformation revolves around a misunderstanding of dosage, an overreiance on anecdotes, and just making [\h__\h] up out of thin air. He claims that he wants to remove all of the nasty toxins in our food, medicine, and vaccines. But apart from him definitely not knowing what the word toxin means, we will see that he bases his worldview not on the totality of evidence, but rather cherrypicked evidence or even complete falsehoods that already have had real world consequences. This includes a recent resurgence of measles, a disease that was declared eliminated from the US in 2000 by the World Health Organization because of the success of the MMR vaccine. Many of Bobby's claims are completely incompatible with high school level science, while others that appear more robust at face value crumble under even mild scrutiny since they are always built on debunked pseudocience, fabricated statistics, or brainworm induced absurdities. All of this combined with his actions like fueling deadly outbreaks, hiring discredited, disgraced former researchers, and pushing overreaching claims about drugs like Ivormectin and methylene blue make him not only unfit, but legitimately dangerous as head of HHS. Are you ready to dive into the weird wild world of Bobby's gold standard science? The first stop on our Bobby Kennedy pseudocience tour is the so-called chronic disease epidemic. Bobb's got a wild theory that America's kids are sicker than ever. And it all started in 1989 because vaccines and junk food flipped some magical disease switch like bright light and water for a Mogwai. In reality, it's just a bunch of halftruth falafhles wrapped in a fear-mongering pita pocket since he conveniently neglects to mention our increased understanding of genetic contributions to disease as well as the massive decrease in child mortality that has occurred over the past century. Remember when half of all kids died? Me neither since we don't live 150 years ago. Hopefully, we can keep it that way. Let's get to Bobby's wild claims on the internet. Starting with who the hell else, Joe Rogan? you know, all of those things. Now, we went from uh 6% of American having chronic disease. By 1986, we're starting to add the vaccines and we got um and 11.8% of kids now. So, it's doubled. By 2006, 54%. These are kids who are permanently disabled and they're they have to be on medication their whole lives. That's right. In 2023, Bobby claimed that chronic diseases, including obesity, autism, ADHD, diabetes, and allergies, exploded from 6% in the 1960s to a whopping 54% by 2006, implying that it is caused by an expanded vaccine schedule. He's doubled down on this claim in his HHS Senate confirmation hearing, stating that Americans overall health is in grievous condition and pinning 1989 as the start of this epidemic. His Maha report from this year echoes this, claiming that 40% of kids have chronic conditions, blaming ultrarocessed foods and chemicals of one variety or another. Sounds scary, right? I mean, it seems like it must be true. The big bad corporations are poisoning us. We all know that intuitively. So, why would we need to verify any of that or use critical thinking in any way? Because we're not sheep. First, let's talk about what prevalence means in the first place. Because Bobby is throwing around big numbers like 54% to scare you. Prevalence is just the percentage of people in a population who have a specific disease at a given time, like a snapshot of who's affected. For chronic diseases, it's higher today. Partly because we're better at spotting them thanks to genetic testing and fancy diagnostics. And also because kids are living longer since they're not dying from smallpox or polio. Bobby pretends it's all vaccines and Froot Loops, but prevalence isn't a boogeyman, it's science. So, is there a chronic disease crisis? CDC says about 40% of US kids aged 0 to 17 have at least one chronic condition like asthma, allergies, obesity, or behavioral disorders. Autism is at 1 in 31 kids. Obesity hits 20% of kids. So Bobb's not making this up entirely. Chronic diseases are a problem and their prevalence is rising. But here's where he goes off the rails. He blames vaccines, toxins, and ultrarocessed foods for this sudden 1989 spike with a mixed bag of legitimacy. Once again, Bobby is obsessed with the year 1989, claiming the vaccine schedule exploded and triggered an epidemic. The vaccine schedule did gradually expand in the 80s and 90s from three vaccines to 16 by 2000. But in case you weren't aware, Bobby, correlation isn't causation. There's zero evidence linking vaccines to a chronic disease surge. Take autism. Studies show that the rise is due to broader diagnostic criteria and better awareness. Not thyol or aluminum as he's repeatedly parited and which has been debunked to death at this point. When thyarasol, a mercury containing preservative Bobby loves to hate, was yanked from most childhood vaccines by 2001 out of precaution due to public outcry, rates of autism diagnosis kept climbing. So clearly that wasn't it, nor any other chemical substance, but simply a broad trend in finally putting attention towards properly diagnosing and treating autism, which is a neurological condition. The whole vaccines cause autism thing stems exclusively from a singular fraud named Andrew Wakefield and one fraudulent retracted study he was bribed into producing from personal injury lawyers. That is explained in extreme detail in this video here. So, please watch that if you need more information. In short, vaccines unequivocally do not cause autism, period. Then there's ultrarocessed foods or UPFs. The Maha report claims that 70% of kids calories come from nutrient poor additive packed snacks, fueling obesity and diabetes. In fact, studies do back this up. Ultrarocessed diets lead to excess caloric intake and health issues like obesity and type 2 diabetes. Additives like Red 40 might mess with behavior in some kids, but the evidence is spotty and more research is needed. So, yeah, junk food is bad. That's not news. It's also not relevant. There's no legal basis for banning less nutritious foods, and he can't physically force kids to eat broccoli or play soccer. But more importantly, Bobby is acting like junk food is the sole villain in a campy 1980s horror flick. What about other factors? What about DNA? There's no evidence linking chronic disease to vaccines or Froot Loops. Genetics, however, have been demonstrated to play a massive role. Heritability measures how much of a trait's variation in a population comes from genetics. For autism, twin studies show 50 to 90% heritability, meaning genes are a huge driver with environment playing a much smaller role. ADHD 55 to 85% heritable. Obesity 40 to 70% genetic with specific variants in genes including FTO jacking up hunger signals. Autoimmune diseases like type 1 diabetes or rheumatoid arthritis also heavily genetic with twin studies showing strong heritability. Bobby's environmental determinism is just blatant science denial. It ignores the largest part of the picture. We aren't saying that environment doesn't matter at all. Poor diet, stress, and significant exposure to specific chemicals can play a role, but decades of genetic research, twin studies, and genomewide sequencing have pinned down these heritability rates. Bobby is stuck in a 1989 toxin fairy tale. He doesn't even know what toxin means. In general, most people don't know what toxin means. It refers to a poisonous substance made by a living organism, whether plant, animal, or bacteria. Really nasty ones can be found in frogs and snakes, as well as certain bacterial species. They're for protection and survival. So, if you ever hear anyone utter the phrase synthetic toxins, you can immediately conclude that they have no idea what they're talking about. But more importantly, Bobb's 54% prevalence claim for 2006, there is no source that supports this figure. It's fabricated. CDC's 40% figure is more grounded, but it includes a very broad range of conditions, not some vaccine induced apocalypse. In 1989, nothing special happened that year to spike diseases. The vaccine schedule grew gradually and autism diagnosis started climbing before that once again thanks to better screening. So what's the real deal? Chronic diseases are complex. Genetics, lifestyle, diet, and socioeconomic factors like poverty all interact. Not that this administration gives two shits about reducing poverty. Vaccines not even on the list. Bobby's fear-mongering ignores this complexity and overlooks the genetic elephant in the room. The overwhelming majority of the rise in reported prevalence of these conditions is that we actually screen for them properly now. Also, we live a long time now. So, more people have a chance to suffer from one condition or another since they're not dead. And then also lifestyle factors, the kernel of truth that Bobby inflates outrageously. Bobby is cherry-picking data like he owns the orchard. If he wants to make America healthy again, he should fund gene environment studies, not pedal baseless fairy tales. But then again, that's not as lucrative as blaming big pharma and General Mills. The bottom line is this. Bobby's chronic disease crisis builds on a tiny nugget of truth. That reported chronic disease prevalence is higher, but his 1989 vaccine toxin obsession is pure pseudocience. No evidence whatsoever shows a sudden spike and his 54% statistic is pulled out of thin air. Worst of all, he always ignores genetics, which is like trying to solve a thousandpiece puzzle with 936 of the pieces missing. Was that a fun warm-up? Let's get to the good stuff. But first, a brief word from today's sponsor. We all want a reliable method of finding accurate information on the internet, especially when it comes to science. Google searches turn up a combination of fact and SEO driven fiction, leaving us with more questions than answers. Direct scientific literature searches with Google Scholar or PubMed connect you to research papers, but they can be very hard to read with many behind a payw wall. Thus enters Consensus. Consensus is a new wave academic search engine that leverages AI and vector search to find and synthesize the best science for you. Consensus searches across 200 million scientific papers from the highest quality journals and presents referenced information to you in easily digestible fashion. Just ask it any question like, "Oh, I don't know. Do vaccines cause autism?" Well, look at that. A resounding 100% no. Within seconds, we are reading a concise summary. We have a table presenting key findings from major studies and a firm conclusion. But that's not the end of the investigation. Consensus pulls up the literature that is most relevant to the question, extracts key insights from each paper, and gives you a study snapshot, which summarizes experimental data, methodology, and relevant outcomes. Get the big picture in a flash and then choose which papers to read if you need more detail. You can do this with any question you have. You don't even need to know the precise keywords because of how vector searches work. Give it specific prompts combined with your search. Ask for the mechanisms of action or how two concepts correlate with each other or to explain a topic in simple language. Whatever you need in truly any area of academic study from economics to anthropology. Is the gut microbiome linked to depression? What's the best treatment for acne? How does a cricket chirp? Whether you're a PhD candidate in immunology or just a curious jack or jail trying to make sense of today's news, Consensus is for you. Join over 2 million people who have already switched to smarter, faster, and more reliable information sourcing. Try Consensus for free. No credit card, no forms. Go to consensus.app and jump straight into your first search today. Now, back to Bobby. Undoubtedly, Bobby's biggest obsession over the course of his grifting career has been vaccines. He continues to spread widely debunked claims that vaccines cause autism. They aren't tested properly and they're packed with brain zapping toxins like mercury and aluminum. He tried to play it cool with his whole I'm pro-safety vibe during the HHS Senate hearing, but his 2025 Maha report clearly claims vaccine overmedicalization. It's a wild ride of misinformation and it's costing lives. Let's break it down. First up, the big one, vaccines causing autism. Earlier, I directed you to my video on Andrew Wakefield and the conclusive debunking of this link that was based on a singular fraudulent study. But now, let's go over Bobby's role in this saga. Bobby has been revving this engine since his 2005 Rolling Stone magazine and salon article, Deadly Immunity, in which he claimed to have uncovered a connection between thyarosol and neurological disorders like autism, and that it was covered up by CDC. The article contained extremely concerning errors like citing statistics without sources and claiming vaccine products contained thyarasol when they in fact did not. Eventually in 2011 it was deemed an unsalvageable dumpster fire and it was removed entirely. The editor of Salon who published the article said it was the worst mistake of my career. I probably should have been fired. I regret we didn't move on this more quickly as evidence continued to emerge debunking the vaccines in Autism Link. But continued revelations of the flaws and even fraud tainting the science behind the connection make taking down the story the right thing to do. But this didn't discourage Bobby from continuing his grift as he continues to claim an association between autism and vaccines as he did on Joe Rogan. And CHD continues pushing this myth, claiming thyarasol in vaccines is the autism culprit, despite thyarisol being phased out completely by 2001 and never being linked to autism whatsoever in the first place. Cute graphs like this really sum up what Bobby thinks proof that vaccines cause autism looks like. Wow, seems pretty open and shut, huh? Here's the thing. Inflation seems to be an even better predictor. Or you know what's even better? Organic food sales. Maybe Bobby should be raging against big broccoli rather than big pharma. Am I right? That's the thing about statistics. They can be misleading. Here's a graph proving that ice cream sales cause shark attacks. Here's one proving that pool drownings are caused by Nicholas Cage films. Here's one proving that death by bed sheets is caused by ski resort profits. Do we need to continue? The point is that illustrating correlation does not ever demonstrate causation. You have to do rigorously empirical mechanistic studies. Every time we've done that, every single time, all the data and all of the metaanalyses show no link whatsoever between vaccines and autism. A 2002 study traced 537,000 kids and found no difference in autism rates between those who got the MMR vaccine and those who didn't. A 2003 cohort study of 467,450 children saw no relationship between thyarisol containing vaccines and risk of developing autism. A 2019 nationwide study of 657,461 children found no increased risk of autism among children who were vaccinated, including among those with risk factors like a diagnosed sibling. A retrospective cohort study of 95,727 children who received the MMR vaccine with older siblings with and without autism found no link between MMR vaccination and risk of autism, even for children having a sibling with autism. An epidemiological analysis of children found prevalence of autism was the same between vaccinated and unvaccinated populations. Age of diagnosis did not differ and onset of symptoms of autism were not linked to when they received MMR vaccination. A global review by the National Academy of Medicine found no relationship between vaccination status, autism diagnosis, or autism rates before and after introduction of the MMR vaccine. and they discuss in depth why there are no plausible mechanisms by which thyarisol or vaccines could cause autism. This utilized data from hundreds of thousands of children and millions of vaccine doses across the United States, Denmark, Sweden, and the United Kingdom. A systematic review of 67 studies involving millions of children assessing the safety of the overall US immunization schedule found that vaccines are safe, adverse events are rare, and routine vaccines like MMR, DTAP, Vericella, and others have no relationship to developing autism, type 1 diabetes, or other chronic health conditions. A scientific review that assessed claims that vaccines overwhelm the immune system concluded there is no evidence to support these claims and that they lack biological plausibility based on how the immune system works. A systematic review of 10 primary studies assessed potential links between thyarisol, thyarasol containing vaccines and autism. They found no relationship. The authors emphasized that studies with robust methodologies consistently show vaccines are safe, whereas the handful claiming to find links between vaccines and autism routinely have substantial biases, conflicts of interest, and methodological flaws. And once again, there is Andrew Wakefield's 1998 paper, retracted by the Lancet for blatant fraud, and conflicts of interest. What more do you need? How much more science can be done? Anyone who denies this mountain of research is ideologically captured by grifting frauds and in complete denial of reality. There is no other explanation. Bobby's autism claim is dead than disco, but he's still dancing despite autism's 50 to 90% heritability. Twin studies show genes are the cause here. Bobby ignores DNA like a flat-earther ignoring well everything. Next, he claims that there are a whopping 72 vaccines mandated for children. You'll hear this number cited by antivaxers all over the internet. For the record, no. Nobody is getting 72 individual shots. Here is the truth. CDC recommends 72 doses of 17 vaccines before age 18. A single shot can contain several doses. So, he's just adding up all the doses to make it sound scary. State legislators and state health department officials are the entities that place vaccine mandates. Most states generally require nine vaccines for attending kindergarten and 13 for daycare. Also, current vaccines contain much lower antigen doses than 40 years ago. So, kids are getting exposed to a lower load of antigens even if the number of vaccines has increased. And most importantly, having more vaccines means there are more diseases we know how to prevent than before. Anyone who thinks that's a bad thing is clueless. Bobby also pretends that vaccines aren't tested against placeos, so we don't know if they're safe. He bragged on Joe Rogan about suing HHS through CHD's informed consent action network or I can in 2018, claiming they couldn't produce a single placeboc controlled trial for any vaccine. When I say no vaccine has ever been none of the mandated vaccines what they call recommended they're actually mandated in many of the states I said none of them have ever been tested against uh in a placebo control trial and a safety test prior to to lenser and I said can you show me one vaccine that has been subject to a safety test show me one study that shows that and he made it this show of looking through a red well. They had brought in from NIH this big tray full of file folders and he made a show of kind of looking through that at the time but he couldn't find whatever he was looking for. So then he said it's back at NIH in Bethesda and I'll send it to you. Well, he never did. So Aaron and I sued him, sued HHS and and said, "Show us one study that's ever been done on, you know, pre-licicensing safety testing for vaccines." And after a year of stone stonewalling, they finally gave us a letter and said, "We don't have any." So they don't they literally don't have any. So nobody knows what the risk profile for these products are. So they're telling people they they they avert more harms than they saw than they cause. But there's no science behind that statement. It's just a, you know, it's just a guesswork. Sounds damning, right? Except it's a big fat lie. First, some background information. Placeboc controlled trials typically compare an active substance to an inert substance like saline to isolate its effects. This is sometimes the case for pharmaceutical drugs, though even there only if it is a new indication. But for vaccines in particular, many consider it unethical to leave children unprotected against diseases that can kill them for the sake of science. So trials might use active controls, like another vaccine or unvaccinated cohorts when feasible. This still ensures safety and efficacy just without risking lives. Vaccines go through rigorous testing before hitting the market with zero exceptions. The FDA requires trials with thousands of participants. But now here's the really important part. Despite these facts, multiple vaccines for polio, measles, vericella zostuster, RSV, HPV, rotovirus and coid9 have been rigorously tested in doubleb blind placebocont controlled clinical trials with participant numbers ranging from a few thousand to over 600,000 as reported in peer-reviewed studies published in journals like the New England Journal of Medicine, Pediatrics, and the American Journal of Public health. These trials demonstrated the vaccines safety and efficacy, supporting their use in preventing infectious diseases. Studies that use placeos, including adjuants, are still scientifically comparable. A study using the vaccines minus the adjuvent can clearly demonstrate that the vaccine antigen is safe because the additional components in vaccines like aluminum or thyarosol or any other scary substance have separately gone through rigorous testing and can therefore be reliably used as placeos for comparative studies. The results from this body of research demonstrate the safety of each and every component in vaccines. So what about this I can lawsuit he likes to brag about? Surely this means the testing wasn't done. No, it basically boils down to HHS not filing the right paperwork, not an admission of no testing. He uses misrepresentation of legal cases like this to push his corruption narrative about the vaccine industry and spook those who are unaware of the thorough testing vaccines go through. Throw the facts in the washer and turn on the spin cycle. Now, let's talk about adjuance. Bobby is obsessed, utterly obsessed with thyarisol, a mercury containing preservative, claiming it crosses the bloodb brain barrier and causes autism. Thyarisol structure shown here contains a mercury atom and degrades into thioicellate and ethyl mercury. Ethyl mercury is a compound used in tiny safe doses to stop bacteria from turning vaccines into petri dishes. He cites studies like Pichitro in 2002 which actually shows how ethyl mercury is eliminated from the body faster than methyl mercury the compound which is typically associated with mercury poisoning and Burbacher in 2005 which found it in monkey brains but not at harmful levels and demonstrated that methyl mercury is not a suitable reference for assessing thyarosol toxicity. Through all of this, the main point to be made remains that the dose makes the poison. Bachelinam toxin or Botox is the single most toxic substance known to humans with an LD50 of 2 nanogs per kilogram, which means that one gram of it could kill 7 million people. And yet, people safely inject it into their faces. Despite research showing that thyarasol was safe at concentrations found in vaccines, it was removed from most childhood vaccines by 2001 exclusively due to public panic. And as we said before, guess what happened? Autism rates didn't drop. Not one bit. If your claim is that something is causing autism and then that thing is gone and autism still happens with the same prevalence, then that thing definitely was not causing autism. A small child can figure that out. Another claim is that aluminum based adjuants in vaccines pose significant health risks particularly by contributing to neurodedevelopmental disorders like autism and other chronic diseases. These claims are not supported by robust scientific evidence and rely on misinterpretations of research. Bobby has emphasized that intramuscularly injected aluminum used as an adjuvent in vaccines like DTAP and hepatitis B has increased bioavailability, meaning the extent and rate at which an administered substance is absorbed by the body, bypassing the gut's low absorption rate of 0.1 to 1% for oral aluminum, thus posing a greater risk. While it's true that intramuscular aluminum has increased bioavailability, the kinetics differ significantly. Flaren at all demonstrated in animal models that only 17% of an aluminum adjuvent dose is absorbed into the bloodstream over 28 days. This slow release designed to enhance immune responses results in low systemic exposure with peak blood levels far below toxic thresholds. In contrast, oral aluminum, despite low absorption, contributes more to daily exposure than vaccines. The FDA limits vaccine aluminum to 0.85 mgs per dose, well below the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registries minimal risk level of 1 milligram per kilogram per day, ensuring safety even with full bioavailability. Whatever, Dave, you can't trick me with your fancy science talk. Aluminum is bad. So any amount of aluminum is bad. So vaccines are bad. No. No. And no. You have aluminum inside your body right now. And you are consuming more every day. For context, a single ant acid tablet can deliver 200 mg of aluminum, hundreds of times more than a vaccine. How about breast milk? An infant guzzles 0.78 L a day with aluminum concentrations typically at 9.2 2 to 49 microgram per liter. Doing the math, 0.92 to 0.049 mg per liter time 0.78 L times 180 days or 6 months gives around 1.3 to 6.8 mg and is largely excreted. Vaccines in the first 6 months like hepatitis B, DTAP, HIP, and Numacco deliver about 4.4 milligrams total. That's from 6 to eight shots, each capped at 0.85 mg by the FDA. So, children get as much aluminum from breast milk as they do from vaccines. Should we ban breastfeeding? Injected aluminum forms a depot, trickling out only 17% per dose, or 0.094 mg of an average 0.55 mg dose, hitting the bloodstream across 28 days. In a 7 kg kids, 0.6 6 L of blood with 2 to three doses overlapping. Peaks hit 0.01 to 0.02 micrograms per milliliter. That's 10,000 times below the toxic threshold of 100 micrograms per milliliter. Kidneys flush 70% in days, half-life of 24 hours, and the rest parks in bone, not your brain. Bobby, look, I know that's a lot of numbers, and you may have tuned out entirely. If so, just remember the point is that dose matters. Even things we need to survive can kill you. If you drink too much water, you die. And even the most harmful substances in the world do no harm below a certain dosage, like Botox. The dose makes the poison. And the amount of substances like aluminum in vaccines are so negligible that they don't even appreciably change the amount of aluminum that's in you already, which means they can't harm you and have been scientifically proven to not be harmful to you. Despite all of this science, RFK acts like vaccines are arsenic smoothies. But again, Babo, your kid is sipping more aluminum from mommy's milk than from vaccines, and nobody's panicking about breastfeeding. So what is the response? Endless redirection and misrepresentation. Khan at all showed aluminum adjuvent nanop particles can transllocate to the brain via monocy mediated transport in mice which has been used to suggest a link to autism or Alzheimer's. However, subsequent studies including human studies refute this. Weisser at all found minimal brain accumulation in rats after intramuscular aluminum injection with most aluminum retained in muscle or bones. Denmark and Sweden followed nearly 4 million adolescents and young adults and saw no increase in multiple sclerosis or other demyinating disease after receiving an HPV vaccine containing an aluminum adjuvent. Meta analysis of 22 post-licensure HPV safety studies covering millions of recipients show no excess autoimmune neurologic or other rare adverse events upon vaccination. 17 years of global postmarketing surveillance for infant riicks hexa, an aluminum containing infant vaccine with 159 million doses distributed found only the expected mild reactions at the site of injection with no developmental or neurologic associations. Reliance on cherrypicked animal studies such as Shaw etall which used high doses irrelevant to human exposure exaggerates risks in humans. Aluminum from vaccines contributes negligibly to total body burden compared to dietary sources. The dose makes the poison. Remember, Bobby's claims about aluminum and vaccines rely on erroneous interpretations of animal studies and ignore extensive human data showing no link to chronic diseases. The pharmaccoinetics of intramuscular aluminum, slow absorption, minimal brain accumulation, and low systemic exposure. Contrast with oral aluminum's rapid excretion but higher daily intake. While genetic predispositions to aluminum clearance such as GST-1 variants merit further study, current evidence overwhelmingly supports the safety of vaccine aluminum at FDA regulated doses. CHD's narrative amplifies fear without substantiating harm, undermining public health efforts. Bobby is cherry-picking data as usual, but even the data he cites contain evidence that refute his claims. And then there's David Guyire. In 2025, Bobby decided that this is the guy that needs to be hired as HHS senior data analyst to re-examine vaccine autism links. Who's Guyire? His name means vulture in German, which is quite fitting since he is a discredited researcher whose studies with his dad Mark claimed mercury causes autism. The Institute of Medicine called their work uninterpretable and riddled with errors. David got fined for practicing medicine without a license, and Mark's license was revoked. House Democrats are probing this hire, and even Bobby's antivax buddies are sideeying it. Let's be clear, hiring Guyire is like putting a flat-earther in charge of NASA. It's insanity. Ready for more? on Joe Rogan. Bobby claimed the DTP vaccine in Africa kills more kids than it saves, citing a 2017 study. That study is controversial, showing higher mortality in vaccinated girls. But the World Health Organization has shown DTP's benefits far outweigh risks, saving millions. Bobby has also pushed ivormectin and hydroxychloricquin for CO 19, claiming big pharma sabotaged them to protect vaccine profits. Large trials like Recovery and Solidarity found no benefit for these drugs. Yet, you can find grifters all over the internet selling these drugs in bulk with claims that it treats basically any disease you can think of. Bobby is pedalling snake oil while accusing others of fraud. Classic projection. Next up, Bobby and CHD love suing over vaccines. In 2019, CHD challenged New York's vaccine mandates, crying freedom. Courts tossed those lawsuits, upholding public health. Bobby has personally pocketed $2.5 million from vaccine lawsuits through Wisner Bomb, raising some serious conflict of interest red flags. Here's why this matters. RFK's misinformation kills. CHD's antivax propaganda amplified by Bobby fuels vaccine hesitancy and leads to unvaccinated kids dying. Instagram banned him in 2021 for spreading lies. The Center for Countering Digital Hate called CHD a top disinformation spreader. We'll dive deeper into the 2019 Samoa measles outbreak and 2025 US measles crisis a little later, but here's the teaser. Bobby's rhetoric helped tank vaccination rates, leading to 83 deaths in Samoa and over 1,000 US cases in 2025. This isn't just bad science. This isn't just snake oil supplements. It's a body count. And yet RFK has the balls to claim that he's not an antivaxer when he is confronted with this label. He just denies it. Even though when pressed to name a single vaccine he does support, he never provides a real answer. And do you want to know the ultimate hypocrisy? RFK has six kids. Do you think they're all vaccinated? You bet your ass they are. Why risk their safety when he can make money off of fear-mongering all the same? Wrapping up this chapter, Bobby's vaccine claims regarding autism, no testing, and toxic metals are all pure pseudocience. Vaccines are tested rigorously. Thyarisol and aluminum are safe in the amounts present in vaccines, and autism is genetic, not a big pharma plot. Hiring Guyire is like entrusting women's rights to a wife beater, and CHD's lawsuits are a bust. Worst of all, this misinformation erodess trust, costing lives. Next, we're diving into Bobby's environmental toxin obsession, where Wi-Fi is frying your brain, pesticides are turning the frogs gay, fluoride a CIA mind control conspiracy, and raw milk is the elixir of life. This is where he gets the most Alex Jonesy. Let's sort the real risks from the tinfoil hat nonsense. On Joe Rogan, he claimed that Wi-Fi radiation causes cancer and opens your bloodb brain barrier. Glyphosate in Roundup triggers celiac disease and atrizine in pesticides turns frogs gay or sorry, it chemically castrates them. Wi-Fi radiation is uh does all kinds of bad things including causing cancer. So all the wheat in our country started being sprayed that year in 2006 with glyphosate. And that's the year you saw this explosion of celiac diseases and uh you know gluten allergies and all of this stuff that people you know that you may have noticed around then. But they took atrizine and they put it in a tank with 40 frogs for three years. They put it below the exposure levels that EPA considers acceptable to humans. And 30 of those frogs, they were all male frogs and they were double Z, you know, male frogs, so they were super males. And 30 of those frogs were chemically castrated. Four of them turned into females and produce fertile eggs. Good [\h__\h] huh? His 2025 MAHA report ups the ante, blaming PFAS and microplastics for a chronic disease explosion with a wild claim that microplastics and brains jumped by 50%. At his 2024 Senate hearing, he vowed to scrutinize chemical additives. We will scrutinize the chemical additives in our food supply. We will remove financial conflicts of interest from our agencies. We will create an honest, unbiased, gold standard science at HHS, accountable to the president, to Congress, and to the American people. And don't forget his ex posts and speeches calling fluoride a neurotoxin and raw milk a superfood. Sounds like a chemical apocalypse, doesn't it? Maybe we should check the science before we all move into the creepy neighbors bunker. Let's start with Wi-Fi. This is a little bit on the milder side since there are no major risks to public health through his activism here as there are with his vaccine rhetoric. Bobby claims there are tens of thousands of studies proving Wi-Fi radiation causes cancer and opens your bloodb brain barrier letting toxins waltz into your noggin. He even sued the FCC through CHD in 2021 to prove it. Well, you know, I won the case in front of on this issue of suing FCC and FDA about it and um and you know, and the court sided with me. So now they're going to have to go back to the drawing board and do it. Here's the thing. He's totally full of [\h__\h] The International Commission on Nonionizing Radiation Protection says Wi-Fi's radio frequency emissions are too weak to cause cancer or brain damage at typical exposure. A 2011 study in the journal of the National Cancer Institute found no consistent cancer link in large cohorts. The WHO who's possibly carcinogenic label for radio frequency is based on uncertainty. We can support research into possible health or environmental effects of radio frequency technology, but there is no evidence supporting even minuscule harm. None of this should be terribly surprising or even thought of as being specific to wireless internet because we've been exposed to radio waves since the invention of radio in the late 19th century. That's why it's called radio because it uses radio waves. Bobby loves to overstate the evidence for a cherrypicked result and then go on to say that's what the entire field shows when we can see in this instance it's clearly not the case. that CHD vCC lawsuit. It forced a procedural review, not a health risk admission. Bobby's tens of thousands of studies are more like tens from a pool of thousands with no clear consensus for harmful effects in humans at typical exposure levels. He has nothing. Next up, glyphosate, the active ingredient in the herbicide Roundup. Bobby says it's behind a celiac disease explosion and other horrors like non-hodkin lymphoma. So, of all of the diseases that are probably caused probably almost certainly caused by glyphosate, the only one to pass that threshold was the case that we bought for um for Hodgekin non-hodkkins lymphoma. He's got a point on lymphoma. The ARC called glyphosate probably carcinogenic in 2015 and a 2019 lawsuit Hardman v. Monsanto awarded damages for it, but the EPA says it's unlikely to be carcinogenic at typical exposures and studies are mixed. Obviously, taking a bath in glyphosate is totally different from consuming produce grown through its usage. The dose makes the poison. Remember, celiac, total [\h__\h] The rise in celiac predates widespread glyphosate use on wheat, and no causal link exists. Animal studies hint at microbiome disruption, but human evidence is weak. Bobby is turning a complex issue into a Monsanto monster movie. Then there's atrizine, an herbicide he claims chemically castrates frogs, implying it's messing with human reproduction, too. Probably the most disturbing endocrine disruptor, and this is something we should all be looking at, is atrizine. While some aspects of frog reproduction could potentially be comparable to humans, frog reproduction differ significantly. and requires a critical comparison. He's riffing on a 2002 study showing that atrizine affects frog reproduction at high doses, mimicking agricultural runoff. Cool science, but here's the catch. Hayes is a total sketchball who refuses to share his data and flatout lies about other researchers reproducing his results. Nobody has seen his data or any other study that supports him to this day. And the EPA says atrizine is safe at environmental levels. No human studies show reproductive harm at typical exposures. Sex determination in frogs is complex and depends in part on environmental cues as opposed to with humans, which is entirely genetic. Remember what happened in Jurassic Park? Life uh finds a way. RFK's frog panic is a slight step up from Alex Jones's infamous turning the frogs gay rant, but it's still a totally baseless claim. I don't like them putting chemicals in the water that turn the freaking frogs gay. Do you understand that serious crap? Next, the Maha report gets into PFAS and microplastics, claiming they're driving chronic diseases with a wild statistic about 50% microplastics increase in brains. PFAS or forever chemicals are a legitimate concern. They're linked to immune and reproductive issues at high exposures, and we don't fully understand the extent of exposure to the public. But that microplastics brain claim sketchy at best. Animal studies suggest endocrine disruption, but human impacts are unclear, and that 50% statistic lacks peer-reviewed backing. The Maha report is citing 2025 studies that smell like they were conjured up by AI, not scientists. Real risks deserve real data, not hype. Fluoride is next on Bobby's hit list. He calls it an industrial waste and neurotoxin linked to IQ loss, arthritis, and cancer, vowing to yank it from water supplies. He backed a 2024 lawsuit, Food and Water Watch va pushing for stricter fluoride rules. The science mixed at best. The nationalmy's found no clear IQ link at US levels, which is 0.7 mg per liter. CDC says fluoridation cuts cavities by 25%. Removing it, like in Calgary, spiked dental decay. Bobby's fluoride phobia risks real harm for a hypothetical threat. I made an entire video about paranoia surrounding water fluidation, so head over there for more information. And then there's raw milk. Babo says it's great, taking shots of it on TV and claiming it's a health miracle suppressed by the FDA. Want to do a shot of raw milk? Toast this with me, Secretary Kennedy. Cheers. He even bragged at a 2022 CHD conference, "Since I was here last year, I only drank raw milk." No evidence demonstrates any kind of benefit whatsoever for raw milk over pasteurized. It's just way riskier with E.coli, Lististeria, and Salmonella outbreaks galore. The FDA bans interstate sales, and half of states outlaw it entirely because it's dangerous. For [\h__\h] sake, pasteurization was developed in 1864. This is even more idiotic than fear-mongering about chemicals. All it does is heat up the milk to kill bacteria that can get you sick. We are now rejecting scientific breakthroughs from the mid9th century for literally no reason whatsoever. That's where we're at now. Bobby's raw milk fetish is like calling Russian roulette a wellness trend. And again, no genetics. Immune response to pathogens varies by genes, but he's too busy romanticizing cow juice straight from the tap. To summarize, Bobby's toxicity claims are a mixed bag, which makes this the area where he tries to gain credibility since a handful of his claims are valid. PFAS are a real concern. Microplastics maybe, but Wi-Fi, glyphosate, atrizine, and fluoride, he's either blowing them way out of proportion or just lying. Raw milk is a health hazard, not a cure. His lawsuits like CHD vCC or Food and Water Watch Va score procedural wins, but don't prove harm. So, he's just misrepresenting what they're about. Instead of fear-mongering, Bobby could push for precision toxicology to study gene environment interactions. But no, he'd rather scare you into ditching Wi-Fi and drinking raw milk if you're stupid enough to believe him. Now, let's dive into Bobby's favorite conspiracy, the crux of his crusade, corporate capture. He seems convinced that big pharma has the FDA, CDC, and NIH in its pocket, turning them into puppet shows for profit. He's been revving this engine on Joe Rogan in his Senate hearing and in his MA report, painting a dystopian picture where drug companies call all the shots. Sounds juicy, right? seems automatically right without an ounce of critical thinking because reasons, right? In fact, it's a whole lot of projection with his own report being a total mess of fake citations. At his 2024 Senate confirmation hearing, he promised radical transparency and swore to remove financial conflicts of interest from health agencies. My approach to uh administration HS will be radical transparency. There's nothing I'm going to do that is going to harm CDC. I want to make sure that our science is gold standard science so that it's free from that that same government oversight investigation committee. I think 97% of the people on it had conflicts. Um I don't believe that that's right. I think we need to end those conflicts and make sure that scientists are doing unobstructed science. On Joe Rogan, he claimed that almost 50% of the FDA's budget comes from pharmaceutical companies. So they're not working for us. You need to get rid of these really corrupting financial entanglements between the pharmaceutical industry and the regulatory agencies that has put agency capture on steroids. For example, almost 50% of FDA's budget comes from pharmaceutical companies. His 2025 MAHA report doubles down on this, stating that 95% of the 2020 dietary guidelines committee had industry ties and that 94% of American Diabetes Association guideline authors were cozy with big pharma. Obviously, this isn't 100% fabricated. Industry influence is real and corruption exists, but he's blowing it up so far out of proportion that it's legitimately cartoonish. First, the FDA budget claim. Bobby is right that pharma pays a chunk. 47% of the FDA's budget comes from user fees where drug companies pony up for faster reviews. The alternative is to wait twice as long for new drugs which would impact a huge amount of patients in need. And as for the nature of the fees, they fund specific programs like drug approvals, not salaries or policy. The FDA has strict conflict of interest rules. Advisory committee members disclose ties and recusals are common. Bobby is acting like pharma is writing FDA press releases, but the real world doesn't work like that. CDC's 12 billion budget includes vaccine purchases, sure, but that's for public health programs, not CEO bonuses. And NIH researchers, as with other industries, have the right to get royalties for their inventions, and it's capped at $150,000 a year. It's a tiny fraction of their $47 billion budget, and it's heavily regulated. Let's not forget that Doge's attempt at finding fraud have found that there actually was very little fraud throughout the government and this is true in this sector as well. Frauds should be punished accordingly, but there needs to be evidence before outcry. Bobb's cartoon villain is more like a boring audit. The Maha report says that 95% of the 2020 dietary guidelines committee had food industry connections, citing a 2007 study on funding bias. It's true industry funding can skew priorities. The report also slams the American Diabetes Association, saying 94% of its type 2 diabetes guideline authors had pharmatize, pushing aggressive drug treatments with shaky benefits. Again, not totally wrong. Conflicts exist and they can nudge guidelines toward profitable drugs. But RFK acts like every scientist is a pharma shill. Most researchers juggle multiple funding sources and peerreview keeps things in check. He's throwing the baby out with the bathwater and ignoring how industry academia collaboration drives innovation. Like say vaccines that save millions of lives. Bobby loves playing courtroom hero. His CHD sued the FDA in 2020 challenging vaccine approvals over safety concerns. The case got tossed for lack of standing. He's also backed lawsuits against HHS, like the 2018 ICAN case we'll hit later, claiming no vaccine safety reports for 30 years. That one scored a bureaucratic win. HHS admitted missing reports, but it didn't prove vaccines are unsafe. His legal batting average is worse than a little leaguer, but he's raking in 2.5 million from vaccine lawsuits through Wizner Balm, which smells like a conflict of interest he'd flip out about if it was anyone else. I'm looking at your paperwork right now. In the past two years, you've raked in $2.5 million from a law firm called Wisner Bomb. You go online, you do commercials to encourage people to sign up with Wizner Bomb to join lawsuits against vaccine makers. And for everyone who signs up, you personally get paid. And if they win their case, you get 10% of what they win. Hypocrisy much? Here's the real kicker, though. Bobby's Maha report, preaching transparency, is a convoluted mess. It claims industry corrupt science, but its own citations are faker than Bigfoot. A supposed Jamama pediatric study on ADHD drug ads doesn't exist. Another on mental health, pure fiction. At least seven citations are invented, and some others have OI site URLs screaming AI generated garbage. The White House called it formatting issues, but come on. Bobby is demanding transparency while pedalling a report that's half hallucinations. You can't make this [\h__\h] up. These corporate capture rants distract from real solutions. Industry ties are a problem, sure, but they don't negate decades of rigorous science or render regulatory bodies unnecessary. Take over prescription. It's an issue worth a nuanced discussion with ADHD meds up 250% from 2006 to 2016. It's a valid question as to whether current practices are necessary or even counterproductive. But we also need to accept the reality that research shows genetics play a huge role in ADHD with 55 to 85% heritability. Instead of demonizing pharma, Bobby could push for genetic studies to tailor treatments, thus reducing over medication. His ad ban idea sounds nice, but it's a legal nightmare. Direct to consumer ads are protected speech, and banning them needs congressional muscle. These solutions are more theater than science. To summarize, Bobby's corporate capture narrative has a kernel of truth. Industry influence exists, but he's blowing it up into a bond villain. The FDA, CDC, and NIH have safeguards and peerreview, which in the 21st century is an open global effort that keeps science mostly honest. His lawsuits flop. His report is a citation disaster, and his 2.5 million in lawsuit payouts scream fraud. We should want HHS to fund precision medicine rather than chase big pharma ghosts. This scapegoating is a convenient dodge from real fixes. If you actually want proper regulation, you don't slash budgets and fire people. That makes people less protected, not more. Now, are you ready for the real carnage? Now, it's time to cover the darkest pit of RFK's pseudocience. We've shredded his vaccine lies, talks and rants, and corporate conspiracies. So, now it's time to face the real world fallout. This isn't just bad science. It's lives lost from preventable tragedies. families shattered and trust in public health demolished. Bobby's antivaccine crusade, fueled by his children's health defense, has left a trail of devastation from the 2019 Samoa measles outbreak that killed 83 to the 2025 US measel surge with over a thousand cases. We're going to lay bare the human cost with peer-reviewed data, a heavy heart, and some well-deserved [\h__\h] talk. Let's start with Samoa 2019, a textbook case of how Bobby's misinformation kills. Samoa was hit by a measles outbreak that infected over 5700 people and killed 83, mainly children under five. Measles is 97% preventable with the MMR vaccine, but Samoa's vaccination rate plummeted from 63% to the mid30s after a tragic vaccine error in 2018 where two nurses mixed up MMR with a muscle relaxant killing two infants. Enter RFK and CHD. In June 2019, he visited Samoa, met with antivaccine influencers, and sent a letter to the prime minister pushing the lie that the outbreak wasn't measles, but a defective vaccine. In reality, who confirmed it was measles, plain and simple. Bobby's meddling amplified hesitancy, so 83 individuals and their families paid the price. His response, zero remorse and pure denial, like the worthless piece of [\h__\h] that he is. At his hearing, he claimed that his Samoa visit was unrelated to vaccines, like he was just there for a goddamn beach vacation. I went there, nothing with vaccines. I went there to introduce a medical informatic system. I would digitalize records in Samoa and make health delivery much more efficient. Give me a [\h__\h] break, Bobby. Your CHD buddies were spreading antivax propaganda and your letter was a masterclass in fear-mongering. People listen to Bobby when he spreads his lies. As we saw with the massive increase in donations during his time as chair of CHD, misinformation like this tanks vaccination rates and Samoa's tragedy is a direct result. This isn't just an oopsy daisy. This is reckless and he has blood on his hands. Fast forward to 2025 and Bobby's influence is still wreaking havoc now as HHS secretary. By May of 2025, a measel's outbreak swept 22 states, hitting 1,01 cases with three deaths. Two unvaccinated kids in Texas and one adult in New Mexico. Texas alone had 499 cases, 96% in unvaccinated or unknown status individuals. This is absolutely unprecedented. What's Bobby's response? It's not unusual. He downplays it as not unusual and then called MMR most effective but insisted vaccination is a personal choice. Additionally, he pushes vitamin A, cod liver oil, and chicken noodle soup as treatments. Science check. MMR is 97% effective. Vitamin A helps malnourished kids. It is not in any way a vaccine substitute. and cod liver oil is unproven with toxicity risks. While there is research showing that vitamin A supplementation in vitamin A deficient children can help with measles outcomes, it's obviously not preventative like vaccines. And in the US, vitamin A deficiency is rare, estimated to be about 0.3%. Conversely, there exists such a thing as vitamin A toxicity. And wouldn't you know it, people in Texas who right now are giving their children vitamin A instead of vaccinating them are unfortunately finding this out the hard way. This is what happens when you put the words of a lying fraud over actual science. This is why vaccination is the dramatically preferred option because it is safer and more effective at preventing the spread of infection than some supplements. Simply put, vitamin A deficiency exacerbates the deadliness of the measles infection, but additional vitamin A in children who aren't deficient does not prevent the development or spread of the disease. Bobby's mixed messages are like pouring gas on a fire that he helped start. Even worse, he continues to fan the flames. Again, the Center for Countering Digital Hate named CHD a top misinformation spreader with gems like vaccines cause autism and COVID shots are experimental. CHD's propaganda doesn't just erode trust, it kills her immunity, leaving us vulnerable to outbreaks like 2025's measles mess or even worse if another virus like SARS Corona virus 2 begins to spread while he's at HHS. something that is very possible given the growing potentiality of an H5N1 influenza crisis. And make no mistake, the ripple effects are brutal. Bobby's misinformation amplified by CHD has slashed vaccination rates across the board. Measles outbreaks are just the start. Polio, hooping cough, they're all creeping back. These are diseases that Americans in their 40s or younger know very little about because they were eradicated here such a long time ago. But they may soon be reminding us just how horrifying they were in the middle of the 20th century. Public trust in vaccines is in the gutter with a 2023 Gallup poll showing that only 40% of Americans trust vaccine safety, down from 58% in 2019 and 64% in 2001. Bobby's personal choice rhetoric sounds nice until you realize it's a death sentence for her immunity. Immune response varies by genetics, like HLA genes for example. But vaccines are our best shot at population level protection. His lies undermine that, putting the immuno compromised at risk. It's not freedom, it's just excuses for selfish [\h__\h] To summarize, Bobby's antivaccine crusade powered by CHD has real blood on its hands. Samoa's 83 deaths in 2019, the 2025 US measles outbreak with 101 cases and three deaths. These aren't accidents. He is directly responsible more than any other individual person. His denials are as flimsy as his science, and his rhetoric is a copout. HHS could improve public trust by allocating funds to study genetic immune markers to boost vaccine efficacy. But Bobby is too busy torching trust. This isn't just pseudocience. It's a public health crime scene. Anyway, shall we get even more absurd? We've exposed RFK's vaccine lies, toxin rants, corporate conspiracies, and deadly outbreaks. But now it's time for the real clown show, Bobby's Supreme Hypocrisy. The guy is shouting, "Make America healthy again," while harboring a braineing worm, smuggling whale skulls, bathing in E.coli coli infested sewage and sporting decades of drug use. Let's dive into this disgusting freak show. First up, the brain worm. Yes, you heard that right. In 2012, RFK revealed that a parasitic worm ate part of his brain, causing memory loss and cognitive fog. He spilled this in a 2024 deposition, and the New York Times ran with it, quoting doctors who said it was likely a pork tapeworm cyst, which can cause lasting damage. This is the guy running HHS, folks. Preaching about brain health while harboring brain parasites. Next, the whale head fiasco. In 1994, Bobby illegally transported a dead whales skull across state lines, violating the Marine Mammal Protection Act. His daughter Kathleen, aged six at the time, described him chainsawing the head off a beached whale like some eco serial killer. He then proceeded to tie it to his vehicle to transport it home on a 5-hour drive. She stated, "Every time we accelerated on the highway, whale juice would pour into the windows of the car, and it was the rankest thing on the planet. We all had plastic bags over our heads with mouth holes cut out, and people on the highway were giving us the finger. But that was just normal day-to-day stuff for us." This is the same guy who built his career as an environmental lawyer, saving rivers and suing polluters. He's posing as a green hero while smuggling whale bones. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration investigated, but no charges stuck. Quite the lucky break for Captain Ahab. It's clear that he doesn't see any consequences from consuming undercooked meat or handling decomposing carcasses while with his family. Oh, you want more in the way of actual live animal abuse? According to his cousin Caroline, he used to put baby chickens and mice in a blender. This was done to feed his hawks, which made sense to her since she says he himself is a predator. Here's another doozy. He took his grandchildren on a quaint little swimming excursion in the sewage contaminated Rock Creek in Washington DC on Mother's Day 2025. The National Park Service advises against swimming there due to high bacterial levels detected. But that doesn't stop Bobby from risking his own health or the health of his young grandchildren. What a standup guy. Oh yeah, and there's the time he was caught going to the bathroom on an airplane completely barefoot. Nothing screams good health and hygiene like barefoot bathroom usage. Then there's the drug use. Bobby admitted to 14 years of heroin addiction from 1969 to 1983, plus mercury poisoning from eating too much fish, which he says messed up his health. I'm all for rehabilitation and second chances, but running HHS after a heroinfueled youth, that's like hiring a pyromaniac to run the fire department. His Maha report slams over medication. Yet, he's got a pass that screams, "Do as I say, not as I did." Hypocrisy meter redlinining. Bobby is no stranger to legal heat either. That whale head stunt, NOAA sniffed around but let him off. He's also dodged accountability for his antivax lawsuits. Yes, that 2.5 million through Wizner bomb while accusing others of profiting off of public health. Okay for me, but not for you. Bobby's brainworm and drug use raise legitimate questions about cognitive fitness. Genetic predisposition to neurological issues can be exacerbated by trauma like cysts or substance abuse. He's leading HHS, overseeing NIH brain research while his own noggin is a case study in chaos. The balls on this guy. Make America healthy again is a sick joke. His legal dodges and lawsuit profits reek of the same greed he blasts in big pharma. This isn't leadership. It's lunacy. Now, let's get to the most insane claims RFK has ever made. Bobby often denies germ theory, attempting to drag us back to the 1800s. Yes, your ears are working just fine. The guy running HHS thinks germs might not cause disease. This is straight out of his 2021 garbage ghostritten book in a section titled Myasma Versus Germ theory, which is found in chapter 9, The White Man's Burden, and it's [\h__\h] bananas. It's like a chemist saying Adams don't exist. Indeed, Bobb's claim that germs are no big deal comes from this book, which serves no purpose other than elevating his celebrity among science deniers, where he essentially rejects germ theory, a cornerstone of modern medicine, and pushes a warped mixture of obsolete, long discredited models like myasma theory and terrain theory, claiming that diseases come from poor nutrition and toxins, not germs. He literally says, "Germ theory mimics demon possession." Are you listening? This is the guy overseeing the CDC. He completely disregards the scientific history of germ theory, which was established through rigorous empirical science by pioneers like Louis Pastor and Robert Ko, including Ko's 1876 demonstration that basillusanthrais causes anthrax. It's supported by electron microscopy of every virus we know, including SARS Corona virus 2, and vaccines that save millions. This is unanimously agreed upon unimpeachable scientific fact. To deny this is like flat-earthers pretending gravity doesn't exist. But sure, every scientist in the entire world is a stupid shill. Only RFK speaks the truth. So, should we investigate the dumb things he claims? Why not? So, what's this myasma theory Bobby is crushing on? Back in the 1800s, people thought diseases came from bad air, which we called myasmas. It was debunked when germ theory proved that microbes are the culprits. Bobby's version is closer to terrain theory, a resurrected pseudocience fad claiming your body's terrain, diet, stress, and toxins, is what causes disease, not germs. He says, "Fortify your immune system and poof, no sickness." Sounds cute, but it's almost entirely garbage. Host factors like nutrition matter, sure, but they don't negate germs. The healthiest person in the world has no impenetrable safeguard towards an unfamiliar virus. And many of the people who have died in some of the worst pandemics in human history were supremely healthy. A 2019 study in the Journal of Infectious Diseases shows malnutrition worsens infection outcomes, but microbes still pull the trigger. Bobby's terrain theory is like blaming a car crash on a loose seat belt instead of the drunk driver. And his book misrepresents my asthma anyway. It was about air, not immunity. He's rewriting history like it's fanfiction. May I remind you, this isn't quirky. This isn't the girl you're on a Tinder date with whose profile you didn't read closely enough and now she's rambling about toxins over cocktails. He's the head of the [\h__\h] HHS. It's dangerous. He is denying germ theory while in charge of public health for all of America. Take the 2025 measles outbreak. 1,01 cases, mostly unvaccinated with three deaths. Bobby's germ denial fuels vaccine hesitancy, making outbreaks worse. Measles is a virus, not a vibe. His Maha report ignores microbes, blaming toxins for chronic diseases. If HHS buys this, we're screwed. Think polio, TB, or worse. Doctors who study infectious diseases like Dr. Neil Stone are losing their minds. What will be the death toll from this? both indirectly through his enhanced influence and directly through his policies. We've torn apart the vaccine lies, talks and rants, corporate conspiracies, deadly outbreaks, and medieval germ denial. So now it's time to dissect his crown jewel of [\h__\h] the Make America Healthy Again report. This 73page disaster led by Bobby as HHS secretary claims to save kids from a chronic disease crisis with gold standard science. Well, he may have gotten gold stars in kindergarten, but this document is a masterclass in misinformation stuffed with fake citations and AI generated garbage. We've covered many of the main bullet points already, but to reiterate, the MAHA report of this year claims that 40% of US kids have chronic diseases, obesity, autism, ADHD, and diabetes caused by ultrarocessed foods, chemicals like PFAS, inactivity, and over medication, including vaccines. Bobby's team, chaired by him, promises policy fixes within 180 days. All wrapped in radical transparency and a war on corporate influence. Sounds noble, right? Well, the science is shakier than a Jenga tower in an earthquake. They cite over 500 studies, but when you actually dig into it, it's a house of cards. Here's the bombshell headline. Maha's citations are a fraudfest. As we mentioned earlier, a supposed JAMAMA pediatric study on ADHD drug ads and one on adolescent mental health. These studies do not exist. He's not even misrepresenting studies. He's just pulling them out of thin air. Epidemiologist Katherine Keys confirmed she never wrote the cited paper. At least seven citations are entirely made up and some are AI generated nonsense. The White House shrugged it off as formatting issues. I notice investigation found that the Hallmark Maha Commission report that was released last week site studies that appear to not exist. We know that because in part we reached out to some of the listed authors who said that they didn't write the studies cited. So I want to ask does the White House have confidence that the information coming from HHS can be trusted? Yes, we have complete confidence in Secretary Kennedy and his team at HHS. I understand there were some formatting issues with the MAHA report that are being addressed and the report will be updated, but it does not negate the substance of the report, which as you know is one of the most transformative health reports that has ever been released by the federal government is and is backed on good science that has never been recognized by the federal government. Yeah. And the Titanic sinking was an oopsy daisy. This gold standard science is starting to look like fool's gold. Do we really need to point out the irony here? Maha shouts about corporate capture and demands transparency, but Bobb's report is a black hole of dishonesty. He's railing against big pharma corruption while pedalling nothing but lies. These fake citations are not a typo. They're a betrayal of trust. Even if he were to pretend that they weren't his fault and he forced some intern named Lucas to take the blame, if Bobby can't vet citations for his flagship report, how the [\h__\h] is he going to run HHS? It's stratospheric corruption or unparalleled incompetence. Take your pick. And it's so much more than that. Our country has real issues and the head of HHS needs to focus on them. Bobby could solve actual environmental problems. There are still communities that have to deal with lead poisoning. Where's the outrage? Where's the urgency? Maha, just like MAGA, is a case study in misinformation. Fake citations, AI gibberish, and zero genetic insight make it a laughingstock. Preaching transparency while hiding behind his own fraudulence. His leadership is as sturdy as jello. For an extremely thorough line by line analysis of this document, check out this video here, which is linked below. Otherwise, on with the parade. As we near the end of this RFK pseudocience takedown, we have to stare directly down the barrel of his HHS leadership. As secretary, Bobby has the keys to CDC, FDA, and NIH. And he's driving this public health machine like a drunken toddler in a county fair bumper car. Food dye bands, fluoride purges, methylene blue as a miracle cure, and firing the entire CDC advisory committee on immunization practices, plus 10,000 staffers. It's complete [\h__\h] mayhem. First up, Bobby's food dye crusade. In 2025, HHS announced a phase out of petroleum based dyes like Red 40 and Yellow 5 by 2026, claiming they're unsafe. There's some evidence that additives like Red 40 and other dyes are linked to behavior, but it's not conclusive. Bobby is acting like Skittles or ecstasy pills. Aside from parenting, behavior is heavily genetic. Again, ADHD is 55 to 85% heritable. While not the most problematic aspect of his agenda, this ban is a flashy stunt, distracting from bigger diet issues like ultrarocessed foods. Next, the fluoride obsession. He's pushing to remove fluoride from water, calling it a neurotoxin. HHS set up a task force to make it happen despite CDC saying fluoridation cuts cavities by 25%. We went over the lawsuit and the lack of evidence already. Then there's methylene blue. People hyped this dye as a cure for depression among other things. It's used for malaria and meththemoglobanmia, but there is no FDA approval for depression or any other condition. Studies show zero evidence for these claims and high doses risk toxicity. Pushing unsubstantiated treatments is quackery, not leadership. Bobby is also completely gutted HHS. He fired all 17 individuals on CDC's vaccine safety panel and 10,000 staff, including top vaccine experts like Dr. Peter Marx, who quit over RFK's misinformation. His resignation letter is publicly available, very short, and worth a read. My favorite sentence is, "However, it has become clear that truth and transparency are not desired by the secretary, but rather he wishes subservient confirmation of his misinformation and lies." Even worse than the firing of the entire panel is who he hired to replace them. It's basically an antivaxer task force, most notably including Robert Malone, the fraud who spewed a mountain of lies about vaccines on Joe Rogan and other platforms. This dick bag has claimed that he invented mRNA vaccines. That Ivormectin and hydroxychloricquin treat COVID. That for every three lives saved by COVID vaccines, they'll kill two. That one in 2,000 kids will get brain damage from them. That they can cause vaccine induced AIDS and that heavy menstrual bleeding is a miscarriage caused by vaccines. Then there's Cody Meisner, who made 12 conflict of interest disclosures while previously on the ACIP, but was hired again despite RFK citing conflicts of interest as a major reason for sacking the existing panel. The American Medical Association has even called for a Senate investigation into their dismissal, which was unprecedented. All of them have some connection or another to antivaccine advocacy, making this a giant step towards undermining vaccine policy. And this gut punch hit during the 2025 measles outbreak we've been discussing. His staff cuts and wishy-washy response crippled HHS's outbreak control. What else can we add to this list? Oh yeah, RFK is creating an autism registry since he wants to eradicate autism, a thing that's impossible since it's not a disease, but just the way some people's brains work. He has decided that private health records will be used to create a database of autistic people so that they can be tracked and monitored, which is already creepy enough without acknowledging the potential for such data to be leaked and without even considering what the real motive is for this. Spectacular, no. Anyway, RFK's HHS is a public health dumpster fire. Food dye bands are stunts. Fluoride removal risks teeth. Methylene blue is quackery. and staff cuts botched the measles response. How can things get any worse? Beyond all the science denial, all the lies, and all of his profits, there is the bureaucratic nightmare that is destroying America's ability to do science. We've all heard about the billions of dollars in budget cuts to the NIH as well as NSF and other institutions which are not under the umbrella of HHS, but let's get specific about the ramifications that go beyond simply identifying what types of science will no longer get funded. Even from a purely financial perspective, these slashes are estimated to cost the US economy $10 billion annually. Every dollar invested in public R&D has historically yielded a buck 40 to 210 in economic output and government funding has been a huge chunk of that since World War II. RFK and Trump are carelessly gutting our ability to generate this revenue. They want you to believe that they have good reason for these cuts, but if you'll recall my video on Trump's trans mice, it's just one big parade of ignorance. Grantwatch US is a project that tracks the termination of grants under Trump and RFK. And if you go through the public abstracts, even a little, you'll see that most of it is just totally innocuous stuff where the funding mechanism, the researcher, or the research institute was deliberately targeted rather than the science itself. This is science that makes us safer, stronger, smarter, happier, and wealthier going up in a puff of smoke. Then all the firings. On April 1st, 10,000 people were fired, including 3,500 from the FDA. Beyond the sheer scale of the firings, it was done half-hazardly. Termination emails told staff to reach out to officials that were no longer employed there, and important FDA functions were left totally unattended, leaving countless people completely baffled. People were fired who had been researching cures for cancer, Alzheimer's, and more. With this disappearance of food inspectors and drug inspectors, food and drugs will become less safe. All while previously eradicated diseases are on the rise due to vaccine hesitancy. It's one of the most reckless acts in the history of public health. Then the harassment of medical journals. Check out this insane statement. The Lancet has become utterly corrupt. New England Journal of Medicine, American Medical Association are utterly corrupt. There's nothing in there that can be believed. As soon as I'm elected and appoint my attorney general, one of the first meetings that my attorney general is going to have is to call the editors and publishers of those journals into our office, the to the Justice Department where my father used to work and tell them that we're about to file racketeering cases against them for lying to the public under antitrust acts and under fraud acts and under RICO, which is a a statute that my father wrote. and that if they don't come up with a plan as to how they are going to divorce themselves from the pharmaceutical industry that we are going to go into their office and we're going to confiscate their files and that we are going to prosecute them because this is just part of the big lie to the American public. They're deceiving doctors. They are harming people. They are killing Americans and we need to make it stop. Wrap your head around everything you just heard. There is nothing in there that can be believed. Nothing in any scientific or medical journal can be believed. In other words, if a scientist says it, it's a lie. If it's in a reputable journal, it's a lie. And of course, he abuses his father's reputation to pedal this vile filth. Make no mistake, this is an attempt to compel journals and medical professionals into silence. The goal is to negate the validity of real science wherever it provides facts that are inconvenient to the narrative the Trump administration is seeking to push. Publishing too many facts that's a lawsuit for you. So if scientists can't publish their results in these ultracorrupt big pharmabacked prestigious journals where can they publish? why they can use new head of NIH and walking [\h__\h] stained Jay Bodacharia's new journal, Journal of the Academy of Public Health. It's an alternative to mainstream publications. You guys, who doesn't like alternatives? Well, it's not really much of an alternative since RFK is looking to institute a ban on federal scientists publishing in top journals. You know, all the ones that are super corrupt or whatever. They'll have to do it in Jay's pretend state-run journal, which of course will require adhering to state approved narratives. Soon, it will be illegal for these researchers to publish in legitimate journals, which means it will be illegal for them to publish legitimate science. Taxpayer funded research will become a joke, making these positions completely undesirable to any researcher worth their salt. And in fact, top US researchers are already beginning to immigrate to other countries where they will be treated with the respect and support that they deserve. This is the chilling reality we now face. We have a leader of HHS who is completely science illiterate and has supported pseudocientific claims for decades. Instead of loading up the organizations he oversees with experts in order to identify and address significant problems, he implements his own research agenda informed by prejudice and ignorance and simply obliterates any obstacle in his path by preventing the publication of any science that contradicts his baseless narratives. This means billions of dollars in budget cuts. This means firing the entire vaccine panel and generally purging the government of true intellectuals. This means throttling federal research by denying access to legitimate journals and enforcing their own alternatives in order to impose their own version of the truth. Once again, where have we seen this in history before? Stalin and Lysenko. a statebacked pseudocientific narrative which denied the field of genetics and resulted in starvation for millions of people. Trump and RFK, Stalin and Lysenko, the similarities are chilling. Don't let anyone gaslight you into questioning this very clear parallel. Don't let any MAGA douchebag shout the Trump derangement syndrome and strut away like they've won something. This is an absolutely outrageous, unprecedented in modern American history at the doorstep of fascism, profoundly dangerous series of events that we are witnessing unfolding here. The first step is knowing that there's a problem. And if I've gotten you as mad about it as I am, then I've done my job as a science communicator. If you've made it this far, we have reached the finish line of our RFK Junior pseudocience board. And what a wild ride it's been. From vaccine lies to toxin rants, corporate conspiracies, deadly outbreaks, brainworms, germ denial, fake citations, and HHS chaos. Bobb's record is unrivaled among any public health official, living or dead. Let's have a quick recap. a call for real science and a final kick in the nuts for his pseudocience empire. To recap the wreckage, Bobby claimed vaccines cause autism, which has been debunked by decades of studies across the globe. His toxin rants about Wi-Fi and fluoride overblown or flatout wrong. Corporate capture, a kernel of truth drowned in conspiracy and hypocrisy. His misinformation fueled the 2019 Samoa measles outbreak, 83 dead, and the 2025 US measel surge. 10,01 cases, three dead. His brainworm, whale skull, and drug use make him hypocrisy incarnate. Germ denial, pure 19th century lunacy. The Maha report is a big bucket of fraud. And his HHS reign, including die bands, methylene blue, and massive staff cuts, is a public health disaster. This isn't leadership, it's a wrecking ball. Anyway, since this has all been quite impersonal, I thought we could wrap things up by getting some perspective. Someone named Andrew Shreffler recently reached out to me by email. His mother is Rita Cave Shrefler, one of the original autism moms who wrote Andrew Wakefield's Cotales, former co-owner and editor of the Autism File magazine, and former executive director of the National Autism Association. She went on to work closely with Wakefield, Dell Bigtree, and now works for RFK at HHS. Andrew, who is autistic, suffered extreme childhood abuse under his mother and is now totally estranged from her. It's one thing for me to tell you how RFK and his cronies harm people, but it's another thing entirely to hear directly from those who have been harmed. So, let's have Andrew tell a bit of his story now. Andrew, thanks so much for uh joining me here uh to comment a little bit on RFK and the figures below him, one of whom is your mother. Um you were you told me you were diagnosed with autism at age seven, I believe. U I actually have a son who is five who uh was diagnosed with autism as well. So I think uh as I told my viewers, after all of the data and statistics and and papers and everything, um it's time for a little bit of of uh of personal testimony. So, uh, thanks for joining me. I wanted to give you a chance to just go ahead and tell your story. Well, wonderful. Thank you so much. Um, again, thank you for having me on. Uh, I'd like to start off by, um, a quote that was made by, uh, uh, the Norwegian American clinical psychologist named, uh, sorry, uh, Ole Ivar Lovas when he said, "You start pretty much from scratch when working with an autistic child. You have a person in the physical sense. Uh they have hair, a nose, a mouth, but they are not people in the psychological sense. Um he continues in the in his quote to say, "One way to look at the job of helping autistic kids is to see it as a matter of constructing a person. You have the raw materials, but you have to build the person." I chose this uh because it it really just uh kind of under you know underlines uh a lot of the ideology that happens when an autistic um you know an autism mom it goes into the antiback side and it ends up manifesting more as um anti- autism than it does antivaccine. Uh this includes alternative treatments. Uh this includes you know anything from herbal supplements to vitamin B12 injections. Um I remember at one point I was put on spironol lactone um when I was you know prepubescent or just just about to hit puberty. Uh again the I kind of forget the ages sometimes because it's been so long. I I'm in my 30s now. Um and a lot of these treatments were just they made me sick. They made me either eat nothing or eat too much. Um they, you know, my appetite would go up and down. My energy would go up and down. My uh my anxiety, my uh stress, um anger issues. I had a lot of behavioral issues growing up which were exacerbated by the fact that I wasn't getting really real therapy, real treatment. I mean, they would take me to the doctor if I was sick and need an antibiotic or something, but you know, in terms of vaccines, they blamed all of my problems on the vaccines. And so, nothing was really done about uh my actual issues. Um, there's also, yeah, it's incredibly dehumanizing rhetoric. The the quote that you gave that they're not people, right? That they don't have personalities. You're an adult, right? Uh, contrary to RFK's uh, idea, I've never seen an adult with autism. Here you are, an adult with autism. You clearly have a personality. My son had a very strong personality since birth. He's clearly a person. I mean, that where does this dehumanizing rhetoric come from? Is it is it does it stem from religion or is it just manipulative rhetoric or what is this, you know? Well, there's actually a dark history to this. Um, Hans Osperger, where we get the term Asperger syndrome, uh, was actually heavily involved in Nazi Germany and he actually conducted some pretty torturous experiments on autistic people and uh, kids specifically, sent them off to places where they were never seen from again. Um and this continued on to you know Ole um uh Lavas. Uh he was the founder of the um applied behavior analysis ABA which is controversial because it functions more like Pavlovian dog training. It promotes compliance not um autonomy uh not individualism, expressionism, any of that stuff. I'm sorry I'm probably getting some of these words wrong. Um like for example um any of the interests I had growing up they were treated as obsessions. The word obsession was thrown around a lot. Uh another point I wanted to make was that um in terms of the dehumanization I feel like a lot of my life was kind of bowled over uh for my mother's career with an uh with um RFK Jr. because she's worked with him. She's worked directly with him, works directly under him and is one of his spokespeople. Um, so she's written press releases, she's, you know, answered questions about whether he can have an interview or not. Uh, she's done interviews, she's helped write, um, several books, um, in terms of in terms of like editing and whatnot, um, proofreading and whatnot. Um, she's also been the co-owner and editor of the Autism File magazine, of which I'm on the cover, uh, for the issue for autism in the workplace. So, when RFK Jr. is saying that we we will never hold a job. I'm sorry. I'm on a an antiax magazine that that's about autism in the workplace without your consent obviously. Right. Well, I consented to the magazine cover. I act it was kind of consensual. I kind of really didn't really feel like I had a choice, but I was not asked whatsoever when that um when that was put into the vaxed uh film. Okay. Yeah. So, uh, I I had no idea that was going to be in there until I saw it. And yes, I was one of the people who got to see it, um, in theater. Um, and well, hey, I mean, it was a free movie. So, um, um, I want to talk a little bit about your mother as well here, just because I think that I have some sympathy for people who are uneducated. They clearly care deeply about their children, but they fall down this pseudocience pipeline. they become polarized against science and and but but it's all kind of stemming from a an instinct to protect their kids, right? Stuff like that. But your mother here, we have an example who levied incredible abuse against her own children. Clearly, we cannot say that any of this behavior in her uh you know is stemming from her from from care wanting to care for her children uh due to the the neglect and the abuse that you suffered. So, what is is it about her career and just take take me through a little more of her career and what she does for RFK today? I think she is uh she she has a lot of narcissistic traits. All right. She likes to think of herself as some shining night for autistic kids. And maybe she believes this. Maybe she actually believes that what she did to us was was helping us. And if so, I mean, cuz again, she's been doing this for a long time. I mean, almost as long as I can remember. Um, she was right on this bandwagon the second I was diagnosed and she cannot really be uh convinced otherwise. I I um so I think that she believes that what she's doing is good and I believe she does love me and my sister but at the same time she's so misguided so um dragged down into this pipeline that that it just kind of overrides everything else and it is I think a motherly instinct to protect you know their kids. I mean, a mommy grizzly bear is probably going to tear anything apart if they they go around a baby bear, right? Yeah. That's not the best analogy, but a genuine threat, right? Yeah. This is different. I mean, if if if her relationship with her own children, this the strained relationship or potentially non-existent relationship here. Uh I mean, if if she can't let that break through this veneer of narcissism, I mean, I I just don't know what is it going to ever get through to these people. I I don't for some of them especially higher up I don't think you can get through to them. all we can do is do what we're doing and debunk them and get to more people because I think for the most part antivaxers really are, you know, they're let lured in by fear of what um an unknown like autism could be, right? or they're lured in by, you know, these tragic stories that are objectively tragic when you see, you know, kids with, you know, very debilitating conditions, but I think it's equally as tragic when, you know, we film them in compromised positions like that. Um, when we um revoke their autonomy. Mhm. Um Yeah. I don't know how autism got this this horrible reputation too though because it's like here you are you're an adult you're a contributing member of society. You speak well. You're clearly you know even despite all the trauma you suffered you seem like a welladjusted person. My son fortunately luckily for him luckily for him we we are taking him through all the appropriate therapies and everything. So I I'm I'm I'm I feel very confident that he will uh turn out like you, you know, well adjusted and well spoken and everything. Um thank you. Where where you know this idea, you know, RFK regularly says these people are never going to have a job, they're never going to go on a date, blah blah. What is this? Like do they just for all of the all of their investment in autism, do they just not know autistic people? I mean, your mother has an autistic child. Like what is this, right? I mean, well, okay, autism is a spectrum obviously, and they're going they're looking at just some of the most debilitated examples of autism because there are some examples where it's very severe and someone might be nonverbal maybe. Um, so they're looking they're focusing just on that. um they're not and without any respect or regard to those of us who are contributing members of society, I know several member or uh autistic people who have joined the military and you know got out with honorable discharges and you know one of them I I think what one person I knew who was autistic, he's an Air Force officer. I mean autistic people are very capable people. Um, and again, because we're on such a spectrum, we have capabilities that a lot of people don't even think of. Like like a lot of us are artists. Um, a lot of us are um musicians. I'm I'm going to college this fall on a mostly full ride scholarship that I that I work my butt off for uh to study mathematics and data analytics. So, you know, I don't really know where entirely it comes from, but again, since autism has been stigmatized since its pointing, um, I guess old habits die hard, you know. Yeah. Yeah. I think the dstigmatization, we need to push for that. And over the next decade or so, uh, as more and more autistic people are in positions of celebrity and things like that, it it's that one will die. I feel like that will die. antivax is going to take longer, but but the stigma against autism I think should go pretty soon. Yeah, absolutely. Because while it is tragic, um when someone has a very, you know, um severely disabil disabling form of autism, that's usually comorbid with other um uh phenomenon. Yeah. And another point I'd like to make is even if vaccines were to cause autism, which they don't, that still doesn't excuse the stigma. That doesn't excuse the treatment. It doesn't I mean, even if vaccines were to cause autism, don't you think you should be uh working on making us happier and healthier people um in general as opposed to, you know, dog training? Yeah. engaging in these therapies that are shown and I can attest to this. My son's been doing these therapies for not even a year and I already see a pretty marketked shift in in his mood, in his behavior. He's more agreeable. He's less um you know, he's a little bit more flexible in terms of his rituals and things like that. So, I I think bodess well, you know, um that's wonderful. Yeah, I'm happy for you. And you know, my son's also autistic. He's turning 13 this year, actually, just in a few days. And again, he's on the autism spectrum and he's getting better grades in school than I did. You know, mine weren't terrible, but they also weren't great, you know. Um, they did suffer during the abuse. Um Um, my Yeah, but no, my son is living better. He's happier. He has more friends, and he's doing extracurricular activities in school like um he's going to like machining shop thing or something like that. Um he's also he's also programmed like mods for I think Roblox and stuff like that. So he's doing a lot of creative stuff. So this idea of never writing a poem. I mean gosh I I also have written I've written poetry back in high school. So yeah. Yeah. My son's incredibly creative as well. Uh it kind of blows my mind sometimes. Yeah. Well, we we tend to be creative people. Yes. It's true. Well, yeah. Let's I mean is there anything else that you want to wrap up with in in the way of an anecdote about your childhood or what your what what does your mother do currently for RFK? So she is the director of advocacy and outreach. Um at least as far as I'm aware. I it's not like I get to talk to her a whole lot about this. I can't imagine that you would. Yeah. Right. Um but she um basically she like um the last I heard was uh I was watching a video and I was surprised to see that Rita Shuffler um his spokeswoman RFK Jr. spokeswoman Rita Shuffler said that uh he's not available for an interview right now. So she's um kind of like a spokeswoman but also like edits and kind of writes some press releases and things like that. Right-hand woman more or less inner circle type. Yeah. Like a Yeah, like a lieutenant almost or something. Yeah. Well, I I I don't I don't have any uh you know, delusions that this video is going to topple the whole regime, but I'm definitely hoping that uh a large chunk of people who are at least kind of on the fence, maybe not sure what to make of RFK, uh are now completely cognizant of of the situation and what what an unbelievable monster that guy is. Absolutely. Absolutely. And yeah, this is this is it's been a long time coming. I I I I have I've seen um for years now I've been watching like debunks and stuff and I'm just like, well, why isn't anybody talking about antivaxers? And finally, we're doing it. Finally, we're doing it. He's in this position of power, so it has to be done, you know? It it has to be. Yeah. I just I just wish it didn't have to come to this at this to this first, but Right. Too little too late. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, well, hey, thank you so much for helping me speak out and um I wish you all well. Yeah. Thank you for Thank you for doing this. Much appreciated. No problem. And one last thing I want to say if possible. Um to anyone watching who has also suffered through this, this is a great time to speak out. Um this is, you know, you're not alone. Obviously, here's another autistic person who was gaslit and practically experimented on. Um it's not your fault. And there there's help out there and it's time for us to actually start working together to fight back against this because I fear that RFK Jr. may in in fact end up systematizing this and we're all we we all need to take care of each other right now. The autism registry and everything. Yeah. Yeah. That scares me. Oh my god. Well, I appreciate that sentiment. Thank you. Thank you for that. And thank you for this uh for talking to me. If we can take what we just heard and amplify that 10,000fold, we can begin to get a sense of the damage that this administration is enacting. What can we do about it? Here is the path forward. HHS must ditch RFK's pseudocience and embrace peer-reviewed evidence-based rigor. He must be fired as soon as possible. There are no two ways about it. Then fund research on diet. Ultrarocessed foods are a real issue. Regulate chemicals like PFAS with evidence, not hysteria. Push vaccines. They save millions of lives. Restore HHS staff to fight outbreaks. Bobby's reign shows what happens when fear trumps facts, just like someone else we know. Can you imagine what would occur if a major health crisis broke out during this administration, like another pandemic or something else entirely? It would be a complete slaughter. We can't afford to have abject morons in charge of public health. Let's demand better. As for everyone watching, if you were someone who did not possess this knowledge prior to watching this video, reflect on it. Allow yourself to get upset about it. Don't get swept up by manipulative rhetoric. Don't fall for Bobby's brainworm logic. Look at the research. Demand that HHS prioritize science over snake oil and data over anecdotes. Share this video. Call out misinformation voraciously and support evidence-based policy. We have the tools to make America healthy, but only if we ditch this pseudocience circus. So that's it for Robert F. Kennedy Jr. for now. Something tells me that the rest of his time in Trump's cabinet will be a complete dumpster fire, necessitating video after video. But that's why this broad analysis was needed to get all the background information out of the way so that next time we can just get straight to business. Here's to hoping that'll be later than sooner. Until next time.