Okay, welcome back everybody. We got the the the usual suspects here to to cover James Tour and uh Rob Stadler. So, do we want to introduce ourselves? I feel like everybody knows at this point. I think it's Yeah, it's well known. I think we're good. Um, okay. So, a little context for those of you who might not know in case it's, you know, I don't know if you guys are planning on on reposting this on your channel. You're, you know, welcome to do it. Um, but the three of us made a video responding to James Tour and his guest Rob Stadler discussing evolution on tour's channel. Now, James Tor is a synthetic chemist. He he mostly talks about abiogenesis, but he decided to dip his toe into the into the world of evolution, which was sort of like the bat signal for a lot of us uh to sort of join join in the ring here. And so we we made a response video to this because there was a lot wrong with the presentation. And then in return, we we got a response video for from them, a little tip for tat going on. So, we figured why not why not keep this train rolling. Um, we have a a video from James Tour and again Rob Savler is the guest titled a thoughtful challenge to Gutsy Gibbons commentary on evolution and the origin of life. First of all, or what did we talk about about the origin of life in that video? We we didn't say anything. I have a throwaway line in my video put together on it where I'm like I don't think that there's like I don't think we're clueless on the origin of life because that's Tour's sort of catchphrase on this and and I don't and he latched on to that with like an iron grip. Uh which which leads us into the opening here which is James Tour has quite a bit to say about you Dave. Well yeah me of course but it's it's there's no there's no interest in like reality doesn't matter to them right they will weave whatever narrative they want. talked about this, somebody said that. It's they know that all they're trying to do is hang on to this tiny little nucleus of of viewers that still thinks they have any credibility and they know that none of them will ever watch any of our content. They won't go to our channels and like listen to what we say. So, they get to be like they get to create their own alternate narrative of like what happened and they'll just believe it. That's all it is. to to your to your point, Dave, it it was the weirdest thing because the this commentary video includes a bunch of clips of me talking about a biogenesis from four to five years ago. And after this video came out, I got a ton of comments on the original video of people referencing that thinking that it was a part of the original video because of course no one watched it. You know, all James Tour acolytes coming into my comment section and being like, you know, this this chick thinks homocyality is solved. And it's like time stamp, please. like where where in this video did we talk about homocyality? Um but yeah, I I guess I guess let's get started with this then. Um James Tour spends quite a bit of time here at the beginning. Well, not quite a bit, but a little bit of time here at the beginning talking about how uh he's not a young earth creationist, you guys, for real. Um and and I want to hear sort of the peanut gallery's thoughts on that. So, I'm going to let this play for about five seconds. There's so many young earth creationists write to me and they're very upset because I don't embrace young earth creationism uh in the way that they'd like it to be embraced. Old Earth, Young Earth. So, you know, you might I might as well just say it here. So, then anybody ask me, I can refer them to this video. I have no idea how old the Earth is. I have no idea. And you say, well, scientists say that the universe is 14.8 billion years old. Look, I can't vet that because I'm not an astrophysicist. I'm probably more akin, though I don't like terminologies, more akin to a progressive progressive creation that God creates. God speaks and it creates. But I don't have a scientific way to confirm that. So, I wouldn't use that in a scientific context. Maybe based on her claim, they'll they'll stop getting upset with me. Uh uh but then I'll get a whole another camp of people upset with me. So can I ask the peanut gallery here? Um do you guys do you guys think that that's convincing? Because to me that sounds like what somebody says when they are a young earth creationist but they don't want that label. Yeah. No, that's what they do, right? He that's the exact clip that demonstrates that he's very sympathetic to to young earth creationists and uh wants to be perceived as as sympathetic to young earth creationism. Right? He doesn't have a way to vet that. Well, we all learned this in high school, right? You were supposed to learn how we understand the age of the Earth, James. Uh, and also, you're not you you don't that's not your field. You you're not an origin of life researcher either, and you have no problem fumbling that field left, right, up, and up and down. So, yeah, this is not very convincing. He's got the door wide open. You know, I don't know how old the Earth is. Young Earth creationism totally could be right. That's it. Everybody who has ever said, "I don't know how old the earth is," is a young earth creationist. Like, no old earth creationist say, "I don't know how old the earth is." Okay, if like we know how old the earth is, you can do it. You can do all the radiometric dating and Oaklo proves that it's valid for two billion years. So, like, yeah, it's it's like the earth is old and if your kind of stock response to how old is the earth is, I don't know, then you're young. He also didn't say I'm not a young earth creationist. He said I'm not a young earth creationist in the way they want me to be which is a different thing. Can I just say too if I was having a conversation with somebody on the shape of the earth and I said what do you think the shape of the earth is? And they said I don't know what the shape of the earth is. My immediate thought is I'm talking to a flat earther. Yeah. I'm talking to a flat earther for sure. Um, so, you know, I I just thought that was worth bringing up because I think committing to the age of the earth is like a pretty standard thing to do. Um, if you're in the scientific community and I think that that's, you know, um, I think it's telling that James is not willing to kind of put his foot down on that. And even in this video where he's like, "Oh, this is an example of me putting my foot down and now I'm going to piss off all the the young earth creationists." He doesn't really do that. So, I just thought I thought that was worth shady apologist tactics. Nothing else. Yeah. Um, all right, Dave. Next, he's gonna he's gonna trapes into your territory here. He's going to talk about ebiogenesis. Um, and you know, first I I I think what you said earlier is kind of apt, right? Because he's very keen in this video over and over again of calling you the YouTuber. Um, and sort of painting you as as this guy that's got like no relevant expertise. Now, my understanding is that you you have a formal background in chemistry, first of all. Um, but you know, we're kind kind of throwing stones in glass houses if we're talking about being able to talk about abiogenesis without a formal background in abiogenesis because none of the five of us who are on screen right now have that background. No. And uh and and only three of us are actually devoted to truly understanding and it and representing it properly. So yeah. Well, let's hear let's hear him start off at at 608 here where he's going to talk a little bit about um biogenesis and sort of his issues with it list. Is it the synthesis of the small molecules? Is it the synthesis of the amino acids or the sugars? How about those? The nucleotides, the lipids, is it the synthesis of those? So, YouTubers suggest it's no problem getting glucose because the foremost reaction makes it. Foremost makes sugars. Foremost reaction makes sugars. What are you talking about? And it does, but it's unusable. Just recently, Krishna Murthy, Raman Krishna Murthy is agreeing with me, this major origin of life researcher. He's just showed that that the foremost reaction which is the only reaction that is said to be uh autocatalytic that has any relevance to origin of life. That would be useless because it's too complex of a mixture of compounds. something I I just love every attempt he ever had of just like see this origin of life for researcher agrees with me is always just like this tiny little like one and a half sentences little uh little quote just we have no no context no idea what he's actually talking about I guarantee zero origin of life researchers agree with James on anything um so we go from we go from we can't get the sugars to oh no wait we can get the sugars but it's just too complex Right? It's too much of a mixture. I mean, this has been covered many times. I' I've shared a number of papers uh that describe how certain micro environments can actually one of them was lee cronin had the tame taming the combinatorial explosion one just showing how yeah you can get all these different sugars but in certain conditions over certain minerals whatever it kind of uh you know gets less complicated mixture but also it just goes back to him not understanding how chemistry works in nature right you can only think like a laboratory chemist where you do a step and then you have to uh you know isolate and purify and then go sort of the next step of your of your laboratory synthesis. Nature doesn't work like that, right? If there's some preferentiality for glucose as a substrate for some reaction, it doesn't matter that there's a bunch of other stuff in there, right? It's going to react preferentially. Anyway, it's it's uh it's a lot to get into, but I've covered it in my other content. Yeah, I I thought that this entire section was really interesting for the reason that you just described, right? Is that it's like okay, you know, James James wants James James wants to see these experiments like showing the origin of life in a lab from step A to step Z, right? All the way through and he wants to observe it in real time. At the same time, he wants it to involve prebiotic conditions while not recognizing evidently that prebiotic conditions are like quite vast, right? I mean, it's not like one one experiment going on in one test tube. It's trillions of test tubes occurring simultaneously. Um, and and that's something that that he really harps on a lot. So, it's like I I think that James isn't convinced of a biogenesis to his satisfaction, but that doesn't really matter, right? Like plausible pathways to the origin of life exist. Plausible hypotheses for various models for the origin of life exist. It's like just because it's not to his satisfaction does not mean that the field is entirely on his satisfaction. He's he's ideologically bound to insisting that it is impossible to occur. That's I mean this is we've known this for years now. It's not not that's not news. Um but yeah, no, he just he he doesn't want to get it. Um and so he won't. That's it. Do you want to talk about the stuff? We can we can just do like rapid fire because it's all in my content on him at this point. I have like 15 videos rebuting all this crap, but we can touch on it. polymerization has been demonstrated on Mont Mor Mont Morlinite clay for decades. Yes. Yes. With with 30 to 70% 25. I asked you for 35 which is what you need to have life. Here's Merlinite aligonucleides because others have made ilonucleides on different clays like Montillanite clay and this person got 67% of the threep prime five prime. So in other words, he's got 33% of the wrong linkage. Here 75 to 80% of the monomers are two prime fivep prime linked. So he's saying here you're only getting 20% of the right linkages. The rest of them are the two prime five prime. What is the substantial fraction? We don't know from Benner. Benner left it a mystery. But let's just say he had 66%. Let's say 2/3 of his linkages were three prime five prime. That means onethird of his linkages are the wrong linkages. You need three three of these bases along DNA to define an amino acid in a protein that's going to be made. So one out of every three if one out of every three has long linkage then one out of every three letters doesn't work. That means you don't even have any words. There's just so much to God. Just just out of curiosity, does he think the first life forms would have involved codons and translation? Right? DNA ukareotic cell DNA transcription and translation. Like the like he doesn't actually there's no way he actually thinks that, right? Despite the multitude of times I've exposed him for how unbelievably batshit insane this is to be saying publicly, he continues to say it. So that's that's the most obviously idiotic thing all of us immediately can see. Uh yeah, no, we're talking about ukareotic cells that would have evolved like a billion plus years after the aiogenesis event. You're insane. You should be embarrassed to be saying this publicly. But there's also other subtle stuff like he just keeps repeating like in that debate like he what he wants to say is we're clueless about how to get uh polyeptides. uh no we get polyeptides all the time by prebiotic means but then he shifts the goalpost in the thing so he's like no I need this specific DK linkage which by the way didn't exist right we we didn't all the 20 uh amino acids in extent life we didn't need them all for aioenesis and in fact the those two lysine and aspartic acid were not present uh so it's a it's a straw man but it's also shift it's a shifting the goalpost straw man right uh we didn't need that but then he because this very specific thing that he wants to be shown isn't shown, which we don't even need anyway, then all of a sudden we're clueless about polyeptides in general. No wet dry cycling, we do all this stuff. It's very trivial. Same with polyucleotides, right? He says we're absolutely clueless about how to get polyucleides. No, we've shown this if you have nucleotides. So to get to nucleotides is a separate issue. But then once you have them, they polymerize readily on various mineral surfaces. We've demonstrated this for decades. So again, he's shifting the goalpost to a straw man. Right? If we don't get 100% 35 linkage, then it doesn't work. Um, right. So number one, that's not that doesn't make us clueless about polyucleotides. You are admitting in the debate that we have all these ways of polymerizing nucleotides. But then second of all I in the debate I showed the Shaw stack paper right that uh you can still like there's a very high degree of tolerance in terms of a mixture of linkages 25 and 35 to still get functionality for like a ribosyme or something. Um and then also uh he refuses to acknowledge that there's so much uh data regarding uh discrepancies in say like replication like if you have autocatalysis for for RNA the the degree of two two prime three prime uh two prime five prime three prime five prime will affect those rates of like replication and things like that. There's all these parameters that can affect and influence the things nudge them towards homocyality in that regard. Um, also homocality could have evolved later, right? You could have life first and then it just there's so much and you could have had like competing forms. You could have left and right-handed RNA competing with each other and one of them won and one of them lost. And the other side of this that's really fun is he's trying to link all of the steps together and saying you haven't demonstrated A to B to C to D but like you can so we can show the polymerization where you're going to have variation right and that variation that's essentially heritable trait when they do autocatalysis and then you go to the next step of like okay ribosymes well we can randomly polymerize RNA nucleotides and demonstrate experimentally that you get ribosymes do you want spend a 100,000 years watching a prebiotic environment do this or do you just want to demonstrate the steps in the lab? And the last thing that they always do this is they forget the fact that evolutionary processes happen before cells existed. Right? When you have these chemical populations, natural selection is operating on those based on things like stability and the trade-off between stability and length, the trade-off between the proportion of the linkages and stability or replication capacity. So you have evolutionary processes happening before life. If you define life as cellular life, before life exists and we can't have that. So that's why that's why James had Stadler on a while ago. I don't remember exactly when it was. It might have been 6 months ago or eight month, I don't remember when it was, but uh he's just James had been hiding from the concept of systems chemistry the whole time. Like in the debate I was presenting with papers and he was just like, "Nuh-uh, no, that's not real." And I'm like, dude, we've Gerald Joyce started like the first the first example of this is in the year 2000. So you're like 20 plus years behind on systems chemistry. He finally realized he has to like start talking about this topic because it's probably the single most crucial uh field in terms of demonstrating that a a biogenesis is possible. So Stadler just went on and like they picked two papers from like 20 years ago and were like see it does this and not that and blah blah. It was just like absolutely. So, I did a video on that uh alone a while ago. I don't remember exactly when it was, but yeah, it's it's it's weird, right? Because it's like, you know, Dan, you were just talking about having like A to B, B to C, C to D, D to E, right? And then it's like we can show these individual steps, we're just not going to watch them for hundreds of thousands of years in a lab. But it's like even if we simulated them, that wouldn't be enough because they would be like we didn't watch them in a lab actually occur. So there so it's a lose-lose situation for for conventional science on this standpoint. And on top of that, even if you could only show steps, you know, A through C and steps, you know, Y to Z, that still would mean that we're not clueless about the origin of not even remotely clueless. Yeah. Yeah. It would mean that we are moving in a direction towards understanding it better and some hypotheses are being supported and some models are being supported and others get kicked to the curb such as the nature of science. All anyone is saying is that we're not clueless. No one on this panel and no one in the world is saying that this issue is solved. It's a rich open area in science. It's so much worse than that though because even like first he's denying not only the proof of concept in terms of systems chemistry of here are these ribosymes we are observing them uh evolve by Darwinian mechanisms right we have seen that right so he's denying that that happens but he's also then completely ignoring us getting to those biomolelecules right getting to polyucleides and polyeptides that is has been rigorously demonstrated and observed right Dave Demer's team they put the monomers in a hot ring they polymerize, right? This is this is a this is a you know an analog environment. This is not in the lab, right? They're they're seeing this in in in vivo in or not in vivo in you know in a real environment. spend he spends time in this you know talking about how the the types of you know bases that we find I think it's it's bas like nucleotides that we find in like meteorites and stuff like that that you know that's not sufficient and then he spends time saying you know where do we get uh genetic information from and it's like we we all here on this panel are aware that like information is something that humans are defining right it's it's it's systems that we are recognizing um and he wonders where new information comes from which is just like that to me at least demonstrates like a very basic misunderstanding of of what evolution is and how it works. Um, and then he spends time again talking about how it's like you can't make any of you can't literally make a cell in a lab, which is just one of one of the things he brings that one up all the time and and it's a complete nonsequiter, right? Like it doesn't have anything to do with what anybody is talking about. He just he never changes talking points no matter how many times they are eviscerated and shown to be ridiculous. He just keeps repeating them over and over and over. You know, I I think it's really telling, right, because it's like, you know, Dave, you've spent a lot of time talking about this in general. And, you know, James, Dr. Tor here is like very insistent that it's like you are not qualified to be at the table. You're not allowed to be having this conversation. Learned things about watching Erica's video in particular things uh that she said and and more from the the other biologist was who was on the channel. I learned nothing from the YouTuber. He had nothing substantive to contribute. I don't even know why he was brought on as as a so-called expert on this. And we're going to have on like you were brought on because as you just demonstrated, yeah, I think as you just demonstrated, he says this later in the video, too. And and the reason I wanted to have you talk about the abioenesis stuff at the beginning is because he's so insistent that it's like if we have a one-on-one, oh, if you have a one-on-one conversation with Dave, he doesn't actually know what he's talking about. I don't Well, we did that and I humiliated him. Well, and I I mean, you know, as a layman in this subject, granted, but it's like I have a conversation with you. You You seem like you know what you're talking about. It makes sense to me. Dan, is that the vibe you get as well? He he Oh, sorry. Yeah, it this whole this whole part of it is just like I I don't even know how to because it's very frustrating, right? Because he is not an origins of life researcher, right? And then he has kind of taken up this mantle as like the origins of life guy. Like if you're talking about which creationist is the guy who disputes origins of life. Yeah. He's the only he's the only one cuz he's the only one with a history background. He's the one that has like made this his thing. Dave the YouTuber, you are the person who has taken up this mantle to dive into this literature as someone who it's not your field. It's not my field. It's not Erica's field, but you have dove headirst into this literature and you know now know this topic inside out, front to back, right? and well I mean better than him I would say better than right you're better than you you've got the people who work in the field and then you've got everybody else and you're somewhere in between there right yeah the people who work in the field obviously know more than I do about it but I know more than any other any other YouTuber definitely know more about it than I do you know and it's like just this idea that like oh I didn't learn anything from Dave it's like dude I have made hours of content just obliterating all of his talking points on this and showing dozens and dozens and dozens of papers explaining the concepts for the lay person. Like he's had a lot of opportunities to learn a lot of science from me and he chooses not to. That's and my point is he's saying the YouTuber as though like in a people don't know who he's talking about. The YouTuber as opposed to the real scientists, right? is is kind of the the implication there on this topic, we are both YouTubers. He makes YouTube videos about it. I make YouTube videos about it completely ignoring the fact that of the five people participating in this conversation, you are the most knowledgeable on this topic like demonstrally. So like that's it's that it's it's a very um typical tactic when a credentialed creationist is dealing with a non-credentialed opponent, right? Is a very typical thing that they do. And I think, you know, that's why I wanted to start with this because it's like it would be very easy for us to get on here and be like aiogenesis is not the subject of the conversation, right? And and James is just looking for an abil, you know, for the for the opportunity to talk about something that he does have a background in since he got so much wrong on the genetics when he decided to speak on it the first time. I mean, he he botched the entire end code thing. Yeah. Front to back, right? And there's no mention of that. There's no retraction of that. He just has this sort of like, you know, meek admission that genetics isn't his field. And then he he mostly keeps his mouth shut in this video in comparison to the first, which is why he shoehorns in the a biogenesis stuff. But to do that and then to simultaneously try to like, you know, lambast you Dave for for not having a background in this, I feel like that's pretty not cool. And so I thought we should open this up by saying, "Okay, like you know, if you if you really want to have this conversation, like you guys have been going back and forth on this for a while, but be open with it. I think you you should be able to like respond to that and the internet is it's it's common knowledge specifically due to our extended interaction on this topic that he is a complete charlatan right it is because of our interaction that he is just universally known to be a fraud. So I I wear that with pride. I did my 10y year anniversary uh video and I did the top 10 uh takedowns and James was number one with a bullet. I'm very proud to have done this year. Yeah. It's I mean it's it's interesting too because it's like one of the things that they I think a lot of people that interact with you Dave you know I think they they don't like that you're you're abrasive and you're aggressive and it's like I I know Dan and I are on the same page with this but it's like I believe in really big tents for combating pseudocience and you know you're one of the best ones out there at doing this Dave in part because you you say it exactly like it is. Um, but it's like they try to use that that that your your aggressive nature as like a means by which to write you off. So mean. I'm a meany head guy. But it's so funny because your first few videos on tour are like really quite appropriate. Like they're the first one. Yeah. So soft and charitable. Yeah. Yeah. But you know, then he has to blast off on it. Um, okay. So Sadler is gonna Stadler, excuse me, um is going to start off here by giving a little bit of background of, you know, why he's back, why he's having this conversation. And for those of you who might have missed it, you know, Stadler is has written this book like the scientific approach to evolution in which he basically says evolutionary theory is, you know, bad and dumb and it doesn't work because it doesn't meet these six criteria that he sort of paints as the six criteria that everybody accepts as the criteria. Yeah, Dan's got the book. as the criteria by which we assess, you know, high versus low confidence science. He read the whole thing. Dave, I have the book and I got like annotations in the book. I didn't even watch this video. Dan, I was gonna I was going to shout you out because later Sadler says something along the lines of like, I don't think Erica read my book. And it's like, no, I didn't, but I know someone who did. Turn off your If if there's a creationist who wrote a book, there's like 75% chance I've read the book. Um, and if there's a creationist who wrote a book and then in arguing with people says I don't think they read the book, if history is any indication, there's a 100% chance I've read the book. I think you're that's very duplicitous of you, Dan, to to read what they say and take their arguments at face value. Um, and then invite them on to defend them. I think that that's a very uh sneaky strategy. We'll get to it. Yeah. So, okay. So, Statler's gonna gonna give us some background here. Let's hear him for a minute. It's good to be back here. And uh you know, for me personally, th this video for me is not really about Erica or Dave or Dan. Uh because I don't think they're in a place where they're going to benefit from this at all. I have no misconceptions that they're going to change their opinions or anything. He will be eviscerated by a dozen people, each themselves experts in the fields that they talk about. And that will be in addition to Professor Dave who will continue to dunk on James Tour who hurt you. But they did bring up some interesting um thoughts and misconceptions that give me an opportunity to address those for our viewers, you know, because maybe I didn't explain things very clearly. And so I want to go back and explain some of those things using some clips from from their rebuttal. And again, it's not so much for them. It's really just to help clarify things that other people, I'm sure, in the audience may not have seen clearly. So, let's continue to distort reality and gaslight our viewers because that's all we do. I don't know about I don't know about you guys. Um, and you know, Dan, you've read his book and you've seen this video. So, it's like I actually found that he really let up on the gas on a lot of the points that he initially went pretty hard on. And I almost felt like that was because there was counter criticism um to that. Now, I also am not under the delusion that we're going to change their minds, but that doesn't mean that it's not important to point it out when when someone's wrong on something. Mhm. Okay. For the sake of the audience, I wanted to show at 2006 here the six criteria. We've seen these before, but these are the six criteria that Rob is using to essentially say evolutionary theory is low confidence science and everything that he does is high confidence science. Um, I'm being hyperbolic, but that science should be in order to be high confidence, it needs to be repeatable, directly observable, that you should be able to engage in perspective study. You should be able to avoid bias. You should be able to avoid assumptions, and you should be making reasonable claims. Um, and he basically goes through like it feels like a Mott and Bailey to me a little bit because because what he's defending when he goes through these in this response video is that it's like, yeah, it's better if things are repeatable or it's better if things are directly observable. Um, and like to to an extent I agree, but he's going to get he's going to get into this directly observable stuff and and he's going to say some stuff that I I want you guys to hear and and I want to hear your thoughts on. If you take a different topic in paleontology like let's say I want to answer the question do uh do dinosaurs did dinosaurs evolve into birds? Okay, that's a big picture question. That's a situation where can I do some direct observation? Well, not even close really. What I have is a bunch of bones buried in the ground and I I collect those bones. The bones are evidence of a dead thing, something that died. And I'm trying to use that evidence in answering that question to tell me about how did a living thing come into being. So I have evidence of dead stuff trying to use that to conclude how a living thing came into being. I think you can see there's layers of abstraction there. So I Holy hell. Yeah, I thought that this was really interesting to hear because it also comes after he spends a lot of time saying, "No, Dan Strawman me when he said that, you know, you you need to Rob's initial idea." Yeah. Yeah. Say that again. That you literally have to see it. That you literally have to see and he's which is something that he that's what that's what directly observable means, right? Like that's that's what he outlined in the first talk is I thought that he outlined it quite plainly. So we all came back at this and we were like, "No, something does not have to be directly observable. That's not that doesn't sort of elevate it to a higher level of science." So Rob comes back in this response and he's like, "Okay, that's not that's not what I meant." And he backs up and he says, you know, there there are aspects of paleontology that, you know, are are really good and are directly observable and blah blah blah blah. But then he he leads into this, which kind of falls back on that same initial point. And this leads to a central theme in this video that Dan and I both notice and we're talking about it because when I was watching this, I was I was texting him and I was like, "Oh my gosh, there's absolutely nothing in this video or in the first video about hypothesis testing, which is the core of the scientific method." Right? That's how we come to the conclusion that birds evolve from dinosaurs. Because if birds evolve from dinosaurs, they should have this set of morphologic physical criteria and we should see those criteria emerge through the fossil record through geological time and they should maintain some of those characteristics and share them like onetoone with like therapod dinosaurs or like arosaurs in general, right? Likewise, we should be able to look at birds and crocodiles and turtles and lizards and sequence their genomes and we should be able to see how they fall in a nested hierarchy, right? Like this is a hypothesis that if birds evolve from dinosaurs, we can actually test and support or deny using data that exists in the present that we are directly observing. Yes, but that's not how like Rob just kind of skips over all of that. The most important part of science arguably, right, is having your hypothesis and your predictions set out beforehand and then testing them. And the key thing here Oh, go ahead Dave. Okay. I was just going to say really quick. Yeah, that's the point that the we already said in the last video, but that is the point is that we have this hypothesis and then we find all these myriad specimens that represent this immaculate gradient of phenotypic uh expressivity, right? You have these features that just gradually go from these forms to these forms, right? On that on this gradient and then we know when they existed, right? Just what what are the odds that it just looks exactly how it would look if they evolved, but they didn't? It doesn't make any sense. But it's not even a denial of that. He jumped like this is literally a Ken Hovind talking point. Like verbatim like, "Oh, you found a thing that's dead. Well, that doesn't prove it did." Yeah, living organisms reproduce. That's a thing that they do. Like, what are you talking about? Like, he's literally diving into Kent Hovind's garbage bin talking points here. It's crazy. Yeah, that's exactly the point. And the the key thing that is the glaring omission from this response to our point because we raised this previously right that it's all about hypothesis testing. There's no mention of hypothesis testing in the book in the slides wasn't there. The whole thing about direct observation is the data that address your predictions. You are directly observing the results of those predictions. We're predicting to find more skeletal morphology in fossils that has certain features if those if birds evolved from that group. Right? We're predicting to find genetic similarity between birds and other groups in such and such a pattern. If birds are nested within this certain group and every one of those things is a prospective prediction and then we go out and look and we directly observe if that prediction is accurate. Those are the direct observations we're making where if the hypothesis is correct, here are the things that must be true. Right? So here's here's a yeah great great example just for this current point just to be quick, right? Is that it's like you know since since Huxley in Darwin's day people have proposed that birds come from dinosaurs and it's because of the physical similarities they share with them and the fact that fossil dinosaurs look a whole lot like birds. It's like comatus looks like a featherless archopterics in many ways but it's like that was hypothesis and a prediction that existed before the advent of genetics. Then we discovered genetics right and when we started sequencing the genomes of organisms we found that crocodiles share more with birds than they do with lizards. Genomically speaking, that should not be the case if birds and crocodiles don't both evolve from dinosaurs, right? Um or are arcosaurs, I should say. Um the sher and we'll get into the we'll get into the nested hierarchy thing later. But also that example is great because it doesn't work with what the creationists say, oh, they're similar morphologically. They're because they were uh therefore they were designed with the same DNA. Well, crocodiles and birds, they're not that similar. Like, if you look at them at the at the gross morphological scale, they're actually not that similar. There are things that are more similar to each of those, but birds and crocodiles are more genetically different from those other things. So, it actually doesn't work. The rationalization that they use doesn't apply in that example. It's yeah, he's going to do something else that that I think is like a a classic gross misrepresentation of We'll We'll get there. But first, I I want to show the next sort of section here. Um that's sort of along these same lines. This is going to go on for about a minute and 10 seconds. And it's worth it, trust me. That kind of control over things. Uh and let me give you an example of that. And this is just just an example. But if I collect a number of skulls like you see here, these are obviously very retrospective. We're looking far back in the time. But I found these skulls and I can line them up like this and you see an association between them. You might even say there's a progression here. And I can conclude there's an association, right? They look the same. I can measure the teeth, the eyes, the the brain size, and so forth. I can conclude an association between them. But to conclude causality, which means this turned into this and evolved into this and evolved into this, that is something that you just can't do with retrospective observation. Only a well-controlled perspective study allows you to do that. And and to be a little tongue and cheek here, please excuse me. I want to have a little fun. Don't take this too seriously, but I could do a similar thing with a bag of Cheetos. I open the bag of Cheetos and I lay out an association like this. You see this? And I could claim, look at this. This Cheeto evolved into this. And it evolved all the way into here where it's starting to develop appendages. They're moving in herds. But it's not. It has some similarities to what I'm showing above here. So, they're so bad at this. Like, their meme game is so bad. It doesn't even make any sense. They're moving. It's like it's just it's really it's cringy. It's really bad. I I you know I setting that aside because I have many I have many comments on on the editing choices in this video that I'm going to include in my larger video on this subject because there's a lot going on. There's a lot at play here. Those Cheetos aren't found separated by hundreds of thousands or millions of years of geological time and they're not connected by the biological throughine of heredity of genes. They're in objects. They're stack foods. Rob, I I know he's being tongue-in-cheek. He says he's being tongue-in-cheek and that's fine. But even tongue-in-cheek examples have to be relevant. They have to work. They have to make sense. Yeah. I I I just want to put this in perspective for the audience why I just spent the last two minutes of like cringing in pain over this. I I every summer I teach a 200 level it's the intro evolution course, right? So it's just a basic course in evolutionary biology. on day one, like we talk about why this type of thinking is wrong and how you can't just play connect the dots. And that's true whether it's living things at the tips of the branches in a phlogenetic tree, but also it's more complicated than just collecting fossil specimens and playing connect the dots with the fossil specimens. Nobody does that. Nobody's saying this evolved into this, evolved into this, evolved. Nobody is saying that. That's how morphologically it suggests it, right? That's that's not how it's it's a combination of overlapping morphology with a well, let's use the word with a progression of morphological change or more precisely a directional morphological change, right? Overlapping both temporally and spatially over the course of millions of years, right? It's not we're not playing connect the dots. I again I want to say this for everybody. This is the kind of misconception that we dispel on the first day of class, right? 101 day one. Yeah. Yeah. It's not just what does it look like, it's when was it and where was it, right? I also love the guy. He like he's looking at skulls and he goes the eyes and the brains. It's like dude that's the orbital socket. Like there's a brain case. You don't even know what you're talking about. Like and you're trying to argue with Erica. Like Erica like no, this is her field here, right? Hominin specimens. Like there's just no like I mean you know I I look at I when I see this my first thought was now wait a second that's olopythecus africconis there on the far left that's Mrs. Ples and then you've got homoral fences immediately after it. Mrs. Ples is found in South Africa. Homoralphensis is found in Eastern Africa. That's not going to work. No one is suggesting it. But it's like that's the that's the level of minutia that that doesn't matter because we're comparing the skulls to Cheetos, right? Like fundamentally it doesn't matter as as you guys were just saying right it's it's synapomorphic characteristics that that nest over time right like all humans are hominins all hominins are homoids all homoids are catarines all catarines are primates and so on and so forth and it's these changes that you set forth in advance you say we should see the characters that make humans humans that the suite of characteristics that separate humans from other living apes we should see those characteristics emerge slowly over geological time and it should map with what we see via the molecular clock. So approximately 7 million years and it should happen you know in east and in South Africa and that's precisely what we see right in in the characteristics that denote bipedalism the characteristics in the minutia of the teeth the characteristics that denote prognathism or the shape and size of the brain case right technology does moves right alongside with these hominins and the gradient which those emerge yeah for sure we just we just point out the title of this video is a thoughtful challenge to guts a given blah blah blah blah blah this is not a thoughtful response. This is this is amateur hour. This is not like and and the Cheetos are funny, but the problem isn't the Cheetos. It's the logic that underlies the Cheetos that is the problem, right? Like we're not coming after you because you use Cheetos, Rob. That that can be funny. Cheetos can be funny. The problem is they're not alive, right? And Cheetos are all around at the same time. These Cheetos are contemporaneous. They came from the same bag. So, you know, I mean, I have issues with the logic of that. Well, just it doesn't none of this matters, right? Which individual uh species those skulls are doesn't matter that it's talking about Cheetos doesn't matter. All this is all of this pageantry is just trying to retain this very small cult and just saying whatever they need to say, misrepresenting whatever they need to say to to maintain like they just keep regressing and devolving into even more ridiculous like preacher tactics. Uh there's there's it's completely devoid of any of scientific integrity, anything that they're talking about. Like it just gets worse and worse for them with every video. So to that point, and I'm going to add a clip in here even when I send this to you guys because there's this really funny bit where like at the beginning when tour is copying to not being a geneticist, which is fine. Like you can talk about something and not be an expert in it. You just have to be careful and you have to site your sources. That's another misconception that they had about what we were saying, but it's fine. But to like I'm not a geneticist, so I brought on and you're like a geneticist and he's like Rob Stadler. And it's like okay, but I don't know the area of genetics well. So, I'm going to turn it over to my friend Rob on this. Okay. Thank you, Jim. Cool. Um, but to your point, Dave, what you were just saying about, you know, the nature of like how they approach this, how they approach evidence and and how they write it off. Rob's going to accuse us here next of writing off these six criteria because we we can't deal with them. Um, now I'm gonna let that play and I'm I'm gonna get your thoughts about like which how you guys felt we handled this in the first video because when I heard this I was like what how does that make any sense? Criteria to be applied. I think that's the real challenge is they don't like having these criteria be applied because that means some evidence gets deprioritized and other kinds of evidence gets prioritized. That's what comes out of this. So like fossil record and comparison of genomes in order to try to show common ancestry those kind of things are going to get deprioritized with this process. So what his idea here is that we saw these six criteria and then you know we spent a lot of time being like okay you know Rob does kind of a bait and switch when he presents it because he's like everybody agrees on these six criteria and then he shows a bunch of you know clips from or pictures from medical textbooks of like types of evidence or whatever that sort of he feels roughly map onto his six criteria. And so that's how he gets away with saying that all scientists accept these these six things. And then he's like, "But these guys, the reason they had an issue with these six criteria isn't because they thought there were any issues with them. It's because they can't deal with them. They can't handle these criteria. And so they have to come up with the way to write them off." Yeah. Even though we spent like an hour explaining how I don't remember what we said exactly, but I'm sure that we explained how all six of those are exemplified immaculately by modern evolutionary biology. So we said that they worked and that they apply to evolutionary biology. That's what we said. Um I I mean the there was a portion where we talked about how you don't use a double blind study in like none of us are using double blind studies because not all science is applicable to other area to every other area of science. Yeah. Which he is okay with. Like in this video there's a moment where he says he's like yeah you know obviously you're not going to use double blind studies and you know whatever chemistry or something like that. Um so I don't understand why he like where he gets off saying this. It's like we went through all the criteria. they work for evolutionary theory. So what's the issue, right? You can you can show how each of and we did this we went through and talked about how it's repeatable yada yada yada and also there's still no mention of hypothesis testing in here which is the whole point. Yeah, he is going to do they just not do do they just like selectively skip over like we explained all this stuff so they just don't address that part of the video. Is that what they do? Okay. Well, you know, I mean, I'm sure you guys have seen how I do my videos and I've seen how you guys do yours and it's very similar. You know, we're this is a sentence by sentence gang where it's like we go over the video. If we're going over a video and like that's what I'm going to do with this video, you know, on my end when I'm I'm taking bits of this of this panel and cutting out the Yeah, but I'm addressing the main points. They're skipping over us proving that we're right. So, that's we're not we're not just addressing the main points, we're addressing all of them, right? We touched on absolutely everything in the video and and on this one, we don't just not see all the points addressed, but we see specific major points ignored. Um, like hypothesis testing, like what Rob's going to talk about here in a moment, which is like nested hierarchies and and the nature of genetics. Um, so he's going to talk a little bit about that now. Um, I'm gonna let him play for a little bit and I'm going to stop him and and get thoughts. Happened here. What what happened? This statement we've already said and we talked through it is a very low confidence kind of question. But Erica came in and said, "Wait a minute. We can say that humans and bacteria share genes." I'm going to say point blankly, yes. And we can do that repeatably and directly observe it. So you see what changed here? But what she did actually is she changed the question sequencing the genome and comparing those genes to see if they have shared or cons or or conserved genes between them. She's striking out this part of the question removing that and then the question becomes do humans and bacteria share genes? Well, that actually is a high confidence kind of answer because wait pause right there. He doesn't know what conserved means. You said conserved. That means from a common ancestor. He just doesn't know what that mean. That's actually such a good point, Dan. I didn't even catch that the first time. You said conserved. That means from a common ancestor. That's what that word means, Rob. So, he's he's going to get into Gosh, it's not it's it's a little bit later, but he's going to get into discussing how especially in relation to that paper we brought up with the the very very small P value supporting, you know, primate common ancestry. He's going to take issue with that cuz he's basically like, "Oh, you assume that the common designer wouldn't start with a similar template amongst a ton of different, you know, kinds of organisms, which, you know, setting aside the fact that that's not testable. Uh that's not repeatable. It's not directly observable. It doesn't meet any of the six criteria that you just laid out. You have pretty low confidence, right, to to propose that like separating the difference between common descent and common design from a creationist standpoint is impossible." Um, and we're going to touch on that later, but he's going to take issue. Yeah. It's possible for us, not for them, right? Like we we can do it because we have these differentiating factors to them. They're just like, well, God could have done it that way, but it's not it's still not evolution. It's like, okay, well, I don't really know what to say to that. Um, let's continue with this for a minute. I want to I want to continue here. You can repeat that. You can directly observe it and it's prospective. So, she's changing the question. She's not addressing the question at hand. and changing it certainly makes it more high confidence. But this this topic caused a lot of confusion among those who are rebutting us and I'm going to play another clip on that. It it continues. There's a lot of this confusion going on. So he seems to think that he seems to think that we don't understand that there that they would consider there to be a difference between sharing genes and common ancestry. It's like we we recognize that they think those are two different things. The problem is they aren't. They aren't two different things. Genetics, there is no stop. Like as you move backwards in time, if you move up a family tree, whether you're talking about within a species, between species, between families, between orders, at no point is there this genetic stop sign that says, "Wait, actually heredity doesn't work the way you thought it did anymore." Um, so it's like we we It only goes back to Noah. That's it. You can't go further than that. Well, no. In his in his denisens of the ark, Dave, of course. Oh, yeah. Sure. Whoever before whatever. Yeah. Ex. Yeah. It's It's a bizarre it's a bizarre thing to miss. Uh, and I think that it's leading to a lot of issues with with Robin James here, like appreciating the point that we're actually making. Sequencing genomes and comparing DNA between living forms is high confidence. You can do that. So I don't know why Dan's upset about that because what Jim said is is quite true. So here, you know, does this organism and that organism share some DNA? That is high confidence, right? But then he goes on and he goes on trying to make this work for um evidence of universal common ancestry. Now that's So Dan, do you want to talk a little bit about this? So let's what I'll just say is we're going to we're going to let me just say what I said here, which is that it's not just the fact that A and B share something or A and blast and cruise share something. It's a pattern of similarity and it's a hierarchical pattern and it's the specific pattern that you would expect if things share universal common ancestry and the pattern is incompatible with separate creation or design of each kind or whatever word you want to apply to it. Right? Um so that's the thing. We can make predictions about what that pattern should look like given the two possible explanations. We can then test those predictions by actually determining the pattern. And we see that the pattern is only compatible with common ancestry and not compatible. It's not just that design can accommodate either pattern. It's that what we observe is incompatible with separate ancestry. That's the Yeah, that it's that's what is hilarious to me is that when you have these like im immaculate lineages with just this like flawless gradient of of genetic and morphological change. What I want to hear from Rob is like a set of criteria delineating where okay this organism has to be special creation right or this one or this one is that high confidence science right explain that to me Rob tell me where okay nope that one God made special and then there was like a little bit of heredity going on and then that one right there's no there's no basis for any kind of thinking like that it's just not there and we can actually phoggenetically if they were separately created you would be able to identify the points where they were separately created because above those nodes it wouldn't resolve. You'd get all kinds of polytomy but below those nodes it would be nice and neat, right? So you can actually like filogenetically if the clades were separately created you could determine that filogenetically. So he's he's actually going to take this to the next level as far as like I think misunderstanding the point when he talks about the the paper the the primate fogyny paper here later on. Um he spends so much time on this. He spends a lot of time on it. Um, so for you know those of you who missed the last episode, right? It's like we were talking about this this primate fogyny paper that essentially tests common ancestry versus separate family ancestry. So that's the created kind and separate species common ancestry. And it manages to reject both of those with just overwhelming statistical certainty, right? Uh, and the way that it makes this case is by using, you know, genetic sequencing, fossils, and biogeography. And Rob is going to come at this paper and he's going to be like, "Yeah, but they assume, as I said earlier, that God wouldn't have started with similar templates." And that's what's really driving that that low p value. But the problem is those genetic sequences are taking into account the changes that have occurred since, right? So it's like Rob has to explain why the circooid kind and the nonhuman ape kind are accumulating the same exact gulo mutation in the same exact point at the same exact time like through this common design lens right it it because these these things have time you can you can time them um it and so it would have had to it wouldn't have been created into these organisms um likewise with all of their mutations because we they have to assume assume that they diversify into these massive into into an incredible amount of species. And all of those mutations also have to just so happen to corroborate, you know, shared ancestry with with like the homoids, for example. Yeah. It's really the problem is very straightforward for them in that in the separate ancestry model, you have a bunch of within species diversity, right? And the example that I like to use just humans, chimps, gorillas, right? Let's just treat those as three separately created lineages because creation is always a little bit iffy on humans on um chimps and gorillas, but a lot of times they'll say they're separate. So, humans, chimps, gorillas, right? So, you have a subset of the diversity in each that appeared in the common ancestor of all three that they all share. You have a subset of the diversity that appeared in the human and chimp common ancestor and then the gorillas separate. And then you have a subset of the existing diversity that they each accumulated independently. that's going to lead to a specific pattern when you compare their genomes. If they were each separately created, you still have to account for all of that diversity, but now it's accumulating in each lineage independently. And mutations are probabilistic. So you cannot recover the same nested hierarchical pattern. You can just it's very simple that if they're operating independently, which is necessarily the case in the separate ancestry model, you can't recover the same pattern as when they have a nested pattern of common an those are two completely incompatible patterns of diversity. And when we go and look in the real world, we only see one of them. It becomes statistically nonsensical essentially. So Dan, to that I want you to I want you to sort of I want people who are watching to keep what you just said in mind when we hear what Stadler and Tor say here about why it is that you know we are so gung-ho about this idea of of common descent. I think another possibility is that in their mindset common ancestry is so firmly established, so absolutely true that they don't even realize that it's an assumption here in this question. They just take it as absolute truth. And so whether this qu this phrase here is removed or not, it doesn't matter. It's a fact. He could be a flat earther talking about gravity. There's no difference. It's yeah, no difference. They think that gravity is such a fact and it's not. It's like, okay, learn science, man. I don't care. Right. There's just no attempt to engage with the actual argument. Yeah. Rhetorically, it's the same thing, right? It's it's basically saying that you you're assuming common ancestry to to prove common ancestry. You assume gravity to prove gravity, whatever. Like the same type of rhetoric that you hear. Um, but you know, as Dan just went over, right, the problem isn't that common s common ancestry is assumed. The problem is that separate ancestry is precluded by the current data. And if you want to appeal to it, it has to be miraculous. And it has to be miraculous in a deceptive way to make it look like it's common descent. Right. Right. Again, like I don't think Rob understand. Let's actually I want to hear him talk about the paper. So I'm going to set that up. point, Rob, and then I'm gonna show you why you're wrong. Okay? So, you see how impressed they are with this paper. And let's just take a look at it over here. This is the paper that they're talking about. Statistical evidence for common ancestry application to primates. And they're so excited about result like this. We overwhelmingly rejected species and family separate ancestry. That separate ancestry is what we've been calling the forest of life. And uh this is statistical term here basically saying they found it to be infinitely more probable that it was the tree of life than the forest of life. So we look at that paper, we come back here. There's actually a huge straw man assumption. It's the same assumption basically that I just reported about Erica's claim. But when you actually read the methods of this paper, there's this statement. We assume there's an assumption. We assume that each family ancestor at its origin acquired character states at each character independently of all the other family ancestors. So in other words, like I just said, here's the assumption they're making. In other words, they're saying that we're going to assume a designer of life over here would start with a clean slate for each and every one of these starting kinds of life. That's their assumption. And so when they find correlation structure here in modern life, it all points to the tree of life. And that's the total straw man argument. They're building a straw man. They're blowing it up. And so the p value is is absolutely absurd here in this case. It's the old statement of garbage in garbage out. You start with the wrong model, the wrong assumptions, and you're going to end up with a lot of garbage coming out of it. All right, science is garbage because it hurts my feelings. Okay, so let's just start with that quote at the top because I don't know if Rob knows what that means because each uh at its origin acquired character states at each character independently of all other family ancestors. So character in this context just means a nucleotide ATC or G. Uh and then a character state is what nucleotide at what base is present right? Which of the four is there? We assume that each family this is for the genes right so this is this is not including this is just looking at the genetic sequences not including physical characteristics not including biogeography just to be clear right we're just we're just looking at genes right and we're saying you've got a certain nucleotide sequence and uh which mutations you have right ATC or G is independent of all the other lineages so now it's been a while since I've actually read that paper. I would love to see more context on, you know, a paragraph on either side of that because that matters and we don't get any of that here, right? Because either it means they were starting at the simulation, they were completely randomized sequences or it means that as they accumulated differences, those differences were independent of all the other ones, right? Um, and it's not clear from what Rob just said which that actually is. Uh, again, this is not his field, which is not a dig on him. just not his feels and that's fine. Um, but here's the thing with the that assumption in the box. Big hidden assumption. No correlation structure at the start of life. Wrong. And like I'm not the first person to like look into this, but I have recently looked into this. And as we sit here recording this, I am going to very soon be doing a live demonstration of this in a live showing how you can start with a perfectly nested pattern and accumulate all the required diversity and it breaks that pattern or you have common ancestry as I described earlier and you can see the pattern and uh I haven't done that live show yet but I have collected the data for it which I can show right here. So Erica, please pull up my screen added to the stage. So these are the raw data and I'm showing you the raw data because I did six replicates for each each uh approach created separately versus um we'll say common design versus common ancestry and then in the top right that's the poolled data for each of the two uh sets. Right? And what I did here is this was a very simple thing because this is designed again to be done with people following along with me. So this is very simple. Use a nucleotide sequence generator to generate random nucleotide sequences. And what we do for common design for the created column is you have a perfectly nested series where I'm only using 15 nucleotides per sequence but you pull them all together you get a decent sized data set here. So for the perfectly nested set, your starting criteria is you have and this is H, C and G. That's human chimp gorilla as our three separate kinds if you will. You have five nucleotides that they all share identical, right? So it's all A's, for example. And then you have five where human and chimp are the same and then gorilla is still A and it's like G. And then for the next one, it's uh human and chimp and gorilla are all different. So it's perfectly nested where it's gorilla and then human and chip. Perfect nested hierarchical pattern. And then in each set of those five that I just described that are shared across the different uh lineages, you randomly mutate four of them because again you have to generate all the diversity that it currently exists in each lineage. They can't just all be consistent like that. So you randomly mutate four of them and then I tally up how many are shared in common at the end between all three each pair and then none which ones are unique to each independent lineage. For the evolved thing what we do there is we randomly generate five nucleides and say that's shared by all of them and then we randomly generate five more and say that's human chimp and we do five more and say that's just gorilla and then we do five and five and five for each of the three lineages on their own. And again we tally up how many are shared because that uh simulates the shared ancestry. You're not generating all that variation independently. You're generating some subset of it shared with your with your relatives. So then you look at the poolled data in the top right corner and we could go through the numbers or I could just show you the graph and in red we have the common design where you have the number of nucleotides in our sets shared by all three. human chimp, chimp gorilla, human gorilla, and then unique. That's such a good graph. And then blue is the common ancestry where you can see the fraction that are shared by human and chimp uh by human chimp gorilla uh human and chimp, chimp gorilla, human gorilla, and then unique to each of the lineages. And the cool thing is from these data you can generate a phlogenetic tree. And this is what they look like with the common ancestry model. you get the nested hierarchy you would expect with the common design model. You don't get a neat nested hierarchy. There is no statistical difference between these three uh numbers of mutations similarities right here. This is not going to resolve. If you were to like actually feed this into a computer and do real phoggenetics on these data, that node would not resolve. you'd get a polytomy where you couldn't tell between human, chimp, and gorilla which ones are actually the sister taxa to which other one, right? You couldn't do it. What Rob said is the the assumption is that we're starting uncorrelated. No, I started perfectly correlated here. I gave you the nested hierarchy at the start. The problem is you still have to generate the extant diversity in each lineage. And if you generate that diversity independently, it doesn't matter what pattern you start with, you will lose that pattern. But if they actually share common ancestry, you get the same pattern every time. And I'll show you another example of this. I only have this on paper, but I actually for each individual replicate drew some of the trees. And so for the human uh for the common ancestry one, you're not going to be able to see this, but these three trees are all the same with gorilla as the out group and then human and chimp the sister. The branch lengths are different each time because there's going to be some variation. The other side where you're doing separate ancestry, the out groupoup differs. Sometimes it's chimps, sometimes it's gorillas, sometimes it's humans. They're different fogynies each time you do it just by chance. So no Rob, you can't have it start with the nested pattern and get the nested pattern in the living things. This is directly testable. And here is a very simple demonstration of it. I love that graph is so nice. I love it's like a perfect little inversion. It's beautiful. Great job, Dan. Now there is there is um one more thing in there that we're also have to mention and that it's Rob uh is uh talking about um genes, right? We're we're talking about this in terms of like functional genes. Oh, the designer would have used the same genes to do the same function. You can do this stuff with regions that are not base constraint and you get the same pattern. there's no reason for the designer to use the same pattern of nucleotides in a region of the genome where the pattern of nucleotides doesn't matter. There's there's actually a clip where he where he discusses how he believes that it's actually in the human chimp section where he talks about the nature of the entire genome or at least large large portions of the genome being fully functional. Fully functional. Yeah, it's Yeah. No junk DNA. Didn't you guys hear that's been that's been overturned. There's no none 100% functional genome, right? Dave is just trying to raise my blood pressure now. Yeah. So, this this next part that he's going to get into um drives me crazy. I'm just going to let him talk. It's like I think it's like a minute and a half about uh and then we're going to get into this. It it nests quite nicely within what we were just talking about. Is that really the only assumption? Because what we're trying to do is compare this model of life, the tree of life, to this model of life, right? and she's saying that genetics works the same now as it did in the past. And I'm fine with that assumption. Basically, everybody inherits, you know, what came before them. Of course, down here, when a designer designed the beginnings of life, that's not an inheritance. But I don't think Eric is is talking about that. The big hidden assumption in trying to compare these, the big hidden assumption that I think Eric is making is about the initial conditions down here. She's making an assumption about what a designer would have done. Yes, it to some extent I am making an assumption about what the designer would have done in the sense that I'm assuming that the designer would not be inherently deceptive. But even if the designer wanted to be intentionally deceptive, as Dan just demonstrated, it still doesn't work, right? Like it doesn't matter how you do it. I mean, you you can granted, and he's going to talk about this later, um like the inongruence of of some phoggenetic trees depending on which genes you're using, but you can't use more genes than all of them, right? And when we do that, using Dan's exact example, humans and chimpanzees are one another's closest living relative. the chimps and bonovas. So the humans and the panins with the gorilla as the out group and then the three of them the African ape clay are the closest living relatives to each other with the orangutan as the out groupoup and then all of them are closest living relatives with the gibbons the hyobatids as an out group and so on and so forth. And you can do this for everything we have a complete genome for and you will find no genetic stop sign. There's there's no there's at no point does genetics just seem to break and indicate that a designer must have intervened. What that means is that this forest of life as Rob presents it is impossible to test. It is it is like stoutly not scientific in that sense. Uh and that's a huge problem if you're I mean you're talking about the scientific approach to evolution. Where's the scientific approach to creation? Yeah. Also, what is he refuses to specify what is at the base of all of those trees? Right. This is another Ken Hovindism, right? just like what tell me specifically, right? Are are we treating who what which lineages are separate? Like you just went over a bunch of primates, right? Are orangutans, gorilla like are those each individual uh uh trees? Like you got to be specific here. So it that's exactly the problem. Before we jump, let me just say that uh Dr. Joel Duff just did an excellent video on how AIG tries to slice the kind. I think it was AIG how they try to slice the kinds because they actually have their list of kinds and the different criteria that they use and importantly um one of the criteria was just like eh it kind of intuitively makes sense and you know what wasn't uh one of the criteria that they used finding um like a change in the phoggenetic structure that would actually indicate separate ancestry. It's not part of it because again I want to emphasize you if they actually did have separate ancestry. Yeah. If they did actually have separate ancestry, you could do the phoggenetics and find the stop points. Go for it guys. Figure it out. You know, do something rigorous, right? Evolutionary biology is not rigorous enough for you. So why don't you do some do something do some science, right? It it's the same problem that you see with like the the global flood stuff that you see from young earth creationists where they they insist that this global flood is responsible for the entirety of the geological column like at least from the Cambridge into the Cretaceous and yet there is no sign not a hint not a whisper of a global flood in the entirety of the geological column the the biggest event that is supposed to have ever happened and there's nothing there um it's it's just it's just positing it's just supposing um which is a science that that is interesting so the the p value. You don't generally find p values that small, but if you if you make an assumption uh uh that that that blocks out one area totally, then you could get a p value that small. And there's nothing being blocked out here, right? Like explicitly with Dan and in that paper and in other papers that the three of us have talked about in other places, right? The separate ancestry model has been tested. It it lays out explicit predictions. Those predictions have been tested and they do they are not up to snuff. Um go ahead, James. And uh it's interesting that she got really really excited over something that is statistically uh uh very very rare, but uh um she she criticized in her video people who don't do their homework. Do a little homework, you know. Uh that that's interesting. you know, I I never read the paper. Uh uh I've I've assumed this this this is uh uh this is something for you to study. You went and you studied the paper, the very paper that she she looked at and uh um that that points it out that that uh you you make make this claim and then it's going to result in the p value being so small. I'm going to uno reverse card here again, right? because it's like Rob doesn't know the predictions that that his own model is making. There's they use that clip a lot in this video of me saying like do do your homework for things that they that they think I've not done my homework on. And that's fine. Um but you know I I think that so far what we've addressed kind of speaks for itself on like who's missing some background information here. Rob Stadler presents this dependency graph that is supposed to be this robust counter to common ancestry as if to say yeah you know first of all we're going to handwave this entire you know primate biologyny paper but then we're going to say actually this this dependency graph paper does an even better job look how well supported it is uh and you know Dan like why why doesn't that in your opinion like why why why are you not compelled by the dependency graph as somebody who's very familiar with phoggenetics just point out that this is um from uh the EV um biomplexity the DI journal journal it's never been peer- reviewviewed no one it's on a blog it's a blog post basically um and you can go to the peaceful science forum and find long discussions of why it's wrong even like something as ridiculous as genetic entropy there are actual papers that creationists have written like Carter and Sanford have written that have like tried to get this into the actual literature right with the dependency thing. I think the original for that, I don't remember the year, was like 2017 or 2018. There's been no attempt to like get it into a real journal. It's just evolution uh not evolution news, it's biomplexity. That's it. Like we're just pretending at this point. After he spends a lot of time, I would say like gosh, like probably like 5 to 10 minutes discussing the dependency graph, he goes on to talk about issues with fogynies in general, right? like he he takes error with this idea that we've proposed that fogynies consistently recover this this universal tree of life that everything is related that there is no stop sign and he's like huh but there is phoggenetic inongruence that occurs and he gives these these three citations here and it's like yes let's look at these examples our first one is is proarotes well the first one is just a general you there are biological processes that can generate phoggenetic conflict which is true that's fine Nobody has anything with that. And to be clear, I talk about these things in my intro evolution class. It's not like we're keeping this stuff a secret. Like we go through how phlogenetics works and then and then there's a whole long section on here's what makes this really hard and here are some pitfalls you have to watch out for. Like yeah, this is not like a secret. We teach incomplete lineage sorting in my intro to bioenth class as well, right? Like everybody is familiar with these things that that can cause problems for specific regions or specific genes, but you can't get more complete than all of it, right? And if you do a phoggenetic tree with all of it, you recover. And I focus on the apes because that's that's what I think, you know, kneecaps creationism in general because it it firmly establishes humans as apes that are related to other apes that descended from other apes and so on and so forth. Not these special isolated um you know denovo creations that are unrelated to everything else. But it's like sequence the whole genome. It's humans and chimps as a diad. Then gorillas that's next closely related to the two of them and then orangutans and then gibbons and and that's for the whole genome, right? Like full stop. We just got the complete H genomes paper. We're going to talk about it at the end here. It recovers the same fogyny it has always recovered. And it's so frustrating to me when I see them pitch these like, oh, if you do it with this one gene, you're going to get, you know, a weird phlogenetic tree. We know the scientific community wrote those papers. Um, and then the last one he talks about here is is to do with C anemmones, so nidarians and lanclets, which it's like yes, you can get convergence in certain gene families. I'm not sure if that's what's going on here, but it could also be it could also be deletion. I don't know that example because I'm not an expert in everything, but like it could be there. You could have convergence. You could if it's gene families, it implies that they share common ancestry. So you could have um it's an ancestral gene family that all of you metazzoa shares and then most lineages have lost it. Uh is what could happen. Um you could have a case of like deep pomology where maybe those pseudo genes are present in other lineages. Um it could right it's it's a totally like I would have to look at it but like yeah that's a thing that happens. There are other examples of that too and that middle one is just a straight up like dishon dishonest quote mine because you know indeed for proarotes molecular data have falsified the tree of life hypothesis. I guarantee you I I've not read that paper but I guarantee you uh it is about the bush of life due to rampid horizontal gene transfer among proaryotes. And the thing with that is even if you say, "Yeah, you can't pin down like a nice neat um dichomous branching pattern because of all the horizontal gene transfer going on." If you looked at each gene individually, you can do that. But the genes share funky pathways because of all the horizontal gene transfer, right? Yeah. It's not it's not generation to generation. Yeah. Yeah. And so like the fact that they pluck out that one line that is just straight up dishonest quote mining like typical creationist nonsense. I'll uh I'll check the paper and see if they say bush of life anywhere in it and just slap up a big picture of it there if they do. I hope I'm right. Gold standard. I hope you are too. So I did go look it up and while Dan is conceptually right, there is no mention of the bush of life officially in this paper that talks about horizontal gene transfer and procarots. But there is something that's even funnier, at least in my opinion, which is the little abstract at the beginning. Debates over the status of the tree of life often proceed without agreement as to what it is supposed to be. A hierarchical classification scheme, a tracing of genomic and organismal history, or hypothesis about evolutionary processes and the patterns that they generate. I will argue that for Darwin, it was a hypothesis which lateral gene transfer in procarotes now shows to be false. I will propose a more general and relaxed evolutionary theory and point out why anti-evolutionists should take no comfort from disproof the tree of life hypothesis. Dan is always going to be arguing that Lensk's experiment in in the case where the E.coli developed the ability to metabolize citrate. He's always going to be arguing that that was like a major innovation, a major evolutionary gain that required numerous mutations to come together and make new information and new genes and so forth. No, Dan and I can probably argue about this forever, but say that again, Dan, so everybody Yeah, it's undeniable. Just multiple mutations, which is factually true. Also, my dog is barking. Let me go get him back inside now and then we can hit play and then I'll explain why he's wrong. It was a it was a gene transllocation and multiple point mutations. It was multiple genetic events uh to get that sip plus. I remember I did this I talked about this a lot. I I think it was my beehe debunk probably. Yeah. Must have. It's super frustrating though because you can go down every rabbit hole of like, you know, new function of of real time evolution happening now with them and you can chase them down the rabbit hole of like checking off every box where it's like, okay, it didn't used to be able to do that. You know, it it's a duplication followed by new functionalization. So, it's not just a simple deletion and at the very end of it, once you've checked off every single box, the creationist in question will just say, "Okay, maybe there are some examples of getting new information through evolution, but it's rare and it's not going to be enough." That's that's how every single one of these conversations ends if you follow them to their termination point. But I just want to I just want to go back to simple facts here. Let's just look at the simple facts that he's going to go through each of these simple facts. They're on the screen so you can read them. I don't feel the need to let it play for a full two minutes so that he can explain them. Dan, what are your thoughts on these facts so people can read them and then hear you at the same time? I think that'll be a nice contrast. Yeah. So, so the thing to understand with this sit plus trait, the aerobic citrate metabolism is one, he got some basics wrong. Like nobody says there was a new gene. It was an existing gene got duplicated and it was there and controlled by a different promoter, but it was not a there was not like a denovo gene evolution happening. He also like belittles the fact it's like, oh, they say it's multiple mutations are needed for this, which is just factually true. There's several mutations that have to happen in the Lensky lab and there are various papers on this called the priming mutations that were neutral when they occurred and then are beneficial in the context of the duplication because if you have the duplication in the absence of the other mutations, the duplication is actually a harmful trait rather than a beneficial trait. Uh and we don't need to go into the biochemistry of why, but like there are multiple papers on this and that's just what it is. Um, so he's just like kind of making fun of that like, "Yeah, but that's factually true." And then the thing that I always like to point out to this anytime it comes up is that this novel trait uh aerobic citrate metabolism meets the criteria laid out by Michael Be for irreducible complexity. This is the directly observed evolution of an irreducibly complex trait. Right? This is the kind of thing creationist say can't evolve. We've never documented it evolving. There it is. right there in the lab. We got to witness it happening and we've genetically documented each step in the process. These bacteria are not at all evolving toward a better future. In fact, they're falling apart. This is a recent paper and it said, "However, we theendipitously discovered evidence of substantial cell death in cultures of the Sith Plus clone sampled here." This is out at 50,000 generations. So this development in their study happened at around 33,000 generations. So now they're finding that out at 50,000 generations they are dying off very quickly. And these results indicate that the evolution of aerobic growth on citrate in this experiment it was associated with elevated mortality. If you think that's a major innovation of evolution, I think the evidence is is basically showing you it's a pretty simple modification and it's actually quite a negative in in this even in this particular environment. So, regarding the increased mortality in the uh the uh sit plus line, I'm just going to because so we'll peek behind the scenes here, folks. Eric and I were texting as we were each watching this, just increasingly flabbergasted as we were watching it. And so I'm just going to read you what I wrote as we were watching this so you can have my off-the-cuff thoughts in real time, which was, "Oh man, he even does the sit plus line had higher mortality thing." Sir, allow me to introduce you to my friend density dependent mortality factors. Obviously, the engineer has never studied ecology, but come on. Because what this paper found was that the sit plus line has higher a higher mortality rate than the other lines in the experiment. The reason for that is that the sit plus line, the whole reason they discovered this trait was a thing was because the population density in the sit plus line went way up because they had more food available. So the population density went up. Now when you're talking about mortality in a population, you have density independent factors which are things like old age and you have density dependent factors which are like competition and disease and waste accumulation. In the lineage where they have sit plus where you have an additional food source and you can grow to a higher population density, you are necessarily going to have increased density dependent mortality. That is like you just plug all the parameters into the ecology equations, which people, you know, don't like to think of ecology as like a quantitative science, but it very much is. You can just put the the factors in there and you're going to get more mortality due to the higher population density. That doesn't mean it's like genetically falling apart or whatever. It just means the ecology is different. It's a function of how successful that population is, and he's trying to paint it as like a defect. It's It's pretty hilarious. Okay. And then with this tryptophan thing, this is like uh this was one of countless examples where creationists are going to try to play this game where they go, "Aha, this specific thing can't evolve." And this example kind of falls more into like the waiting time problem set relative to the irreducible complexity set. But both of those are arguments attempting to find the thing that cannot evolve, right? And so you're saying you need these two mutations and E.coli coli couldn't do it. I don't care because you can't use this as a speed as an evolutionary speed limit because we have directly observed the evolution of traits that require more mutations than that. The sit plus line is an example of that. The new functionality in the VPU protein in HIV1 group M that antagonizes the protein called tetherin that that single activity requires at least four maybe as many as seven specific amino acid substitutions in order to work and you need to be able to antagonize tetherin for HIV to be able to infect humans. So you can't take this example in a vacuum and use it as a speed limit because we have direct observation of other organisms in other genes exceeding the speed limit. He does multisellularity first. That's actually a oh the heron thing where they say it's just gene loss. Prove it instead. This is like a permanent change. And that tells me it probably is a loss of information that they can't go back. They can't figure out how to get back yet. Now, unfortunately, you know, the real struggle here is that the DNA analysis for this study hasn't been published yet. So, when Dan and Dave and Erica get all excited about this study, we don't actually know, we don't have proof yet of what changed. You know, my hypothesis is there's generally a loss of function, but it's just a hypothesis. We don't have the answers. Keep in mind the reason that's his hypothesis is because Rob believes in like genetic entropy and stuff like that like from the flaw you or from the fall. So it's like he he doesn't think that this gain of information that this this um evolution from single to multisellularity can happen. So that hypothesis I don't think is coming from a place of of genuine inquiry. It's it's more because he thinks that it can't be the other thing. But it also would be even worse for him, right? If this like uh loss of information resulted in this enormous evolutionary change, all that would do is prove that you don't need new information for enormous evolutionary change such as evolving multisellularity, which did happen. It's an it's an observation. He's just whining about like some some very specific esoteric experimental data because this is all they can do, right? This is what James does all the time. They go and they hunt and they just find something esoteric that they can distort and just say it confidently and then the viewers will be like, "Oh, and they sound like they know what they're talking about about that thing I don't understand." So, I don't know. They must be right. That's all they can do. Unicellular algae became multisellular. That happened. We watched it happen. There's really nothing else to say about it, you know. And my my favorite thing to say when creationists come out, you always hear this with this experiment or with um the examples of like the uh there's many animals doing this, but there's one in particular where horizontal gene transfer has occurred. So it's further along. So you got like animals doing endo symbiosis of um plastids for example. You always hear at the end of the day creationists they always fall back on that example is just micro evolution, right? That's just a teeny little change happening. And my response to that, whether it's multisellularity or endo symbiosis or whatever, is okay. So it doesn't sound like we need macroeolution for much, do we? Because if microeolution can accomplish this, this incredible arguing leap, it's like unicellular to multisellularity that used to be their big like how could this possibly happen, right? That and you know, endo endo symbiotic events, all these other things. So, it's just like, yeah, we're demonstrating that these huge steps can happen. And the more you try to minimize the relevance of the change, the more you're proving that we don't need much to do all these things, that you don't that it's actually easy to evolve. Yeah. And they've actually done a 180 on this, like you say, where it used to be that multisellularity was one of those big things. Um, now they've gone, oh, you can do multisellularity with a loss of information. First of all, I don't actually think in this experiment that's going to show to be the case because if you go through that paper in detail and you see it's not just that they do m um it would actually be mitosis or meiosis they don't they don't fail to separate it's that it's they they do fail to separate right they don't complete uh they don't separate out the um they have an extracellular matrix but the the extracellular matrix is actually distinct from the existing ECMs that they use to get sticky when they uh elomerate, when they come together uh in their wild type. They can they can assemble into um multisellular clumps, but they don't persist that way and then they'll go their separate way once the conditions warrant it. Right? And the way they do that, it's not just that they are dividing and then not se separating because they're engaging the stick together thing. It's actually structurally a different thing that is causing them to stay multisellular in the evolved lineages. So, I don't think it's true uh that we're going to see like gene loss or whatever and they're reverting to the wild type because it's actually phenotypically distinct from how the wild type operates. It's going to be fun to see what they go with because eventually that DNA study is going to come out and we've got two nice predictions on either side of the direction that they're going to go. I I recently been one over too, you know, you guys were talking about this example of like, okay, what kind of change you can get multisellularity from massive massive deletions, right? I mean that's they they wouldn't call that new information but that's because they don't know they conceive of evolution as this ultimate fitness via genetic entropy instead of understanding fitness as context specific. That's always a major issue that they have. But it's like we're going to get into this human chimp stuff here in a second and they accept that all dog breeds are related and achi is quite different from a great dane, right? Like you can get an enormous amount of physical variety from a very similar set from extremely similar sets of genomes. genomes that are, you know, ostensibly 99.9% similar, you know, to one another, but they can't fathom the idea that humans and chimpanzees, which are far more similar than a Great Dane and a Chihuahua, may come from the from common stock, right? Um, we're going to get to that in a second, but before we do, I want to hear James Tor respond to all of this, respond to to Rob's sort of presentation here. So, we're going to do that at 27:32. Well, Rob, you're very nice. Um, you're much nicer than I would be if I had detected that. I don't know the area enough well enough to detect it myself, but it's it's really interesting what you have seen from the very same pa same papers. Thank you. Yeah, it's interesting when I see them get all excited about stuff like that. It makes me want to makes me want to dive in and add some reality to it. And so, this is our last topic. Thank you all for for staying on so long. I appreciate this. Um, this is the topic of course that's going to get Erica the most angry or interested or excited and I I wouldn't doubt for a minute that there'll be some lengthy rebuttal about this. Yes, that is true. Rob confirmed. The video that started this all Jim and I made the title of that video is evolution versus evidence. Are we really 98% chimp? So, what Rob's going to do here is he's going to summarize why him and James are upset. this this concept that everybody's heard the number, you know, you're 98 to 99% chimpanzeee. You know, you see it in museums, you see it in textbooks, all sorts of stuff like that. And they're going to say, even when you ask Grock, even when Grock is consulted, you get this number. Um, and and they're like, since Erica thinks that the number that we should be using is 96%, uh, I should agree with their with their efforts here to try to get that changed, and I should agree with their their intro that this is an incorrect number that's been, you know, being erroneously pushed. all of this, whether we're talking about, you know, creationists who are at the professional level or at the the in the minor leagues as it were, they don't seem to understand what that number actually means. They don't seem to understand what any of these percent similarities mean because no one has ever or very few of them actually take the time to look into what what's being compared and how that couches how that actually, you know, contextually fits in with other pairs of organisms. Complete sequencing of a genome. This paper came out this year and they they pulled this data from it that 13.3% of the human genome has no analog to the chimpanzeee genome. They call this gap divergence. That's that's not really a fair way of of describing what gap divergence as it's calculated in the paper is but that's fine. And then they go among this section like the portions that actually can be compared the roughly 87 86.7% of the genomes that can be compared 1.6% of the individual nucleotides are different. um and that this doesn't include the the X and Y chromosomes. The X being far more homologous and the Y being far less homologous. So, he's going to go on and he's going to show this this figure that he gets and this figure comes from the paper, but really where it comes from is from the Discovery Institute's Casey Lekin's article on this topic because Casey Lekin put out like probably six to eight articles I think at this point just on this new paper. And it's not just Luskin Klinghoffer's gotten in on it, but between several of them, it's probably up to six at this point. Yeah. Right. So, let's let's talk about what this is. Um because I don't think any I think very few of the creationists who are pariting this are actually doing any of their work. All of this comes from an initial tweet by Richard Bugs who consulted on the paper who is himself he's friendly towards intelligent design. Let's just call it that. Casey Lekin glombmed on to that did an article on it and then we heard it from Ken Ham. We heard it from Answers News. We heard it from ICR. We heard it from Jeffrey Tomkins specifically that this new paper reveals that humans and ships are actually 13.3% different from one another. They're only about 87, you know, 86.7 or 87% similar to one another. This is the alignment numbers, you guys. These numbers have been known for over a decade. They were reported in the initial paper. The the um actual alignment regions were reported in the initial paper. Richard Bugs blogged about it. But then the actual alignment numbers being, you know, roughly 87 86% between humans and chimpanzees have been reported. They were reported in 2013. They were reported in Croninberg in 2018. They were reported in the the grade eight sex chromosomes in a beautiful matrix that you can see that shows these comparisons. Basically, genomes are really different and they're really annoying because big duplications can happen, big deletions can happen, you have copy number variations of the same gene, you have inversions. It's very difficult for for genetics people, for comparative genomicists to tell how to count those differences. Like if I have two books and one book has 10 copies of the first chapter, well, the second book can be found in its entirety in the first book, but the first book has 10 duplications. So So how different are they in in actuality? For this reason, when you see those percent similarity numbers that are generally reported, inversions and copy number variations are typically left out because they're just impossible to compare. Um so the percent similarity of humans and chimps being like 98.8% similar looking at the protein coding regions it's even more than 99% but that 98.8 is for like the entire genome just looking at single nucleotide polymorphisms. If you include indelss it's about 96%. Then things get difficult to compare after that which is why creationists turn to this raw alignment number that's being reported brutally in this paper but has been reported multiple times before that. But here's the problem you guys. Here's the punch line. If you want to say that the percent similarity between humans and chimpanzees needs to be a nucleotide by nucleotide alignment, that every single difference counts as a difference, that every copy of a gene is actually a full gene difference, you're going to run into some problems fast. Because if you run that exact type of comparison on two human genomes, tieumir to tieamir, they're going to be somewhere in between 90 to 94% similar to one another, not the 99.9% that's always been reported. If you want to do that for dogs and foxes, they're going to go from being like 84ish percent similar to one another to being like 70% similar to one another. Rats and mice will go from being 84 85% for their protein coding regions to dropping, you know, below 60% approximately. These numbers are out there for for human versus human, for dog versus fox, for for tiger versus domestic house cat. They drop from being 95% similar by the same means by which we compare humans and chimps and get 98.8 to being 84.6 6% similar to one another. It doesn't matter what you're comparing. If you take the raw alignment numbers, it's going to drop to 90% or less, at least for stuff that we currently have the numbers for. So, not only is this this misrepresentation of this new paper a misrepresentation because these numbers aren't new, but it's also a misrepresentation because they're treating it like this number, this alignment number is meant to replace the old protein coding number or the the protein coding plus single nucleotide polymorphisms or, you know, indels and snps included. It's not. That's apples and oranges. If you want to compare apples to apples, humans and chimpanzees are over 99% for protein coding. 99ish for S&Ps, 96% including indelss. And by those same metrics, humans and humans are about 99% similar to one another. And by those same metrics, lions and tigers are about 95% to one another or tigers and domestic house cats. But if you want to use this new number, everything else will drop with it. And they will drop like by their appropriate amount. They will drop proportionally. And these numbers are not hard to find. I'll throw up some figures here so that that people can see them. Worse yet, you can go to the supplementary material for this figure specifically and you can calculate these numbers for yourself and they include the bonobo and chimpanzeee gap divergence and their gap divergence is 88%. So human and chimp drops to 87. Chimp and bonobo drops to 88. Those two things are insanely similar to one another. But the problem is it's really easy for genomes to accumulate copy number variations into you know inversions and centromeirs and tieumirs evolve as units and so if they change that contributes to massive differences across the genome that's why this isn't appropriate but because Casey Lekin got it wrong all of them have gotten it wrong. Oh yeah. So basically two different ways of quantifying the similarity and they're conflating them. That's it. Exactly. That's the long and short of it. But like it's it's so much more it's so much more apparent when you actually compare apples to apples across the board and see just how them warping this absolutely screws their own perspective because now if you want to say that that cut off is like 90% now chimps and bonobos can't be related or now humans are different subspecies right we get some some race no one would propose that that would be insane um so that that's the long and short of it James Tor is going to confer can like concur on this and he he basically says at one point here he's like oh so the number has changed and Sadler's like yes it's changed no it hasn't nothing in this paper with regard to these percent similarities is conceptually new and the numbers themselves aren't really that different either protein coding similarities went up to 99.6% 6% and I consulted an author of that paper on that. Okay. So, the very last thing he's going to say is he's going to call Dan Duplicitus and I I want to I want to listen to that and then we'll be done. Mentioned in toward the beginning that um I I don't really feel like um interacting with them is actually all that productive. you know, in in this video, in their rebuttal video to us, they they made some statements that just show that they they're their focus really is not on obtaining truth. It's more focus on being spiteful. Dan actually uh you know, Dan invited me to come on his channel and I could tell by interactions with him and other people that he's he's kind of duplicitous about how he does things. It's like he wants to lure people onto his channel and then kind of ambush them. Dan, you're very good at being kind of unassuming and and and uh and more polite and that lures that lures them in. So, different styles, but I I appreciate your style. Don't my game, man. We all watched you talk to Behe. We did. Think I'm nice. All right. So you you could see he's he's kind of duplicitous in in how he approaches this and I I'd rather not interact with him directly. So So duplicitus trying to to to to correct your lies. Wow. Amazing. Can we just appreciate the fact that you need to appreciate like people joking? Like the people who say that I'm nice are the people who have come on my channel like Michael Beehe. Well, I don't know about anymore because we had a thing recently, but other than that, that was recent. Prior to that, he would have said I was nice, but like Fuzz Rana and Paul Price and Sal Cordova, like uh maybe not James Carter because he then said I was possessed by demons, but so that was okay. Fair enough on that one. Um but like people who have come on my channel say that I'm nice. they they find our interactions productive and cordial and and you know Casey Luskin we had a great long conversation last year and then afterwards he yelled at me a lot but before that it was fine and you know um I I would have a nice conversation with either Dr. Stadler or Dr. tour if they wanted to come on and talk about stuff. It would be very nice and I'd be very nice and and like it's I don't yell at people. I don't like I'm not No, I I I always, hey, hey, here's a specific topic I would like to have you on to talk about because you talked about it. Do you want to come on and talk about it? That's it. Or sometimes it's do you want to talk about your book? I think that's what it was for Stadler. I don't understand this conflation of like being duplicitous with disagreeing with you. Like to to them, you having them on and then being like, "Hey, I want I want you to come on and defend this position. I'm a nice guy, but I'm going to disagree with you." They come on, that's what happens. And they're like, "What? How could he trick me into doing this? I can't believe it. He he disagreed with me on camera. He invited me on and then he publicly disagreed with me." It's like that's that's invite to be clear to be clear I invite people on to talk about a very specific topic and be like hey I would love to have you on to talk about this specific thing because you wrote this article I would love to talk about it but then you ambush them with facts and debunking those things they say it's an ambush this is pageantry Rob's making excuses because he's a little that's what's happening I my invitation is still on the table for either of you gentlemen. Well, you know, Dan, it'll be fine. You can you can hit up James and do his whole like give uh the Jesus spiel, right? That for an hour he'll he'll explain to you how how Jesus was resurrected. And then you can and then you can you can go you don't want to trade. I don't want I mean, if he wants to make a trade, James, hit me up. We'll talk. So, James James offered to to have a conversation with me. He wanted to talk about aiogenesis. Uh, and I was like, I'll talk about abiogenesis with you. I'll get curb stomped on abiogenesis. I'm happy to do that, but I'm not going to get curb stomped risk-free, right? Like, you're going to have to talk with me about human evolution or evolution generally since that's also been something that you've been openly skeptical about. Also, also, we could load you up with with some talking point or some some rebuttals of his common talking points such that you would not get curb stomped. It's actually not that hard to own James on this topic. It's it's it's one of those things where it was just like, you know, we were we were in this discussion. I I don't I'm not like sharing any emails. This is just conceptual. He invited me on on his video. So, this isn't this isn't different than anything James has already been public with. But it's like, you know, I I was down to do that as long as as long as we talked about evolution, too. But the type he wanted to like talk about the chemistry of life, evolution, and it's like that's not what I study. You know, I want to talk about if we're going to talk about something that you claim to be an expert in, we're also going to talk about something that I claim to be an expert in. It'll be a sort of tit fortat thing. We couldn't make it work. But in in those exchanges, you know, I get the feeling that James thinks that we like he gets the feeling that I I think like hate him or something. I don't hate James Tour. And at some point, he was also like we're he like felt like we were making fun of his devotionals that he puts in there. And it's like it's not the context of the devotional or the invitation to hear the gospel that is funny to me. It's the fact that it's interspersed in a science video like an infomercial that is funny to me. That's hilarious. I think it's funny. It jump scares me. It's always very loud and I'm always caught completely off guard because I'm I feel like I'm getting an advertisement for Lexapro or something. Um, but it's, you know, it's an invitation to hear the gospel, which is like, you know, that's not disrespecting your beliefs, James. That's that's kind of poking fun at you for for having an infomercial about is like the app or whatever. Um, to me, pretending to be rigorously scientific and not ideologically motivated. Yeah. Let me just say before we before we move on from this section, let me just say that I have never had anyone on and then I've like ambushed them on a topic we did not agree to talk about. Like I, you know, I'm always upfront. I've never had anyone on and then berated them or yelled at them or anything. So, you know what? If you think I'm being disingenuous, fair enough, but anybody can go and watch my videos with my creationist guests. And like the guests have always said it's been really nice. So, you can take that however you want. But again, Rob and James, you want to come on? My my door is open. We'll set something up. And with that, I got to run now. I gotta go. I was gonna say that's it. We're done. That's the last thing. So, why don't you just say that and then we then we'll That's it. That's done. That's the last thing. I I hope you enjoyed that conversation. We all got to be here for the full for the full thing this time. Good time. I'm sure we'll get a response. Although it won't surprise me if actually what happens if is Rob comes back and he's like I don't feel like engaging with these people anymore. Uh because if we drill down on the same topic too much they usually well there's a limit to the value that they can get out of you know antagonizing. That's true too. Any closing thoughts? Peanut gallery come on my channel Rob and James separately or together. I'd be happy to talk to either of you on anything that in this video. Well, I won't say anything because there's some a bio stuff that's not my field, but the stuff that I could talk about, I'd be happy to talk about. You could get there on the abioenesis stuff. It's It's not that hard. Um, yeah. I don't know. These guys are a couple of wieners. And, uh, I'm I've got a couple things to finish first, but then I'm going to do a nice big series on James and all the crap he's been spewing for the past like nine months. So, that'll be fun. I'm sure he's very much looking forward to that. I'm sure he is. Let's see if he wants to do a third series on me with cartoons and all kinds of fun things. his production quality is is very high. I wish he just had a funnier editor. Um I think he's been ramping that back though because like it just kind of blew up in his face like how petty he was with the second series he did on me. So yeah, that's true. Yeah, he they thread a fine line because they can't be a unapologetically like snarky. Um sucks. But okay, guys, that's it. I'll end it there. Cool.