Is it cool if we all introduce ourselves just for the sake of like Okay, this is a conversation that I had. We all just like give our background. Yeah, I think that's a good idea. Okay. All right. I'll start. Obviously, I'm I'm Erica Gutsy Gibbon. My background is in biological anthropology. So, I'm coming at this from the perspective of the stuff that they're going to talk about with relation to humans and chimps and like macro evolution generally. Um I don't know Dave, you want to go next? You're clockwise next for me. Me? Oh, yeah. So, uh, I I'm I'm obviously have some fame countering tours, uh, [\h__\h] So, uh, I know quite a bit about the origin of life research stuff that he lies about and definitely some overlap with molecular biology as well. I've hit Stadler. Uh, I've hit some of the DI guys like Behe and Axe who cover a lot of this stuff. So, I haven't watched the video, but I'm pretty sure I will have heard all of it before. So, you will. I think you will. Okay, Dan, your turn. And hi, I'm Dan. I'm an evolutionary biologist. Uh my specialty is kind of evolutionary genetics, molecular genetics, and um my thing is taking scientific sounding creationist claims and explaining why they're all nonsense every time, top to bottom, and trying to make it understandable for someone who isn't an evolutionary biologist or doesn't professionally study genetics. So, in this video, we're going to hear about some of my favorite experiments, and they're just going to be absolutely butchered, and I can't wait to talk about it. That is that's so shocking to me though, Dan, that they would be on here talking about the the discrimin discrimination against, you know, creationists and and how, you know, people aren't being in good faith when they interact with creationism. They don't hear out the other side, you know, and then it's it's weird how that sort of meets with their representation of of the conventional science, you know. It's almost kind of like they've already had their day in court, as it were, and things did not go exactly the way they wanted them to. Bunch of crybullies. Yeah. Yeah. So, okay. Where are we at on that, Dan? Where are we at on the video? Oh, you're muted. And also in like 40 I'm going to share a video file. Okay. Uh I just have to find where I put it on my desktop. And here it is. Okay. Sweet. Add to the stage where the whole Okay. So, this is our video. Um, Erica, I don't know if you have the video controls or if I have the video controls. Um, you have the controls. I have the controls. Okay. So, uh, why don't you tell me where we should go timestamp wise? Where should we start? Because there's a lot of throat clearing in here. There's there's a lot of throat clearing. Tor is tor does the thing that you see a lot of like you know YouTubers who have like an editor who are trying to gather like a lot of attention um especially to pull people into the video where he's got this clip at the beginning and he goes on sort of with this um this bait that he throws into the water about how well the human and chim similarity isn't as high as you know they might have you believe and that's supposed to get you interested in this conversation where you know tour is going to have Rob Stadler on another young earth creationist and make no mistake tour is a young earth creationist we're going to talk about this more later in the video, but this is one of the first videos that I've seen him go blatantly mask off with that young earth creationism um in a way that that you know we'll sort of play we'll sort of discuss why we think that might be uh once we get there but Stadler is coming from a more of an engineering background if I'm not mistaken he does like medical devices so you know perfect guy to be talking about the the invalidity of evolutionary biology which is what he's going to be talking about um now Sadler starts off with this like criteria for high versus low confidence science which you know I I don't know about you Dan but as far as I am aware this concept of live high versus low confidence science this comes completely from Stadler right like this isn't something that other people use and he does a bait and switch here at the beginning where Stadler is going to be like this this list of criteria for evaluating evidence in science is used by every doctor on the face of the planet they all buy into it every scientist agrees that there's a list of evidence and list of types of evidence and they fall into a hierarchical order where you got lower confidence evidence and higher confidence evidence and that he takes that idea and spins it into his own original idea of this high versus low confidence science in a way that I think he just kind of hopes you don't notice. Um and he's going to pitch us off with that like pretty near the beginning here. So let me give you a time stamp. Let's start with do you want to start with his creation forest? Let's do so let's jump to about seven minutes and that's the the the creation forest. Here we go. So let's start. He really gets into it at about seven. We'll start about here. Uh let's see what we have here. And also let me know if the volume is okay on this. Yes. And when I mention the term evolution, I'm talking about the big scale evolution here, which I'm sure we're all familiar with, where all of life today uh came from a common ancestor billions of years ago, a single cell microscopic first life form that evolved into all life today. And that is quite in contrast with a a simple reading of of the book of Genesis where God describes instead of a single tree of life, he describes more of what I'd call a forest of life where there are many different trees and each tree is a kind of life. In Genesis chapter 1, the word kind comes up about 10 times like it does here in in verse 24. God said, "Let the land produce living creatures according to their kinds, the livestock, the creatures that move along the ground, and the wild animals, each according to its kind." And it was so. And so, I think we're pretty familiar with things like the dog kind or canine, wherein wolves over time have diversified to produce all the breeds of dogs that we know and love today, but they're all still dogs. They're all still part of the dog kind. and they're on this this tree, this single tree of of dogs. And so the scientific question then is which of these two hypotheses, the tree of life or the forest of life is supported by science? Which one has the most evvent? He it's it's it's worse than that, Dave, actually because this concept of this this orchard, this creation orchard is so much older than any of these modern younger creations ever give it credit for. This goes all the way back to like Frank Marsh, who was a student of George McCrudy Price in like the 1940s. It's that deep. Um, and this idea like they're so slippery with what a kind is and where the kinds are actually like where the the delineations for these kinds are hyenas in the dog kind. What else is in the dog kind, right? Are foxes, right? And like our are our maed wolves, which, you know, this is going to come up later, but the genomic similarity between modernday dogs and maed wolves is lower than the genomic similarity between humans and chips. So we we've got already this problem where it's like how do we identify the created kinds? If it's not with genetics, what is it with? Right. Um and I also Yeah. And I also really like this idea that Rob is here talking about high versus low confidence science and the the hierarchy of evidence and he's starting with a Bible verse. That's his starting point, right? But that is as far as you can get from from a an antibbiased, you know, relatively neutral starting point as you can get. So we're already throwing Yeah, we're already throwing a stone in a glass house here. We're we're we're And right away this is already there's no question about the framing here. This is a young earth creationist framing right away. Unamiguously, we're doing young earth creationism. We're not we're we're not playing footsie with design or whatever, right? We're just going full young earth creation is where the evidence is. That is the claim he is making here. And if we let this play for another minute or two, he does this neat little trick where he cuts off part of the tree. And I think that's that part is worth worth seeing. Yeah. Science contradicts the Bible. So it's bad. Low confidence science equals any science that hurts hurts my feelings for it. And to to just dip my toe in that a little bit to just get started, I'd like to suggest that science because of my practicing science for 30 years, science is so much about observing what you observe and how your observations teach you about natural laws, about how natural laws behave, what they do and what they don't do. And so that observation process requires a human there to be able to make those observations and to pass the learnings along to the next generation. But of course over here on this tree of life, humans only existed for a pretty short period of time here in history. And beyond that, going back in the past, there really are no direct observations that anybody could have passed along. Okay, I want to pause right here and I want everybody watching this to remember this. No direct observations because later in this video, all the way at the end, I'm going to say it now in case I forget to point it out then. James Tor says that sequencing and comparing DNA sequences is a direct observation. Right? That's what he says. Now, that's going to be a problem because those are the observations we can make here. We can compare sequences across all of these groups and look at not just Stadler seems to think it's like do you share a gene or not? Were you there? Did you see all of history? It's like a binary thing, but it's not a binary thing. Either you're similar or you're different. It's a pattern of similarity in a nested hierarchical pattern. pattern and it's the structure of that pattern that provides the testable directly observable evidence for universal common ancestry. So, and also the entire field of paleontology. Yeah. Right. He falls into this trap. It's literally the if a person doesn't actually physically see it with their eyes, it doesn't count. And like, okay, great. Congratulations. Like, toss out paleontology, astronomy, archaeology. Like, toss out his religion because he never saw God making any animals. I I was gonna say that too, Dave, because I I find it interesting that he's like he starts off by being like, "If a human didn't observe it, we can't trust it." But like he's starting with a book that is supposed to be right the the the story of the origin of everything from the perspective of something that is distinctly not a human, right? Um and I, you know, I mean, presumably they would be like, "Well, it's even better than a human. It's a perfect observation, right?" Um but, you know, a little little fruity and slip right off the bat here, maybe. Yeah. So, do we want to jump if we go to about the 14 minute mark, 13 14 minutes, that's where he does his six criteria. And um I know we all have lots of thoughts on that, including audience, play along. See if you can spot the omission from his criteria for high confidence science. Should we uh I I think we do. And and I want to make sure before like I want to see where you you know where you got us on the uh on the time like what our time stamp is here because I don't think we need to go through each of his six criteria because he talks about it for like six minutes. But I do want to say what the six criteria he he says uh are so that we can keep that in the back of our minds moving forward for both the the scientific evidence that he's going to present as well as oh yeah evidence that he accepts. So before we get to that, we should comment on this, the levels of evidence in medicine. And remember his background is biomedical engineering and developing medical devices. And we don't have to listen to it, but he basically talks about like randomized double blind control trials. Um, does that I've done science biology? I've done science. I've done experimental evolution. I've never done a randomized double blind controlled trial in my life because that's not what most scientists do. Do you guys Do you guys think that the geocchemists who use radiometric dating in the form of basin modeling to find out where the biggest oil, coal, and gas deposits are to fuel an over $250 trillion economy, right? Use a double blind study when they're trying to figure out where to drill. Um, they don't, right? like like you said this this is great for medicine and medicine is super important and Rob goes off on this one tangent where he's basically like you know in so many words like medicine is the most important science and it's like you know I I don't really believe in putting science into a hierarchy because I think it all plays specific roles but I don't think anybody would deny that medicine is super super super important. It's just not it's not that you you don't apply the same methodology across all sciences. It's just not something that that's done um because science behaves behaves differently in different fields. Um, okay. Yes. Continue. So, let's find Okay. Um, so this is just going through. Okay. Six criteria. So, if you want, we don't have to listen to him say we can just go through. Yeah. Just get this. All right. So, we've got repeatable, directly measurable. So, really quick, Dan, um, and maybe maybe we like have a sideby-side comparison here at some point, but before he goes through these six criteria, he has something up there, right? This is the this is the secular source that he has. It's like a big box over sort of to the right where he's like this is the criteria that everybody agrees on, right? The level like the types of qualities of evidences, right? This list does not match the criteria that he is about to present to you. Right? This is where our bait and switch occurs because I don't think anybody would disagree who is a medical doctor that you can use this chart to evaluate your evidence types. I don't think anybody's going to disagree with that. I think the level of disagreement is going to start when you're using this specific chart to evaluate nonrelevant fields of science where it doesn't apply as easily. And I think the big sticking point is how this chart evolves into the next six criteria that we're going to see. Yeah. Go ahead. Sorry. No, it was excellent point. That's that's exactly right that this is specifically for evaluating medical evidence in the context of like what treatments do we use? So, we've got on his list, we have repeatable, we have directly measurable, which a lot of the stuff he says is low confidence is directly measurable. He just doesn't like to admit that. He he mentions here that black holes are not directly measurable. And so any study that within astronomy or or cosmology that's looking at black holes is like indirect and thus low confidence. And and the reason isn't, mind you, because astronomy is low confidence science. The reason is because astronomy supports an ancient universe and an ancient earth and is classically one of the fields that young earth creationists like Stadler rail against. And so he has to find a way to fit all of the historical quote unquote sciences into the low confidence bit. Bingo. Number three, prospective study. So we're collecting data in the future and evaluating those data is what this means. Obviously this rules out speaking of you know things that young earth creationists don't like. This rules out anything that's looking at the past. So according to this criterion anything with like radiometric dating right that would be a retrospective because we're looking at you know the past. So that's no good. And obviously that means we can't have high confidence in the age of the earth for example. That's his idea. Then we've got avoid bias and he did the he did the glasses analogy. You know you put on your secular glasses. You put right he did the glasses thing. Did you guys know that that also comes from George McCriedi Prize? I thought that was a Ken Ham or even a Ken Tobin original but that also comes from George McCry Prize. They are all co-opting. It's dissent with modification. They are tweaking the previous creationist arguments, tweaking them a little bit and then calling them their own. Uh, and it drives me crazy. Price, by the way, is from like the first half of the 20th century. So, we're talking old old talking points here. And he was also a Seventh Day Adventist, which they like to not talk about. Number five, avoid assumptions. Fair enough. I sure at least have a reason for your assumptions. And number six, make reasonable claims, right? Don't get out over your skis in terms of drawing conclusions. Again, fair enough. But he then says, "Ah, these claims are unreasonable because he doesn't define reasonable." And I also think these six criteria are fine if you make medical devices. Like if you're trying to use this these six criteria for your medical device um engineering, these work fine. They they more or less acquies to to some of those points but not all of them from his chart earlier. But he's going to take this again and and inappropriately inappropriately apply to other sciences. Yeah, making medical devices does not require generating theoretical frameworks that are falsifi that make falsifiable predictions. You just build [\h__\h] Yeah. And it better work and you better have a good reason for using it. Yeah. And we have to be able to evaluate it. But it has to, right? It has to work. This is I mean, look, we could go down a whole rabbit hole here of like Salem hypothesis and engineers coming in to talk about sciences that are outside their area of expertise because that's exactly what's going on here. For anyone who isn't familiar with the phrase Salem hypothesis, Google that. I I would like to Dan for you to if you feel comfortable provide a little background for the time stamp specifically at 1346 where Rob talks about these six criteria. So for those you know he presents these criteria and then he says about them he's like everybody agrees that these are the criteria that we should use. Again he's doing that bait and switch with that earlier table that people in medical science accept and then swapping that out for this six criteria that he's created um along with his high confidence low confidence thing that he's going to talk about it a little bit more in a second. And what he says at this time stamp is that no one no one will debate him on this. No one will come out and say why these six criteria are not appropriate. Yeah. So here let's uh let's just play this moment here. Anyone debate them with me? Uh people sorry let me go back slightly further. Okay hereate I proposed six criteria to determine the level of evidence and this is for all science not just medicine any field of science. And these six criteria, um, you know, I've never actually had anyone debate them with me. Uh, people generally agree that these criteria, maybe there's plus or minus one, seven criteria, five criteria, but they all seem to agree that these criteria do determine the level of confidence you can have in scientific evidence. So, that's an interesting claim right there. Um, so for folks who don't know me, one of the things I do on my channel is I invite creationists on and I talk to them about stuff. And you could call that a conversation, you could call it a debate. I've had like actual debates with like Dr. Casey Luskin from Discovery Institute. I've had Dr. Michael Beehe on twice. And I've sent out, let me tell you, for the number of people I've actually talked to, I've sent out three or four times that many emails saying, "Hey, I would love to have you on to talk about X, Y, or Z." You want to guess if I've ever emailed Dr. Rob Stadler and asked if he wanted to talk about his criteria for high confidence science? Because I have. You mean Dan? Like maybe come on and debate them. I you know I frame it as a conversation not a debate because I don't like to think about you know uh kind of the you know the modern day debate kind of thing is not what I do right but like I said hey you know I'm an evolutionary biologist. When I email these I don't hide the ball right? and I say, "Hey, I'm an evolutionary biologist. Here's what I do. Um, I think it would be an interesting conversation. I'd love to have you on and talk for an hour or so." Um, and Stadler was uh not open to that, let's say. So, it's, you know, it's, yeah, you you no one has come out to debate. As long as you tell everybody who wants to have this discussion, no, then yes, the answer to his his, you know, is true. I would have, but he didn't want to. So, oh well. Yeah. I think that's um I think you find that a lot with with these folks. You know, they they simultaneously want to say that that nobody actually wants to have this conversation with them, but then when people do want to have the conversation, uh they're they're not interested. And I think really it isn't that they don't want to have this conversation with people. They don't want to have this conversation with people who are competent in this subject because they know they're going to get uh blasted. They they know if they talk to somebody who's an expert in this subject, they're going to be confronted with a whole lot of data that they are not aware of or refuse to talk about. Um, especially if those people take no prisoners. Dan, you're very good at being kind of unassuming and and and uh and more polite and that lures that lures them in. So, different styles, but I I appreciate your love. My game, man. Ah, we all watched you talk to behe. We did. Thanks. All right. Okay. Um, so I have Erica. I've pulled it up to your next time stamp here about 22 and change here. So, um, we'll tell when to stop this because he goes into kind of big picture evolutionary theory and then he has a whopper of a segment on the best evidence for evolution coming up and like common ancestry between humans and bacteria here and it's just oof. And I want to get to that relatively quickly. So mostly I just want to talk about how he sets up this comparison. Yeah. So let him talk for a little bit and then we can kind of dig in. Tell me tell me when to stop them. Tell you if you have high confidence or low confidence in something. And I hope that this is useful to everybody as a kind of filter like I mentioned when uh when you get new information coming at you tomorrow. Some of that deluge of tomorrow's information that you'll be able to filter out things that you can have confidence in versus things that you can't. I could summarize it with going back to that example of we talked about how fast does an object fall. It's a very simple question to ask of science. But I'm saying that if if you conduct your experiments with meeting all six of these criteria and it can be done to meet all six of these criteria, you're going to end up with answers that are very high confidence. you can put total trust in what you've got there and people will use it and it could be very helpful. In contrast to that, I'm going to put up the statement that I just that I just read there. This is from my son's biology textbook and it's addressing a different question. It's addressing the question over here. Do humans and bacteria share genes from a common ancestor? Right? This goes back to that tree of life. And this statement in my kids biology textbook is very strongly asserting yes, they do share genes from a common ancestor. But if we ask science this question, um, can it meet can it can we answer this question while meeting these six criteria? So, let's pause for a second. Can it be done? I'm going to say point blankly, yes. Right. We can sequence the genome of a human and we can sequence the genome from any bacteria you want. Pick pick any do all of them if you'd like. You could you could theoretically do every human and do every bacteria. You could theoretically do everything alive. And you can repeat that over and over and over again sequencing the genome and comparing those genes to see if they have shared or cons or or conserved genes between them. Right now, Rob would have an issue with this because it assumes that they have a common ancestor, but it doesn't assume that they have a common ancestor. The only assumption that's being made when we're doing these comparative genomics with regard to common ancestry is that genetics and the laws of heritability and inheritance generally work the same now as they did in the past. Right? We're we're making a uniformitarian assumption there. Now, Rob would say to that, you can't make a uniformitarian assumption that inheritance works the same today as it does in the past. And to that, I say, according to science, unless you can tell us a reason why we can't make that assumption, if it is consistently with zero exceptions shown to be the case today, then I think you can reasonably say yes, you can make the assumption that genetics and and inheritance work the same now as they did in the past. Now, that sequencing is repeatable. It's directly observable. These plans for genomic sequencing and comparison are perspectively organized. A classic scenario is the human genome project was talked about and planned across numerous different labs for years before the very you know before the first base pair was even sequenced. Um careful to avoid biases. Yeah, you use doovo assembled genomes from both of these organisms. So there is no inherent bias to it. Careful to avoid assumptions. Don't assume that one organism is inherently more related to to another. do the sequencing and run that phlogenetic analysis with with no um assumptions beforehand. Again, you're only assuming that that genetics works the same now as it did in the past. That's the only assumption we're making. Um in the same way that perhaps might say he he assumes you could trust the Bible as as a as a yeah, you know, accurate document of the past. And and genomic analysis is just one pillar, right? We observe speciation events. We recently observed an endo symbiotic event. We have observed the evolution of multisellularity, right? We've observed all these events that would be pieces of that evolution. So, it's about using genetics to understand what is possible and then combining that with what we've observed, what what what can happen, what we've seen happen, and then you can make extrapolations. Right? This is a dishonest comparison. He's saying dropping dropping an object. That's an event you can observe in its totality. Okay? I'm sorry. We cannot observe billions of years. So, what we can still make inferences, right? we can do science and we can understand what happens. It's just not an honest comparison. Well, and and that point that you made there, Dave, that's the crux of this, right? He doesn't want something that's directly observable. He wants something that's directly observable in its totality, as you just said. But this is going to disqualify the majority of science, right? And all of his beliefs also. And all of his beliefs also. Yeah. Yeah. Um, and I'll add, you know, I mean, so, so, you know, with our our comparison between humans and bacteria and their common ancestry, like they match, they they meet all six of those criteria. Even though those criteria aren't appropriate for this specific, you know, uh, evaluation of high versus low confidence science, they still meet all that criteria. And so does every other aspect of science. It it depends on how you phrase the question, which is where I think he's being, you know, a little sneaky here with with how he's setting this up. You can do this with geology. You can do this with paleontology, right? If I make a prediction in paleontology of where I'm going to find a specific fossil, yeah, I can look for for the characteristics that define a given um geological site and I can repeat that same process at other sites. I can directly observe as I'm excavating, you know, the the organism in question, right? I can set out my perspective study beforehand. I cannot have any biases of what I expect to find. Although I can make AI I find that to be a weird portion of this because you you take it as that's exactly what I was about to say is we have these six criteria here for what constitutes high confidence versus low confidence science. And he expounds upon these in his book, The Scientific Approach to Evolution, which I have sitting somewhere back there. I have that book sitting there with my scribblings all on the margins. a phrase that is completely absent from that book. You do not find the phrase or description of the concept of hypothesis testing in that book. It's like if the actual process of science as most scientists practice it does not exist to him. Yeah. So when we have this question, do humans and bacteria share genes from a common ancestor? What we're doing is we're generating a hypothesis. And the way you test a hypothesis is you make specific predictions and then you prospectively right that's the perspective aspect to it. It doesn't matter if the data if the event happened in the past the fact that you set up the question and then afterwards are going to collect the data. That's the perspective aspect to it. And then we can go out and see do the data match the predictions. If humans and bacteria share a common ancestor this many billion years ago, here's what we expect to see in their respective genomes. Do we see those things? And in this way, it's perspective. It's directly observable. It's repeatable because every sequence comparison you make is it is its own observation. It's its own test. You could do different species of apes. You could do different species of bacteria. You could get fungi in on the act, right? you could just just keep adding to that data. Same same with predicting transitional forms and then finding them in paleontology, right? It doesn't matter that they died a millions of years ago. We're predicting them now and then finding them, which substantiates the the prediction that we made that these forms should have existed. That's it. Oh, go ahead. No, no. I I I just want to make sure you guys are getting the same read on this as as I am. When I read these six criteria, they almost seem to suggest that making a prediction or having a hypothesis beforehand is actually like a negative, right? Having a perspective study is good, but having any biases or assumptions which are implicitly because of the human condition a part of making a hypothesis are bad things. So, it's like I don't know I don't know how that's supposed to work with the scientific method. Like it seems like this bucks science and that in a baconian sense. Yeah, it's it's it's not good. Uh, so let's play a little bit more. There's a couple more minutes in this bit on the human bacteria thing. And there's something important there that I really want to point out because he is not aware of an experiment that actually directly observes and demonstrates the thing that he says is an assumption or is, you know, not directly observed. So let's let's just let him go for another minute. Repeatably. In other words, can we repeatedly go into the lab with an organism and watch it evolve into bacteria and into humans and can we watch that we have repeatedly made humans and bacteria from it and of course that can't be done it's just simply not possible really quick I want to add one point here right we can observe right now evolution in the lab and we can also observe right now tectonic plates moving at the scale of of the fingernail growing, right? We watch we watch this happen. We can look at seafloor spreading in the center of of the Atlantic Ocean. We can use GPS to do it. But by Rob's logic, because we can't observe those continents going back to a superc continent in the past, which is something that creationists proposed happened and happened at a rate of at race car speeds that the continents moved from their pangia position during Noah's flood to their current position, which requires them to move it at like 70 mph. It's it's nuts. I didn't know that. That's hilarious. They do. And in fact, some of them proposed that they formed superc continents and broke up multiple times during the year of Noah's arc. Same with their hyper rapid speciation after Noah's arc. Same idea. And and Dave, that's an important point too because they require this rapid speciation as well. But to Rob who just earlier says that we know that dogs descend from wolves. We didn't observe that happening in a lab, right? We didn't h we didn't watch it it happen in a lab. We didn't watch dogs descend from a prototypical dog kind created at creation. And yet he would propose that all of these dogs have a common answer. So that's, you know, I mean, you're disqualifying all of the all of the evidence that you also accept just on hyper super fast forward. Yeah. Anyway, sorry. Can it be directly observed? I kind of mentioned already, you can't observe this happening. Certainly, nobody ever witnessed this happening. Uh, can it be studied prospectively? Well, it's kind of the same answer. You can't go into the lab and do that. In fact, it's an extraordinarily retrospective study. If anything, uh, can you avoid bias when you try to answer this question? I think this question is just ripe full of bias. People come at I just want to appreciate the fact that he started that phrase with the words I think. I just want to appreciate that. What what I wanted what I wanted to do when you when you're if you're going to edit this in post, can you can you put in that red box God created all life? Yes. And then just let it play with that in that box and see what a [\h__\h] hypocrite this douchebag is. Works exactly the same. Exactly the same way. Yeah. This was a very strong answer already before they even consider the science. There's plenty of opportunity for bias here. And in fact, I think the bias can swamp what the evidence actually has to say. No kidding. Because the evidence is pretty pretty quiet here. And number five, I just want to I just need to butt in with one little thing for Rob. Rob, if you see this, I want to ask you, if you were to ask your average evolutionary biologist what the strongest evidence is for human, bacteria, common ancestry, what do you think they would say? Like, I just would love to know Rob's answer to that question. I would love to know what he thinks we think the best evidence is. I'm so curious. Well, Dan, are we careful to later? He's going to to call upon the king of evolutionary biology, Richard Dawkins, to tell us what the best evidence is. True. A modern prophet. When we get there, it's funny because Dawkins actually gives a good answer to that question and Stadler misunderstands it. He does. But Dawkins actually gives what similar to what I would give as the answer. Dawkins in or Stadler interprets it as the wrong thing because he doesn't know what it what it means. Actually here we can we go through all the things are bad for for bacteria stuff. He says none of them apply. Okay. Overstated claims is the last thing he says there which is that he thinks that the idea that it's too grand of a claim, right? Like see Rob would be like you can't say the universe is expanding. That's too grand of a claim. You can only make claims about balls falling and about you know God creating the earth in six literal days. Those are the only two things. Yeah. So here let's do let's jump to 20. We got like 2645ish is where we're going to get into um the best evidence here. Right about Yeah, 26. Yeah, somewhere in here. Um I do want to say the he does mention earlier in a part that we skipped through because we don't need to listen to another two minutes of him is um he says that there's an assumption that when you have sequence similarity, he says this in an incorrect way, but what he was saying is we assume when you have sequence similarity that means common ancestry. Basically he's saying phoggenetics is based on the assumption of common ancestry. That's wrong because there's actually an experiment from 1991 where what they did it's a beautiful experiment. It's a hill 1991 um uh something with a with a known fogyny where they experimentally generated different populations and then sequenced just the tips right the the derived populations and then reconstructed the phlogenetic tree using a number of different techniques showing that the um the phlogenetic reconstruction matched the known history. So it's not actually just an artifact of similarity. So I'm glad I'm glad that you say that Dan, but I want to add to this too. It's also just never been the case that organisms that are more bio like looking at the full genome that share more genomically are less similar or are less closely related, excuse me, than organisms that are not as similar genomically. Like if you sequence the genomes of you and your sibling and your cousin and you do that for every single person on the planet in triads like that in every single case with no exception that I am aware of the siblings are going to share more genomically than any of them do with the cousin. Right? We know that genomic similarity equates to relatedness and everybody on the planet accepts that that works within a species and that works like even within species that that are you know appeal to the common sense as being closely related like as Sler said earlier the canines right this only stops being the case when it starts including things that they don't like that violate those assumptions that they make uh that you know humans are related to to other apes and the problem with this is there is never there has never been a single data point or a single biological or genetic phenomena that they can point to that is the stop gap where this genomic similarity means relatedness means descent stops they don't have I love to point this out yeah I I always do this right what is a paternity test how does it work a genomic similarity okay so can you figure out who your dad is from from a gen from a paternity test can he figure out who his dad is and his dad and his dad and his dad okay how many generations before that doesn't work anymore more and they just go, "Uh, what do you mean? I don't know." And they'll even be like, "You can do it with dog breeds." They'll accept that you can do it with cow breeds or with plant, you know, uh, domestic plant breeds or with with all the different types of dogs. This only becomes a problem when it is revealed with glorious detail and has been within the past three weeks because the complete eight genomes came out that humans are more similar to chimps and chimps are more similar to humans than either is to a gorilla. And it does not matter which part of the genome you're looking at. It works for the full genome, not taking into account any types of of um like the the nature of each given mutation. It works with protein coding regions and it works with the full genome when taking into consideration the types of mutations. There is all the junk DNA which definitely exists. We can eat all Yeah. Eat all the junk DNA which definitely We'll get there. We'll get there. Okay. Sorry. Okay. So, I think what we ought to do is let this play for like two two and a half minutes. So, we'll get to the end of the Dawkins clip and that's like a nice little self-contained chunk tree of life. What's the best evidence we have to support this? And if you look at biology textbook or you look at any kind of media on this topic, books by Richard Dawkins or anyone else in this area, generally they'll they'll categorize the evidence into these four categories. I think we're all familiar with the fossil record. They claim that that is in support of this tree of life. Uh geographic distribution, it's a topic like um why don't we have penguins here in Minnesota. Why are animals distributed around the the world the way they are? Uh vestigial organs like your appendix probably familiar with that is seen to be evidence in favor of this tree of life. and then comparing different life forms. Um, that also involves the statement I just made, but it's about saying like my arm has one long bone in the humorris and then it has two long bones below the elbow and then five fingers. Well, it turns out that uh reptiles and dogs and bats all have that same arrangement in their appendage. And so because they have the same arrangement that suggests that we came from a similar common ancestry. And um just to just to summarize this a little more clearly, I'm going to I'm going to phone a friend here and bring up a short video from Richard Dawkins where he is asked this same question. What's the best evidence we have for evolution? Out of all the evidence used to support the theory of evolution, what would you say is the strongest, most irrefutable single piece of evidence in support of the theory? There's an enormous amount of evidence from all sorts of places. And it's hard to pick uh one strand which is more important than any other. Uh there's fossils, there's the evidence from geographical distribution, there's the evidence from vestigial organs. I think to me perhaps the most compelling evidence is comparative evidence from modern animals, particularly biochemical comparative evidence, genetic molecular evidence. Oh, we got a little Sorry, we have a little James Tour uh uh infomercial here. So, we'll skip past that. This whole video is call marked with like two or three separate times where James comes on and he's like, "Do you doubt the the evidence behind the resurrection? Email me at jamestor jamestor.com. You know, that's been the case for for years. Yeah. He always I didn't know that. I was I was blindsided. If you don't believe in the resurrection of Jesus, email me and I'll have a one He does this. You can email him. I mean, I couldn't, but somebody who doesn't know could email him and he'll have a one-hour Zoom call to try to convince you about Jesus's resurrection. You guys should try it. You should totally do that. Well, can I can I just say to for anybody who might be listening, I mean, I I'm very sympathetic to to theistic evolutionists to to religious people who accept science. I have, you know, I love those guys. I have no beef with them whatsoever. You guys can believe whatever you want to believe. Um, but I I just want to say to those of you out there who might be considering talking to James Tour about this, given the way that he has treated the science, why should anybody trust him on how he treats the historical evidence like for that he proposes works for the resurrection? Why should you trust him? I mean, he's he's been shown time and time again to to not be representing um the case as it is because he simply won't take the time to look into a lot of these topics that that he makes very grandiose claims on. I mean, I'm talking specifically about how he's going to swallow this entire presentation hope and sinker with regard to to, you know, Stler finding evolution to be non-convincing. And it's it's very disconcerting to me people who just inundate him with these requests and then not turn their camera on for the Zoom call and just like leave and then you can just have like hour after hour of these scheduled Zooms with nobody listening and just eat up all his time. I think it'd be pretty funny. So So uh when we come back from the infomercial, Stadler's going to do a little wrap-up with this Dawkins clip and he's going to make he's going to get something extraordinarily wrong. So I want we'll play this just a little bit and then we can we can talk about this strongest evidence for evolution segment here in everything. My faith in Jesus Christ means thought we were through it. We heard it directly from him. This is the evidence he has. And what is the best form of evidence he's got and that would be a comparison of life forms. Comparison of the genetic similarity between life forms is the best evidence he's got. The problem is that the statement that we just analyzed rather carefully here, this statement is about comparing life forms, finding similar genes between humans and bacteria. And we just went through that and determined that it meets none of these six criteria for high confidence. In fact, it's the lowest of low confidence. And yet Richard Dawkins says that is the best the most compelling evidence that I got. Okay, here's where Staadler is screwing up here. And I'm going to attribute this to the fact that his background is biomedical engineering, not like evolutionary biology or genomics or phoggenetics or anything like that. But he is not talking about the same thing that Dawkins is talking about here. Okay? He's looking at this statement that's up in the corner there talking about how humans and bacteria share similar genes, right? Like we code for ribos ribosomes, they code for ribosomes. We code for cytochrome c oxidase, they code for cytochrome c oxidase, right? We share similar genes because the common ancestor for all cellular life had those same genes. That is not what Dawkins was talking about in that clip. Dawkins saying that the strongest evidence for universal common ancestry, right? Evolution writ large is in molecular comparisons. It's in genomic comparisons across many different species. And it's not just do you have the same genes. It's what's the pattern of similarity across all those different groups. Right? So all the mammals are more similar to each other than they are to the non-mlelian cordates. But all the cordates are more similar to each other than they are to all of the members of spiralia, right? The another cate of animals. All the animals are more similar to each other than they are to any of the plants. It's a nested hierarchical pattern. And the important thing with this is that this pattern serves two functions here. One, it's a specific prediction of evolutionary theory. Right? If everything is related through a common ancestor at some point billions of years ago, we predict this nested hierarchical pattern of similarity. And second, this is explicitly impossible under a separately created uh paradigm, right? Where each individual, right, you have your forest of life rather than your tree of life. Each individual kind since creation is evolving on its own, right? So if you look within the mammals for example, right? you, however many kinds you have within the mammals, you're going to get a nested hierarchy within each kind because they share a real evolutionary history in the created model, right? They get off the ark and then everyone's descended from that, there's a real evolutionary history there. But across the dogs and the cats and the bears and the seals and the whales, there's no shared history. So the variation that's going to accumulate in those different lineages is uncorrelated with each other. So there's no reason that the dogs and the cats and the bears should be closer to each other than any of them are to the whales or the rodents. It should all be all intermixed because mutations are just happening in all of these different groups. And this is true even if you assume they start identical to each other or they start with a builtin nested pattern, right? So it looked like it at creation and then through all the speciation just mutations and stuff have happened. And you don't have to take my word for it. There's papers that have evaluated this that have actually calculated the probabilities of family level creation, species level creation versus common ancestry and found that you know it's you can't get the pattern we have with separate creation. That's the evidence that Dawkins is talking about. So, so if I may add to that, Dan, that nested hierarchy holds in the functional regions of the genome, right? Protein coding stuff and it also holds in the non-functional regions of the genome. So, what the reason that's the key because they can appeal to common design if it was just the functional region. They could say, well, they're doing different functions, so of course they look the same. Why is it in the parts of the genome that don't do anything, though, you guys? And and here's an additional problem with this. There are creationists who have in the past proposed that the whole genome is is functional. But they have backtracked on that because we can knock out massive portions of the genome in like mice for example. You do meas deletions in mice and they can reproduce and have kids and then their kids can have kids, right? We know that you can knock out portions of the genome and that some portions of it do not seem to do anything. So while we may disagree with creationists on you know the truth is the truth which we'll get there but we disagree with them on the portion of the genome that is functional but nobody thinks that the whole thing is functional right so there's no reason to suggest that those non-functional regions should also form this nested hierarchy those parts were put there by Satan to test your faith to trick you and we could even go further than that it doesn't have to be a functional non-functional thing we can just directly document the parts of the genome that are not subject to purifying selection whether they're functional or not they just mutate into whatever they're going to mutate into. That's and those regions, things like indogous retroviruses, for example, they resolve the same nested hierarchy. There's this wonderful paper where you resolve the primates and all their individual clades and then you get the rodents and all their claves and it's just based on indogenous retroviruses. Nothing else. That's impossible on the creation model. Yeah, he he just it's it's a little bit of common ancestry, but not a lot. That's all he wants. Yeah. Just enough. Can I share my screen really quick because I I just want to make a point here. I I think you're in charge of the screen. Oh my god. You've been the one who's been doing you've been the one who's been doing all this stuff for so long. Okay, I'm going to be brief on this, but I think this is important because for for those of you out there of these four things, which I don't know anybody who's going to point to vestigial organs at this point in time and say that's one of the four best evidences for evolution. But I do agree that the fossil record geographic distribution and comparison of life forms both in gross morphology and in their genomes are excellent support for for you know the idea as the foundation of biology. And to that point I would really like to just you were you mentioned it earlier Dan but it was really funny because I already had it pulled up. Uh there's this paper that I love and it's called statistical evidence for common ancestry application to trades. And the reason why I love this paper is because it specifically tests the creationist model of separate ancestry. And it specifically compares it to the evolutionary predictions. And it specifically does it with the one group that they cannot have common ancestry in, which is humans to the rest of the primates. And it specifically compares biogeographic evidence, fossil evidence, and genomic sequencing. And I would just like to read you guys an excerpt from it. That sounds pretty high confidence to me. It's so good. Since Darwin, biologists have come to recognize that the theory of descent from common ancestry CA is well supported by diverse lines of evidence. However, while the qualitative science is overwhelming, we also need formal methods for quantifying the evidential support for common ancestry over alternative hypotheses of separate ancestry. In this article, we just explore a diversity of statistical methods using data from primates. We focus on two alternatives to common ancestry. species level separate ancestry and family level separate ancestry. We implemented statistical tests based off of morphological, molecular, and biogeographic data and developed two new methods. One that tests for phoggenetic autocorrelation while correcting for variation due to confounding ecological traits and a method for examining whether fossil taxa have fewer derived differences than living taxa. We overwhelmingly rejected both species and family separate ancestry with infinite decimal p values. We compare these results with those from two companion papers which also found tremendously strong support for common ancestry of all primates and discuss future directions and general philosophical issues that pertain to statistical testing of historical hypotheses such as common ancestry. And when I say that the the um that the p values are infinite decimal they give you specific comparisons here. They say you are more likely to draw the same atom twice in a row. I can't remember if it's with replacement. In the entire universe, you can pick an atom at random and you're more likely to get that same atom twice in a row than get this signal. Common ancestry is not the the the reason for you know these this nested hierarchy that we see within primates. Oh, stop with your quantitative precision. This is directly what this is like this is like the exact thing that they that you you would need to prove wrong if you were a young earth creationist. And it was blown to smitherines in this paper and in numerous others. Um, so Dan, I I'll give it back to you now. Okay, here we go. I just like that paper. Uh, I think you have to put it up. Oh. Oh. Oh god, I have to scroll down. It was hidden. Sorry. Sorry. I'm new to this. It doesn't get any better than that. Perfect timing. I concur, Rob. It doesn't get any better than that. That's a fun one. Fun. You can see you can't even You can't write it like that. All right. So, um, Erica, the next big chunk in your thing is up to 36 minutes. It's the Lensky stuff with the citrate. So, let's do the Linsky stuff. Let's do the Lensky stuff cuz uh, as a Lensky experiment afficionado. So, he goes through this this this long-term evolution experiment. We're evolving E.coli in an environment where they run out of food partway through each day. So, each day they start with enough food, they run out, so they have to compete. We've been doing this since like since almost as long as I've been alive. And so they're up to over 80,000. It's more than that at this point. And um we found some really interesting things with this experiment. And we don't need to hear the whole explanation, but um we could just go to the the relevant part on the uh the uh citrate uh the citrate part here. So if I may, Dan, while you're doing that, I just so everybody out there knows who doesn't want to watch this entire video, and I don't blame you. What Rob has done here is he said those four lines of evidence that we just looked at, we don't care about that. He's like, "It's too low confidence, so we don't even need to consider it." He's like, "But there is a high confidence um experiment, a few high confidence experiments that we can look to to evaluate evolution." And then he goes into examples of those. The first of which is this lens. Only micro evolution though. Only micro evolution. It's only micro evolution, folks. Well, Tor is very specific about the difference later, Dave. Don't worry. So, I'm going to have to There's a specific claim he makes about this trait that I want to find and we'll we'll get there. uh the actual genetic information came out about what had changed. Okay, so the story I hit the exact point this perfect. So the story here is in this experiment one of the 12 lines of bacteria evolve the ability to eat another nutrient in that environment and then the fitness for that line the the population density went way up because they had more food available and that was like a big biochemical change. So take it away Rob after 33,000 generations. So Richard Linsky's lab, he had uh these two papers come out and these two papers showed exactly what genetic changes had happened. And it turned out that the ability to metabolize citrate involved duplicating one existing gene. Simply took a gene and made another copy of it, put it down somewhere else in the DNA. And then another gene they lost, the bacteria lost control of it. it lost its ability to regulate that gene. So that's actually a loss of information and those two mutations led to this evolution if you will. And so I think Richard Dawkins was quite misled in his conclusions which came out before the real data came out. But this study shows us, it gives us quite a feeling for what evolution can accomplish, what it's capable of accomplishing in quite a large number of generations. And okay, this guy's such a [\h__\h] My god, he muddled what happened there. And this is something creationists do all the time in ter in terms of right with the Lensky sit plus line, the evolved line that could use this other nutrient citrate. It's called the sit plus line. And creationists are constantly messing up what actually happened in this experiment. He he avoided one of the major pitfalls which is good but then he messed up another thing. So there's several mutations that happened. It wasn't just two. There were there were at least two that had to happen prior to the gene duplication that occurred and then there were several mutations subsequent to that that also contributed to it. The main thing is you have a gene required for citrate. It duplicates and the second copy is expressed under new conditions. So you could express it when there's oxygen present instead of without oxygen. Now another thing that had to happen and he's ambiguous so I don't know which of the two things he's talking about here. One option is that he's saying that second copy lost its ability to be regulated. That's wrong. That new copy of the gene was simply activated under different conditions. You can still turn it off. It was just a different set of conditions would turn it on. Right? So that's that's a very common thing creationist say. The other thing was uh there's another gene uh uh that transports another sugar um that's also involved in this trait that if you don't have the other gene upregulated uh then that it doesn't work. Um and he may also be talking about that also not a loss of regulation. We're just expressing it at a higher level but we don't lose the ability to turn it off. It's not what he described. I'm not sure which one he was describing there but he was right in neither case. Right. whichever aspect he got it wrong either way. Uh but I don't know which one he's talking about because he doesn't specify further. But there were there were other point mutations, right? It wasn't just which ironically an intelligent design proponent documented a bunch of those mutations and showed directly experimentally repeatedly how this trait is an irreducible trait according to Michael Beehey's. Yeah, I hit that in the Beehe video. Yeah. See, this just this is just the creationist playbook, right? They're like, "Okay, so some stuff can happen, but it's no new information, right, guys? No new information. So, we can't get new stuff. We can't get new species because no new information." That's basically what he's doing. He's just lying, right? Like, let's say we had a sequence and it was just ATA and then you get a duplication of one of those A's. They would be like, "That's no new information because it's just another A and we already previously had an A." Shifted the reading frame, right? And then you're just Yeah. And then you're just like, okay, well that what what are we even talking about here? Right? We're working with four base pairs. And by their logic, any like because those four base pairs existed like in the beginning, it doesn't matter how you shuffle them them up. It's never new information. I don't see any D's or L's. It's just the same letter. Exactly. Because that log that's just the the logical conclusion of the argument that it's like, okay, if you duplicate a segment and then it you know gets neounctionalized, right? It's like you get or you get point mutation that adds a new function like you see with the um you know my favorite example of this is is the ice fish, you know, where you gottoenoid fish where you know they their ancestral population can't swim too far north or their blood freezes and then there's a mutation in in one of the genes in their blood. It duplicates and then there's a point mutation. It's it's like all that happened and then that new protein allows them actually it might have been a little more. I think there might have been more than one point mutation, but there was a duplication and then there were some some alterations to that duplicated gene and then their their new gene has the properties of antifreeze which allows them to swim further north, grow bigger and and repopulate that area with what is effectively a new species of ice fish. Um it's like that that's literally a a new protein, a dooo protein, the evolution of a protein do that gives the blood the property of antifreeze. If that's not evolution in the X-Men way that they're usually incorrectly talking about, I don't know what is. They love to talk about gene duplication because it sounds like, oh, it's just a copy. It's nothing new. But they always omit the neofunctionalization, right? It's a new gene with a new protein product. They also never talk about denovo genes in the sense of a promoter being shifted to a a previously non-coding region. It's like here, this isn't even a starting from a copy and then neofunctionalizing. It's just a whole new gene, right? This was never a gene before, but now there's a promoter here. New gene, right? It's just they never talk about stuff like that. They get to orphan genes towards the end, but totally butcher the whole the whole thing. I'm ready to talk about the orphan. So, so let's So, here's what I'm going to suggest. There's another thing, another experiment here with tryptophan um that's similar in some ways to Lensky experiment. The point is they're using these two experiments as an illustration of the speed limit of evolution, which is silly because both of the experiments they're talking about, Lensky and the tryptophan knockout experiment, are adapting to a very specific environment. So like you could look at the trajectory in the Lensky experiment, you adapt to that environment and then you stabilize in that environment, right? And um you wouldn't expect a whole bunch of new things once you are optimal in that environment. you would need a dynamic environment. You would need new resources, a new predator, something new. And that's not a feature of either of these experiments. So, they want to use a type of selection called stabilizing selection as an example of an evolutionary speed limit when what they should be using is either directional or disruptive selection. It's a totally different uh way that evolution happens, but we don't want to talk about that because when that happens, that's how you get new traits. And we can't have that. And that allows us to jump to uh I think both of you are gonna have lots of thoughts on Erica. It was in your notes uh 41 minutes on the animals in laboratory experiments. And if we want to talk about creationist tropes here um do it. I know the I know the picture. I can see it in my head. Uhhuh. Uh so this is Yeah, we're still talking about repairing stuff. Yeah. He does a little cartoon here where he's like, "See, it's it's just it's not even they're not even becoming a cow from a bacteria in the lab. They're not even doing this one." You know, we as a society have been studying mice for like 95 years and doing every kind of mutation imaginable. This poor little guy on the right actually you can see has six limbs. They made some mutation in the mouse that caused the gonads to become extra limbs. So, they have six limbs. Very interesting. But the point is after 95 years of doing that, you there's two outcomes. You either end up with a mouse or a dead mouse. Meaning that mice want to stay as mice. You know, there's nothing dramatically changing going on here. And the same has occurred for endless studies of fruit flies and zebra fish and domestic animals like your cows and your dogs and so forth. They stay within their kind. We've seen that a fruitfly never became a porcupine. So evolution is false, right? This is Kent Hovind's starter pack here. It's Yeah, it really is at that same level, right? Yeah. And you know, I'll I'll add Dan, like what you were just like what you were just talking about with stabilizing selection that applies exactly to what Staadler just said, right? Like St. You know, Rob, in which of these experiments were we trying to force a mouse to become, you know, a a bat or something like that? In which of those scenarios was that what we were trying to induce? Um, you know, in addition to that, a lot of those hawks homeobox like body plan experiments don't result in a dead organism, right? you you end up with a a chicken with fingers, you know, where you end up with a ray that has these these weird duplicated body sections that functions just like a ray normally would except it has duplicated body sections, right? You can do this in in crocodiles and give them proto feathers. You can see it in the wild as well where I mean I don't know if you guys I I really like this example and I just taught it to my students so I'm going to bring it up here. But you have these populations of of wolves in North America, right, in the northern part of North America. And their their previous range has reduced to the extent that they're no longer, you know, hunting consistently in the forest. They're having to get a lot of their calories from fish. So, they're spending a lot more time in the water than most wolves normally do. And when you take a look at these wolves, you, you know, you drank one and you walk up to it and take a look at it, their paws are webbed. They have webbed feet. These wolves have in real time since we've been observing them become more adapted for life in the water. And we've been observing them, Rob, for less than 95 years. That's how quickly this works when you have directional selection. Right? This is a basic concept of evolution. That was the foundational concept within Darwin's five observations when he devised the theory of evolution in the first place in in the in the 1850s. Right? It's like organisms vary and populations of organ organisms are competing with one another. And so if organisms vary and they exist in an environment, there's going to be differential reproductive success amongst those organisms where the organisms that are better in that environment are going to uh eat more, grow bigger, and reproduce and pass those genes on. So things are going to stabilize out until the environment changes in which case what is most fit changes. And so they will move as a population into a new direction. that variation will be selected for in a different direction. And you want to know what's wonderful about this is we can make a prediction. We can say we can look into the rock record and look for these massive disruptions in the environment and say we expect to see radiative evolution. We expect to see organisms evolving in all these new directions after their environment has changed drastically. Never mind that we just saw in the present with these seawolves and that's what they colloquially call them. But you can do it in the past as well. And in fact, we see it every single time. disruption in the environment. Organisms go extinct or they evolve, right? It's it's so simple, but you know, Homie probably hasn't even read Origin, so whatever. Yeah, it's it's actually even more deceptive than that, though, because he's fixating on this label, right? He's he's poo pooing like, oh, more limbs. Okay, more limbs, slight elongation, some features change, right? No matter how like phenotypic change can be so significant that we would have to call it something else, yet it would still be nested under mice, right? I don't know if mice is a family or what other tax call it but it would just gain a more specific label at the genus or species level while retaining that fetic you know monofiltic classification. So it's just it's it's everything you just said plus being dishonest about how this terminology works how how taxonomy works. It's just it's a mess. And I'm going to pile on one more thing because Rob, we don't need to go in the lab to see something changing and oh, can a mouse change into a non-mouse? Right? Putting aside the violation of the law of monopiling that that would represent, right? No need to wonder if that's possible in the lab. We can look out in nature and see these things happening in real time. And Erica went through some of the examples that that I could think of. But I mean, sticking with the lab, you've got the famous 2019 paper on denovo multisellularity in a lineage of green algae that has in its evolutionary history no multisellularity, right? They can assemble for defense, but they can't clonally form multisellular structures. They evolve that novel trait in a durable way in the lab. We could observe that paper. It's so good. We can observe right now in nature lizard populations transitioning from egg laying to live birth, including one of my favorite uh just simple ecology observational papers of all time in a uh where uh in a single litter uh a lizard laid two eggs and then gave live birth to the third. That's so awesome. Single litter. And some of these lizards have placentas. And creationists have to acknowledge that the placentas evolved because if they don't acknowledge that they either have to uh assume some very improbable deletions occurred in the various lineages or species level creation which no young earth creation is endorsed anymore. So we the lizards with placentas means lizards evolved placentas. You already mentioned the alligator feather thing. I love that one. That one's so cool. Um there's uh a an amiiboid riserian right now. It's a unicellular ukareote. All the members of the family are heterotroes and they eat algae. One member of the family polyelic chromataphora is undergoing primary endo symbiosis right now right before our eyes. And not as far down the pathway because there's been less gene transfer. But there are dozens of examples of animals that are doing the same thing that are on their way to becoming photosynthetic through secondary endo symbiosis of their algaal food including at least one example where there has been the transfer of a gene for photosynthesis into the animal genome. So that is an animal that is clearly becoming photosynthetic. This is not hypothetical. You can go out and see this happening in nature right now. you can see them eat the algae and then steal the plastids and use them, right? Um, and we saw the nitro plast too, right? There was that study nitro. It's just like it's just they they refuse to acknowledge that like how did you go from proarot to ukarote? How did you go from from monos from unicellular to to to multisellular? It's like dude, we've seen all these things happen. We watch it happen. So, how's that for observable? Yeah, we didn't observe it happened two billion years ago, but we can observe it now so it can happen. So it can have happened. Yeah, it's not that hard. Dan, do you remember this Daphnneia's paper? No, I'm I'm excited to hear you talk about it because I don't remember this one. No, Dan. Shoot because I I was actually relying on you for this one. Am I the one who did it? I don't remember this one. I don't I I wasn't familiar with this one. I haven't had time to look this one up. So, I apologize everybody. No, no. Someone did a deep dive on this and I was trying to remember who it was. So what what I think we can do is while we like move on to the next section. I can just pull it up because I know there's a peaceful science post on it and we can go into it again. So I probably just got time for one more clip by the way. I got Yeah. So let's do Yeah. So let's go to the human and chimp stuff. There's this whole section on COVID and he's like viruses aren't alive. I'm like I don't care. They do evolution. Whatever. We don't have to go into I'm the virus evolution guy. We don't have to do it. It's fine. It's we'll we you guys can keep I'm gonna post this regardless if you guys spill over and go, you know, make fun of them some more. I'll still keep that as we're gonna skip the co stuff. We're gonna get here. Here we go. Okay, here we go. Ready? Orphan genes. Nice. And I like this um summary by a new scientist uh where they said that when biologists began sequencing genomes, they discovered that up to a third of genes in each species seem to have no parents or family of any kind. Meaning that they can't see a common ancestor for that gene. You know, when we talk about evolution, they always talk about the common ancestry and shared genes, but they don't tend to talk about genes that are unique. Like my kids biology textbook, it doesn't talk about these kind of orphan genes. It doesn't mention that. And it does, but we're all every living thing is car. Want to go? I mean, like he's he's saying, well, what where's the common ancestry? Yeah. The com you're what happens in that lineage after the fact, right? You get that orphan gene and then everything that that descends from that has that orphan gene. That's the point of orphan gene. You have you have orphan genes at every level. They're not species specific or genus specific or family. There are these unique genes at every level in the hierarchy. That's right. Yeah. And he's wrong about them having no relatives. They don't have relatives as protein coding genes, but they have nonproin coding sequence homalologues in related things. that was identified. Yeah. In the totally biology textbook. So this is from 2013. Uh there was a paper that came out two weeks ago that is the most complete genomes of apes that have been published so far. Non-human apes. So earlier this year we had the tieumir to tie every single base pair sequenced in the human genome. That happened earlier this year. Then they're approximately 98% complete. The most of these ape genomes that they've published. And they published a chip, a bonobo, an orangutan, a gorilla, and a simang which is a type of gibbon. And these are like virtually complete almost tie to tie sequences in most case. So now we can get the most up-to-date comparison of of humans and chimpanzees of the protein coding regions. And in the protein coding regions, they're still over 90 about maybe like 99.1 or 98.9% similar to one another. Right? That means that humans and chimps share in partial or complete 99% of their genes, right? For for these are protein coding regions. Um, now with this stuff with orphan genes, this drives me absolutely up a wall because orphan genes are taxonomically restricted at the species level in the majority of cases that creationists like to appeal to, right? So they'll they'll point to humans and chimps and they'll say they have different orphan genes. Yes, they do. So do most species that you would accept as related. The number of orphan genes that separate rats and mice, for example, is greater than the number of orphan genes that separate humans and chimps. And yet, as Dave pointed out earlier, they accept that rats and mice are related organisms. On top of that, a paper came out in 2024 that was specifically on orphan genes. Um, and and I I pulled it up here because I I thought that it was an interesting an interesting paper. Um, so I can we we can get into that later if if we want. But the idea is that orphan genes are like ubiquitous. You find them all the time. Um, they do not work to separate out their created kind. So if they want to use them as something to say, this is why humans and chimps are different from one another. Congratulations. The ark is stuffed to the gills, right? You've got too many created kinds. You're you're basically just appealing back to species level separate ancestry. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Now you have to have six million species on the ark if you want to go that route. Yeah. I mean, gosh, even more than that because we've got to consider all of the extinct species, too. Oh, yeah. You know, I mean, like everything. It's Well, those are fake. Those are by Satan. That's that's not real. Anyways, yeah, exactly. Um, so let let's cons let's continue for a second. I want to I to jump in here and I wanted to get Dave bring around some genes that no other species has. So, where did they come from? With no obvious ancestry, it was as if these genes had appeared. I'm going to Here you go. I'm going to jump in on tour. She's starting with the assumption of common ancestry and the assumption that no one was involved in designing our genome and she so she's probably starting with bias, right? There's some bias there. Exactly. Which is dangerous. A so everyone assumed that as we learned more meaning that more tour hang on let's get some more tour. There's some bias there. He's so soft. He knows his reputation as a raving lunatic. So, he's like overcompensating. Now, I talk like this. Now, I'll just say that this gets into um like waiting time problem adjacent stuff that there's math. I've done the math. It doesn't work. It's just okay. Well, they also just don't understand what an orphan gene is. It's like, dude, it's it's it's an event, right? A promoter is is transllocated to another portion of the genome and now a previously non-coding region is is expressed. That's it. It's just a thing that happens and then all of the descendants have that gene. Like what are you not getting about what orphan genes are you guys? Like come on. There's also this this 2024 paper is titled orphan genes are not a distinct biological entity. Um so there's a lot of criticism coming out about orphan genes because orphan genes can come about by so many evolutionary processes that you can't just unite them as a single as a single thing. Um it's like paraphily but for a type of genes you know you just you reach the same conclusion in so many ways. Yeah probably what I said is the main mechanism but there are others I assume there's so many yeah to your point though like that's that's the problem is like what you're talking about is true but then there's also so many other ways to get orphan genes that calling them a single thing just isn't very helpful. It's not it's not like useful. think that should make people wonder if in fact this doesn't make a lot of sense. And it's not a God of the gaps argument. This is an argument from what we know evolution is capable of and what it's not capable of. And I just want to again say what he's using there is the Lensky experiment as a speed limit which is nonsense. Yeah. So can I ask you something about this? If you go back to that 6% slide. Yeah. Yeah. So, hold there for a second because and and and and tell me if I'm speaking low confidence information or if I'm speaking high confidence. This report came out in 2006. Then he's writing it in his book which came out in 2009. So, there's a three-year gap there. Not much. You know, it takes takes at least a year to get a book p published. But since then in in the last 19 years since then hasn't that 6.4% gone way up in other words through project end code there's a lot more discovery that many do not have orthologes or am I wrong on that? Yeah, I there's certainly a lot of controversy in settling on a number here and uh some would argue that it's extremely hard to quantify the difference. Um hey, hey Erica, you know anybody who's tried to settle on a number recently? Can I can I just I'm going to like toot my own horn here for a second. You just Yeah, this is my fault in part. Like this what he's talking about there is my fault. If this video would come out two years ago, he'd be saying the most recent numbers by Dr. Jeffrey Tomkins are saying humans and chimps are only 85% similar. But he's not saying that anymore because I roasted Jeffrey Tomkins so consistently because I hate the work that he's done. And because it's so faulty and it wasn't just me, it was others like people on peaceful science and Glenn Williamson who's computer programmer and things of that nature. And Dr. Robart, I was going to say we did it so loudly and so consistently that another young earth creationist, Dr. Rob Carter uh wanted to like de debunk me, you know, so he started looking into this, you know, for himself and then he was like, "Yeah, Tomkins is wrong on this." Like every single paper that he's done is wrong. He did not humans and chimps are not 85% similar. It's a lot higher than that. And that's a direct quote, right? He's like, "It's way higher than you think." So now the creationist community is in a bit of a tail spin because they can't use Tomkins's number because Rob Carter, another young earth creationist who has way more robustly checked this work, has come out and been like, "No, Tomkins is wrong. updated their script. Yeah, they updated their script, right? Um, and you know, you're going to see that again with these new grade eight genomes that have come out because this is going to be really problematic for them. They're going to have to find a way to spin it. And I have thoughts on how they're already spinning it. But can we just appreciate how James Tor does not know what comparative genomics is or what end code is. Just no idea. He's reading something just Yeah. He doesn't know what he's asking even. He's like he's like, "You can tell me if I'm wrong. You're wrong." and coach has absolutely nothing to do with the human chimpanzeee genomic comparison. These are these aren't just separate projects. They're separated by many many years. The human and chimpanzeee um comparison was done initially in like 2005 and they came to that 96% for the full genome. That has maintained itself throughout the years when you take into consideration the types of mutations that are occurring. It's 99% for coding base pairs. For the full genome, it's about 96%. That number is still consistent. Pretty much everybody including most creationists now like even young earth creationists agree that that is the number. End code is a completely different thing that has to do with the functionality of the genome. Dan that's your thing? Yeah. So uh encode is uh garbage mostly. So they're looking at function of the human genome and they define function as any biochemical activity excluding for some reason DNA replication. They didn't count that but any other biochemical activity because if you include replication then the whole genome is functional because the whole genome is replicated right so uh any other biochemical activity they said is indicative of function in a very famous 2012 paper that every creationist and the grandmother has read and committed to memory. And then they revised their position in a less famous 2014 paper that every creationist refuses to read because in the 2014 paper, many of the same authors described the criteria for DNA that would be nonfunctional. They described it as not having purifying selection or having a very low andor having a very low level of transcription or protein binding. And if you check all of those boxes, then it's probably not functional. And then you dig into their data in that exact paper. And most of the genome is in what you would categorize according to their own criteria as non-functional. And which is to say it has no selected function. It doesn't do a job that has been selected for and maintained through evolutionary history. Right? And so they're going to uh do the basic like creationist talking points around the genome is mostly functional. We used to think it was all junk. I'll just play just a just a second here because they do the thing that tells me they don't know anything about this. They're just repeating the talking points. Um I actually got to hop off here, but I know what they're going to say. Uh you know exactly what they're going to say, Dave. You know this. We used to think it was junk and now it's not. All of it is not junk. Okay. It was It's 2% coding and then up to like 10% has regulatory function. That's about the rest is junk. If you can if you can stick around for a couple minutes, we can just do it. you want to do. You guys, feel free to keep roasting. I'm going to repost this and then in, you know, pretty soon I'm going to start working on a nice lengthy uh little series on tour and all the crap he's been saying lately because it's it's time to clown again. But this was fun to kind of like warm back up to it. It'll it's got me excited to to to tear through all of his content. But thanks, guys. Yeah, that was a lot of fun. Thanks, Dave. Thanks, Dave. Okay, Dan, let's just let's just play this line. Dave, he was right. He knows exactly what they're going to say, right? We everybody watching, you know what they're going to say between us and the chimpanzee. And so it was like this secret that just got exposed through end code. And at first they thought, oh well there, okay, okay, I'll give you a little bit. But it turns out again and again and each year they were finding more and more among the intergenic the formerly called junk DNA that has this regulatory function. So these are the traffic cops that that allow things to go and not go. And so this is what turns on and we're we're sorry hang on percent the same as a chimpanzee. Here we go. Uh but but they discounted what they called junk DNA. That has gotten a new term. The junk DNA is no longer called junk because people have seen it's not junk. It's so it's called interrogenic DNA. And that DNA that interrogenic DNA uh it was believed did didn't have any any uh uh real function because they weren't protein coding genes. But it turns out that they have regulatory function. Okay. Okay. Here's the thing with this folks. There's never been a point in history ever where we thought non all non-proin coding DNA was junk. Okay, there are functions in that DNA like promoters kind of an important thing. Promoters, tRNA that were discovered before the term junk DNA is defined in the peerreview literature, right? So clearly there was never a point where we thought all non-proin coding DNA was junk. That's never been a thing. And the fact that we're in the year of our Lord 2025 still saying that tells me that these two are ju they're just doing the regular creationist misinformation on this and I don't want to make a judgment as to whether they are buying or selling but they are just it's the same old same old. I it's it's honestly worse than that too because this is like this is like the regurgitated of the regurgitated of the regurgitated of the like we're looking at almost like a human centipede but at the very tail end here of this repeated talking point and it's evident by the way that like Torque thinks this has anything to do with the human champions genomic similarity. You just heard him say it. He says he's talking about how you know it used to be 95% but as we've continued to sequence this this junk DNA that number has gone down. The 95 96% number was including all the junk DNA. Yeah, Dr. That's where that number comes from. It's 98.8% from that initial protein coding region. Then in the next subsequent paper looked at the whole genome taking into account the types of mutations and that's where you get that 95 96% from. So that's including all the junk DNA that had been sequenced at that time period. jump, you know, quote unquote, the non-coding DNA that had been sequenced at that time period. Right now, since then, we've got the tieumir to tie full human genome. There's not there is near a base pair unsequenced. And we almost have that for chimpanzees, too. And the number is still where it's always been. It's still where it's always been. Um, I don't know like how you could host a talk like this and and not know the difference between end code and between the human and chimp genomic similarity. like it's it's not it's unconscionable to be talking about that at this point. I this part so up to that point a lot of it was very typical creationist stuff but that was something I had genuinely never seen before the conflation of these things in just a completely like I okay you what are we doing I'm speechless just like how could somebody who like this is their thing not understand how those two things do and don't go together right right and Dan if you if you would please like can we go to when because tour is going to go on do do you remember when he goes on like that rant about this where he's like the scientists were lying about the human gym genome, but he's also kind of talking about end code. Yeah, it's all it's all jumbled up in here. It's it's a big giant mess. Um, all right. So, this last clip we want to show is the perfect companion to the bit we just showed with them massively misunderstanding in code and human chimp stuff. This part is the perfect cherry on top to that. Uh, um, and this is what you're talking about today. I I mean, I didn't know anything about origin of life studies. uh seven or eight years ago and I learned about about it and uh you know one one day I might I might step in the the the evolution waters and take that down too. Um but but right right now I'll I'll leave it leave it to you and and I'll I'll just build upon this. But I think one of the topics that I want you to talk about for Okay, that's perfect. He's going to take it down too. I don't have any come in and take it down too. Please, Dr. Tor, do it. I want you to do it. I want you to spend as much time as you spent on origin of life and I want you to spend it on evolution because yes, the group of people that covers evolution here on YouTube is a lot larger than the group that covers a genesis and origin of life. And then you won't just have to contend with, you know, Dave coming for you. We can just we can all we can all come for you. can all just at the same time, you know, we can we can come dunk on you for this because I I'm not optimistic about where that's going to go. I don't think that he has done his due diligence on on any of this at all. He's content to let Rob just talk to his heart's content and he sits there and he kind of nods. It's very Joe Roganesque in that way actually where that's a good observation. Yeah. Yeah. And but then Rob's wrong about a bunch of stuff too because he doesn't have the background. Yeah. in terms of things like the Lensky experiment or common ancestry with humans and chimps and sequence similarity and in code because you'll notice Rob didn't correct him on any of that stuff. It's not great. It's not great. Dr. Tour James, please do evolution next. Do evolution. I I I want to see it. I'm excited. I you know, I wanted to do this when Dave was still here, but I know he had to he had to jet. But I think it's worth noting that, you know, Tor started this whole thing with with dipping his toe into Origin of Life. He started reading into it and he started picking fights and, you know, he wasn't happy with the way a lot of that went. I think that's fair to say. I think, you know, you can say whatever you want about the exchanges between, you know, Dave and the people that Dave got on, the the folks who study origin of life that Dave had on and and, you know, to combat the the stuff that Tor was saying. You can have an opinion on all of that. But I think one thing you can come to the conclusion of is that Tor wasn't happy with how those exchanges went because they kept happening. Like he wasn't satisfied with where things stood. And so I I almost feel like the origin of life stuff reached such an extreme point that he was like screw it, you know, because for so long people couldn't pin to down very easily on the fact that he's a young earth creationist. He is a young earth creationist you guys. James Tor thinks that the earth is approximately six to 10 thousand years old and he thinks that God created the the original creative archetypal kinds in the garden of Eden who populated the world until God decided to flood the world the whole entire planet with a the Noaki and deloo with rain for 40 days and 40 nights and the only survivors were Noah like a group of eight people with Noah and his entire family as well as two of every kind of animal on a on a big wooden boat and then from there 4,400 years ago all of those guys populate the rest of the planet and if I'm wrong on that like Dr. tour can just tell me I'm wrong, but you know, he he's a young earth creationist. Like, right based and and based on the stuff that they've done in this video, they're doing young earth creationist apologetics here. They're using the young earth creationist talking points, as you've pointed out, going back generations of young earth creationists. Yeah. Yeah. It's it's not it's not a hard it's not a hard dot to connect, you know. I mean, and I'm fairly I don't know this for certain, but I feel like I remember him him previously very tentatively sort of throwing his lot in with the young earth creationists as well. I mean, that can't be stressed enough. If if James to the young earth creationist, he believes the earth is 6 to 10,000 years old and that humans lived on the planet with dinosaurs. That in and of itself disqualifies him from being taken seriously within the scientific community, unless he's coming with some serious data, some serious analyses. And he's not. Yeah, he's not. So, you know, I guess we're closing out Dave's video here. Um, you know, my name's Gibbon. I do biological anthropology. I'm a fourth year PhD candidate. Hoping to finish here soonish. Um, I'm I'm happy to be here. I love I love collabing with with Dave. You know, we have very different strategies, I think, from when, you know, going about this. But busting pseudocience is a big tent. And I'm Dan. I'm an evolutionary biologist. My channel is creation myths. And uh I do on there the kind of stuff that we did here. So if you want to hear about why, you know, genetic related and evolution related creationist nonsense is super nonsense, uh come check my stuff out. And you know what? I'm just going to do some shameless self-promotion here as we sit here recording this. I'm this close to 10,000 subscribers. I have this piddly little channel. Come on, folks. Get me over the hump. Thanks everybody. Do it. And and also make sure that if you're if you're watching this on Dave's channel, make sure you're subscribed to Professor Dave, right? Like he he puts a lot of leg work into this kind of stuff. And if you're here enjoying it, like it costs you nothing to subscribe. So please do that. You know, love Dave. One of one of my favorite things about Dave is that he is very very good at when he's covering a subject that he's not sure about, he gets people who know what the hell they're talking about to to cover it. That's one of my favorite things about him. He always reaches out to to the experts and I think that's great. This was my idea though because this video was my idea because I want to hit up on James Tour because he really stepped at this. This was your fault is what? This was my fault. This one was on me. So, um, okay you guys, thanks for being here and I hope you like the video. Bye.