Hey everyone. You've all seen me make fun of Eric Weinstein a few times before, but it seems like some other science communicators are starting to get in on the fun. I'm talking about Shawn Carroll, who recently pummeled Eric on the Piers Morgan program, and it's very, very funny. Let's take a look. In case you need some context on who these guys are, Shawn Carroll is a wellrespected theoretical physicist who specializes in quantum mechanics and cosmology. and he does quite a bit of highly reputable science communication through magazine articles, books, and public appearances. I had always been appreciative of Shawn, but his status got bumped up several notches in my eyes due to this segment you're about to see. Eric, on the other hand, is an obnoxious pseudointellectual fraud whose sole purpose is to spread anti-academia and generalized anti-science rhetoric on the internet at the behest of his paymaster, anarchco capitalist, Peter Teal. He's never done an ounce of science, yet pretends to be as relevant as actual scientists, while constantly [\h__\h] on them for not accepting him into their club despite never having done anything to warrant their attention other than acting like a loser troll. Like any true grifter in this domain, he has a fake theory of everything called geometric unity, which we shredded to pieces in a lengthy video featuring him and his equally useless brother Brett. So, be sure to check out that video for more background information on precisely what a fraud this guy is. Anyway, there's not much else to cover. The rest will speak for itself. So, let's go ahead and get to the carnage. For centuries, scientists have grappled with the most fundamental question of them all. What is reality? Well, up until the 20th century, it was considered to be a matter of common sense. We lived in a material and objective reality, perhaps created by God, but one that could be accurately measured and predicted. And then came Einstein, who revolutionized everything by saying that things were a lot more relative than all that. Not a great start for Pierce. Nothing about relativity contradicts the idea of our universe being material, objective, measurable, and predictable. But absolutely nobody expects peers to understand even middle school level physics. So, let's brush right past that. Space could bend time. Mysterious black holes existed. The universe was expanding. But even Albert Einstein failed to truly grapple with what came next. The wild world of quantum physics, where nothing plays by the rules. even Einstein's okay not spacebending time it's one thing called spacetime Einstein didn't actually discover black holes or even coin the term that the universe is expanding was discovered by Hubble and quantum physics pretty comfortably predates general relativity having begun its formulation in 1900 with plank and getting its next boost from Einstein himself with his 1905 paper on the photoelectric effect while general relativity was published in 1916 16. Look, I know none of this is that big a deal, but can't you guys pay a physics graduate student to write this teleprompter feed for 50 bucks an hour? They need the money. The point is, do better. Today, the biggest brains on the planet are loggerheads over what this all means and where science goes next. Are there multiple universes? Do we live in a matrix style simulation? Could there be an intelligent designer? Yes, Pierce. All the top minds in theoretical physics are fixating predominantly on those three vacuous pop side topics/religious propaganda rather than actual theoretical physics. I keep forgetting that midwits like Pierce genuinely believe that theoretical physicists are sitting in a room talking about multiveres and matrix movies all day long. For this special uncensored debate, I'm joined by two scientists with very different answers to the very big question. Sean Carroll is professor of physics and philosophy at John's Hopkins University. He hosts his own podcast Mindscape and draws audiences of millions elsewhere. Dr. Eric Weinstein is a Harvard educated mathematician. His appearances on the Joe Rogan show alone have been viewed 26 million times and he's a regular guest on Uncensored. The discrepancy in these introductions should give everyone whiplash. He referred to both of these men as scientists, then going on to describe Shawn's resume as a working physicist. While for Eric, we get a statistic about the number of Joe Rogan views he's gotten. H index versus podcast downloads, the two most relevant metrics for determining the influence of a scholar, everybody. And despite both being scientific podcasting rock stars, Dr. Weinstein and Professor Carol have never actually appeared together until now. Dun. Eric talks [\h__\h] about Shawn all the time, even more than most other establishment shills. So, there's a little bit of baggage that goes along with this pairing. I wonder how it'll play out. What is your main bone of contention with Eric Weinstein? Uh, you should probably ask Eric that. I mean, I'm a working physicist. I am a professor in a physics department. I write physics papers. Uh, I have found myself in the awkward and unenviable position of defending the establishment heterodoxy. Like, it's never what I imagined I would be doing. But there's good reasons why the heterodoxy is the heterodoxy. So, I think that academic physics, even though I'm happy to disagree with certain choices they make about what to work on and what emphasis to put on there, is working in good faith. I think that we're trying our best to understand the universe at a deep level. Of course, what Shawn said is absolutely accurate, quite well articulated, and also demonstrative of the precise reason that this contention between Shawn and Eric exists. Shawn and his colleagues are scientists who do legitimate science to push the boundary of human knowledge. Eric, the not a scientist, gets paid to pretend scientists don't do that and to go on huge podcasts to spew a bunch of horseshit and convince the general public that scientists don't do that. This generates public outrage against working scientists for no reason whatsoever, causing those in their ranks that are good with public speaking to push back. Anyway, Shawn then offers some solid explanatory bits about what string theory is and how it got started. But we're here for the Eric beef, so let's skip ahead. I think that Shawn and I probably agree almost completely on everything until 1972. Then you have the first uh really serious situation where a mysterious term is not only introduced into our common vocabulary uh called quantum gravity um but it takes over as a fictitious history that the uh central problem of theoretical physics is the quantization of gravity. Well, we have very successful quantum field theories for three of the four fundamental forces in QED, QCD, and electroeak theory. So, it would make a lot of sense to go for that last one, don't you think, Eric? But sure, just point at the current frontier of the field and scoff at it as though you know better. The first problem that Sean and I will find ourselves at loggerheads over is that I think that making quantum gravity the holy grail of theoretical physics which is repeated and proceverated at nauseium is a is a terrible crime. And what is quantum gravity again for those who are not as offay with this as you guys what is quantum gravity if you may the so there's a standard story that you'll hear more or less Sean is a part of a group of about five people who do most of the communication of theoretical physics to the American public. It's just never a straight answer out of this guy. Piers wants to know what quantum gravity is. And Eric starts describing some kind of weird physics communication mafia that doesn't exist. Anyone can be a science communicator, Eric. You could be one, too, if you valued public service. You have a huge platform and understand physics. So, this is a really weird thing to whine about. We have two theories uh that are bedrock reality. We have one called the standard model which covers three out of four forces the non-gravitational ones and all of the matter that we see in the universe as well as something called the Higsfield and maybe some other fields as well. In the other theory, we have Einstein's theory of gravity which was put into relatively final form be 1920 maybe by 1917. And then the claim is is that the incompatibility between the two of them is that one of them is a quantum theory that is the standard model of uh the nuclear forces electromagnetism is a quantum theory whereas Einstein's gra gravitational theory general relativity has resisted quantization and then as the trope goes that that incompatibility must be resolved by forcing the children of Einstein to submit to the will of the children of boore. This isn't some empty claim Eric. It's not some imaginary ideological incompatibility. They're mathematically incompatible. Discrete quanta versus continuous spacetime. People are working on reconciling them. It's hard. Since you can't do it and have never tried, maybe stop undermining the smarter, harder working people who are trying. Oh, you're just going to act like a smug douche and slather your rhetoric with bizarre metaphors like children of Einstein versus children of boar? Well, it it it it depends what you're trying to do. I mean, I can tell you why. My the lead tweet in my Twitter feed is assume a traversible cosmos. If Einstein is left in force, my claim is is that there are only two rocks that Elon's uh chemical rockets can get us to. Um, and that we've allowed ourselves to fall into the misunderstanding of Einstein's theory as the map of gravity rather than the territory of where we actually live. I don't think we live in spaceime at all. Scientists are dumb and wrong. Elon will save us by taking us to other planets. We don't even live in spaceime. Eric is filling up everyone's anti-intellectual bingo card pretty quick with this rant. I would say I am the only person in generation X to have actually been present in the room when everything shifted uh toward string theory which happened in 1983 at the University of Pennsylvania when a fellow named Edward Whitten gave the first lecture uh that I think he ever did publicly on string theory. and his will and his mind were so powerful and his influence so so completely commanding that the entire sociology of the field uh turned on a dime. Reducing an entire sub field of physics down to one person clinging dogmatically to their own contributions while painting himself as somehow being at the epicenter of the history of physics. So rarely do we see such delusions of grandeur regarding the very edifice that these charlatans seek to destroy. Eric in a nutshell. And what I claim is is that Shawn and I probably aren't that divided even on the mathematics of string theory. What we're where we are bitterly divided is is that I believe that Shawn thinks that the system works pretty well. I would say he's part of the two cheers for uh the institutions. uh meaning that he has a to be sure paragraph saying that the institutions undoubtedly have their problems in which things could be done better whereas I see an absolute collapse in the ethics efficacy productivity of this at our deepest levels. Oh of course you wouldn't be in disagreement about the mathematics otherwise you would be challenged to refute the mathematics of string theory which you definitely can't do. It's more about this [\h__\h] narrative regarding universities being useless indoctrination camps rife with moral bankruptcy that waste taxpayer dollars on satanic rituals and human sacrifice. That's the juicy stuff. Anyway, if you think about the impact of physics, more or less, the story of physics is the story of the world economy in the modern era. And we will be trapped here almost certainly unless you uh go in for science fiction tropes where we will not be able to get out of the solar system and the moon and the Mars will be our only diversification. I love watching Shawn roll his eyes wondering when this [\h__\h] is going to shut up. The story of physics is the story of the world economy. All right, economics is the other thing Eric pretends to understand. And if we don't stop the evil string theorists from hijacking physics, the global economy is going to tank. and Elon will have to bring us all to Mars. Does Eric think that people still take him seriously? Because this is [\h__\h] painful. After a full five minutes of rambling like a maniac, it's time to throw it back to Shawn. My takeaway from that and was brilliantly articulated um Sean is that basically you are going to be responsible for the end of civilization as we know it. Apparently, yeah, I didn't know but now you know the weight is is bearing down on my shoulders. Look, the the story Eric just told is a kind of wacky and wildly misleading history of physics in the last 50 or 60 years. Uh the idea of quantum gravity is a very natural one because the world runs by the rules of quantum mechanics as far as we know. This is the international year of quantum because it's the 100th anniversary of really figuring out how quantum mechanics works. And the thing about quantum mechanics is it's not a theory by itself. It's a framework in which you can do theories. In contrast with classical mechanics from Isaac Newton that came before it and gravity, our best current theory of gravity from Einstein, the theory of general relativity is a thoroughgoingly classical theory. Certainly the default expectation is that someday we will better understand gravity at the quantum level. You don't have to think that because you don't have to think anything. You're welcome to come up with better theories, but again, that's the default expectation. If you have a different point of view, there's a certain burden of proof to convince people that it's interesting to contemplate this other point of view. Translation: Do better physics than what physicists do or shut the [\h__\h] up, Eric. Was that brilliantly articulated enough for you peers? Shawn doesn't mince words and says Eric's story is wacky and wildly misleading. just in case anyone couldn't reach that conclusion on their own. The very simple thing you do, if I can get just a little bit detailed for a second here, because people never hear this, and I think it's really really important to understand why string theory is so popular. If you want to invent a new quantum mechanical theory of the world, the first thing you do is you ask yourself, if I have two particles and they come together and scatter, there's a probability that different things will happen. I'm going to make photons. I'm going to make electrons and posetrons or whatever. and you calculate that probability. And the famous triumph of mid 20th century physics was to show that you can do that and get a finite answer. If you're sloppy about it, your answer turns out to be infinity. And your and your theory is on the wrong track. Everything that we know about in the physical world has a nice finite answer in this quantum mechanical realm except for gravity. Gravity doesn't fit. And indeed, it was recognized pretty quickly that there was a good reason why gravity doesn't fit. And it was almost impossible to imagine fitting gravity in. Namely that gravity interacts with everything. Gravity interacts with photons, with electrons, with quarks, with whatever. And so when you do this scattering experiment, you do the calculation, everything in the universe contributes to the infinitely big answer that you don't want to get. Apparently, what you would need is some kind of miraculous cancellation between all the different contributions from all the different fields. And people looked at that and said, "We have no idea how to make that happen. Let's not worry about quantum gravity." And then string theory comes along. And again, it wasn't even trying to be a theory of gravity. But when they do this calculation, the miraculous cancellation happens in string theory. You get a finite answer to what happens when you scatter different particles off of each other. That is right now the only theory in which that miraculous uh happening actually works. I don't have much to comment here. I just wanted you all to hear that so you can hear what good science communication sounds like. While Eric blusters and exclusively tries to sound intelligent, Shawn actually tries to convey information and nurture comprehension in the listener. Eric does his best to put on his bored face as though he's above all of this, even though he's really just a tourist in Shaun's country. Shawn has explained the reason for the popularity of string theory, despite the fact that it has not produced the revolutionary paradigm shift that some were hoping for. It's because it is, contrary to popular belief, a successful model in certain regards. Many many physicists instantly became interested in string theory and quantum gravity who were not before. But the reason they did is not because Ed Whitten is a smart guy and he towers over the field. It's because there was a calculation that showed the theory is promising. Physicists are not sheep. If Ed Whitten had said we should all work on this, but everyone else looked at it and thought it wasn't very promising, he would have been ignored. But Sean, that doesn't support Eric's narrative that academics are brainless pawns pushing pointless theories for grant money. Are you sure that physicists are smart people who can think for themselves? I think Eric needs to weigh in here. Your response? Yeah, I just got completely misprayed and this is uh actually I'm glad that this is happening because this is sort of what happens when you tangle with the group of people who are supportive of this program. Here we go. Here comes the goddamn victim complex. We all listened to you ramble for several minutes, Eric. We know what you said. Then we listened to Shawn justifiably mock the precise things you definitely said. Instead of responding honestly, you're going to jump straight to the straw man accusations. Really? Um, the idea of forcing gravity to submit to the same quantization procedures that have been successfully applied to other forces and to matter uh has not worked. it has stagnated the field and that quantum harmonization is far more important. You could also decide to geometize the quantum rather than quantize gravity and thus quantize the geometry. Nobody is forcing anything, Eric. People are trying things. Some people are trying to get a quantum field theory for gravity. Other people are trying other things. You're doing nothing but trying to sound intelligent on a podcast and it's not working very well. But what you just saw is an example of what is actually going catastrophically wrong in the field. That a dominant narrative that has been proverated into an as if reality has created two teams. A smart team that gets it and a dumb team that just doesn't. And that kind of toxic sociology is the true problem. Okay, we're going to get back to physics in a second, but a couple things real quick. First of all, what the [\h__\h] is going on with his eyes? I don't want to make fun of it if it's some medical condition or something, but this [\h__\h] is bananas. He looks like a malfunctioning robot. Second, I like to imagine Eric setting up his computer for this interview and then going to get his guitar to place it in frame to try and look cool. Here's to hoping he busts it out a little later to show us his mad skills. Anyway, this smart team dumb team thing is total horseshit. Nobody is forcing anybody to work on a particular sub field of theoretical physics. Everyone is open to new ideas and this story is getting really old. Eric, you've come up with an alternative. Theory of everything. It's based around geometric unity. The theory remains largely unpublished in peer-reviewed literature. Has not yet been formally tested or widely accepted by the physics community. Now, because you're so uh smart about this stuff, your geometric unity paper is 69 pages long, extremely complex, way over my head. So, we did what everyone in my position does these days. We went on to YouTube and saw uh if we could find anybody who'd analyzed it and had a conclusion and we found this. Thank you to Eric Weinstein. It's an avantgard and creative theory. Kurt here several months later. This has been so long in the making. Gez, you have no idea. Anyhow, I wanted to say that I mean what I just said. I may have said this before in the iceberg and if I haven't, I should have because it bears repeating. I haven't seen a theory like this come from any single individual ever. Not one that's this fleshed out or has this amount of unexampled connections. Well, that's a bunch of [\h__\h] I was on the fence about this Kurt guy, but this single-handedly proves he's a complete ass hat. Geometric unity isn't fleshed out at all. In fact, it doesn't even qualify as a theory. and Pierce, if you had looked around a little more thoroughly, you would have found my video where Tim Wyn explains how GU is literally nothing. Or maybe you did find it and ignored it because it doesn't fit your narrative. Why do you think that the mainstream physics world is not taking this seriously enough? Well, first of all, I disagree. You see, part of what's going on is that Shawn is part of a group of physics influencers who are constantly spreading misinformation, which leads to a climate of fear. Oh [\h__\h] shots fired. The pointless podcaster just referred to Shawn as a physics influencer and accused him of spreading misinformation. Eric now deserves all of the mockery that he will be receiving for the next half hour. You brought this on yourself, [\h__\h] Remember that. I for example found the following quote of Sean. What I really really want to get across to the audience is that nobody in physics departments is discussing this with other people in physics departments. Now I don't happen to be coming to you from a physics department at the moment but I happen to be on a 5day visit to a leading physics department. Um, and in this situation, uh, I just had a 9-hour conversation and talk with 3 hours or 4 hours rather of that being an explication of geometric unity. Yeah. Nobody in academia cares about your fake physics pretend times, Eric. And this little madeup story isn't going to change that. He then goes into this thing that there is no crisis in theoretical physics. And as one of my physics colleagues said last night, "The first rule of physics fight club is don't talk about the problems with physics fight club." Eric's always got an imaginary friend and a cute little quip. Too bad that doesn't turn his fake theory into real science, huh? The idea is that a small number of people who are either at the top of the physics influencer pile, which is where I would put Shawn, or at the top of the uh prestige pile in research, have held a view that is completely at odds with reality, which whose key feature is the exclusion of different perspectives. A little bonus shade being thrown at Shawn by putting him in the influencer camp to the exclusion of the prestige and research camp. Eric Shawn works at John's Hopkins, previously at Caltech, and is plenty influential. You whine into microphones for a living. Take it down a notch. And nobody is excluding different perspectives. They're excluding charlatans like you who cosplay as geniuses for the public while never having actually done any science. So when for example I I can tell uh I can I probably can guess the AI pierce from which you've got the analysis of geometric unity. Uh what you see is a very strange situation where a group of people go around attempting to throw shade on anyone who questions whether there's a massive problem in physics that everybody uh who's actually in the game uh can see with their own eyes. Peers, it's an AI conspiracy. Everyone in physics can see there's a huge problem because Eric says so, and it's just the cabal of dishonest influencers like Shawn who deny this obvious fact. Other people in the field are more open-minded, which of course makes it even more bizarre that absolutely nobody reputable takes Eric seriously. There's a lot of holes in your plot, bud. If you take a Lorenzian metric as a section of a a bundle of pointwise Lorence metrics and pull back the vial positive vial spinners uh with suitable um passing to maximal compact subgroup you get one generation of petis salam grand unified firmians. Now that was very quick but what it really just said is that general relativity knows the standard model. He's like a teenager flexing a bunch of words he just learned to impress a cute girl at summer camp. Eric, everyone can immediately tell that you're speaking exclusively to sound intelligent. You are communicating literally nothing. Anyway, after 10 full minutes of bitching, moaning, and flexing, Eric finally decides he's talked enough. So, Piers throws it over to Shawn. Sean Carol, well, I find it very telling. I don't know. It makes me sad that you are looking for a second opinion about geometric unity and you go to YouTube and see what pops up. I I don't think that's the standard to which we would like to aspire. There are professional physicists right there in your country who work on understanding quantum gravity, field theory, geometry at a deep level. And you could ask them what they think. I like Sean's daddy mode. These toddlers need some scolding. Let's get some more of that. I would like to let people out there know who might be working outside the academic physics community that it is a 100% possible to have a good idea and have it have an impact on what physicists do. But it's not easy. You have to do a certain amount of work to show that your theory is worth the time, that it is respectable, that it is interesting, that it is promising. The first thing you got to do is make sure that your theory makes contact with modern physics as it is understood. If you have a new paper out, physicists are going to look at it. They're going to look for, you know, where's the lrangee and where's the interactions? Is the proton stable? Is there dark matter? Like, how does it fit into what I already know of the Eric's paper has none of that. Oh, this is the good stuff. Eric is just sitting there squirming, desperate to shut Shawn up. But Shawn sat quietly for 10 full minutes while Eric spewed his script, so he knows he has to play nice here. And Shawn is already spitting fire. Eric's paper has nothing. It does not make contact with modern physics as it is understood that it doesn't present anything innovative is a given, but it doesn't even say anything that's compatible with what we already know. It's truly nothing. You would also ask, have has the theory been shown to be viable in a very basic way? Is it stable? Is it free of anomalies? Is it finite in the sense of the quantum mechanical calculation that I already mentioned? Again, none of that is there. Are there any new predictions? Eric says in completely correctly, string theory doesn't make any new predictions either. But also, I I really don't want people to get the idea that string theory has some dominant picture. In my department at Johns Hopkins, we have Let Let me just finish and then you can talk that I think it's a good system. You can tell that Eric has gotten used to being the only person in the room who understands physics. He's not talking to Joe Rogan or Dave Rubin. For whatever reason, he agreed to talk to Shawn Carroll, and he is severely regretting it as he desperately tries to push this fright train of humiliation off the rails. Shawn says, "Shut your dumb mouth. This is what you deserve." In my department at Johns Hopkins, we have six professors in the theoretical physics group. One of them does string theory, and even he only does it sort of half time. And I wish we had more. Honestly, this is very typical. Even at the most stringy departments, it's maybe half. But wait, Eric, the not a physicist, said string theory is the devil because it sucks a lot and it's hogging all the funding in physics. You're telling me that Eric lied about that? Well, that's just shocking. But he has given us no reason to think that it is a promising theory. I encourage other people who would like to have an impact on the research agenda of modern physics to take these easy steps rather than going on podcasts and talking about their victimization. As Eric fumes silently, he's taken to whipping out his reading glasses and his phone. Maybe he's got some affirmations written down to keep his ego running while the world crashes down around him. First of all, Shawn has been nothing but civil throughout our relationship. He's also extremely nasty, but I really appreciate the civility. Yeah, that makes sense. I have a buddy who's always quiet as a mouse. He's also the loudest person I know, but he's quiet as a mouse. It's totally possible for people to hold two completely antithetical qualities at all times. Eric, can you even pretend to be a normal person for 10 seconds? This is not something that is going to be a thing. He also says that he hasn't read it. So, let me say a bunch of things to Dr. Carol. Dr. Carol, I'd like to hear your explanation for three generations of flavor chyro firmians with the observed quantum numbers under the group SU3 cross SU2 cross U1. I thought that inventing new forms of flight, innovating um multiple areas, um starting the being responsible for half of the ARVR that's out there that all of these things would be enough and then having the wave conjugations to predict every potential harmonic node. How can Terry be a fraud if all those things he says? Same here. Eric said words most people don't understand. So, how is he not a genius? Eric is obviously smarter than Terry, but their behavior is identical, ranting to try and sound intelligent while deflecting from any attempt to present something of substance. Eric is just better at it. I can give you an explanation for why SU3 cross SU2 cross U1, why there are three generations, why 16 particles in a generation, why the observed quantum numbers are the way they are, why the Hig sector comes out of seemingly nowhere uh with aquortic potential with a a quadratic term. Why the Yukawa coupling is uh just there just so in order to produce mass uh when the weak force forbids a mass directly in the DACA operator. Wow. Can you really do all those things, Eric, or are you bluffing because you know this can't possibly devolve into a back and forth about all the esoteric stuff you're listing since peers will immediately change the subject. The facade is crumbling, kiddo. Why Shawn chooses to mispray the fact that I can say why there should be dark matter, what the dark energy is, what the exact quantum number assignments are for the two families that are luminous that have yet to be seen. Um, I have no idea because Shawn also proudly says is that he hasn't looked at it and hasn't read it. That's why he says that there no Lrangeians in it. Are you sure he hasn't read it? It seems like it would have been a good idea for him to read it as a prerequisite for agreeing to this appearance. And Shawn is a diligent, hardworking guy. Maybe we'll find out once Eric finally shuts up for a second. Sean is insistent that the idea that somehow I am not choosing to go through the usual channels uh and instead talking as he is right now via YouTube is somehow significant when I've just given talks in three different countries on dark energy. OMG, Eric, you've been to different countries. Then you must be telling the truth. Want to wrap up this little tantrum? Which is at the moment going after Einstein's unwanted cosmological constant. That is not a constant. The dark energy is not a constant term. That is the only term that you can put into the Einstein field equations because of the Einsteinian curvature satisfies an automatic differential equation called divergence free. So if you have another term in the uh equation, it has to have the same property. There's only one known automatic equation which is that the metric of Einstein that creates spaceime is annihilated by its own leviche connection. And Sean, you're misrepresenting things because I'm going to give a formula for the dark energy. I know what dark energy is. Okay, Sean, I know it. I'm the super genius who figured out a thing that would get me a Nobel Prize. I just can't write a paper about it or explain it in any concrete way other than in super secret talks with totally real physicists in super cool places that definitely aren't made up in any way. Can you get off my back? I do all sorts of things that you have no idea of because your attitude which you repeat in other podcasts and I highly advise you to spend more time in your physics department and less time on YouTube um is is that this is not a serious thing. Nobody's taking it seriously and your misportrayal of the situation uh is nearly constant for reasons that completely elude me. Fire up the projector, folks. Shawn needs to get off YouTube and do more physics. said the not a physicist who doesn't do physics and only matters to his delusional science illiterate fans on YouTube. But Eric is sticking with this angle. Shawn hasn't read my paper. He doesn't know what's in it and totally can't handle its awesomeness. And that's why he's misrepresenting it all over town. He's jealous of how smart and cool I am. Sean, the good news is I have read Eric's paper. Here it is. I actually have it here. Right here. And uh it's worse than you would think. You know, it just very quickly it starts off by saying the author is not a physicist and is no longer an active academician but is an entertainer and host of a podcast. This work of entertainment is a draft work in progress and it may not be built upon. So, we're not allowed to think about Eric's theory and write a follow-up paper about it in contradiction to everything that is normally done in scientific discourse. You hope that people build upon your theories. You don't try to prevent them. Looking at the pure terror in Eric's eyes, it's hard to comprehend why he agreed to this. Was he counting on Shawn being totally unprepared that he could bully him and interrupt with his physics jargon performance art for a full hour? Sean read your fake paper and now he's going to [\h__\h] on it and teach you a lesson. And later on it says, "This document is an attempt to begin recovering I'm gonna read this. This document is an attempt to begin recovering a rather more complete theory which at this point is only partially remembered and stitched together from old computer files, notebooks, recordings, and the like dating back as far as 1983. And this is why this is paper is not going to appear in the peer-reviewed literature. It's not serious. It's a dog ate my homework kind of thing. If you have a dark matter thing, if you have a dark matter prediction, if you have a dark energy prediction, I want to see a plot in the paper. I want to see red shift versus distance. I want to see a calculation of a relic abundance so I can figure out how much dark matter is supposed to be. If you do that, people will pay attention to the theory. It's very possible. This is gold for GU. Eric very obviously took an approach of, "I have this awesome idea one time. I can't remember all of it. So, if you think it sucks, it's because I can't remember the cool parts, but if you think it looks smart, then you're right. I'm super smart." That way, he can pretend it's revolutionary in front of non-physicists and hide behind its incomplete nature in front of physicists. The problem is, of course, that nobody's going to entertain this empty husk of an idea, even if what little was there had any merit to begin with, which of course it doesn't. Eric has the balls to claim that he's figured out dark energy or whatever the [\h__\h] he said. And Shawn says, "Where the [\h__\h] did you do anything like that? This is physics. Show me data. Show me plots. Make a quantifiable prediction. There is literally no physics here." This is Eric's worst nightmare. The emperor is shown to have no clothes live in real time. What's the reaction, Sean? First of all, um, how dare you? Second of all, if you're going to go of the How dare you, Sean? You said you hadn't read it. Now you've read it. I wanted to go the rest of my life having zero physicists ever read it so that I can complain until the day I die about physicists not taking me seriously because they're closedminded jerkf faces. Why would you read it just to expose my fraudulence? No, Sean. How dare you cast shade and dispersions of the kind that I wouldn't seek to cast on you, but I will now. Uh, okay. I'm not seeking your favor, nor do I nor do I need to seek your approval. Eric, just talk like a normal [\h__\h] person. This isn't Victorian England. I would never have dared to cast such aspersions upon you, but you have left me no choice, good sir. Aox upon thee. Apox, I say, as you know, you failed to gain tenure uh at the University of Chicago. you're not highly regarded in the field and again I'm only returning the shade in which you just yourself cast. I wouldn't have done this otherwise. You then spent time as a non-tenured faculty at uh Caltech and you only gained tenure in a non-standard professorship. You're not a leading person in the field. Hey Eric, remind me what university you teach at. Oh, nowhere. Like ever. Remind me how many physics publications you have. Oh, none. Like ever? Maybe don't challenge people to dick measuring contests when you have a micro penis. Um, my belief structure about this is is that you imagine that I'm coming to you saying, "Oh, Sean Carroll, let find a let me tell me which graph I graph I should do so that I can please you." As you know, because you've read the paper, you what you said about lrangeians is false. What you said about predictions is false. My concern is what you did is that you seized upon something where people have built on my ideas since 1994. The equations that Natty Cyborg and Ed Whitten introduced that took over the world were called the insufficiently nonlinear equations when I was at Harvard in 1987 and introduced them. You didn't introduce any equations, bud. Nobody built on anything you've ever done because you haven't done anything. You're just lying. You can't even write a real physics paper. And while this fiercer Shawn is a huge upgrade, I'm afraid it's going to be a while until any scholars interrupt and manhandle frauds like Eric with the kind of relentless vigor you all know I'd like to see. The question is why appear as an entertainer rather than as a physicist. First of all, ne neither you nor I are trained as physicists, Sean. You're actually trained as an astronomer. Yeah, because it's not like astronomers have to use physics or anything. You're acting like he studied basket weaving. Also, there's this field called astrophysics. It would be weird to lump those two things together if they didn't mix, right? Your intellectually insulting uh aspect reminds me of you as the Marian Twinet of theoretical physics influencers. Uh I'm not here to please you. You know that there are tables in the document that you're reading that have plenty of predictions. You know that it solves plenty of problems. Actually, I'm pretty sure he just pointed out how none of those things are in there. So, it's pretty weird for you to keep claiming they are sick burned with the Marie Antuinette thing, though. You're such a polymath, Eric. You and a small cadre of people are like intellectual border collies of the physical sciences uh casting shade dispersions on those who are succeeding where the quantum gravity, string theoretic, and m theoretic programs are failing. So, just telling everyone how much you're winning makes it true. Hey, Eric. Because I'm good enough. I'm smart enough. And dog gone it, people like me. The fact that you talk like you're in front of Joe Rogan while you're talking to Shawn Carroll makes me think you actually have deluded yourself into thinking you're a super genius. It's pretty up there on the list of most pathetic things I've ever seen. Maybe work on writing something that isn't pointless before pretending you've revolutionized all of theoretical physics. The paper is not giving us any reason to think that this approach is promising. There is no quantum mechanics in the paper. There's no attempt at showing that this solves any of the known problems of quantum gravity. Again, it's just not just about Eric. It's about anyone. If you want to make an impact on the physics research community, you have to give them a reason to think that what you do is promising. Shawn reiterates that there's nothing in there, while Eric just scoffs and rolls his eyes, hoping that his earlier baseless assertions will suffice for a few people watching, and he can just slink away from any real physics-based confrontation. Sean, you have a serious problem with dark energy that you're developing and it's going to go right through having being a problem with lambda CDM to eventually being a problem with the Einstein field equations themselves perched as they are at top the space of metrics as an completely inadequate uh space of field content. What you've just said and what the espersion that you have just cash uh cast you are simply not qualified to say. What you have said is that I have given no reason. Let me imagine that that paper, which was a draft rush to get to an April 1st date, um remains in in a world where Sam Alman and Elon Musk uh continue to compete for better and better AIs. What would you say if at some point uh those AIs then got to that paper and said, "Holy cow, that is exactly uh what we've been missing." Yeah, Sean, blah blah blah some stuff to make me sound smart. You're somehow not qualified to critique me even though you're a real physicist and I'm not. My paper could have been better. I just rushed to get it out on April Fool's Day for no reason and haven't revised it since. Even though that was four years ago. And imagine if super awesome future AI figures out that my paper kicks ass. One day I'll be rich and have a hot girlfriend and a flying car and all you mean jocks will pay. You'll see. As you well know, there was a revolution in the 1970s which said that we blew Hamiltonian analysis and that in fact every phase space carrying a simplectic form can be treated um locally as if that simplectic form is the curvature of a line bundle and the se L2 sections of that line bundle form a Hellbert space and the P and Q coordinate functions can be promoted to operators. It said that wine is you what you get when you stop grape juice from becoming vinegar. You know all this stuff and I know this stuff. We know the same people. Uh we probably can work in the same notation. My guess is is that if you and I got over uh whatever this bizarre tension is between us and buried the hatchet. Um my guess is that after two days you'd say, "Boy, I really just didn't understand what he was saying." Yeah. Yeah, if we got over this tension of you knowing that I'm a complete fraud who wrote a fake paper to boost my credibility among science illiterate morons on the internet, you'd realize that you just didn't understand my fake paper. But whatever, we know the same stuff. We use the same notation. We're just a couple of crazy physicists trying to navigate this crazy world, right, Sean? Please stop humiliating me. Anyway, that's more or less the end of it. Piers decides to interject and spend the rest of the time asking softball questions about time travel and other pop side topics. All of which Shawn answers intelligently and coherently while Eric launches into random tangents of pure self argrandisement. But Pice, who has been uncharacteristically quiet throughout this exchange, knows he can't go the entire episode without humiliating himself. So, let's pivot to making fun of Piers a little bit as he tries to fight with Shawn regarding his answer to the final question about what was there before the Big Bang. His big gotcha for why God must exist. For those who believe in the Big Bang theory, what was there before the Big Bang? In other words, what was nothing and what was there before nothing? And because I do not believe a human brain can answer that question, there must be de facto a more superior thing out there that can. Sean, well, I'm glad to be the one who frees you from your religious convictions because the human brain can absolutely tackle that question and it does so all the time. I encourage uh viewers, listeners to listen to the upcoming episode of my podcast called Mindscape where I talk to Nas F. Shorty and Phil Halper about exactly this question. What happened at or before the Big Bang? Yeah, we don't know the answer. We don't even know whether the Big Bang was the beginning. Well, there well there you go. So, the fact that we don't know doesn't mean we can't know. Those are two very different statements. Well, if you don't know, you you can't know at the moment. Surely you have to admit you don't know. Well, if you don't know, you can't know. Anytime we don't know something, it means we can't possibly know that thing. Who has ever not known something at one time and then later known it? Nobody. Piers is proudly declaring that learning doesn't exist, which actually fits his personality like a glove. You will never as a human being be able to tell me what was there before nothing. How can you? You can't comprehend it, can you? I come up with a theory. I show that the theory fits the data. That's how we do it. What was there before nothing then? Go on. Best guess. We don't know. My personal favorite theory is there was a pre-existing universe out of which our cosmos arose as a baby universe. Quantum fluctuation. What was there before that? No, it's infinite in it's infinite in time in both directions. So, what was there before? So, you mean it's never ending? Yeah. I wrote a book if you want to read it, Pierce. From eternity to Here. It's a great book. Anyone want to take any bets as to whether Pierce picks up that book? I'll give you a thousand to one odds. I do, but what's there before eternity? There was no such thing as before eternity. Like what is less than minus infinity? That's not a sensible question to ask. Yeah, but I think it's a copout by you, if you don't mind me saying this very respectfully, to say that something is infinite because if you're saying it's infinite, you don't have to answer the question. You've just made that up. You don't know it was infinite. Thi this very often happens in the progress of human knowledge that a question that we thought was an interesting one becomes not answered but shown to be uninteresting because we get a deeper understanding. See that I'm sorry I'm going to come to you Eric on this. That seems to me a very pompous answer. That is basically trying to apply a superior intelligence to a response to a lesser mortal by saying that my my my attempt to get this question answered is so stupid that there should be no need by the brain power in front of me to answer it. No, Piers, he's saying that questions which seem legitimate in ignorance sometimes get shown to be nonsensical once a more fundamental understanding is achieved. For example, someone might ask, "What kinds of exotic elements might exist in other galaxies?" The answer is all the same ones that exist here. To which the science illiterate person might reply, "You're so pompous. How can you possibly know what elements are in other galaxies? You and your stupid ivory tower dogma. Scientists think they're so smart and know everything." No, we just know what elements are. One proton, hydrogen. Two protons, helium. every integer. We've got them all up until nuclei which are so unstable that they can't exist for more than a tiny fraction of a second. So that's all of them. The question was shown to be nonsensical and stupid on the basis of understanding the periodic table of elements. That's what's happening here. Piers Shawn is saying that if something exists infinitely in the past, asking what came before it doesn't mean anything. He even gave you an analogy. What number is less than negative infinity? Your little pee brain can't comprehend it, so you're lashing out like a toddler. Let's get Eric in there one last time so we can make sure everyone knows how smart he is. All right, Eric, am I am I mad? What I believe is that you're conflating three different category problems. One, you're talking about something observational, which might terminate what we would call the surface of less scattering, the thing that we cannot see beyond with our instruments. um that takes place uh along the lines of something let's say called the cosmological model which is a reduction of Einstein's field equations assuming greater certain uh symmetry that is a 1 comma 3 problem where you have one bunch of time free of space and you can prove that there's something called an essential singularity instead of black hole singularity initial singularity but what we call freedom of walker metric so that is a map of the territory that we're trying to observe there's a third thing which is assembly sequence which also has an ordinal concept of development should be confus why is the building so it's time to press now the thing that's truly radical about geometric unity and I think Sean would probably agree with this if he's if he's read it at all and I'm not sure that he as blah blah blah. I'm so smart. Back to my fake theory. And also Shawn didn't read it. [\h__\h] hell, this guy's something else. What it says is that four degrees of freedom are all that is necessary for the quark, leptton, CKM, PMS, etc., etc. PMS structure of the universe. That basically sweet, salty, sour, and bitter or uh treble, mid, bass, and reverb is all that's necessary to create a universe. Treble, mid, bass, and reverb. All you need for a universe, bro. Hang on. Let me bust out my acoustic guitar. I can show you. I don't know if you knew that I play guitar. Oh, what's that? You saw it in the frame down there since I put it there on purpose. Yeah, I can't help it. I just love the blues because I'm like so soulful, but also because you can suck at guitar and still play a blues progression. Can you tell I used to wear a fedora? Eric is like if you took a physics undergrad in peak stonerdom, did a brain scan to find out all of his wildest delusions of grandeur, and then paid him a hundred million dollars to pretend that he achieved them all while never actually doing anything. I have a super dope theory of everything, dudes. Watch me shred this blues lick. Oh [\h__\h] I'm almost 60. Far out, man. Anyway, I think that's enough. It's pretty clear that Eric has been spiraling lately. His intellectual dark web is extinct. Most of the people who fell for his shtick in the early 2020s have pieced it together that he's completely full of [\h__\h] and don't give him the time of day anymore. And since he doesn't actually do anything, this fall from internet relevance has really hit him hard. I'm sure Papa Teal isn't thrilled about it, which is why I hypothesize that he's moved on to bank rolling Sabina Hosenfelder, hence all her academia is communism [\h__\h] she's been churning out. I don't have any proof, but think about it. As for Shawn, he deserves a round of applause for sticking it to Eric like he deserves. It's still not quite enough fire for me as the segment wrapped without Eric being held accountable for most of what he said, but it's still a step in the right direction. And I'll just have to accept that academics will likely never be as aggressive as I would be. At any rate, I hope that Shawn can serve as an example for other scholars such that we see more of them dunking on frauds in precisely this manner. In just the past few weeks, I've regained the slightest tinge of optimism as I sense a surge of resolve from within the scientific community. Everyone is sick to death of this anti-intellectual fervor from the public and the White House, and we are finally doing something about it. Is the tide turning? Are we rising up? Ask me again in 6 months. In the meantime, I'll be here for your debunking pleasure. So, that's it for Eric Weinstein for now. Something tells me I'm not quite done with him and his loser baby brother, too. But given his waning influence, I've got bigger fish to fry.