It's professor Dave, let's discuss mass-energy equivalence. Time dilation and length contraction are two of the bizarre ramifications of Einstein's special relativity, but we have one more to get through, and it comes in the form of his most famous equation, which is arguably the most famous equation in all of science. E = mc^2. Almost everyone can recite this equation from memory, but far fewer know precisely what it means. It outlines the concept of mass-energy equivalence, stating that energy is equal to mass times the speed of light squared. One may wonder what the speed of light has to do with energy and mass, especially since light has no mass. Nevertheless, we will find that the two are inextricably intertwined. We know that momentum is equal to mass times velocity, so as velocity increases momentum increases, but as velocity approaches the speed of light relativistic effects take hold, and we have to look at the relativistic momentum. That will involve this additional term here, which should be familiar from the time dilation and length contraction equations. As velocity increases, this term increases, which makes this term decrease, and momentum will increase overall. It is the square of this relativistic momentum, known as a Lorentz invariant, that is conserved in all inertial reference frames. At speeds much less than the speed of light, there is only negligible difference between the relativistic and non-relativistic momenta, which is one of the reasons that special relativity is imperceptible in our everyday lives. But as an object approaches the speed of light, it gains momentum exponentially, and the momentum approaches infinity as the velocity approaches the speed of light. This gives us possibly the best explanation for why the speed of light truly is the universal speed limit, because it would require literally infinite energy to accelerate anything with mass to the speed of light. We can find similar logic in the other equations as well. With time dilation, we can see that time slows down as you go faster, with the limit of something moving the speed of light experiencing zero time. So if you could have the perspective of a photon, time wouldn't exist. To move faster than this would mean experiencing imaginary time, because you would then be taking the root of a negative number, and this can have no correlation with physical reality. The same goes for length. In the limit of the speed of light, distances contract to zero, so a photon experiences zero space as well. To go faster than this would mean measuring imaginary length, which again is absurd. Beyond this, faster than light travel implies problems with simultaneity whereby an effect could happen before its own cause, which violates causality, so we must accept that for all these reasons, the speed of light absolutely can never be attained or surpassed by any massive object, for reasons that are fundamental not just to physics, but to mathematics and logic as well. E = mc^2 has many implications given the incredible conclusion that energy and mass are equivalent. Mass is energy, and incredibly dense energy at that, since to get the energy contained in some amount of matter, you multiply its mass by the speed of light squared, which is a huge number, so to the list of the types of energy we can add one more: matter. Mass-energy equivalence elucidates the incredible source of energy that has been exploited during the atrocities of nuclear warfare in World War II. The conversion of matter to energy via a nuclear process is a mighty force indeed, one that must be met with great maturity. While the atomic nucleus could hold the key to energy needs of future civilization, its misuse can also bring about our destruction. And so as we look at these four quadrants along axes that represent size and speed we can see that the realm of the very large and the very slow represents the Newtonian mechanics that we took for granted for hundreds of years as being the rules of the universe. As we explored the realm of the very small, we found that quantum mechanics had to be developed, from which Newtonian mechanics emerges when objects become large enough that their wavelengths become negligible. In the realm of the very fast, special relativity proved to be an adequate description, while again Newtonian mechanics emerge as velocity slows down enough that relativistic effects become negligible. But that leaves this fourth quadrant, which requires some marriage of quantum mechanics and relativity. This is perplexing territory, and it contains the current frontier of physics. Later in this series we will outline our current progress towards a grand unified theory that can explain all known phenomena, but let's not get ahead of ourselves, first let's check comprehension. Thanks for watching, guys. subscribe to my channel for more tutorials, support me on patreon so I can keep making content, and as always feel free to email me: