But I agree. I mean, you know, I I also have had uh you know, very profound uh experiences uh very meaningful experiences, but I don't understand why someone would jump to to attribute them to the divine. Why can't they simply be the concrete phenomenon that they are? You know what I mean? Whether it's psychedelics or you know uh but I I think it's important to note that a lot of such people uh have these experiences in response to recovering from trauma. >> You know what I mean? So I I think that that makes us have to discuss how these are um perhaps defense mechanisms in a way, you know, as people are trying to uh heal themselves from traumatic experiences. So it's just it's just kind of how the human brain works, you know, and I think it's fascinating. I think there there are a lot of scientists that are that are studying the the uh the the neuroscience of the spiritual experience and all these things. I think they're, you know, doing fascinating work. I don't know too much about it. I'd love to learn more, but um yeah, it's just human brains doing thinking of stuff, you know, and uh but but but what I want to push back on is that there's so many uh religious people that would scoff at that and say, "Oh, that's meaningless." And you know, why are you trying to reduce everything down to the blah blah blah? And it's like, I don't get that. I don't understand what you mean. Like, I I know profoundity. I feel it. I can manifest it. Uh why do you think why would one suggest that profoundity is not real if it is not attributed to a deity? You know why is that right? >> Yeah. You know in fact >> I would make the opposite I would make the opposite argument that that in in uh in diving into the particulars of physical reality and you know we learn more and more about the nature of physical reality we uncover the secrets. Uh it's much more valuable, much more profound than uh just oh there's a there's a guy in the sky and it's magic to me. That's a cop that's meaningless. That's you know there's nothing there. It's totally empty and vacant.