It’s Professor Dave, let’s use subjunctive with conjunctions. We know what the subjunctive mood is, and which verbs will require it, namely those expressing some opinion or emotion. But the subjunctive is also required in subordinate clauses in many other situations. For example, certain conjunctions will require the subjunctive, so let’s go over congiuntivo con congiunzioni. Before we go any further, let’s recall what a conjunction is. Derived from the Latin word jungere, which means to join, this is a word that connects two other words, two phrases, or two clauses. We have seen many conjunctions before, but we didn’t have to use the subjunctive with them. That’s because the conjunctions we have learned thus far all required the indicative mood. To be thorough, let’s quickly remember which conjunctions those were, and how we used them. First, the ones that mean because: For this we typically use perchè, but we could also use: These were used as follows. Now that we have refamiliarized ourselves with the conjunctions we know, let’s learn some new ones, the ones that will require the subjunctive. First, we have the finale, like affinchè, which means in order that. Perchè can also have this meaning in a certain context. Then there are the concessive, which all roughly translate to although. Next, the temporali, which mean before, or until. Next, the eccettuative, which roughly means unless. These mean something like provided that. And lastly, the ipotetiche. These roughly mean in case. So that is a lengthy list of conjunctions, but it will be easier to remember if we just recall these categories and what they mean, which isn’t too difficult, because things like although, until, and unless all produce the uncertainty that we normally associate with the subjunctive mood. Let’s note that the subject of the main clause and the subject of the subordinate clause must be different in certain cases, such as with prima che, senza che, and affinchè. And that wraps up our overview of the subjunctive used with conjunctions, so let’s check comprehension.