 narkit. He knows a lot about the science stuff. Professor Dave explains. With some basic information covered, the next few tutorials in this series will give us an overview of the forces and symmetries that make up the standard model. Through understanding these forces and symmetries, we will gain an appreciation for the ways that particles can interact with each other, as well as the way that their behavior can be studied, to uncover fundamental truths about our universe. In the words of Steven Weinberg, a Nobel Prize-winning theoretical physicist, the universe is an enormous direct product of representations of symmetry groups. Let's learn about what that means. As we previously discussed, there are five bosons, or force carrier particles. Each of the forces described by the standard model has a corresponding boson. The photon mediates the electromagnetic force, the W and Z bosons mediate the weak nuclear force, and the gluon mediates the strong nuclear force. Then there is the Higgs. The most recently discovered particle in the standard model is a bit of an outlier, as it is not directly responsible for mediating a force in the traditional sense. Rather, it gives mass to fermions and the W and Z bosons through interactions with the Higgs field. Let's now discuss these bosons and the forces they mediate in more detail. The interactions that mediate forces or generate particle mass arise from underlying fundamental symmetries. Symmetry is one of the most important and powerful concepts in all of physics. It's not just a mathematical concept, but rather a powerful principle that heavily influences our understanding of the laws of nature. In 1917, Emmy Noether famously identified that every continuous symmetry of a system corresponds to a conservation law. Her idea, known as Noether's theorem, is widely regarded as one of the most important in all of physics. This theorem provides a framework to explain symmetries in a more physical sense. For example, the symmetry of spatial translation, which means that moving a system around doesn't change the physics of the system, directly results in the conservation of momentum within that system. Additionally, the idea of time translation symmetry, which means that shifting time forward or backward doesn't change the laws of physics, enforces that energy must be conserved within a system. Conservation of energy and momentum are two extremely valuable conservation laws that underpin a lot of fascinating physics. And Noether's theorem tells us that these come directly from symmetries. This means that symmetries must be pretty important. Another important concept related to symmetries is called gauge symmetry. Gauge symmetry is the idea that if a certain transformation is applied on a system, called a gauge transformation, the system is unchanged. This allows for different gauges to be selected that are all perfectly valid for the system. However, as Matt Schwartz says in his Quantum Field Theory and the Standard Model textbook, gauge invariance is not physical, it is not observable, and is not a symmetry of nature. Most physicists think of gauge symmetry as a redundancy that appears in the way we write equations, rather than a real symmetry. So unlike other symmetries, where a transformation would leave the system dynamics unchanged, but modify the state or observables, a gauge transformation physically does nothing. Even so, it is a very useful concept to understand, and necessary for learning the Standard Model. Say we have a field, psi of x, that is invariant under rotation. That is, the field will be unchanged if it is rotated in the complex plane by an angle theta, not a rotation in physical space. We can apply a gauge transformation where we multiply psi of x by e to the i times theta of x. What we can measure and observe will be unchanged by this gauge transformation, implying a gauge symmetry of rotation around the complex plane. This is known as U1 symmetry, and it is the underlying symmetry of electromagnetism. It's also what is known as a local symmetry, because theta is a function of x. This means the transformation can vary from point to point, or theta can take a different value at each position in spacetime. If theta were constant everywhere, the symmetry would be global instead. In the case of electromagnetism, the global gauge symmetry corresponds to electric charge conservation. Another way to think about gauge symmetry is as follows. The electric field E is defined as the negative gradient of some electric scalar potential phi, plus the derivative of some magnetic vector potential A with respect to time. This implies that if we were to add some scalar quantity to A, the electric field would be unchanged, because the derivative with respect to time of A would be unchanged by that scalar addition. This means we can choose any gauge of A plus a scalar without changing the electric field. This is an example of a gauge symmetry of the electric field. Other gauge symmetries that are important in the standard model are SU2 for the weak interaction and SU3 for the strong interaction. The gauge group known as SU3 times SU2 times U1 defines the full symmetry of the standard model. The reasoning behind the naming convention of these gauge symmetries lies in the matrices that can represent these gauge transformations, but that goes beyond the scope of this tutorial. However, this shows that symmetry is fundamental to the way that forces, and therefore bosons, are defined within the standard model. We're now going to discuss a few more symmetries that commonly appear within physics. These are known as the discrete symmetries. If a process is unchanged by every particle in that process being replaced by their corresponding antiparticle, thus flipping all the charges, it is said to be a process that has charge conjugation symmetry, abbreviated as C. This symmetry is obeyed within electromagnetism, but not within the weak force. Parity symmetry, abbreviated as P, means that if spatial coordinates are reflected, like looking in a mirror, a process is unchanged. This is also violated by the weak force, as was proven through observing the beta decay of cobalt-60. However, it is conserved within the electromagnetic and strong forces. There is a combined symmetry, known as CP, that requires both charge and parity to be symmetric within a process. Again, C and P are violated by the weak force, and it also violates CP. This violation is thought to be responsible for the asymmetry between matter and antimatter in our current universe, but that will be discussed in detail later. Time symmetry, abbreviated AST, is more straightforward. If the direction of time is flipped and a process is unchanged, it is said to have time reversal symmetry. The continuous version of time reversal symmetry is the time translation symmetry that is tied to energy conservation, as was mentioned earlier. When time is combined with charge and parity, this is a symmetry known as CPT. This symmetry is considered a cornerstone of the standard model. No violations of CPT have been observed. It is a symmetry of any interaction. Experiments have demonstrated that if CP is violated, T is violated in a way that it cancels out, and CPT is not violated. It is believed to be impossible to construct a quantum field theory that violates CPT. However, there are ongoing tests that are attempting to observe violation of CPT. An observation of that would force scientists to seriously rethink some major components of the standard model. Another interesting consequence of parity symmetry within physics is that mathematical objects can be defined using it. A scalar is a quantity unchanged by a parity flip, or A of X equals A of negative X. A pseudo-scalar's sign flips when parity flips, or A of X equals negative A of negative X. A vector's sign flips when parity flips, or V of X equals negative V of negative X. Finally, an axial vector, also known as a pseudo-vector, is unchanged by a parity flip, or V of X equals V of negative X. To close off this tutorial on symmetries, let's discuss a few more symmetries that you should keep in mind as we move through the series. You've heard of spin, a quantum property related to angular momentum. We're used to thinking of spin as a kind of intrinsic angular momentum that a particle has, even if it isn't literally spinning in space. But in quantum field theory, spin comes from symmetries. The standard model is built on the principle of Lorentz invariance. This invariance comes from Einstein's reworking of gravitation, and it means the laws of physics have to look the same to all observers, regardless of how fast they're moving or in which direction. The group of transformations that corresponds to this symmetry is called the Lorentz group. When you classify all the possible types of particles allowed by this Lorentz invariance, you find that each one is labeled by a number that describes how it transforms under Lorentz transformations. That number is what we call spin. So to put it simply, spin is a label that tells us how a particle responds to fundamental symmetries. There are other spin-like symmetries. Isospin was originally introduced to explain a puzzle in nuclear physics. Protons and neutrons are not the same particle. One is charged, the other is neutral. However, they behave almost identically under the strong force. To account for this, physicists proposed that protons and neutrons are just two states of a more fundamental object, which they called a nucleon. Isospin treats this like a kind of symmetry, similar to how spin treats up and down states. The proton has I equals one-half, or isospin up, and the neutron has I equals negative one-half, or isospin down. This is an approximate symmetry that holds well within strong interactions. However, other particles have isospin values. Another important quantity, hypercharge, is a quantum number that accounts for isospin, electric charge, and flavor. All of these symmetries are essential parts of formulating the theories behind electrodynamics, chromodynamics, and the weak interaction that we'll discuss over the next few tutorials. So let's move forward and check out QED next. J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J