You mentioned the actor Terrence Howard. >> Oh, he's a piece of work. >> Yeah. >> He's he's on Rogue and and he now he's he's been in some amazing films like Prisoners and and the first Iron Man film, >> but he also said he could build the Milky Way galaxy with gravity and a bunch of just wacky stuff. Tell me about Terren Howard, would you? >> Yeah. Uh uh Terrence Howard is a genuinely mentally ill, delusional narcissist who has convinced himself he's the greatest genius in human history and has revolutionized physics and mathematics and chemistry and all this uh stuff. And I think he really believes it on some level. Um and so he had a moment of virality about a year ago and uh I I kind of usurped it. I took advantage of it and got my own little viral moment because the I've done a few pieces on him, but the first one that I did based on his first Rogan appearance, I don't think Rogan will touch him anymore because the backlash has been like, "Dude, what what is going on?" Like, who is falling for this stuff? But, um, he's just completely insane. Spews utter nonsense word salad with science buzzwords that he does not he doesn't know what they mean and pretends to be a genius. And um I mean he it's interesting because the second piece I did on him was when Eric Eric Weinstein went on Rogan with Terrence to talk about all this stuff that Terrence says. And it's fascinating because they're basically the same except that Eric knows what he's talking about a lot more than Terrence does. Obviously he understands math. Um but they're both just trying their hardest to sound intelligent to generate a cult following. They're exactly the same in their intent and they're relying on the same anti-establishment, anti-academia narrative. So, it I my second piece was dunking on Terrence and Moore, but also dunking on Eric trying to navigate this uh this terrain of simultaneously putting himself way above Terrence, which he is, but also lambasting the academic community. How dare they? How dare Neil Degrasse Tyson insult Terrence by responding with this very polite video response, you know, critiquing the his gibberish and, you know, how dare they uh, you know, uh, ice him out of peer review. Peer review. The guy can't do second grade math. Like, what do you mean peer review? There's nothing to talk about here. So, it's just a it's a weird uh, yeah, I mean, Rogan in general is just a complete circus show. just having conversations and you and I bang our heads against the