Hey everyone, quick question. Who's the biggest delusional narcissist on the planet right now? The correct answer is Terrence Howard. And like any true delusional narcissist, no amount of reality or mockery will ever dissuade him from believing he's God's gift to the universe. What's Terry been up to lately? Let's find out. As you'll recall, prompted by his rejection from Hollywood due to being an insufferable maniac, Terry began an internet rampage proclaiming his status as the smartest person in human history despite being a complete [\h__\h] who can't do second grade math. We've covered much of this in previous videos, pulling mainly from his appearances on Joe Rogan's podcast. In those videos, we highlighted his fraudulent claims and profound incompetence. From his fumbling of basic arithmetic to his silly little shapes and imaginary patents to the drone he paid someone to make for him that he thinks can fly in space to his claims of having revolutionized chemistry and physics. After the initial backlash and humiliation, since not that many people are dumb enough to fall for his ramblings, he kept quiet for a bit. But he's licked his wounds and he's back to try and reclaim some dignity. Because a true delusional narcissist will never accept any reality other than their own fabricated one in which they are the quisatar and Terry is as delusional as they come. The main thing I will be covering today is a recent appearance of his on the PBD podcast since that's been getting a lot of traction. But there is one other amusing video I'd like to hit before diving into that since it's super short and absolutely hilarious. The video is called Terrence Howard: Three Body Problems Solved. First things first, what is the threebody problem? Yes, it's a relatively underwhelming sci-fi series on Netflix. But what is it in physics? Well, it's just what it sounds like. It describes the challenges associated with making predictions about a system involving three celestial bodies that all exert gravitational influence on one another. When there are two bodies, it's very easy to use classical mechanics to calculate what will happen. This would be like one planet going around one star. The math is very simple. Throwing a third body in there, like an additional planet that will perturb the orbit of the first planet and in turn have its own orbit perturbed, makes the math way more complicated. In fact, strictly speaking, there is no rigid general closed form solution for such a system due to the constantly shifting center of mass for the system. It's quite easy to make approximations, which we do all the time given that we know where all the planets in the solar system will be at any given time in the future, and there are eight of those. But we are using approximations nonetheless. Something which is quite easy for a solar system where the overwhelming majority of the mass is contained in the star at the center. So the shift in the center of mass for the system as the planets proceed through their orbits is negligible. An even better example would be comparing a binary star system to a trinary star system. Two stars orbiting each other is easy to describe mathematically. Three stars that are gravitationally bound will generate motion that is chaotic. We can still generate computational models to predict what will happen. It's just not rigidly solvable with a simple mathematical formula like with a two-body system, which was solved all the way back in Newton's time. There are also special limiting cases of three-body systems that are solvable, such as when the third body is of negligible mass in comparison to the first two. So really, it's an interesting aspect of applied mathematics, but it actually isn't some enormous catastrophe for astrophysics. We can model celestial dynamics very successfully anyway. So, that's what the threebody problem is. Terrence does not know what the threebody problem is. I mean, he genuinely has no idea. Like, didn't even bother googling it to get the gist of it. And yet, through divine providence, Terry has solved it. He solved something that is literally impossible to solve. And he did it without even knowing what it is. Isn't that something? Here he is now enlightening us with his supreme wisdom. Not in front of a whiteboard where he can show us math. Heavens know. He's just in some random place outside. Obviously, because he's a super thoughtful and supremely wise sage that is one with nature. You wouldn't understand. Just watch. March 20th, 2025, the eve of the spring equinox. This is a gift to the world on its birthday. Happy birthday. It's the world's birthday now. Where did he get that? He thinks it's possible to pinpoint a singular day for the formation of the earth and also that he knows what day that is. Never mind. Let's get to the point. my friends, my fellow seekers of truth, and all those who have ever gazed up at the stars and and pondered the infinite dance of the cosmos. Today, we gather at the threshold of a new understanding. You see, for centuries, the threebody problem, it has stood as an unsolvable enigma, a testament to the chaos that emerges when celestial bodies interact under the invisible hand of great gravity. Yes, saying great gravity in a sarcastic tone because you're an electric universe nutter who doesn't believe in gravity is totally a great way to preface you pretending that you've solved an impossible to solve problem pertaining to gravitation. And think great minds from Newton to point air all wrestled with its unpredictable nature of the threebody problem and as a result for centuries chaos reigned. Wait, chaos reigned? Like for humans? You think being unable to solve a hypothetical mathematical problem is responsible for political strife? But today, on this equinox, this day of perfect balance, we unveil a solution. One that's not bound by the limitations of classical thought, but rather guided by the harmony of the universe itself. You said it was the eve of the equinox. Now it's the equinox. Sounds like time dilation to me. Anyway, show us this universal harmony that transcends the limitations of classical thought. Terry, show us some kick-ass nextle math, which I'm assuming you'll overlay on the screen digitally since nobody would be dumb enough to pretend that they've solved a mathematical problem without showing any math whatsoever through the lynchpin geometry, tetran dynamics, and of course, the high comma. Well, that's just a list of dumb things you made up. Except the third one. What was that? Did he say Howard comma? I actually didn't know this, but that's another way of referencing the Oxford comma, which is an optional final comma in a list of three or more items. Something that is used by anyone who isn't a grammatical heathen. Does he think punctuation is going to help him do math? We present a model that transforms instability into resonance, chaos into order. and uncertainty into elegant predictability. That sounds awesome. So what is it? Do you have some slides or something? By embedding the threebody system into a curve linear tetrahedral structure. We have discovered a a self correcting harmonic framework that eliminates any divergence. curve a linear tetrahedral structure. Yeah, that definitely doesn't mean anything. Curve linear implies curves. A tetrahedrin is comprised of straight lines. Something that you regularly say doesn't exist anyway. Self-correcting harmonic framework also doesn't mean anything. You just don't know what harmonics are. I guess that's why you're not showing anything since there's no way to create anything that physically represents the random words you've thrown together to sound intelligent. It stabilizes orbits. It unveils the hidden rhythms of the cosmos. This isn't just some academic achievement. This is a gift to humanity itself. Do you regularly give gifts that are just empty boxes? Because we're all still waiting to see the thing you're pretending to be giving us. I would hate to be one of Terry's kids on Christmas. Look, it's a puppy. Dad, this box is empty. I hate you. Go play with your lynch pin, you ungrateful little jerk. It's a shift in how we perceive the so-called forces that govern our reality. From astrophysics to quantum mechanics, from celestial navigation to the very structure of the universe itself. This discovery right here redefes what is possible. What discovery are you looking at something below the frame? Is there something there we can't see? Can you scribble something on a piece of paper? Anything? And so on this birthday of the earth, this single moment of cosmic symmetry, we are going to release this knowledge freely to the world. Let this be the spark that illuminates a new path where no one has to fear chaos, but can embrace the harmony that underlines everything. This is the dawn of a new understanding. I don't know about all this cosmic symmetry [\h__\h] but if you want to give us a new understanding, you have to first show us that you understand a single word you've said in this entire video, because it sure sounds like you don't. Let us step forward together on March 20th, 2025. Slow down, champ. Catch your breath. Where do you want to go? Where do you want to step with us? And also, where the [\h__\h] are you going with this incoherent rambling? Let's maybe wrap it up. This is the day the threebody enigma was solved. Happy Birthday World by Terrence D. Howard and Christy C. Who? Chris. Christy. What is that? Your imaginary friend or do you have a mathematician tied up in your Airbnb? How many different hallucinagens are you on right now? Amazingly, that's the end of the video. I have no idea why he thought it was a good idea to post something so profoundly idiotic. Is there really nothing else? Let's look at the description. Here's a link. Wow, a website. Lynchpin. A his cute shape. What are all these tabs? Hm. Materials. Our services. Oh boy. Choose a package. Basic package. What is he running? A [\h__\h] spa. Oh no. Maybe you want to launch a business creative project. Oh [\h__\h] This is it. This is the grift. Let's try the deluxe package. Creative project. Wait, isn't this the same exact description? For 500 bucks, it better come with a [\h__\h] ton of these towels. Gold package. It's the exact same thing again, but with a bathrobe and a candle. You guys, I was not prepared for this. Oh, but let's see what they are saying. Lorie says that it all begins with an idea. Yeah, that makes sense. What about Jamie? Oh, same quote. Maybe that's a mistake. Lindsay, [\h__\h] me. Lindsay says it, too. What are the odds? Well, it looks like Terry is as good at running a scam website as he is at doing basic math. Good god, this is the most pathetic thing I've ever seen. Let's try merchandise. Okay, some drones, which are clearly CGI and don't actually exist. Ooh, some snazzy lights. No prices listed, but handcrafted by Terry. I'm sure they work and everything. Ooh, t-shirts. 1* 1 equals 2, obviously. And here's one where he has a square root going across an equal sign. Classic Terry. Now, let's try knowledge base. Wow, look. It's threebody problem stuff. Maybe he has some math after all. Let's try resolving the threebody problem. Hey, look. A thing with words and it's a whole three pages by Terry and Chris D. Seely. That must be who he was talking about in the Iawaska video. Let's see if we can find out who this is. Hm. 3D modeling, physics simulation, and scientific visualization at the Church of Truth, Love, and Consciousness. Oh, so he's some random dude that Terry pays to make his Blender animations. Got it. Ooh, a publication. The geometry of the proton and the tetrion shape. Yeah, that checks out. Okay, back to the fake paper. Wow, it accurately states what the threebody problem is. That's unexpected. Okay, 1.2. Oh, that's not great. It's just Terry's gibberish. None of these mean anything. That's going to make them pretty hard to define. But let's see what he comes up with. Curve a linear tetrahedral lises in higher dimensions to stabilize the chaotic bifurcation of threebody trajectories. Bifurcation means to split into two branches or parts. He thinks these objects duplicate themselves and go in different directions. What's a curve of linear tetrahedral lattice? Can we see a picture of that? I guess not. Wow, look at this. It's math looking stuff. This must be what Chris was for. Okay. Function kappa of t. What's kappa h? He didn't define it. That's a shame. The sum of the absolute values of the differences of the three positions. How is he defining these positions? I don't see any axes. He thinks positions are scalers that can be subtracted. Harmonic scaling factors. Where? What? Oh, and dx oft doesn't mean anything. dx is an infinite decimal used in integration, not a function. Yikes. He should have gotten a freshman year math major instead of Chris. Bifurcation through I and -1 dimensions. How adorably meaningless. He thinks dimension means realms or something spooky. To further correct chaotic instabilities. I didn't know he had started. He's got the multiplication symbol from grade school in there since that's as far as he got. He definitely doesn't mean crossroduct since these are functions, not vectors. And he's got f of kappa and g of kappa in there. Kappa being the function we just saw, not a variable. So he's taking the function of a function and the new functions are not defined except to say they are curvature correcting harmonic functions. Cool. Did you want to display them, Chief? No, you're just going to describe them vaguely. Got it. Ooh, the Howard, harmonic correction, H of kappa. This one has calculus in it, you guys. This function is the integral from 0 to t of gamma of cappa t prime dt prime which equals approximately zero. Holy [\h__\h] that's a lot of stupid. In calculus, the prime symbol denotes differentiation. So he's trying to differentiate his infinite decimal while pretending that a function of one variable can equal the integral of a function of that variable and another variable. And this must be approximately zero without actually evaluating the integral, which of course is impossible since none of these functions are defined. Wow. What's next? Summation notation. What are we summing up here? Unclear. The perturbative Hamiltonian. Wow. And he does use the letter H in everything. Of course, just the letter, not the actual operator symbol. and which would have absolutely no application here whatsoever anyway since it's used in quantum mechanics and thus has absolutely nothing to do with celestial dynamics. Also, these double brackets can't possibly mean anything. If it's absolute value, then putting it twice is redundant. Sometimes double vertical brackets mean taking the norm of a vector or function. But these r terms are neither vectors nor functions. He also has h depending on h of kappa. Proof of periodicity. M of kappa equals and then nothing on the other side. Switching instead to stating that r belongs to three-dimensional space colon the gradient of h of kappa equals zero. This is mathematical gibberish of the highest order. I repeat this is not real math. This is what people who don't know any math think real math looks like. It's like going ching chong ting tang and pretending you're speaking Mandarin. computation, validation, and results. We perform numerical simulations. What the [\h__\h] is a numerical simulation? You mean doing math? That's funny. I haven't seen any yet. But don't worry, these imaginary simulations resulted in orbits stabilizing along resonance nodes. Orbits of what? Where? Can we see it? Also, you think that the threebody problem is supposed to stabilize trajectories of orbits? You're confusing math with science, kiddo. This is my favorite part. Classical solutions. Chaotic divergence with unpredictable trajectory bifurcations. Trajectories can't bifurcate. And there is no classical solution. Corrected solution. Stable periodic orbits. Stabilized by harmonic nodes. Orbits of what? Stabilized where? Harmonic nodes. Who? This is pathetic. And they finish with discussion and future work. They're already thinking about future work when they haven't even done an ounce of work to begin with. It's very clear that one of two things is true. Either Terry paid someone who also doesn't understand math to write some super short mathy looking thing or somebody who doesn't understand math convinced Terry that he understands the gibberish Terry Spuse and can make math out of it and then got paid to do that. Now, it's here on this website so that the most gullible people alive can glance at it, think, "Gee, that looks like real math, I guess." And then buy one of his $500 spa package life coaching sessions with the bonus bathrobe. Ridiculous. Now, we're going to get to that podcast episode. But first, a quick message. In this post-truth era, it's tough to stay informed. Whatever's going on in science or politics, there are so many narratives being spun. How can you be sure that a particular news source is reliable? For example, RFK is in the news right now talking about autism research. What is it all about? You know, the coverage is going to be all over the map. Praise, condemnation. So, what are the facts? You could read 100 sources and compare, but who has time for that? The solution is ground news. Ground News gathers related articles from all over the internet and provides you with context about each source's political leanings, reliability, and ownership so that you can quickly get the bigger picture. For the RFK story, Ground News turns up 356 sources. We get the breakdown of their political leanings. We get a bias distribution. This one seems pretty balanced with its coverage. Ground News provides some bullet points as a summary, and then we go to the headlines. Each one is accompanied with information about the source, who owns it, a factuality rating, and more. We can read about a sadistic attack on children's health, as well as claims about revealing the cause of autism. How can these be so dissimilar? We can learn a lot about the story by identifying trends in the language the sources select. And this is very useful to me if I want to not only cut to the truth of an issue, but also analyze the tactics that are being used by propaganda peddlers. Cut through sensationalism and bias. Avoid algorithmic filter bubbles to access different viewpoints. Go to ground.news/p or scan this QR code to subscribe for 40% off the unlimited access Vantage subscription. That brings the price down to about $5 a month. That's ground.newspe or just scan the QR code on screen and subscribe today. All right, back to making fun of Terry. Now, I had never heard of this PBD podcast that he was recently on, but it's hosted by a guy named Patrick Bet David, and unsurprisingly, he is also complete garbage. His background is in finance, getting his start as a financial adviser in banking before starting his own multi-level marketing agency scam, then recently pivoting to loweffort sensationalist entertainment, exploiting conservative biases to insulate himself from criticism of his scamming. I don't feel the need to expand on what a fraud this guy is since I focus on covering charlatans who promote science denial, and plenty of other people have already torn this guy to shreds. But a quick look through his previous podcast episodes will at least serve to demonstrate that his content is total horseshit. that is not worth watching. Flat-earthers, pseudoarchchaeology frauds like Graham Hancock, Randall Carlson and Billy Carson, big pharma exposed, Zionist mouthpiece Douglas Murray, lies about voter fraud in 2020, and of course, Trump himself. That makes it the perfect place for Terry to whine about what a super mega genius he is and how none of the stupid close-minded ivory Tower elites will recognize his genius. Let's get to him doing exactly that right from the first second of the video. So after I'm done here today, I'm going to put online the equations necessary to have unlimited energy just to say you to the world. Interesting. Interesting. I was going to go with insane. What's most hilarious is that the shitty stock footage of random math equations he overlaid on this Stinger intro is the only real math we will see for the entire episode. Can we get Dr. You out here, Rob, if you don't mind? Yes. You guys have never met. Never met. And you're currently working for NASA. That That's correct. Wow. I was confused when he said NASA, but then I saw the random stock footage of a rocket and it clicked. Okay. Who is this guy? Wiping Yu. Seems like he is indeed a physicist. Also an author, a radio show co-host, founder of UN Theory. He describes it on LinkedIn. Oh, okay. A super awesome theory of everything. So, he's a crackpot following in the footsteps of Mitchioaku and Eric Weinstein. That checks out. Sounds like Terry found this guy, offered him a bunch of money and publicity to pretend that his [\h__\h] means something, and then covered his tracks by having PBD say, "You guys have never met." Anyway, this intro goes on way too long. Let's just get to the actual start of the conversation. So, for most of us, when we think about Terren Howard, we think about an actor. We think about Iron Man. We think about different movies he's been in, right? All over the place. But one day in 2019 when he retires, he talks about he has some findings. He has certain patents. He has 90 plus patents. He didn't retire. Most of Hollywood just refuses to work with him. And we've already dealt with this 98 patents [\h__\h] That's just a lie. So this should be rich. And then Terrence and I start speaking and he says, "I want you to put my white papers through any kind of AI to look at it and have some folks look at it." Well, we just saw how pathetic his fake paper is. So that's not going to go very well. Hopefully that happens during this interview. When you and I were speaking, we're going back and forth and Pat, can you read this? Can you read that? Can you read this? All the and I'm and I'm reading it. It's as if I'm reading a different language, right? Because this is not my space. I'm not in this business. I'm not in in uh I I I'm good in numbers when it comes down to financials, but different numbers that we're talking about here. However, yes, you never studied any math, so you can't tell that this is a bunch of fake math. That's not surprising. And of course, Terry is rocking the goddamn Panama hat and headphones over the hoodie yet again. So, he clearly hasn't had any sense knocked into him over the past few months. Let's go. So, then we decided to let's now challenge the idea of gravity. And we in comparison to a resonance model like the universe is not based upon force but based upon resonance, you know, but based upon harmonic frequencies. So we decided to let's put the lynch pin in the proper place and let's re since we are saying that this is the common factor that everything comes from it. Let's put a number of lynch pins in rotation and see if we can rebuild the planet Saturn. And we're off to the races. Terry is in a permanent state of mania. It's breathtaking. Gravity exists. You don't know what resonance means. Forces definitely exist. You don't know what frequency means. Putting your dumb shape in the proper place doesn't mean anything. Nothing comes from your dumb shape. And you've never built a planet. I already regret deciding to do this. Well, we were able to do that without gravity, without dark energy, without dark matter. How can and without animation. Literally rebuild the planet Saturn in a simulation with the hexagon at the top of it. And we were like, okay, they will take this seriously. People don't take it seriously because it is specifically an animation. You've never simulated anything. I forgot. You don't attack somebody's god. Gravity has been their god for a long, long time. Whose god? The traditional scientist. Science. All of the world. Gravity isn't a god. It's just a thing that exists and we study it. You should crack open a middle school textbook and start learning about it instead of humiliating yourself on the internet. If I'm on a set with you doing a movie, would I meet this Terrence? Like, if we're sitting, we're not shooting, we're sitting, we're waiting for something. Are you speaking to me like this or No, this is the only Terrence there is. Terry is telling the truth here. He's always acting like this. Many other actors have reported that he never shuts the [\h__\h] up about this stuff on set, which has to be incredibly annoying when you're preparing to shoot a scene. The only terance there is is the one that's trying to change the world, that's trying to provide the free energy, that's trying to provide the the new geometry that will allow us to fit with the universe instead of competing against the universe. Again, Terry doesn't know what free energy is. He thinks it means not costing anything. He doesn't understand eighth grade geometry. And I don't know about you, but I'm pretty sure I fit in the universe just fine. And I'm sure as [\h__\h] not competing with it, so this is meaningless. I would love to talk to Mel Gibson because Mel I see his mind always jumping. You haven't? I haven't and have never had the pleasure of meeting him yet. You've never met Mel Gibson? Never met Mel Gibson. Yeah. Mel's a little busy making another shitty Jesus movie at the moment. Also, since you'd think you're God, that would probably upset him. He's not a big fan of blasphemy and he's a hitter. Oh, wait. That's something you have in common. Wife beating. Maybe you'll get along like peas and carrots after all. Because there are no straight lines. Every action has an equal and opposite reaction. The greater the action, the greater the reaction. The greater the reaction, greater the resistance. Greater the resistance, greater the curvature. Which means everything is curved. So measuring the universe with straight lines and with flat planes is an illogical and irrational thing to do if you're measuring curved living moving reality. And that that is what they refuse to change. Straight to the classics. I see. Hey dumbass, there are plenty of curves and curved surfaces in math. They're kind of everywhere. Starting in seventh grade algebra. Stop whining about what mathematicians are doing when you can't even keep up with little kids with braces. When even watching Weinstein, Eric with you, it's like, look, we love what you're doing and and you know, but stop doing it. Yeah. But stop doing it because peer review. You're not one of our peers. You're not qualified enough to get a peer review, but we'll give you an opinion on this. Right. That was kind of like the the establishment side towards you. Eric Weinstein is not the establishment. He's not a working physicist. He gets paid by Peter Teal to spew propaganda on the internet. He is specifically an anti-establishment fraud. That's why he was more charitable to you than any other educated person would be because he pushes an anti-establishment narrative and yet he still had to explain how everything you say is wrong and dumb. What was your biggest takeaway after your four hours with Eric and Joe and what's happened ever since? Well, I gave Eric a great deal of grace. You know, he was a little rude and cut me off a lot of times, but that's that's the nature of h being in a position of authority. You didn't give him grace. You were a clueless toddler that was exposed as being utterly incapable of discussing mathematics with someone who does actually understand it. and the interaction through minimal coupling of the matter with the force that's in the line above. Right? And then the last three terms are the fudge factor due to Peter Higgs because when we found out in the late 50s everyone watched you humiliate yourself for several hours non-stop. Instead of learning your lesson here you are rewriting history just like any delusional narcissist would do. The wave conjugation so you understand is the electric part of the world is how plasma is the contractive part. The all shapes are the expansive stuff that describes radiations work. Um the the lynch pin is the constitution between the two. It's the friend. It's the translator between the big and the little. So you understand PBD. You understand now, right? It's really simple. One shape is electricity. Other shapes are expansion. This other thing is a pocket translator, magnetism is cookie dough, and buy my self-help book for five easy payments of 1999. And I took all these things to his house. I thought he would evaluate them. I thought he would send them throughout his friends. And then I watched him go on Pierce Morgan and literally say um that 99% of everything I said was bath water. Was [\h__\h] Sweetie, Eric is a [\h__\h] He had you over for dinner because you're famous. He knows you're an idiot and he had to say so on Pierce because absolutely nobody will take him seriously if he doesn't. We we've been able to take those same things that he called bathwater and apply them to the threebody problem and solve a 300year-old problem that Newton couldn't solve that point care couldn't solve. You mean that dog [\h__\h] three-page pamphlet with a few lines of gibberish that does not even depict the threebody problem, let alone attempt to solve it? Yeah, you're not going to get very far with that, champ. First question the academia is going to ask is what is your qualification? What is your education? Where did you go to? And it seems like some of these guys came out and say, "Well, that school this, this school that." No, this is just something grifters say. If you actually had something, nobody would care about your credentials. cuz I went to um I took over went over to South Carolina University um and I took them over the um at the time I had a company where we were growing diamonds um through um not high pressure high temperature but through um chemical vapor deposition and the conversation I was having with them and they were talking about giving me an honorary degree was should have been in chemistry because that's the stuff that we were doing. We were transmuting one thing into another thing. So when I went on that other show and I had my um honorary degree that was given to me, I had no idea it was in I had no idea it was in humanities. I thought it was going to be in the thing that I went to talk to them about. You've never grown diamonds. Even if you had, you would not have been transmuting elements. Even if you had, that would be physics, not chemistry. So you don't know what chemistry is. A university gave you a fake degree as a prize because you're a famous actor. That's all credibility after 1 * 1 * 2 1 * 1 equals 2. How do you come up with that conclusion? Well, if if I was wrong, then they wouldn't have made such a big stink about it. Totally. Anyone can make up any [\h__\h] they want. And if other people explain how it's wrong, it must be right. Nothing wrong with that logic. What a [\h__\h] If he wasn't such a narcissist, he would just admit that he was wrong about his crappy arithmetic. that would lend him an ounce more credibility with the other [\h__\h] he spews. But narcissists never ever ever admit they're wrong about anything. Can you say James Tour, Mr. Because they have one times one equaling one, right? An action times an action without a reaction. And as a result of it, you get this contradiction with the square root of two being cubed having the same value as the square of 2 * 2, which should say a red flag, a herring right away that there's something wrong with the mathematics. Terry, I know you've watched my content and we've been over this. Cubing roo2 gives you 2 * 2 * 2. 2 * 2 is two. 2 2. I also explained this to you graphically. Remember, see how they intersect here? You not understanding basic math does not validate your other totally unrelated, even shittier, even more basic math. Except with the case of the number two. That's the only prime number that you subtract from another prime number and you end up in a prime number. Why? Because the prime number two is a composite number. Jesus Christ. Subtracting two from a prime number gives you a prime number. Okay, let's take 29. That's prime. Subtract two, you get 27. Whoopsie, not prime. And two is not a composite number. It's a prime number. Prime numbers and composite numbers are literally the exact opposite of each other. And you just called two both a prime and composite number in the same sentence. You're the dumbest person alive. But they've changed that by trying to force that into a prime because they wanted one time one to equal one and the square root of two being 1.414. They say that times itself will equal So it's all convoluted. It's not convoluted. You're just a [\h__\h] Are you saying that roo2 squared does not give two? Because yes, it [\h__\h] does. What is the value of roo2? Yeah, it's an infinite series of digits. So let's just go a bit at a time. 1.4 time 1.4. 4 * 4 is 16. Carry the one. Breezing through the rest. 1.96. Okay, let's try 1.41 * 1.41. What do we get there? Saving some time, we get 1.9881. Now, let's do 1.414 * 1.414. What do we get there? 1.999396. See how we're getting closer and closer to two? So what the [\h__\h] is the problem, Terry? Is all of that multiplication wrong? Is literally all of math wrong just so you're one dumb and wrong thing can be right? The thought process of a narcissist, folks. So then what's one 1.1* 1.1? I don't know. Is it bigger than two? It would it would have to be. Big brain Terry can't do a little math. That's disappointing. It's 1.21. Genius. This is how your [\h__\h] falls apart under the tiniest bit of scrutiny. You get asked one question and suddenly you're clueless. 1* 1 is two. That would mean that 1.1 * 1.1 would be would need to be bigger than two, right? It would have to be. Why? Why wouldn't it be? It's only the mathematics that they're using, the identity principles, the gym, which I call the Jim Crow laws of mathematics. That's the thing that holds them back. Ah, yes. the Jim Crow laws of mathematics. Anyone who shits on Terry's dumb grift must be racist, everyone. There are no identity principles in math. In logic, the law of identity says that everything is identical to itself. This is so obvious that it's redundant, has nothing to do with arithmetic, and is just his desperate attempt to change the subject from actual math back to his [\h__\h] word salad. Let's just say if I have uh a a$110 cents in a stock, okay, and that goes up 1.1%. What is it? A110 cents in a stock, but it goes up 1.1% rate of return in my stock portfolio. What's 1.1 of A110? Look it up on the calculator. It's a buck 21. Oh, you mean the calculator that you pretend doesn't work because it says 1* 1 is 1? I thought you were smarter than a calculator, Terry. Can't you do one little calculation? It's those tricky decimal places, isn't it? Don't worry. A lot of third graders have a tough time with that. But like even with what you just did, like if I asked you what's 10 *10*10 says 01, right? Right. No, it's 0.01. 01 brainiacs. But we know that 010 is a dime. Okay, we know that a dime times a dime. 10 dimes time 10 dimes equals a dollar. Should equal a dollar. 10 dimes time 10 dimes is 100 dimes squared, which doesn't mean anything. Thank you for showing everyone that you have no clue what multiplication is. If we turn it into physical things, that's what I'm saying. Let's turn it. The problem with our math is they've reversed. They've they've allowed it to be all imaginary. It does not have any physical resemblance. It's all fiat. Terry, only little kids learn arithmetic with word problems, and you're too stupid to understand those anyway. Like this one. You have one basket that contains one apple. How many apples do you have? One basket times one apple per basket equals one apple. 1* 1 is 1. Do you get it? Now that I used real world things that your tiny PE brain can understand, since our econ economics are still based on this linear flat plane geometry, right? You can still use the 1* 1 equaling one to perform their economic growth and their economic um reactions. But if you're dealing with universal interactions, you have our money may go out linearly and we may measure it on a flat plane, but as far as the universe behaving, how energy behaves, energy curves and wraps back around itself. Energy doesn't follow a linear path. Oh, okay. 1* 1 can equal one if it's about money only because money is lines. There are no lines. But money is lines, but also energy is curves. And universe curvy energy stuff makes math wrong. So I'm still right about my [\h__\h] math if we aren't talking about money. Please stop talking about money. You mean money, man. Folks like you are important, very important because anybody that challenges the status quo, that puts the establishment uh uh against the wall to kind of have to prove themselves. I love it. Yeah. Terry being unable to do basic arithmetic totally puts the status quo up against the wall. Good call Pat. Do you mind just taking a moment and share? You have certain number of patents. I don't know what the number is. Say 30 30 something patents. No, it's a it's right now we have over 90 something separate patents. Um we have 30 different trademarks and copyrights, but most of the stuff are are hard patents. And and the patents are they all in the states or all in the states? Well, I've got them worldwide. You have to You started filing them here, but a lot of them are redundant patents in other countries. What is this, Rob? That's just how many uh according to chat GPT. Okay. 94 patents with 60 go. Okay. This is either not accurate or just not even legitimate chat GPT output. According to a 2025 analysis, what also Terry is too stupid to even make it legitimize the lie he just told. 94 applications, 60 granted, 84% of which are active. That's a very different number, even if it was real, which it isn't. He's never innovated any ARVR. That lie comes from one rejected patent application, as we've covered in previous videos. The only one that's not a lie is that he has a handful of design patents on jewelry. Whoopde-doo. Here's what chat GPT says when I ask it how many patents Terry has. No publicly available information indicating that he holds any patents. Now, let's ask ChatGpt why Terry lies about having patents. He just believes he does. He's doing it for attention. In short, he's nuts and a fraud. What have you found where the average person can benefit from? And if you're sitting there, you said this is worth in the trillions of dollars. And you and I are speaking before, you're like, if another country gets their hands on this, it's an end of America. What have you found? Well, we've been able to innovate. The first thing that everybody already knows about is the tangential flight with Lynchpin. We have provided tangential flight, the ability to fly around your own center of mass, and unlimited midair bonding. I mean, it's the end of cranes. Yeah, it's the end of cranes. Terry's dumb drones can lift what cranes can lift. That's why there's so much footage of him demonstrating that. Except no, there isn't because he can't do that. And also he didn't invent any drone. He just paid someone to make a drone based on his dumb shape that didn't innovate anything new whatsoever. You have flight vehicles that deal with, you know, that are able to deal with the air or deal with space or deal with or deal with the water. You have cars for the land. Yeah. This also is not real chat GPT output. Do you know how I know? Tangential is misspelled. This is a word document. Do you know how else I know? All of this is meaningless [\h__\h] that chat GPT would never say. It mimics natural fractal patterns. How? This is a fractal pattern. How does this dumb drone move anything like this? Ridiculous. Watch what happens when I ask chat GPT to tell me if this sentence that chat GPT allegedly produced actually means anything. First, it acknowledges that tangential is not a word. Then it says flight patterns relating to fractals doesn't mean anything. Then it says universal geometries doesn't mean anything. Then it says the input doesn't explain anything. In short, it does not convey a scientifically meaningful idea. G's Chad GPT make up your mind. We've innovated with um our energy systems. And what I wanted to share with you, um, one of the biggest things that I talked about with the Howard comma, its ability to pull energy directly from the Vanderwalss or from the zero point. You know, we've already provided the a means to do that. Adorable. Vanderwal's forces are electrostatic interactions between neutral molecules. The 0 point energy is the residual energy that exists in the vacuum of spaceime. they couldn't possibly be any more unrelated and he doesn't know what either of them are even though this stuff is learned in high school. The same thing when I talked about burillium utilizing burillium even though there was some idiot um uh chemist that came out and said that what I said concerning burillium was wrong. A you wouldn't be talking about me now would you Terry? Am I such a mean idiot for showing the world what a clueless piece of [\h__\h] you are? You said that the sound of burillium causes water to split into hydrogen and oxygen, which is one of the dumbest things any human being has ever said for about eight different reasons simultaneously. Here's the clip of what you said and my justifiably condescending response. If you have you want to break water into its component parts of hydrogen and oxygen all you have to do is introduce burillium or the sound of burillium and and oxygen will violently break away from any other thing even hydrogen to bond with that burillium. Ah, yes. The infamous they. What are they trying to keep from us now? You want to perform electrolysis on water? But how? Not electricity. Heavens know. Use burillium. But wait, not even burillium itself. Just the sound of burillium. What's that sound again? Yep, that's what burillium sounds like. Startling. No. I'm sorry that I made all the water in your body turn into hydrogen and oxygen gas, and you're dead now. elements don't have sounds. But even funnier than that, burillium is the only alkaline earth metal that does not react with water. Every time he speaks, he's wrong in so many ways simultaneously that it's almost impressive. It sounds like you have some pathetic damage control queued up. Let's hear it, Einstein. But I dare them to compare burillium to or burillium's reaction to oxygen the same way that magnesium behaves with sulfur. The same way that selenium behaves with um magnesium sulfur selenium behaves with um god I just lost my thought. Selenium. Yeah. No no because can you pull it up? Can you Well, no, no. Magnesium. Magnesium is you have um Can you pull up the charts, Rob? Yeah, really quick. The way that selenium Yeah, if you can just pull up the periodic table and zoom in. Selenium's relationship with calcium. Okay. The same relationship that the same way that selenium will mitigate what's taking place inside of calcium, the same way that sulfur will mitigate what's taking place with the magnesium. Oxygen being the equal and opposite made of burillium will mitigate what's taking place with burillium. This is the most pathetic thing I've ever seen. This dumb [\h__\h] is backpedaling from the idiotic [\h__\h] he spewed on Rogan and is now trying to pretend that he was talking about burillium reacting with oxygen. Water isn't oxygen, [\h__\h] They're different substances. Now, to pretend you aren't stupid, you wanted to impress everyone by memorizing the two elements under burillium. magnesium and calcium. And you couldn't even do that. But it wouldn't have helped you look intelligent any more than when you rattle off a dozen digits of pi for no reason because everyone can immediately tell you know absolutely [\h__\h] all about chemistry. These elements don't mitigate anything. It's called a reaction. Of course, alkaline earth metals react with calcent. That's not what you originally said. You were talking about water. Burillium doesn't react with water even when heated. And the sound of burillium sure as [\h__\h] doesn't do anything to water. Nor is that even a thing that exists. You're pathetic and it makes me very very happy to know that my video pissed you off this much. Thank you for giving me that pleasure. So whatever [\h__\h] that was being spoken by those chemists, they do not know what they're talking about. And the problem with utilizing actual burillium is it oxidates. So immediately the cover the surface of it gets covered and so the reaction stops. But if you use the frequency of burillium to separate the oxygen from the hydrogen. Oh my mistake. He's actually going to try and bring back the original [\h__\h] too. Hey dumbass. Oxidate isn't a word you're looking for. Oxidize. What does burillium oxidize? What reaction stops when? Why? And again, frequency of burillium doesn't mean anything. You have no idea what frequency means. We've proved that. Science has proven that. Natural phenomenon has proven that. But they want to ignore that. Establishment scientists has has proven that. They they see it in every in all of their reactions. That's why they're using a lot of the chemists in a mo in a number of the interactions that they have. They'll use burillium for a particular purpose because it will cause oxidation and then they have a means by which to reverse that polarization pushes you know whatever was oxidated onto it and now it opens up the door again for the burillium to work. There's a number of means for it. They've seen it work. I'm sorry. Any human being who listens to a rant like that and can't immediately tell that Terry is completely full of [\h__\h] is genuinely a stupid person. There is no other way to say it. He has no clue what chemistry is. He has no clue what chemists do. He's never run a reaction. He doesn't know what chemical reactions are. He is desperately grasping at random words, including ones he made up, and stringing them together in a manic state. The secondhand embarrassment is overwhelming. There's the white paper on how burillium behaves and how oxygen behaves. Who's broken that white paper down? Um, it's just gone up to my thing. Nobody refu I can't get anyone to do a peer review. I've sent it off to publishers. Publishers refused to review it because Eric Weinstein, Brian Keaton, people came out um said, "I the Dunning Krueger effect." Terry, you paid someone to scribble meaningless gibberish that only looks like science to morons like you who know zero things about science. You're like that one tonedeaf contestant in every season of American Idol who thinks they're going to be the next Michael Jackson. deal with it like an adult. So they're saying you're low competent in this topic. That's what they're saying in this topic. This is what Neil Degrass came out and said. And so now he owes me an apology. Why? Because with those same things that he said had no value. Now we've already put them into a white paper and we've been able to solve the seven millennial problems and the three body problems with the same equations or substances that he said created the Dunning Krueger effect. If you want Neil to [\h__\h] all over your three-page pamphlet that can be debunked by any math undergrad, you'll have to pay him more than you paid PBD to shill for you. Terry, I think Elon is a genius in his entire approach to dealing with society first and foremost. Um, and he's proven himself to be very capable um, as far as finding out where a problem lies and then attacking that problem and bringing the right people to it. Yeah. Elon sure knows how to attack a problem, mainly his problems. He's been actively dismantling government agencies that were investigating all of his companies for a dozen different forms of misconduct. And that's totally awesome for society. Good to see that your grasp of current events is just as dog [\h__\h] as your knowledge of science. I was surprised when I didn't get anything from him after I did the Joe Rogan and showed the lynch pin because of what he's trying to do in space. Hey, dumbass. How many times do I have to explain to you that drones can't fly in space? You know, where we are at the surface of the water is like the Goldilock zone. This is the Goldilock zone on our planet. Well, within the solar system, there's the Goldilock zone where the Earth sits. And this fits for us. You go out 147 million miles away from the sun where Mars is, the nitrogen has expanded to such an extent. The hydrogen has expanded to such an extent there's no way to contain that into the body, the flesh of the body, which is necessary in order for us to keep living. Planets don't have Goldilocks zones. Solar systems do. Mars is colder than Earth, which would cause gases to contract, not expand. Humans don't absorb atmospheric nitrogen or hydrogen. The Martian atmosphere is almost entirely carbon dioxide. Nobody thinks people would live on Mars outside of artificial habitats. And listening to this neverending fountain of stupidity is genuinely killing me. So anyone that tries to go out to where Mars is at at that low pressure system where everything becomes mono or diatomic, everything is expanding itself out. You are dead. I can't I can't do it. Please stop. Things don't magically become monatomic or diatomic because the pressure changes. Of course, people would die if they were just walking around on Mars without a space suit. You're saying nothing. Elon is saying, "I want to go have, you know, life on Mars or on another planet." And you're saying there's no way that's possible. There's life on Mars, but the life has changed. The life the life force changes. The system of water H2O changes as you go further out. Two, two atoms of hydrogen, one atom of oxygen. I guess the further out you go, what happens to the next one? Does it become two atoms of carbon and then one atom of sulfur? It it all continues out. The water life principle remains consistent. Terry is trying to get me to kill myself so that I stop debunking him. And it's working. There's life on Mars because I say so, you guys. But it changes because water becomes not water. So life changes because water is somehow life and it changes to become not water. So I don't know what water is or how chemistry works. This is literal torture. When I first went to Eric and everyone, I was like, well, I'm I'm shy in the mathematics, but I have the geometry. I have the patents and all this. So what Eric Weinstein gave me was a book on differential equations and gauge theory. Well, what I was able to do with that, now I understand the math enough and using AI. Hey dumbass, you don't understand differential equations. This is what differential equations look like. You don't know what any of this means. If I gave you a differential equation to solve, you would [\h__\h] your pants and start mumbling about pressure conditions. You have to learn what elementary school students learn before learning what third-year undergrads learn. Learn arithmetic and then algebra and then geometry and then trigonometry and then calculus and then linear algebra and then talk to me about differential equations. You're a joke. Can we get Dr. U out here, Rob, if you don't mind? Uh, physics based on the training. I have a PhD in engineering physics and I have did a lot of fundamental research and uh so when I'm the founder of called the Yuon theory of everything. Okay, it's time for this guy. He works for NASA. That sounds good. But he has a super awesome theory of everything. That's a red flag. Here's another red flag. You actually said that's a one uh that's a polar, you know, one electrons that's polarized. This is basically one magnetic pole. Dark energy is due to magnetic repulsion. That sounds like something Terry would say. I don't know whether he's here to promote some [\h__\h] or collect some money or both. But you can bet your life savings that this was orchestrated to fabricate some credibility for Terry. Let's see how it goes. Did you have a chance to watch the exchange with you know Terrence and Eric Whitson on the Joe Rogan podcast? Yes. Uh what was your impression of the exchange between the two? Um I I know one of the focuses on the statement you know uh Tyrus made by one times one equals two. Yes. And I believe a lot of focus on the statement. uh in my view uh I be I you know of course on my uh conventional view I I would disagree with with the uh with your statement. However, I noticed you know the definition of one time multiply one is a different between traditional class than uh in in ter he's bring another dimension. Okay, bring another dimension three-dimensional or some kind of things into this one. Well, that's disappointing. It doesn't matter how many dimensions you're living in, chief. 1* 1 is one. I hope you got paid a lot for this crap. I'm contrasting the linear projection and attempt to multiply linearly just repeating in comparison to multiplying volutrically. So you're right in in adding dimensions and these necessary dimensions are dimensions that you exist in that doesn't mean anything kiddo. Whatever you mean by adding dimensions it's the same multiplication. 1 m * 1 m is 1 square meter, not two. 1 m * 1 m * 1 meter is 1 cubic meter, not whatever the [\h__\h] you would pretend it is. Multiply one by itself as many times as you want. It's still one. Like me working in physics field for decades, I just got to re recognize there's something fundamental wrong. So if we got the electron wrong, I will explain why we got it wrong. If you have the time. Yeah, I can we'll help that too. Don't worry, physicist. Terry is here to help you understand how we're wrong about electrons. Go ahead and get us started. If we get electron, we're wrong. We get the called the planetary uh atomic model. You know the model with similar model. The planetary with orbiting free electrons. We get the model wrong. So what I find is there is no free orbiting electrons around the nucleus at the nearly speed of light forever constantly. That's completely wrong. Wow. He's describing the bore model of the electron which was proposed in 1913. It worked pretty well for a little bit but then quantum mechanics happened and we realized that electrons exhibit wave particle duality. So in 1926, Schroinger proposed that instead of inhabiting planetary orbits, electrons live in atomic orbitals, which are three-dimensional standing waves, essentially regions of probability density, where electrons can be. 1926. Now with modern chemistry, we know this is very obviously true because so many well-known and empirically substantiated aspects of chemical bonding depend on either veence bond theory, molecular orbital theory, crystal field theory, or other models of chemical bonding which all rely on the notion of electrons existing in orbitals which can overlap through constructive or destructive interference to produce bonding or anti-bonding behavior. All of this is to say that what this [\h__\h] is referencing, his big gripe with our understanding of the electron, is just a depiction of what happened in physics literally 100 years ago. Amazing. Because their foundation on the electron, their view of the electron, they saw it as a particle, as an individual thing when it's an entire cloud. It's an energy. It's a wave of energy. It's a particle and a wave. Wave particle duality. And when we call them waves, we are talking about waves of probability, density, not energy. Got any more ramblings? That's what the electron is. It's the discharge coming from from um accumulated electrical potential. The discharged electricity, the devitalized electricity is what we're calling this electron or this this magnetism. And they're seeing it as a particle when it's just a waveform. It's a pressure condition. It's a resonant v resonant thing that can be manipulated by other frequencies. I wish Terry would realize that he would sound a lot more credible if he just said one idiotic thing and then stop talking. He sounds his absolute dumbest when he spews these long lists of random terminology as though they are all synonymous when in reality they have [\h__\h] nothing to do with each other. Discharge, resonance, pressure conditions. Just pick one wrong thing and then stop, dumbass. The mistake, the mistake as he described the two charges uh carried by two separate particles instead of having everything being both positive having both attractive and and detractive things. It's a it's a it's a dipole. Oh, I get it now. Electrons are both negatively and positively charged. Protons are both positively and negatively charged. Everything is both charges, which makes the concept of electric charge totally meaningless and non-existent. Got it. I guess we can all stop using electricity since Terry just told us that it's not real. And the way they're seeing it, how can something, this is something that always got me. How can you can say something is charged, positively charged? How can it be negatively charged? How can you negatively charge something? A negative charge is a discharge. means that it's coming out of it in comparison to attracting into it. Jesus Christ. Particles can have electric charge which comes in two types. We decided to call those types positive and negative. It's arbitrary. Discharge refers to the release of stored electrical energy usually in the form of a flow of electrons which have negative charge. Please stop. Who has questioned this over the years? Like what what what scientist? Rack Fineman, all of them question it. That's why they were like, "All of this renormalization makes this stuff bad. All of this reormalization makes this stuff bad." Yet another shining pearl of wisdom from Terrence Howard. You have no idea what DRock or Fineman did and you have no idea what renormalization means. So if we cannot have a single charge particle, what happens? The so-called electron Oh, I'm sorry. Thank you. R carried both positive and the negative charge as one particle. Now I want to questioning audience. What kind of particle in this world I know everybody since three years old you you know this this term would carry both of charge. Do you have a guess? Hydrogen everything. Oh, you are talking about, you know, in chemical terms. I'm talking about in terms of what type of a particle. Not that I don't know who I'm more embarrassed for. Electrons do not carry positive charge. That's asinine. And I love moments where Terry is asked a question and just picks a word at complete random to utter with unearned confidence as though he has any idea what anyone is talking about. Hydrogen. Because that's totally a fundamental particle that is not made of other particles. Idiot. You can manipulate anything into anything else by creating the right harmonic or resonant conditions. That's everything that we've been talking about. It's we don't need the reason it's important is now you're able to manipulate the universe without hurting the universe. We don't have to use barbaric measures anymore. Yeah, we need to stop hurting the universe, guys. When we do science, it hurts the universe. It's so barbaric to perform a chemical reaction or look at things in telescopes. The universe says, "Ouchie, that stings." Use more harmonic resonance, you guys. You have to be harmonic resonance to do universe. Obviously, we can now take the subspace in energy that's coming from the another thing. They've gotten rid of the ether. Now, this entire thing is so they've created all these other particles to carry these charges. all these particles to carry these charges that used to be carried by the ether. The ether which does not exist was not thought of as carrying electric charge. It was a hypothetical weightless frictionless medium that allowed for the propagation of light through the vacuum of space. And again, it does not exist. They define the ether in itself that allows all this stuff to move. And what they're angry about is not that I just have the patents, but also the G super grand unifying super symmetry plus now the equations. The patents on what, [\h__\h] So the ether exists even though no it doesn't. And you've patented the ether. That's like saying you've patented light except it's worse since light exists. You're an idiot. And for the 10th time, you have no idea what super symmetry means. And you also have no equations. you have gibberish. Now we can manipulate the energy of the universe to create any condition we want. Now that's the end of oil. That's the end of big tech because they have to change everything out. But that's going to happen anyway because we're behind the gun. If you're someone who can't tell that nothing Terry is saying means anything, can you at least see through a [\h__\h] claim like this? Terry is pretending that his gibberish will revolutionize the world and create new amazing systems of propulsion and whatever else his hopelessly delusional skull can conjure. And yet he's done literally nothing of even remote substance with any of this [\h__\h] Put up or shut up, Terry. The solar solar let's use a solar solar system. You don't see a planet jump into another orbit out of nowhere. Planets don't just Mercury doesn't jump into Venus's orbit. That's what he's talking about. none of these stuff. There was none of these huge jumps that that they were predicting with the electron model. Can you pull that up? Electrons do move between the ground state and excited states. That Boore's model was limited and did not describe the fundamental nature of the electron doesn't mean that the concept of energy levels does not exist. Learn chemistry. And they believe that electrons spontaneously jump into Yeah. who s2 who's um Eric Weinstein the standard model the standard model is particle physics and once again this is the bore model which we developed in 1913 you are neither explaining anything that's wrong with it or acknowledging what is right about it and electrons do move between energy levels that's how you're able to see anything genius atoms interact with photons from a light source electrons go to an excited state and when they relax back down they emit more photons which can reach your eye allowing you to see the object. Standard model of particle physics is all based on the quantum but you have to match orbits. The so-called physicist just said that the standard model of particle physics is based on the quantum orbits. So the bore model for the hydrogen atom which includes one proton and one electron is somehow the basis for the standard model of particle physics which includes a variety of quarks, nutrinos, bosons, gluons, and other particles that have nothing to do with the bore model. Great job, dumbass. You're supposed to match it to natural phenomena. Can you imagine if the Earth out of nowhere just jumped into Mars' orbit? What that would do to the solar system? And have you ever experienced that in observing any of the other solar systems? Because what's large happens on the small and what happens on the small happens on the large because it all has to fit together. No. Properties of subatomic particles do not have to correspond with anything in the macroscopic world. That was an incredibly dumb thing you just said. Planets are not electrons. Planets do not have to behave like electrons in order for what we know about electrons to be true. Get a clue. the so-called the ether I do believe light have nothing to do with a particle light is a wave in order for wave to propagate wave need a carrier light is both a particle and a wave go ahead and explain the photoelectric effect without evoking a corpuscular nature for light chief and whining about light needing a medium within which to propagate is just a regurgitation of the obsolete logic that led to the proposal of the ether which was discredited in the 19th century The guy is just a run-of-the-mill electric universe crank, nothing more. The necessity of a finite universe, a wave-based ma mathematical framework. This is what Which one is this? This is the necessity of a finite universe. Rob, do you have that right there? I do. Okay. Right there. Let me read it. It says the abstract is this paper rigorously demonstrates why the universe must be a finite system by employing a wavebased multiplication paradigm. the energy conservation principle and the fundamental mathematical relation of 1* 1 equaling two. We present mathematical proofs illustrating how finite systems inherently violate uh no how infinite systems inherently violate energy conservation. You have to love Terry fumbling through some gibberish that he supposedly wrote. He got high and spewed his meaningless stream of consciousness to the guy he pays to write this crap. The guy wrote down the most marginally coherent and believable version of it. And Terry is now reading it on his phone with moderate difficulty because he can't possibly produce the gibberish again on his own accord. Very impressive. If you wanted us to put one through open, which either one either one. Okay, put that one through open AI. See what and that's what it says considering it. Here's a breakdown. Interesting idea presented. The paper introduced a wave-based mathematical framework to argue the universe must be finite. Okay, we don't need to hear this guy read this. I'll just show you the screenshots again. I don't believe this is actual chat GPT output. Interesting ideas presented. The paper introduces a wave-based mathematical framework. Well, it doesn't show any math whatsoever. So, no, it does not do that. So, chat GPT would not say that. Then it lists some terminology Terry made up and says they are largely associated with Terren Howard. they are exclusively associated with him because they are meaningless things he made up and it doesn't do anything to support his claims if you could even say that it makes any concrete claims at all. So this last one also does not make sense. Then let's throw in some inconsistencies to be charitable and make it seem like this isn't fake. Terry knows 1* 1 doesn't equal two and that's the most obviously wrong thing he ever says. So he'll let that one get thrown under the bus. But of course the reason is not that it's objectively wrong but that it isn't peer-reviewed. Got it. His unverified concepts also don't appear in peer review. It's just more closed-minded mainstream dogma, you guys. It's not Terry's fault. His work is non-standard or speculative. More like revolutionary. Am I right? Verdict, not scientifically valid. Bold choice, Terry. But don't worry, it's creative and imaginative. If only those stupid scientists would peerreview him, that would solve everything. Let's see what Chad GPT says when I feed it this document. 1* 1 does not equal two. None of these terms mean anything. The guy doesn't understand physics. No empirical data gathered. No experiments suggested. It's a big bowl of nothing. Because the argument was made that peer review, you're not a peer to review it. Like you're not a qualified peerto- review. Is that an is that how it's seen in your world where a peer review is another person that's a qualified doctor, you know, schooling engine, they've done the right thing to look there. That's in that's the common practice in in established physics community. But I believe this is a gatekeeper. Yeah. To silence, to squash, to suppress. Really different opinion. Of course you do. Asian Eric Weinstein. Big science is trying to squash revolutionaries like Terry. It's not just that he's a delusional [\h__\h] that nobody should ever pay attention to. When will any of you [\h__\h] get a new script? But they want to keep the their entire livelihood is based upon maintaining their current status quo and they don't want to change that. Like you said, you get your PhDs based upon repeating what they've taught you before. Not by challenging what's been in existence, but by by confirming what's in existence. So they don't want to grow. Yeah. Everybody who has a physics PhD got their degree by just repeating a bunch of experiments that have already been done. That makes sense. Hey, dumbass. Scientists revolutionize their fields all the time. And the biggest leaps in scientific history have involved pushing science beyond an existing paradigm. Scientists discover and develop brand new science every day. You're just too stupid to understand what we already know, let alone innovate anything new. That's why you'll never be anything but a pointless wannabe cult leader. Off with it. They see magnets. They don't even see magnetism properly. They don't see it as this expanding centrifugal force and they don't see electricity as this contracting um centripal force. They see they don't see the motion of it. Yes, physicists don't see magnetism as the dumb meaningless thing you're spewing because they aren't stupid. Here's a bar magnet with some field lines. Where is the expanding centrifugal force? What is expanding? What is producing an outward force? Here's an electric current. Where's the contracting centripal force? What is contracting? What is producing an inward force? What do these two forces even mean? I bet my life savings. You don't know. Without quantum mechanics, we only need one single fundamental force, which is motion. Everything comes down to us. We we're talking about the force right now. The direct force interaction magnetic force. I can't get enough of these little quiz moments where Terry is thrown off his pathetic script. What's the one fundamental force, Terry? Motion, which is not a force. So, that's more or less the dumbest thing you could have said. Forces induce motion. This is like if he asked you the temperature outside and you said hamburger. So, now people are often talking about electromagnetic force. So, the people confuse about electrical and magnetism. There's no confusion, [\h__\h] Electromagnetic radiation is comprised of orthogonal oscillating electric and magnetic fields. That's why electric currents generate magnetic fields and magnetic fields can generate electric currents via electromagnetic induction. I repeat, electric currents generate magnetic fields. Magnetic fields generate electric currents. Electromagnetism. You're contradicting basic physics developed by Maxwell in the 19th century. How the [\h__\h] did you get a job at NASA? Are you sure you aren't the janitor? Everything is alive and in motion. There is never anything that's still. And we keep measuring things as if they are dead and still and going to remain in this set in this set place when things are not just stuck here. They are always in motion. And the motion is always spherical. The motion is never in a straight line. It's always spherical. And if they make that one adjustment and start measuring things based upon the spherical or or spiral nature of everything, then all of their measurements would equal up. Then they would have balance in their energy systems. No, not everything is alive. If everything was alive, the word life wouldn't mean anything. Inanimate objects are not alive. Nothing can be still. It depends what you mean and what reference frame you adopt. You're saying nothing. The motion is always spherical. While you trace a circle with your hand, it's never in a straight line. What about when it's in a straight line? Spherical or spiral nature? Those are two different things. So, which one do you mean, dumbass? What measurements would equal up? Measurements of what? What would have balance? What energy systems? What is an energy system? You should have stopped talking 20 seconds ago. Terren, what's your outcome with this information? So, in an ideal situation for you, what would you like to see happen? Well, I wanted to see the world change. I wanted to see um us get off of fossil fuels. I wanted to see us get off the planet using resonance and no longer um burning chemicals. I want to see us using resonance to heal our bodies and no longer using chemicals or oil-based chemicals. What I want to see is the planet change. That was what I wanted to do. I'm not sure that's going to happen. I feel like now what we have to do is start our own breakaway society and use these technologies that they refusing to use and just build a whole separate world because they're not going to come along because they are attached to this dollar. Okay. Well, you don't know what fossil fuels are or how they are used to generate energy. You don't know what resonance means. And you can barely get off your couch, let alone the planet. You don't know how to heal anyone's body. You just hit people. And this last statement reveals what you really actually want. A breakaway society. Huh? You know what that sounds like to me? A [\h__\h] cult. Who's going to lead this society? And what will it be called? Terry Town brought to you by Supreme Leader Terry. Do you have your white silk robes already made? Are they the ones you're selling on your website? Mark my words, this piece of [\h__\h] is going to try and start a cult, and it won't be a fun one. Eric Weinstein was right. We are not peers. I don't have the degrees he has. And guess what he doesn't have? He doesn't have an understanding of how the universe works. You don't think Eric has he has no understanding of how the universe works because he has rejected the geometry that that supports how the universe behaves. He didn't even evaluate the geometry. He did not. And then when I asked him about does an action times an action have a reaction concerning the one times one, he op Obfiscated. I hate that word. Wow. Swinging a miss there, Terry. The word you're looking for is obfiscated. And I'm sorry. As much of a fraud Eric is, he understands the universe way better than you do. And guess what? We are not peers because he doesn't have it. He hasn't invented a new form of flight. He hasn't discovered um unlimited mid-air bonding. He hasn't done any of the things that I've done. He doesn't have any of the patents that I have. You don't have any patents. You've never invented anything. And what the [\h__\h] is this? Minct. Get expert advice instantly. Hold on. We need to take a look at this. Holy [\h__\h] This is how this two-bit fraud is trying to make money now. Book me for consultations. How much will that set a fellow back? Wow. That's 100 bucks for a text, 300 bucks for a pre-recorded video, and 800. Hang on. Did you hear what I said? 800? You guys pay attention to me. $800 [\h__\h] dollars per minute to talk to Terry on FaceTime. Do you understand now what this loser is trying to pull off with all this? If even a few hundred morons fall for this grift and believe that he's a super mega future genius with all the answers, he can bleed those morons dry for all their worth, continue to evade all of his assault and domestic abuse allegations, and fund whatever bizarre lifestyle he's grown accustomed to from being a Hollywood actor. He is if snake oil became a person. Astounding. If I go to to um to DJI, I bet you they won't they won't hesitate a moment to use lynchpin. And then the US is unable to use them. And then what happens to it? If I give my energy system to another country, what happens to it? The same energy system that they're trying to squash here. What happens to this place if I do that? Careful, White Ping. I know that Terry's delusions are hilarious, but you're smiling a little too much. You're going to blow up your spot. Terry paid you good money for this, so don't screw it up. You have to love this pathetic little act. Terry pretending he's some kind of technological mastermind with an energy system, whatever the [\h__\h] he thinks that means, that the Chinese want and that will ruin America. You're not Tony Stark, [\h__\h] You're the loser that got kicked out of that franchise for being an insufferable narcissistic toolbox. Get over it. Do you know that they took away my passport out of the blue? Just took away my passport first. They said my passport um um that I had some child support things and I was like that's some BS. Took four months to argue that I had no passport issues with with child support. Then it's like oh it's your taxes. It's you you owe taxes so we're going to take away your passport. Why so I couldn't go to Dubai? Why so I couldn't go and get this stuff financed? Assuming you're not just making this up, which you almost certainly are since everything you say is made up. It sounds like you're just a piece of [\h__\h] who refused to pay any taxes and you got your passport revoked. Nobody cares about you going to Dubai to play businessman pretend times. So after I'm done here today, I'm going when I get home, I'm going to put online the equations necessary to have a thing called unlimited energy to be able to pull energy directly from the flux just to say [\h__\h] you to the world. Wow. That'll show everyone. This was a couple weeks ago. Has anyone given a [\h__\h] yet? No. Not even Eric Weinstein. The lynchpin helped with the hop vibration and how the lynchpin could help engage theory. And then I had to rewrite the paper and show him how the lynch pin makes all of that redundant. He didn't respond. It's sitting there in his thing. He hasn't responded. That's the thing I told you to send over to Brian cuz I'm like, "Let's go to war since you're going to call me an idiot. Let's go to war." and I want all the papers now. I want the war to take place through written white papers. So, you're not just sitting there talking garbage anymore. Now, you have to validate what you're saying because the papers are here. And if you say the wrong thing, I will sue you now. Yes. The next phase in Terry's plot for world domination is to sue everyone who makes fun of him for being a delusional [\h__\h] That should go well. Eric doesn't care about you, sweetie. Neither does Ying. Everyone in your life is using you. How should he go about getting this information out? Um, so he has to be uh buy in from the public, from the physics in community through get basic principle, got to be shepherded in. Correct. And then what does that mean? Come this way and we'll let you in. But you're going to have to let go of other principles that you Why Why is it like that? It isn't like that. Anyone can self-publish scientific papers on archive for free without formal peer review. It's a pre-print server and while it's not prestigious, it's generally well respected. Nobody is stopping you from submitting your chicken scratches except the fact that it's useless gibberish that isn't even fit for a Marvel movie. So, you can stop with all this gatekeeper [\h__\h] Nobody's buying it. I don't believe that's most more important than tell the truth and discover the fundamental law of nature uh that's true to yourself and the true to God. I believe that's the most important. Really? I thought the most important thing was for it to actually be real science worth sharing with other scientists. But apparently it just has to make you feel good inside and appease your imaginary sky daddy. I guess that's why nobody's ever heard of this jerk before this Terry funded train wreck podcast. Please take the threebody problem that I've put out there and run that through your AI and see if there's a problem. And for the scientists, please compare it. Have the conversations. Please tell me whether this is true or false. If it's wrong, you'll never hear from me again. I'll walk away. No, you won't. You're the biggest delusional narcissist on the planet. Every single scientist in human history could line up single file, tell you that you're a clueless muppet, and slap you in the face one by one, and you'd still be spewing your [\h__\h] script until the day you die. It's who you are. You went whining to Neil. He politely put you in your place. Eric was playing games for his own purpose on Rogan, but he also rightfully humiliated you. And you've clearly watched me eviscerate your dumb script while crying yourself to sleep on multiple occasions. So, you'll have to forgive scientists for not jumping to review your pathetic pamphlet that doesn't even depict the threebody problem, let alone solve it. People have lives. Magnetic force is coupled the north uh north and south. It's a couple. Whenever you two magnets in contact, what happens if you see now we have a like charge repel it rotates eventually always in contact. That's the most stable structure. That's why we see all matters, all atoms are in the one piece. They are not not separate. Separate. So what that means, we do not need a strong force. Why ping? Settle down. I know you're used to being the most delusional maniac in every room you've ever been in. But this is Terry Town. Your word salad is [\h__\h] compared to his. Give it a rest. Gravity is the is an effect of electrical discharge. It's the space. It's the draft that happens from electric electricity moving through a system. You get a small gap. That gap, that draft is what we call gravity and then it's caught by the next wave. It's caught by the next wave. No, that's idiotic. The gravitational force depends exclusively on mass. Bulk matter is electrically neutral, but still exerts a gravitational field. Gravity is only attractive, while electromagnetism is both attractive and repulsive. Objects don't go flying towards electrical sockets. And you don't know what the word draft means. Do you idiots have any idea how easy it would be to demonstrate that gravity is electromagnetism if that were true? Do you have any idea how easy it would be to levitate if that were true? I'll ask you both the same thing I asked idiot flatearther Austin Wits in our debate. If gravity is electromagnetism, why doesn't anything fall up? Chew on that for a while, boneheads. So gravity is not a fundamental force just based on that one. No all fundamental force. It's an emerging binary. It's emer it's an emerging force. I like the term it's a emerging property of a mass system. So emerging from what we are talking about force. You have to emerging from a force. It's resonance. Resonance stills vibration mode is still not force yet. I know you you're almost there. Okay. Sometimes people say electromagnetic force. I would say simplify to magnetic force. Why paying? You're putting your paycheck at risk. You're not here to quiz Terry and push your own insane [\h__\h] You're here to make Terry look like the supreme genius. When he says resonance, you nod your head and marvel at his brilliance. Okay? And no. Again, gravity has nothing to do with electricity or magnetism or whatever other [\h__\h] you want to throw out there. But that again is motion. All of these things happen as a result of their motion. Motion require force. Well, look at that. We got one fact out of this guy and it came in the form of a physics lesson for Terry. It's true. For an object to have its motion affected, a force must be applied to it. Do you think it'll stick or will Terry just change the subject? Because of existence. So this is a natural bone of magnetism in every single matter particles and that one caused interaction means what combined them. No need why Ping changed it for him and went back to his nonsensical rambling. Oh well it was nice while it lasted. Newton defined as a universal called um uh yeah universal there's a universal gravitational constant and it was wrong. There is no universal. That's why I was saying gravity at different places is that it changes depending on the distance from something. All of those things. Terry, you halfwit. You're conflating the gravitational constant with acceleration due to gravity. Big G is a fundamental constant found in Newton's law of universal gravitation. It does not change. Acceleration due to gravity depends on the mass of the object generating the gravitational field and your distance from its center. You humiliate yourself every time you open your mouth. Iron Man, it says you were the highest paid guy in that movie at four and a half million and they only paid Robert Downey Jr. half a million. Is that accurate? Maybe. I don't know what they paid him exactly. Yeah, but when you think about movies like that, don't you think like the main guys make 10 20 million on picture? Later on they do. once they get the lock in. Um, uh, Robert was smart enough because I'm bet you by the third one, he got his 20 million, you know, and I can't fault him. He, you know, the [\h__\h] that happened to me happened to me. That's just part of the business. Are you sure you can't fault him? Because everyone knows that's exactly what you did for a really long time. You went around whining about how Rob screwed you over and stole your money and ruined your career. Did you think people forgot about that, Terry? Do you think they'll fall for this role you're playing now of the nice, gracious, humble actor who wishes everyone well that got all the success you desperately wanted for yourself? I don't think so. Anyway, there's nothing else to say here. There's a semiviral moment where he claims that Diddy tried to have sex with him. And who knows, maybe it's true. I don't really care. A little homophobia, a little more whining about Hollywood, and that's the end of the episode. Oh, wait. Let's grab this one last bit. You know what's the best part about this? that you guys don't know each other. And by the way, I I told you we may have somebody, but I never gave your name. Until you came here, you guys met. So, you know, you did not know this was going to take place. You know how you can tell when something is true? When somebody keeps repeating it insistently over and over again. That's not a red flag at all. That doesn't make me strongly suspect that this was orchestrated from top to bottom. How would it have been planned that the random physicist happens to be a crackpot just like Terry? It's just a coincidence. Any physics undergrad could tear this guy to shreds, but they got this jerk to be on the show instead. Perfect. Anyway, the amount of concentrated fraudulence oozing out of this episode from all three of these guys was enough to give Rogan a run for his money. PBD, the Ponzi scheme douche, Terry the wife beating pretend genius, and White Ping the crackpot. I don't know how the hell this guy works at NASA, but don't forget James Tour works at Rice. Michael Beehe works at Lehi. Even frauds sometimes have real jobs. But at any rate, it's painfully obvious what this was. Terry took a huge blow to the ego. After being the butt of every joke for most of 2024. Instead of learning his lesson and getting an education, he paid someone to write fake papers for him and bribed some people to pretend he isn't stupid on a large podcast to try and rehabilitate his image. It may trick a few idiots, but to everyone else, it just reeks of desperate damage control. It gets even worse. Check this out. Listen, before y'all talk about me, y'all need to talk to me. You see, once upon a time, if a man questioned another man's honor, he didn't do it from the shadows. He had to do it out in the open with his name, his chest out, and his chin high. not hiding behind the keyboard or tucked behind edited clips of fair use disclaimers. Now, I don't want to come off as an egoomaniac who thinks everything is about him, but there's an extremely good chance that Terry is talking to me. He was obviously whining about my video for the burillium bit. That's undeniable. And these comments about editing clips and fair use, I'm just going to go ahead and assume that he's talking directly to me. My first video on him went fairly viral and is now sitting at over three million views. He's big mad about how badly I humiliated him. And now this buttth hurt piece of [\h__\h] is literally challenging me to a duel. You see citing section 107 of the copyright act does not give you free reign to defame, misrepresent or harm another's reputation. Fair use is not a shield for character assassination. Defamation, misrepresentation, character assassination. Well, those terms all imply that I said something false, [\h__\h] I didn't. I'm just making fun of what a delusional science illiterate douchebag you are. It seems like you're taking it pretty hard. So, here's a simple truth. If you take my words, my image, my ideas, and twist them to feed your fear and inflate your ego. If you profit off of my name while calling me a liar, then be prepared to stand behind your accusations. Because in the old world, men didn't hide behind anything when they spoke against someone. They had to speak it with their whole being. I'm not hiding. And nobody's scared but you, kiddo. You're scared that I could single-handedly bring your griff to the ground, which makes sense since I am indeed actively trying to do that to you. And this pathetic attempt at intimidation does nothing but make me laugh my ass off and want to do it to you more. I'll stand anywhere I please and show everyone what a pathetic lying piece of [\h__\h] fraud you are. And I'll do it whenever the [\h__\h] I please. You're a powerless little pecker. And if you're going to speak against me, then use the same courage that it took for me to say those truths. Manto man, eye to eye, integrity and in truth. It doesn't take courage to make up science themed [\h__\h] Terry. It takes courage to crack open a [\h__\h] book and learn something. You should try it sometime. And if you want me to teach you something face to face, go ahead and call up Rogan. Tell him you want me to give you a tutoring session on his podcast. We can sit there with a whiteboard, go over some basic arithmetic, and show the world exactly what a clueless, pointless little [\h__\h] stain you really are. I've spent a lifetime earning the right to speak with the conviction about these truths that I speak. So if you want to tear that down, have the decency to come and say it directly to my face and say it like a man. Jesus Christ. Are you going to try to slap my face with frilly white gloves? Did you want to take 10 paces and draw? I know you're an actor, but [\h__\h] me. This is pathetic. Dial it down a notch, [\h__\h] If you're going to talk about the geometry, have other geometries to argue against it. If you're going to talk about the super symmetry, speak of other super symmetries that would work against it. If you're going to talk about the white papers, provide your own white paper as an argument to argue against the equations or the conclusions. Yes, I will use basic geometry to show you that you're a [\h__\h] idiot who doesn't understand geometry. Yes, I will use the definition of super symmetry to show you that you don't know what that word means. And I don't need any papers to show everyone that your pretend papers are worth less than toilet paper. But we're going to do this respectfully. Otherwise, we'll end in a duel. And I mean a duel. Real life duel where only one person walks away. Careful, Terry. Don't write checks your little [\h__\h] ass can't cash. You don't deserve respect and you'll get none from me. And if you find the courage to learn something from me face to face, and you try to get physical with me, the absolute best case scenario for you will be jail time. I mean, you know you're headed there eventually, so maybe you're trying to expedite the process. But drop the tough guy act. We can meet with guns, bottles, knives, or books, and equations, but we're going to do this like men. So, get ready. Get ready. Yeah, I could have debunked your [\h__\h] in middle school, Wyatt Herp. Do you have any idea how pathetic you sound right now? Guns, knives. I know that hitting people is your thing, but has that ever made you any less fragile and stupid? You're 56 years old. Maybe it's time to grow up a little. Terry, I want to make something perfectly clear for you. I will never ever stop making fun of you. Every [\h__\h] claim you make, every fake paper you put on your dumb website, I will use it to make you the laughing stock of the world. And do you know why? It's not because you're stupid. Stupid people that don't assert themselves over real knowledge don't bother me. I don't go around quizzing people on basic math and judging them if they don't know the answers. Some people are bad at math. That's fine. It's because you're a toxic, narcissistic, wifebeating [\h__\h] You poison society with your delusions. You polarize gullible people against science. And beyond your pathetic attempts at grifting people out of their hard-earned money. You are very clearly trying to start a cult. And boy, would you be an abusive piece of [\h__\h] if you ever became a cult leader. You abuse the people you purport to love. What would you do to people you don't even know? So, you see, this is nothing more than a public service. You deserve much worse than mockery. And I hope you cry yourself to sleep at night cursing my name since I show everyone what a clueless fraud you really are. See on Rogan if you have the balls.