Professor Dave here, let's discuss the zeroth law of thermodynamics. Thermodynamics is a tricky subject that must be studied in chemistry, physics, engineering, and many other courses of academic study, because it has an incredible impact on the behavior of matter and energy. At first, thermodynamic concepts may seem impossible to understand, but if you go over the basics enough times they start to make sense and you can continue to learn more about the subject as needed for your field of study or level of desired knowledge. We will begin our analysis with the infamous laws of thermodynamics. Just like Newton's laws of motion there is a first, second, and third law, but later in the development of the field a more fundamental law was added and dubbed the zeroth law, so let's start there. The zeroth law of thermodynamics deals with thermal equilibrium, which as we recall describes a situation in which there is no net heat flow between two systems. The zeroth law states that if two systems are in thermal equilibrium with a third system, then those two systems are also in thermal equilibrium with each other. In other words, if A is in thermal equilibrium with B which is in thermal equilibrium with C, A and C are also in equilibrium. This may seem like a trivial statement but it is an important one because it means that two objects at the same temperature will not exhibit heat flow when they come into contact with one another. This marks temperature as the indicator of thermal equilibrium. If two objects are in thermal equilibrium with thermometers that read the same temperature, the objects will be in thermal equilibrium with each other which therefore allows us to gather all kinds of thermodynamic data in our laboratories. In studying thermodynamics we must also learn certain definitions. We will want to be able to define a system as the collection of objects we are examining while the surroundings represent the environment surrounding the system, which is technically the rest of the universe. Some systems allow heat to flow in and out. These systems have diathermal walls. Some systems do not allow heat to flow in and out. These systems have adiabatic walls. No system can be truly adiabatic, but it is a useful approximation when we do calculations involving systems that permit only negligible heat transfer. With these definitions out of the way, we can move on to the first law of thermodynamics. Thanks for watching, guys. Subscribe to my channel for more tutorials, support me on patreon so I can keep making content, and as always feel free to email me: