Professor Dave again, let's tackle the second law of thermodynamics. The first law of thermodynamics told us about the relationship between internal energy, heat, and work. The second law will introduce one of the most confusing concepts in physics: entropy. Let's go through this law and examine how the concept of entropy was derived as a result. The second law came about through the work of a fellow named Sadi Carnot and his study of heat engines. A heat engine is one that absorbs heat and uses it to do work, like the steam locomotives of the 19th century, which absorbed the heat from a coal furnace to generate steam which would then move pistons connected to the trains wheels. Excess heat from the hot reservoir that is not actively used to produce work will move to a cold reservoir, which has a lower temperature than the hot reservoir. Carnot understood that the maximum work or W net that can be done by one cycle of such an engine is equal to the heat input or Qh minus the heat output or Qc. Since any heat lost will not be able to be converted into work, due to the first law of thermodynamics, if there was truly zero heat loss we could say that all of the heat is transferred to work and the engine operates at one hundred percent efficiency. Unfortunately this is not physically possible for a number of reasons. First, the only way to achieve one hundred percent efficiency would be if every process in the engine were completely reversible, meaning both the system and surroundings could return to their original state. This is known as Carnot's principle. But any real engine involves moving parts that produce friction and sound, so some energy must always be lost to the surroundings. This conclusion does not immediately follow from the first law of thermodynamics so it was formulated into the second law, which states that no cyclic process can convert some quantity of heat entirely into work, some of this heat will always be lost to the surroundings. This is a variation of another way of expressing the second law which can also state that heat spontaneously flows from regions of high temperature to regions of low temperature, and not the other way around. These expressions can be considered two sides of the same coin, since heat therefore can't flow spontaneously from the cold reservoir to the hot reservoir of a heat engine, further supporting the idea that heat is always lost to the environment as the engine runs. But this is not just a limitation of our technology, even a purely hypothetical perfect heat engine called a Carnot engine, can never operate at one hundred percent efficiency. This is a mathematical limitation of heat flow. Whichever way we choose to look at the second law it will inevitably result in the discussion of a peculiar concept called entropy. Entropy is a term that represents the inevitable partial loss of a heat engine's ability to do work. It is a state function measured in joules per Kelvin and it will be represented by the letter S. The change in entropy is given by heat over the kelvin temperature for a reversible process and a mathematical ramification of this expression is that the change in entropy is 0 for a Carnot engine. This can be extended to say that the change in entropy of the universe will be zero for any reversible process, where the universe is understood to mean the system plus the surroundings. However, no process is truly reversible, so we should rather say that the change in entropy of the universe for any spontaneous process will be greater than zero, or that for any spontaneous process the entropy of the universe is always increasing, which is another common articulation of the second law. The implications of this law are so astounding that they have philosophical impact. If we take entropy to mean disorder it shows that the universe tends to move towards maximum disorder, and while order can spontaneously form on the local level like when water freezes to form ice or in the case of any living organism, this will always be accompanied by a dispersal of energy that increases the disorder of the universe as a whole. Entropy can be rationalized if we examine the concept of microstates, introduced by Ludwig Boltzmann. A microstate is simply a specific configuration of all the particles and energies in a system. The dispersal of matter and energy, which is always accompanied by an increase in entropy, will tend to be spontaneous. Things move towards more disorder because of this equation, where S equals k, the Boltzmann constant, times the natural log of W, where W is the number of microstates possible for a system. This is best understood with an example. Say there are four balls to be distributed amongst two boxes. We could have all four in one, three and one and one in the other, two and two, one and three, or all four in the second box. If these balls are all different colors, some distributions will contain a number of different microstates. Statistical mechanics tells us that the most probable distribution will be the one with the most microstates, as in this case the probability of finding the system in one of these microstates with two and two is 6 out of the 16 total possible microstates. So this is a mathematical reasoning for why entropy tends to increase spontaneously in a closed system, whether this involves the dispersal of matter through space or the dispersal of heat energy from hot to cold objects. Entropy is an extremely difficult concept to grasp and one could design an entire course around this subject alone, so don't worry too much if this seems confusing. For now, if we can just grasp a few basics about how the second law of thermodynamics was derived, we will be just fine. Let's check comprehension. Thanks for watching, guys. Subscribe to my channel for more tutorials, support me on patreon so I can keep making content, and as always feel free to email me: