hey it's professor Dave, I want to tell you about moles what in doing chemistry we have to deal with the fact that we can't see molecules they're just way too small. but they still obey stoichiometry that is they react in certain proportions. these proportions have nothing to do with mass since every molecule has a different mass rather they are by number as we saw in balancing equations. so to do chemistry we need a way to talk about molecules numerically and that number has to be so big that it represents a number of molecules that we can see with our eyes enter: the mole. a mole is just a number like a dozen or a score but it is a huge number it is Avogadro's number which is 6.022 times ten to the 23rd that's almost a trillion trillion! what's special about this number is that it is the number of carbon atoms in exactly 12 grams. one carbon atom with six protons and six neutrons weighs 12 atomic mass units so a mole is the number of carbon atoms that weigh that same amount but in grams which is an amount that we can see and touch and do chemistry with. so the mole is the way to go between atomic mass units and grams. now when we look at a chemical reaction we can say one A and 1 B make one AB, or we can say a hundred A and a hundred B make a 100 AB or we can say one mole of A and one mole of B make one mole of AB which will probably be an amount that we can weigh on a balance and do experiments with every substance will have its own molar mass which is the same as its molecular mass but expressed in grams instead of atomic mass units. for example one water molecule weighs 18 atomic mass units, 16 for an oxygen atom and one for each hydrogen atom which are the average atomic masses from the periodic table. by definition then a mole of water molecules weighs 18 grams, about this much. to find the molar mass of a substance you just add the atomic masses for all the atoms in the molecule let's try one for practice now that we understand the mole we can do stoichiometric calculations which allow us to make predictions about a chemical reaction for example let's say we are performing this combustion reaction we start with 20 grams of propane and we want to know what mass of water we are going to produce. this is very powerful because mathematical predictions like these are what enable us to use our understanding of Chemistry to create technology. so what we need to do is convert this mass of propane into moles because knowing the mass of something tells us nothing about the mass of something else we can expect since every compound has a different mass but these coefficients tell us about the numbers of molecules involved and moles are a number so let's convert to moles. we can do this by using the molar mass of each substance. for propane thats 44. remember when we convert between units we multiplied by a fraction equal to 1. this many grams of propane does equal one mole which is why this doesn't alter the quantity so we can see the twenty grams of propane is actually 0.45 moles of propane. that's a number of molecules if we have that we know how many moles of water to expect because there is a four to one ratio. if one propane molecule makes four water molecules then one mole of propane molecules makes four moles of water molecules so we multiply by the stoichiometric ratio seeing that units and names of substances cancel out and now we have a number of moles of water to expect exactly four times the number of moles of propane then we can use the molar mass of water to see what mass that number of water molecules represents. again we want to make sure to put this unit where it needs to go to cancel out the existing unit in this case on the bottom. 32 grams water is what we should get these calculations can easily be performed all at once just place all these conversion factors next to one another and make sure the units cancel the way you want them to. if they do you probably did it right. common problems of this type will have you convert from a mass of one thing to the moles of that thing to the moles of another thing back to grams for that other thing. let's check comprehension thanks for watching guys, subscribe to my channel for more tutorials and as always feel free to email me