Traditionally the the the first wave of science communicators were researchers, right? They were re like Sean and then you know Neil Giz as well just like but they were few and far between and they were researchers that took it upon themselves to pivot towards public outreach. >> And so I give this talk a lot called the birth of the science communicator and when I give that talk I'm not talking about like the birth of science communication as a concept but rather the birth of a large pool of career science communicators. So like myself and some of my colleagues were I don't do research. I don't teach anymore. I sit around and think about how to help the public understand science. What are scientists doing? Help them understand that whatever is going on politically with science. Um so I'm unencumbered by these other uh by these other responsibilities. But at the same time it requires collaboration with the scientific community um in a number of ways. Right? if they like uh I will reach out to authors of a particular paper for clarity or for commentary or things like that. Um uh and al also to leverage their their expertise to lend credibility to to my content. Right here's the author of this paper corroborating what I've said and then uh giving you further insight as to whatever is going on. Um so I think that the social contract we can say that that that's where it lies. Um, I would love it if every scientist devoted some time to to science communication, but it's not realistic for a lot of reasons because scientists are very busy and many of them do not have the skill set required um nor the backbone because it's it's very irritating dealing with the onslaught of trolls that that uh that comes along with it. But if you just make an effort to work with science communicators who are sort of the conduit, right, there's this line here, right? We take what the scientists do and we help the public understand what that is. If you just kind of feed us, >> that will help tremendously. Take it over the bridge, so to