this guy named Andrew Wakefield. He's a disgraced former gastroenterenterologist from uh from England. And um around the 90s, early 90s, mid 90s, there was um a lot of parents were looking for excuses for recent autism diagnoses because autism wasn't commonly diagnosed until I want to say around the 80s or even the '9s. Um and so it was kind of this new thing for a lot of parents and they're looking for something to blame and you know vaccines came up as maybe we can blame these and uh so personal injury lawyers started circling like sharks and they're like we need somebody uh credible to give us uh the grounds to sue >> and uh so they hired they I mean they would have hired anybody a gastroenterenterologist. What does that have to do with with vaccines or autism or anything like that? >> Yeah but doesn't matter. He's a doctor. Any doctor will do. So they p they bribed him somewhere in the vicinity of half a million pounds >> to pen a fraudulent study. Uh the the study was it was it was 12 kids all of whom were uh all of whom were were clients of this particular injury lawyer, most of which were known to have autism prior to receiving the vaccine, some of which didn't have autism at all. Uh it was a fraudulent study. He fabricated the data, all of that stuff. on top of it being highly unethical. He gave colonoscopies and lumbar punctures to children go for no reason. Yeah. So the guy is just like absolute human garbage. Um but anyway did this study published in the Lancet in 1998. Um was quickly found to be utterly fraudulent was later retracted by the Lancet once the editors realized it was a fraudulent study. Um and that is it. That's the one thing because since then in direct response to the public fervor on this topic many many many studies uh and meta analyses have been performed to prove conclusively that autism cannot be caused by vaccines. Uh certainly that there's no correlation and furthermore autism is genetic anyway. It's it's genetic. It's a neurological situation, right? It has it's brain development in utero, right? It has nothing to do with vaccines or toxins or anything like this, but people still to this day, nearly 30 years later, are exclusively referencing this one exposed, fraudulent Andrew Wakefield study, and he himself is still making the rounds. He kind of has had a resurgence lately. I was actually surprised to see him show up again. not too surprised, but just in this postcoavid uh environment where people are very very receptive to charlatans in this space, he has managed to claw his way out of the the depths and uh become relevant again. So,