The other aspect is the the the not coming from a monkey people they don't really understand like the phoggenetic tree of life. They don't understand that there were common ancestors between any two animal species somewhere far in the past that didn't look like either of the extant species today that then diverged and then as you go along those branches they became more and more dissimilar until they produced what is around today. And so you can do that with humans and chimps and you only have to go back about uh five million years or six million years or something like that. And uh because we remain pretty morphologically similar. Humans and chimps are are are are very similar, right? We have the exact same body plan and limbs and and everything and in fact >> even hips the difference is more like like bigger hips or whatever but it's almost the same. Exactly. >> That's right. The thing is that bipedalism emerged. So on the on the branch to modern humans uh the apes became more and more upright and so now we walk completely upright. So there there are things but so they don't understand the dozens and dozens of species that are on that branch from the most recent common ancestor with humans and chimps uh leading to humans. They don't know about salanthropus chedensus and paranthropus and artipythecus and the 20 different orolopythecus species and then homoctus homopolis etc. Right? When we have all these specimens and we know very clearly what their physiological features were and um >> all the intermediary characteristics where they retained some aspects that look more like what chimps look like and then while you know bipedalism emerged and things like that. So they don't understand those gradients. what they think they don't understand that there were different animals before. So they think what evolution means is that some animal that exists today was supposed to either magically morph into or give birth to another animal that exists today. So they genuinely think that evolution says an elephant should give birth to a hedgehog, right? Or something like that. >> So they don't understand that nothing extent today I is is the is the product of something else that was extant today. you have to go back these on these branches to get to. And so humans and chimps, that's only six million years. Humans and um you know, monkeys, you go back 20 million. Humans and elephants, you go back 50 or 60 or 70 million years, something I don't know exactly. humans and uh and fish. You can go back 400 million years >> and you get the common ancestor of all bony fish and humans because their osteictes is the clay that contains all the bony fish and all the tetropods because it was a fish that became you know the tetropods evolved from