But the the other problem is that there there are different kinds of vernacular right there there's the language of the chemist right we have the IUPAC nomenclature of of of of compounds right where we very rigorously name it but then we give things uh common names right we have we have common name like like the vitamins right vitamins are are nicknames so vitamin C is the vitamin nickname for eloscorbic acid they are synonymous right Chicago windy city it doesn't matter right they're they mean the same Um, but then you'll get the, you know, you'll get these people that are like, "No, no, vitamin C is not eloscorbic acid. That's the shell of the vitamin C compl." I mean, they're just making things up. It's just complete fantasy. Um, but it's very alluring. It's a very alluring narrative like, "Oh, no. The the people in the lab, they're they're so arrogant thinking that they can match the power of nature, but no, nature, this is the real thing." And uh, no, eloscorbic acid, right? It interacts with the enzymes. uh for collagen synthesis, right? That's why you get scurvy. Collagen is the most abundant protein in the body. So, it's just it's just it's a big part of your body. So, that's why if you if you can't synthesize collagen, you start to get all those lesions all over your body. Your body can't make more body at a at a fast enough rate. You know what I mean? Because your cells are dying all the time. So, you need to be constantly producing collagen to build new cells and, you know, keep your body like your body is supposed to be. So, um, yeah, that must have been terrible hundreds of years ago being out at sea. And so, you didn't have any citrus, you didn't have any, uh, you know, vitamin C. And then people going, "What is happening to me? What is going on? Why is my body falling apart?" And then they had to figure it out. And I mean, can you imagine how incredible it is that they figured it out? There's this compound in here and and you're not getting it. And that's why that's happening to you. And now, let's synthesize it in mass amounts so it can be distributed all around the world. So, even if you don't have access to citrus fruits, you can still take a supplement, have plenty of vitamin C.