Alternative health people like to say they like to say things like western medicine treats the symptoms and not the cause. What what are they talking about and how accurate do you think that statement is? >> Uh it's it's it's largely inaccurate. I mean it's not entirely inaccurate. Obviously we have paliative medicine. We have medicine that is to treat pain and to alleviate pain. I mean that exists. But what the the second part of what they are implying is that is that it's actually the alternative medicine that is treating the underlying cause which is 100% fabric fabrication. Alternative medicine is exclusively placebased right it's not it's not it it it has it is just I think I believe this should be working so I feel a little better and there is no there is no it is not correlated whatsoever with the mechanism or whatever that product is. So whether it's Reiki or homeopathy or whatever it is, it is 100% placebo. Whereas uh modern medicine, science-based medicine, again, yes, we have painkillers, but we also have these incredible drugs that uh circulate throughout the body or they're directed towards a very particular part of the body. They interact with some protein, whether it's a receptor or an enzyme that elicits a physiological effect that directly negates uh the the the cause of of the condition, right? whatever it is, if it's, you know, if you have asthma and it's uh, you know, widening the the the bronchioles, you know, things like this, we're manipulating the body on the on the on on a very fundamental level. That's what a drug is, right? A drug is something that induces a non-nutritional physiological effect on the body. It changes something about what's going on in the body. Uh, except not nutrition. That's just a different category. But, um, it's doing something to the body. it's it's causing the airways to open up or it's constricting the blood vessels or it's doing something that has a a very measurable tangible effect on what's going on in the body. These other things, alternative medicine, they don't do that. They don't do anything, right? It's just I I have magic powers or take this magic water and uh it's it's it's nothing. It's placebo. And they initially only gathered some steam like homeopathy in particular because they came about in a time where they were alternatives to things that were specifically harmful like sculpture panning or things like this were really hurting you know blood letting things like >> blood letting Yeah. Okay.