Which brings me into the Discovery Institute. And these aren't people who like Ken Hovind got his degree from a shack in Colorado. I mean, you got Steven Meyer, you got Dr. Michael Bee, you got Demsky and a few others. You don't see them in peer review, but you certainly do see them online and they're writing and selling their books, etc. You have spoken about often the Discovery Institute. You want to tell everybody what the issue is there? >> Sure. Yeah. Eric Weinstein is to Terrence Howard as Meyer and Beehey and those guys are to uh Kent Hovind, right? You have your bottom level raving lunatics that most people can tell are full of But then you have this elevated version where look at me I'm you know I'm speaking uh you know I'm dressed a certain way and I'm speaking very clearly and in a scholarly sounding manner and uh yeah there's uh you know oh there's problems with evolution and uh you know the the the the [laughter] evolutionists don't want us there's corruption in the journals and so we can't publish in the peerreview because it goes against the orthodoxy of the no it's just you're just lying, but you're doing so with this with this terminology that is difficult to penetrate. Right? It's whereas Kent Hovind, if you if you if you got a B or better in nth grade biology, you can go, well, that that sounds ridiculous. With the Discovery Institute stuff, you have to have a certain level of understanding of whatever topic they're lying about. And they lie about molecular biology, anthropology, geology, all of it. Right? And so I've definitely made quite a stir with them. I'm kind of on a my face is on a dart board over there somewhere. Uh [laughter] because I just have taken them to tasks so hard. I have an entire series where I just go down the roster and nail every single one of them. And just very undeniably here's what they say the paper says. Here what's here's what the paper actually says. Here's the primary author of that paper acknowledging that they're lying about his paper. just really very clearly outlining how everything they say is a lie and outlining the agenda, right? It's they're they work for wealthy Christian nationalists. The idea is to get religion taught in public schools as a move towards the erosion of separation of church and state. um very nasty theocratic intent uh type stuff which is very much in line with the uh move towards fascism that we're seeing from this administration.