How would you explain transgender to people who were curious about whether or not it's science or anti-science? >> Yeah, and this is one of the peer segments is I was responding to the fallout of the Freedom from Religion Foundation debacle with Richard Dawkins, Jerry Coin, Steven Pinker, who unfortunately represent part the part of the intelligencia that is swinging this anti- anti-woke way, pseudoscientific way. the the right is using trans issues to polarize people to the right by offering these ridiculous straw men of like liberals think men can have babies and they don't there's 27 genders or whatever the hell has nothing to do with any of that. All we're saying is that there is sex and there's gender identity. Sex refers to a suite of biological characteristics. It is definitely uh first of all it's not binary. They like to say that it's just gameamtes, right? You got sperm or egg. Well, that doesn't work because bo prepubescent boys don't produce sperm. So, are they not male until they prod? Right? There's all these kinds of uh logical gaps in this kind of thinking. So, sex refers to gametes, gonatal apparatus, hormones, sex chromosomes, primary and secondary sexual characteristics. It's this suite of of characteristics. And then gender identity is a neuroanatomical construct. There is such a thing as experiencing being male or female. It is correlated with specific brain structures. And so that's being trans is when your sex and gender identity do not align. That's all. So when you have a trans woman that is the vernacular that we have developed to refer to somebody that is of was born of male sex but has female gender identity. We refer to them as a trans because the sex and gender identity do not align. and then we refer to them as trans women as a courtesy to dignify them. Right? So if it's a linguistic thing, it's never the case that conservatives acknowledge what I just said about male sex, female gender identity, but let's not call them trans women. It's always just ah you don't you're denying biology and all this stuff. It's absolutely not the case. They just don't they just absolutely want to stick to this third grade understanding of boys penis girls vagina and refer refuse to look at any of the science that is referenced and just continue going ah you think men can have babies. Which men? What are you talking about? Are you talking about cis men? Because no, nobody has ever said that. Are you talking about trans women? Are you talking about trans men? Yes, they can because they have uteruses because they are a female sex. So, it's just always it's nothing but distortion. Completely bad faith. Absolutely refusing to engage with any of the commentary. And then they hide behind unfortunately figures like Dawkins and Coin who have sort of fallen for this uh anti-woke fad and they go, "See, look, the biologists agree with us. They're just really old and canankerous and refuse to like learn something