Hey it's Professor Dave, I want to tell you about the scientific method. What is within the domain of science? Rocks, the ocean, the human body, stars and planets, the list goes on. If we want to learn about these things we must learn about the way we learn, so we must certainly understand the scientific method, which is rooted in the time of Aristotle, but truly came to maturity around the time of Galileo and Newton. This is the framework from which we attain all of our knowledge about the universe. Some people believe that there are things we can know that science could never explain. But science is the study of everything. It comes from the Latin word that means to know. Science doesn't currently know everything, there are things we are trying to figure out in every scientific field right at this very moment. But we know so much that we didn't know before and every day we know a little more. It's important to understand how the scientific method works, and why it's the only way to actually truly know anything about the world that is outside your own subjective personal experience. A certain fraction of our culture tends to reject science, making statements like "well, we don't know if that's true, it's just a theory". But these kinds of statements reflect a deep misunderstanding of certain concepts. Let's first define the terms observation, hypothesis, theory, and law, as they pertain to science. When most people use the word "theory" in common language, they mean a guess. But that is actually what hypothesis is. A hypothesis is a tentative explanation of observations. Let's say we make an observation about a natural phenomenon like an object falling to the ground. We could observe the object and how fast it falls, and we might try to guess something fundamental about the phenomenon of falling. Maybe we would hypothesize that objects fall at a speed that is proportional to their mass, so heavier things fall more quickly and lighter things fall more slowly, as that seems pretty intuitive. We may then get an idea for some way to test our hypothesis. An experiment is a way that we can gather empirical evidence that will either support or refute the hypothesis by comparing data to predictions we have made. In this case the experiment is pretty obvious. We could drop objects of varying masses from the same point and see how fast they fall, like Galileo is rumored to have done from the top of the Leaning Tower of Pisa in 1589. We might choose to drop an apple and a feather, and the result would seem to support our hypothesis, but if we are clever we will realize that we need to eliminate all the extraneous variables. When we do science, the ideal situation is to limit an experiment to one independent variable and one dependent variable. The independent variable is the one that we can alter at will, in this case the mass of the object, since we could drop an object of any mass. The dependent variable, in this case the speed at which the object falls, is the one that should change its value based on the value of the independent variable, if there is any correlation between them. So if we are testing how the rate of descent correlates with the mass of the object we must drop two objects that are identical in every way apart from their mass. No other variables like shape or wind resistance should be involved. That way all the data we collect will be specific to our inquiry. If we were to drop two spheres with differing masses we would see, just as Galileo did, that they fall at precisely the same rate. This would refute our prior hypothesis and force us to refine the existing one or develop a completely new one. If we can add to a hypothesis so that it becomes comprehensive enough to correlate a larger body of data with just a couple of equations or postulates it can become a theory. This is how Newton arrived at his gravitational theory. He took the data from Galileo about objects falling on earth as well as data from Kepler about the orbits of the planets around the Sun and he realized that it could all be explained by a single concept, and furthermore a single equation. This equation explains the motion of any object in a gravitational field, wether on Earth or in space, so it correlates a tremendous amount of data and explains observable phenomena simply and elegantly. We can even use this equation to do predictive calculations, which is how we send objects through space. We could send a probe towards the outer solar system using math to predict that at a certain time the probe and a particular planet will be near each other so that it can take pictures of the planet. And when that time comes there it is, just as the math said it would be. So a theory is not a guess. In fact, many theories have been shown to be consistent beyond reasonable doubt. There is no doubt that gravity is real. We use atomic theory every day, and if atoms weren't real, chemistry could not exist. So that we can do chemistry at all makes atomic theory consistent beyond reasonable doubt. The same can be said for the big bang theory, evolutionary theory, and so forth. A big misconception is that a theory has less certainty than a law, and that a theory would become a law if proven to be true. This is not at all the case. A law is a summary of observations, which is very different from a theory. Take gravity for example. The law of gravity says that if you drop something it will fall to the earth. Every time we drop something, it falls to the earth, so it's a law. It's just what happens. But this law does not explain why this happens. For that we need a theory, like general relativity, which is Einstein's theory of gravity that improved on Newton's. This says that space-time is warped around massive objects. So the theory explains why an object would fall to the earth as well as why the planets revolve around the Sun. So in reality, a theory is worth more than a law. Furthermore, theories must make predictions. If it doesn't make concrete quantitative, falsifiable predictions about reality, it's not science. And if the theory makes predictions that turn out to be false, then we have to discard the theory. That's what makes science so powerful. If we find a theory that correlates data and every prediction it makes about future events is true, and to high degrees of precision, then that theory must have some explanatory power about the nature of the universe. So that is how we do science. We start with observation, from which we formulate a hypothesis, and then gather empirical data through experiments. If the data yields consistent results we might formulate a law, or if we can organize all the data into an equation or set of postulates, we have a theory. And in this way, common sense and intuition, which are biased due to our innate desires and limited mental capacity, don't hold a candle to the rigorous and impartial approach that is the scientific method.