we hear the words natural and synthetic all the time when talking about food, medicine, clothes and other things. but what do they mean? if you took a poll most people would tell you that natural has to do with their juice cleanse organic groceries, yoga and other healthy activities but for synthetic they'll warn you of toxins scary chemicals and mean confusing chemistry teachers with all these charged emotions it's not surprising that a lot of people equate these words with good and bad. but this discounts everything chemistry has to offer society, so we need to change this view natural simply means made by nature, the same benevolent force that brings us deadly viruses and toxic blowfish which looks strangely similar. synthetic means made by humans who save lives with antibiotics and synthetic microbes that eat up the oil from a tanker spill. now that we've decoupled these words from good and bad let's look at something both nature and humans make. a vitamin is something we must consume in small amounts in order for our cells to keep normal function and metabolism most plants and animals make these on their own but somewhere along biological evolution a few mammals lost the ability so we have to eat them take vitamin C. for thousands of years we've gotten this from fruit but with modern science we can identify the structure of this and other compounds and make them ourselves. the question is are they the same? to answer that let's look at how a vitamin works. a vitamin has just the right shape to fit into an active site of an enzyme and make interactions that turn on the enzyme like a lock and key. and just as it doesn't matter who makes your key as long as it's the right shape for the lock, same goes for the vitamin that's why any molecule that these specific atoms arranged in this way is vitamin C nature makes this just fine, always has but when nature does chemistry it is limited to the normal pH and temperature inside a living organism so it has to use big bulky molecules to do blind chemistry. when we do chemistry we can use any exotic compounds and conditions we want to build any molecule we want, and even though the pathways are different the end product is the exact same molecule. so the bioactivity of a molecule can not depend on how it came to be an enzyme simply can't tell the difference. furthermore it is often cheaper and easier to synthesize these in mass quantities than to have to extract and purify from natural sources so if we want to keep the growing global population healthy and well-fed, we have to get over the idea that science looks like this, because science looks like this