Hey it’s Professor Dave; let’s work with percentages. We are all aware of percentages, as they are ubiquitous in society. There is a sale today, thirty percent off. Leave a twenty percent tip after the meal. Today there is A-50 percent chance of rain. So what are these things? Well in Latin, centum means one hundred, so percent literally means out of a hundred. It’s just a way of conveying magnitude, by modifying some total into a hundred, and then reporting a value of interest as some fraction of that hundred. If you get a ninety percent on your math quiz, you could have gotten nine points out of ten, eighteen points out of twenty, four hundred fifty out of five hundred, or any other number that obeys this ratio of ninety out of a hundred. Whatever we have to do to the larger number to make it one hundred, we do that same thing to the other number. Ten must be multiplied by ten to get a hundred, so the nine is also multiplied by ten. In this way, percentages are ratios, they are just very specific ratios that compare numbers to a hundred, because although this number is totally arbitrary, it is an ideal size for comparison. One hundred is small enough that our brains can easily comprehend its magnitude, but also large enough that there are sufficient gradations between zero and a hundred so as to make meaningful comparisons. In this way, we can look at percentages as simple fractions. Eighty percent is eighty one-hundredths. We learned how to simplify fractions, so let’s divide both of these numbers by twenty. We should get four fifths. This means that eighty percent and four fifths are equivalent; they mean the same thing. Moving to another example, fifty percent is fifty one hundredths, and dividing both numbers by fifty, we get one half. This makes sense, as fifty is half of a hundred. If you have something like three percent, that will be three one hundredths, and that can’t be simplified any further. We should be able to convert between percentages, fractions, and even decimals in this way with relative ease, so let’s check comprehension.