Professor Dave again, let’s talk about Zachary Taylor. Zachary Taylor was the fourth general to serve as president, a national hero due to his victories in the Mexican-American War. He was elected to the presidency despite his vague political beliefs. His top priority as president was to preserve the Union, but since he died just sixteen months into his term, he made little progress regarding slavery, which had become an inflammatory issue due to the vast territorial expansion that accompanied the Mexican War, and the contentious disagreements as to whether the new territories should become free or slave states. He was commissioned as an officer in the U.S. Army in 1808 and made a name for himself as a captain in the War of 1812. His success in the Second Seminole War attracted national attention and earned him the nickname “Old Rough and Ready.” In 1845, President Polk dispatched Taylor to the Rio Grande area in anticipation of a potential battle with Mexico over the disputed Texas-Mexico border. The Mexican-American War broke out in April 1846 and Taylor defeated Mexican troops, managing to drive them out of Texas. He then led his men into Mexico, where they were again victorious at the Battle of Monterrey. Taylor then defied orders by moving his troops further south, where, despite being severely outnumbered, he defeated Mexican forces in February 1847 at the Battle of Buena Vista. Polk, a Democrat, was concerned about Taylor’s growing popularity and had most of Taylor’s troops transferred to the command of Major General Winfield Scott, but Taylor’s popularity remained widespread. The Whig Party convinced the reluctant Taylor to run as their presidential candidate despite his lack of interest in politics. He won the election alongside New York politician Millard Fillmore, defeating the Democrats as well as the third-party effort of former President Martin Van Buren. Despite being a Southerner and a slaveholder, Taylor did not push for the expansion of slavery. To avoid the question, he urged settlers in New Mexico and California to bypass the territorial stage and draft constitutions for statehood, setting the stage for the Compromise of 1850. Taylor died suddenly of a stomach-related illness in July 1850, thwarting any potential impact on American History.