 andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx all 668 pages of it. So as you can see this is not some you know 50 page fluff piece. This is a real monster of a book here. More or less as people refer to as brings bodybuilding Bible. That is because it is as close to a a concisive guide as you're ever going to find on the topic of nutrition, training, supplements, etc. The Body of the Inner Veil is also written as a reference guide. That is you don't have to read it from cover to cover. You can go straight to a particular topic you're interested in. Let's say a particular supplement you can just go read that little section and be done with it or you can go look at training or what have you. So you don't have to read it from cover to cover. So I think a lot of people a little bit intimidated that way and we've written it as a reference style PDF file. It's very easy to navigate. You can find exactly what you want. Now the product Body of the Inner Veil as a total program comes with private forums that are not access to the public. They only have access for people that have purchased Body of the Inner Veil. And again the nice thing about that is you get to talk to myself, my handpicked moderators that are honestly the best in the business, a lot of really dedicated people that hang out there. And the nice thing about it as I'm sure you have learned from hanging out in forums is no spamming, no trolling, no arguing, no idiocy, none of those problems just getting your questions answered, talking to like-minded people and such. The program also comes with diet planners, meal planners, there's all kinds of things that this program encompasses that there's much more than just this big monstrous product here. What else can I tell you about Body of the Inner Veil? I think the important issues again is that we don't leave you hanging to your own devices after you read a book and then you've got a fairer how to do it. You can come and ask questions every day and find out how can I tweak my program to make it better. Now the e-book covers a lot of supplements but on the forums we cover hundreds and hundreds of actual branding supplements and break down by ingredient list or lack thereof if it doesn't have one. But people can come on the forum and ask about a specific product, you know, is this any good? Should I use it? What's better? Where do I save some money? So I will say that regardless of what you learn from the product you will save the cost of this product ten times over in a year by what you will learn and how much time you will save. So I might be a little biased, yes, but I do not think there's anything like it to be found anywhere on the internet or anywhere else and when you look at what we charge for this product this prize you can see. 600 plus paid book would cost you probably three to five times as much just printed out sitting in a bookstore and when you add in the rest of the program, the forums, the meal planners, the diet planners and a whole lot I'm actually even leaving out, it's just a unbeatable product. So I hope you're interested, I hope to see you on the forums and that's build a well break and bodybuilding revealed and I'll see you around on the break.