 naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, n naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, n We had to do a small fight scene that they'd written in the script, the speed racer. And he comes back and he's like, dude, this guy's good. Training with Dave and Chad was great on speed racer. But there is a level of training that is so much more of the bands than they're called. We have training sessions every day. He was trained as one of the guys. Hey, let's show up and train rain. He just showed up and he was trained with the stuntman. I've been training six hours a day for six months. Five hours on martial arts and one hour on total body fitness. For us, for martial art films or for big action films, the cast has to be in great shape. Just to endure our training, the martial art training, the choreography training, the long days on set and actually being able to perform at their optimal level. We think of it as instruction. It keeps it interesting. It keeps it creative. And so every day rain isn't quite sure what he's in for. And usually it's a bit of a pounding. Yeah, quick! It's good. I like to see him struggle a little bit. He's so hard. It's hard. I'm not sure if the before-after picks are floating around, but you know, it's pretty dramatic. They put him through the rain and he held on. He was trained like he's some man. So when he was thrown in, the ability to change and the ability to adapt to the situations and changes that film procure, then he fell right in. He has the ability to be a stunt performer on anybody's team in Hollywood. I mean, he's definitely at that level. I really did a lot with the weapons on this film. The choreography is tailored for him. It reaches to what he's very good at. Longer shots, longer sequences. We worked chains, singles and double swords, you know, shriek and double cores. I had to learn to use them with falls and rolls built in. The rain, he kept getting better, so we had to keep the choreograph. We choreographed originally. He threw far out of that choreography by the time we were ready to shoot. So we had to evolve. The more rain evolved talent-wise, the more our choreography had to evolve. I think, you know, people will love him. I think he has a chance at having a huge career and making a lot of movies. So we found somebody that's truly very talented, who put together a super-talented stunt team and kind of relied on human talent. I think Rain just really showed that he needed to be in and, you know, he got the job done. It's been challenging pushing myself to a degree that I would never have imagined. It's hard, but it's amazing.