 OK, I can get them even bigger than this. I can get them even bigger. OK, look at the sweats coming on now. Boom, my death is banged. This is the story of the biggest muscles in the world, how they keep getting bigger, and why people want them. This is Luke Skywalker in 1980. And here is Luke Skywalker, 16 years later, in 1996. Mark Hamill, who played Luke Skywalker, was said to have remarked, Mark, good God, they've put me on steroids. People say this is an addictive, it absolutely is absolutely addictive. It's something more satisfying than being the best, and that means taking lots of steroids, lots of tablets. To me, it's worth it. We'll do it, but you've got to go through the back door. Dude, I trained 23 years natural without taking steroids, but when you take steroids, it makes your body more of a machine. You're bigger, you're faster, you're stronger. It's also about what happens when things go wrong. Look, it's really fucking gross. It just sinks in like a balloon filled with water. Greg Valentino is in the Guinness Book of Records for having the world's biggest biceps. If you have a 28-inch waist, Greg's arms are bigger than you are. How you doing? I'm Greg Valentino, and I have the biggest arms in the world. No bullshit. I've been training 28 years, and I earned it. I've been training for a long time, and I've been training for a long time. And I earned these babies. Greg Valentino, these steroids to build an extraordinary body for one reason or another. I'm five-five-and-a-half, you know, with a lump on my head, maybe five-six. I definitely have Napoleon complex. Without a doubt, I definitely do. I don't like being short. I guess it's when you're a big man and a little man's body, you know what I mean? I just felt like, you know, I just, I like the feeling walking into a place like a club or something, you know, and you just, it's like everybody's like, yo, what's up, you know, they come running over to you, you know. I just like the attention. So Greg Valentino began a 30-year bodybuilding journey. At first, I was very, you know, I felt self-conscious about it. Then as I got older, I realized, man, this has kept me attention. And then you equate bigness and builtness with, you know, it's respect, you know, you get respect. The big kid in school, the real built guy, I was like, yo, don't fuck with him, don't mess with him, you know. Ultimately though, after two decades, being simply huge was not enough. Flex him, flex him, flex him, flex him, flex the traps, flex the traps. So five-foot-five Greg decided to go wide. Dude, I trained 23 years natural without taking steroids. But when it came to the point where I was at the brink at that level, I'm either going to take it and take myself to the next level. Is it worth it or not? The small man thing took over me and I just felt like I have to get bigger. I have to, and that drive brought me to, you know, just do whatever it took. And in that case, I had to make a decision one day. And that's when I decided I'm going to juice my mind out. In the 21st century, the male physique is being taken to ever greater extremes. But how? It's been called the era of the super freak. But most bodybuilders won't even talk about the performance enhancing temptations of a brutal training regime. This is the world of competitive bodybuilding. Dave Talbot has been training for 15 months for one night's competition. It's the most extreme training regime there is. I'm in the gym five o'clock every morning, training for two and a half hours. Home, breakfast, little boy to school, back to the gym. And again, the same again, another two and a half hours. I can shoot seven, eight, nine, ten thousand calories a day. But besides that, I've got like 200 grams of oats, 20 scrambled eggs, two hours later, two chicken breasts and rice. And I have another protein shake, then I'll train. Another protein shake, then I'd have some steak and potatoes. And I'd have another tuna and pasta. And I'd have another fish being there before in a bed. 30 to bed every night, religious diet in 24, 7, 7 days a week. This is a hardcore world. After months of consuming 12,000 calories a day, four times the daily intake of an average man, competitive bodybuilders often dehydrate themselves the week before the show to give maximum muscle definition. The adrenaline is flowing. You put so much effort into it. It's all down to stepping out on stage and turning square onto the judges. And it's all over. But the competitor is excruciating preparation. Means that although they look their strongest, they are actually at their weakest. Within a few minutes of being on stage, Dave will know if his 15 months of agony and effort has been worthwhile. In fourth place, Dave Talbotts. Fourth is tough when the effort has been that monumental. Greg Valentino believes that in modern competition, there's only one way to come first. Look at football. These guys are bigger, stronger, faster. They're like machines. They can keep going. It's not just some fat guy wearing a football uniform anymore. You know what I mean? We can't move them off the front line. He'll outrun you. He'll jump over you. Look at these wrestlers. Look at professional wrestlers. You got guys 350 pounds jumping off a rope, flying through the air like a bird. Is that because the human being has evolved? No. It's because performance and answers. These guys are machines. And that's what steroids do. They make you a machine. Greg Valentino is the result of this hardcore steroid use. In America, he's a minor celebrity, a curiosity who's crossed over from the extreme bodybuilding scene to the fringes of the mainstream. A freakish cult figure. Using his extraordinary drugged up arms, Greg made a fortune from selling the evidence of their success in his own training videos. But his body paid the price. The bigger you get, you know, on the cockier you get, and you start thinking you're Teflon, and you know, that's what happens. At the height of his fame, the arms Greg pumped up were about to let him down. We live in the era of the so-called super freak. Physiques seemingly beyond the body's capability. Greg Valentino pushed his body to an extreme that some people might think laughable. But is there something else going on? Bigorexia is a term that was actually coined by bodybuilders themselves, and I adopted it from them. And what it refers to is sort of a reverse case of anorexia nervosa. Dr. Harrison Pope is the world's leading authority on male body image issues. His two decades of research have produced starkling new revelations. I believe, and we have written about this in our scientific papers, that bigorexia, or what we call technically muscle dysmorphia, is a sort of obsessive-compulsive disorder. It seems to me that this phenomenon of bigorexia is particularly prevalent in guys who get into competitive bodybuilding and use anabolic steroids. These are guys who will be very large and musketer, but who look at themselves in the mirror and still think that they look too small or too wimpy. I was talking to my young daughter who was working at the computer one night, and I said, well, what are you doing? And she said, well, I'm doing my Barbie project. And I said, well, what is your Barbie project? And she said, well, if Barbie were the height of an adult woman, she'd have a 16-inch waist, and that's why women are all preoccupied that they're not thin enough. And so it occurred to me that there might be an equivalent of that for men. So here came on the market, a perfectly normal-looking guy. And then here is G.I. Joe from the 1990s, who, as you can see, has now been spending serious time at the gym, has a full six pack of abdominals, 16-and-a-half-inch arms, and even a slightly mean expression on his face. So these, I think, are a testimony to the sort of increasing emphasis on male body image that has happened over this span of time. And it's not confined just to G.I. Joe either. Take a look, for example, at Luke Skywalker. This is Luke Skywalker at the time that the original Star Wars movie came out in 1980. And here, by comparison, is Luke Skywalker when Star Wars was reissued 16 years later in 1996. And it's even said anecdotally that Mark Hamill, who played Luke Skywalker upon picking up the 1996 version of himself, was said to have remarked, good God, they've put me on steroids. What started this obsession with fantasy physiques? In the 1970s, bodybuilding became red hot, and the world began to see bodies they had never seen before. Let's go. Come on, get that pump in. Remember, time is muscle. Come on, girl. Let's go, let's do it. Do it. Do it. Again. And again. Steve Mahillek won just about everything in the American bodybuilding scene. He doesn't claim to have kickstarted the phenomenon, but knows who did. The turning point in the old movie, The Star Wars, is that he was the only one who was able to do it. He didn't claim to have kickstarted the phenomenon, but knows who did. The turning point in all of bodybuilding was one word and one word only, Arnold Schwarzenegger. Arnold Schwarzenegger changed bodybuilding and made it prominent. Why? Because not only did Arnold have muscles, but he had personality. He was funny, he was friendly. He had that star quality, which brought attention to him and then thus brought attention to us. These were the Beatles of the beefcake world. Steve was one of the few people to beat Arnie on stage, and he saw the storm created around him. Their rock-hard bodies gave them rockstar lives. While it was kind of a fun time, brings a smile to my face. They were those groupies. We would travel around the country, especially in the Grand Prix tours. We would travel around the different states and stuff and do the Grand Prix contests. And there would be new fans and groupies and everything. Not unlike with rock stars. I mean, it was pretty incredible. I've had my exciting times. Of course, my wife knows none of that, so I'm not going to say too much about it. Their bodies became Hollywood fantasies that echoed through the years. Today, young men still want that glamour and those muscles. He was obsessed with Arnold Schwarzenegger. I only see the world want to experience things, and body bones my tickets are that. Joe Middleton worships at the shrine of Steve and Arnie. While other boys dream of playing in the Premiership or starting a band, Joe thinks his tickets of fame and fortune is extreme muscle. My dream is to be the Miss T-Olympia, to stand up on that stage, to get the medal, and to be proclaimed as the best in the world. And it's all related to what Arnold Schwarzenegger has done with his life. Joe's chosen a tough teenage life. My personal and social life has suffered since I left school. I haven't really kept in contact with anyone from school. So, yeah, become more of a loner in that respect. But in my eyes, it's all going to pay off and it will be worth it. When you got to secondary school and you had a hard time, I think there was quite a lot of bully in it's school, and people trying to drag him down the wrong path. When I close my eyes at night, my dream is to be on top of the body-building stage as the best. I also would love to go into acting just as Arnold done. And then maybe Proletics, I didn't know. Joe wants to follow in Arnie and Steve's footsteps, but he might not realise his heroes had some help. When Arnold Schwarzenegger and Steve Mahelik found the competitive bar getting higher, they turned to steroids. You got two choices. You could do 100 each squat, or you could stick steroid needles in your butt. Let's see who quit. I won 20 cube titles, including Mr. USA, most most man USA, and Mr. America. Absolutely clean. No steroids. Okay. And a friend of mine said, come on over to Europe and let's, why don't you come over and just take a look at the guys and spend some time in Europe. So I spent some time in Europe, and he convinced me to take some steroids. Against my better judge. You know, a time of weakness. He says, listen, you train so hard, you can imagine what you'd look like if you took steroids the way you train. I said, well, I don't know. I never did this before. He says, yeah, just try a little bit. He dares the mistake. There's no little bit. That's the problem with this stuff. People say it isn't addictive. It absolutely is absolutely addictive. Who all did this? But to speak to our defence, not that it was right or wrong, I think it's the right thing to do. Not that it was right or wrong. We were given this stuff basically by doctors back then who didn't know that there was any harsh side effects or anything. We basically were being used for guinea pigs. Today doctors don't issue steroids to sportsmen and women, but usage has risen enormously as young hopefuls face increasing pressure and temptations. If it was in front of you, and you were going to be a pro baseball player, you know, I don't know about soccer in Europe, but in baseball, you've got guys making $20 million a year. If you had a son and your son says, Dad, they're scouting me. They want me. They want to sign me. But you know what? They're telling me I got to get bigger, stronger, faster. I got to take a little something, Dad. I got to take something. What do you say to your kid? Would you rather have your kid on heroin? Would you rather have your kid on performance enhancers, or steroids? The idea of giving your child steroids may seem bizarre, but back in England, one parent has done just that. And he come to me and said, look, Dad, if I do decide to go for the show, I am going to use the gate. So I'm asking you, what shall I use? I ain't going to turn my son down knowing for a while that he could have gone the other way. In the north of England, Mick Hart has established himself as the unofficial voice of steroid use. He produces a controversial pro-steroid magazine, banned on the High Street, but still scoring 6,000 readers. Good afternoon, Mick. How's training? He's revered and reviled in equal measure. For some, he's an advice centre. For others, he's a dangerous presence. There's many ways that you can sort it. I know you can test him and stuff like that, but really, you didn't want to be buying stuff you're not sure about. Where's your mate, Gavin, in his arms? Right. And his arms aren't in your bigger? No, I'm sorry, mate. I'm doing my job, then. The noble supposed to shock you, man. So if anybody's jabbing in their arms, why on earth, then, why the fucking hell should they be jabbing in your arse expecting your arms to get bigger? They know that they can rely on me to tell them the truth or, as the truth is as close as I can get it. They like the fact that they can ask the question. They like the fact that they've got somebody there who they can turn to. And I'm proud of that. Good afternoon, mate. All the scare stories and side effects, the problems and hair losses and skin problems and aggression are all done by over abuse, over usage, as it were. It's so sure of his own knowledge that he was happy to gait his son, Chris, on a steroid experiment. You go beyond yourself, I suppose, when you're training, that's when it really bites. I think if I actually start to eat a little bit better and put a bit more structure towards my training routine itself, I'll be able to progress a little bit further. When you start to see there's a few more gains, you think maybe I could do a little bit more with this and having the advantage of the father, having that knowledge, that backup. There was really no reason why I shouldn't have seen how far I could get going with this first competitive bodybuilding. Mixed regime was so successful that Chris went from this to this in the space of a year. His success story was published in the Chris Report, which became an underground hit. The report covers all aspects of my complete training programme in preparing for my first competition and includes details of the nutrition and of course the stereotype I use. Because I was his son and the fact that anabolic stars was used in the progression of competing, that he wanted to get down in words, the fact that my son has been using it and I had advised him on how to use this, but we did it for this reason, this reason, this reason, and this was the result. Chris Hart got results quickly, but at what price? The short-term medical problems with steroids are relatively modest and that is one of the reasons that people are tempted to use them. Certainly there are some guys who get acne. There can be, in some cases, growth of female breast tissue. Most guys who use these drugs don't notice much of anything in the way of short-term effects. And of course, the long-term effects are rarely a consideration because if you're an 18-year-old who wants to look bigger and more muscular next month, you're not going to be worrying about whether you're going to get a heart attack when you're 60. If even small doses of steroids can create long-term problems, what happens when extreme doses are involved? Greg Valentino was about to find out. Anything in excess is going to cause side effects. And of course, there's not a bodybuilder on this planet who has not had some sort of side effects from taking steroids, even some supplements. It could be something simple as in taking a protein powder and having shit in every five minutes, blessed in farts all day. I mean, you've ever been around a guy that lose weight? You're like, dude, every five minutes you're smelling rotten ass and that's because he's blowing his ass up, taking all the supplements. Well, that's a small side effect. When you're taking steroids, you get big side effects. And of course, I had big side effects. After years of steroid injections, Greg's bicep was fighting back. I had tons of needles, syringes, needles, the whole bit. And I'm over there reusing needles, dropping a damn thing on the floor, blowing it off, wiping it off, and then you stick that in and you get infections, you know? And that's what happened. I wound up getting infection and when I got the infection, it starts off, you get a bad fever, the area gets red, soft, pussy. There was like a giant zit in there. It was just loaded with pus. And if you don't do something about it, you wind up in a hospital and kill yourself, you know what I mean? It could kill you. Greg knew he was in serious trouble, so he decided to operate on himself. What you're watching is I had a hematoma in my arm and I'm draining the blood. Now look, here you got the needle look. It's going right into the bicep. Now look, now it's hanging out of the bicep. And this film is like frigging 15, 20 minutes of just constant pulling shit out. Look at that. I'm filling up whole syringes and I just keep going and going and going. Look, you can see the needle is starting to bend. Oh, man. I love it though. It's really, it's fucked up. It almost looks like a murder scene. There's blood all over the floor. There's blood everywhere. It's really fucking gross. It just sinks in like a balloon filled with water. Look at the chunks of shit in there. It was fucked up. Greg's home surgery didn't work. After 20 minutes of stealth mutilation and two tumblers of coagulated blood, Greg ended up in emergency surgery. I deserved it. I was an idiot. I was an idiot, you know. His beautiful world beating bicep was hacked to pieces. You see the difference? Look, that arm's round. That arm's not. You see, when he cut it, you see the cut? When he cut that, went in, forms a scar. That's a scar. I gotta get that taken care of. I'm totally self-conscious about that, you know? Steroids had destroyed Greg Valentino's body. He thought things couldn't get any worse. But they did. Don't like that scene. No! Greg Valentino took so many steroids, his body finally fought back. His bicep exploded. But his health wasn't the only problem. In the era of the so-called super-freak, to build unnatural muscles, you need unnatural chemicals, steroids, and dealing them is another symptom of their use. This is a bold statement now that there's not a pro bodybuilder on this planet or a guy who takes steroids, who hasn't sold steroids either. They may not be heavy-duty drug dealers, but I can't imagine any bodybuilder who trains in a gym, who takes steroids, but on a regular basis, who hasn't sold a bottle or two to his friends or to other guys in a gym. That's how it starts, you know? In the UK, steroids are the most popular drug after ecstasy and cannabis. There's money to be made. I say the big names have lots of money, and they're still earning lots of money. So you just don't, you know, you don't step on their toes. And if you're doing big quantities, you might only make a small amount of money, but if you're doing a lorry load of it, you'll probably come and mow me there. And Greg Valentino did. What happened was, you know, I started out very small with the steroid thing, and it just escalated, and as it escalated, you know, I got bigger, not just body-wise, but, you know, selling the steroids in the business, in the drug-dealing business, and we were big, you know? I was up there. The US policy towards steroids is zero tolerance. Their use and sale is illegal, and they're driving the steroid treat underground. In the sport of bodybuilding, I mean, it's drugs, you're dealing drugs, so you've got to deal with shady people, and, you know, there's going to be, wherever there's steroids, there's usually other drugs, too. I mean, I can give you a million stories. This is the guy doing time in jail right now, and he fronted us like $30,000 worth of stuff, and we got robbed. He took it out on us, you know, he wanted his money. He brought us to a parking lot over by Yankee Stadium, he had us get on our friggin' knees, and give us the reason why he shouldn't kill us. And a couple weeks later, the same guy that held the gun to our head was arrested for triple murder down in Florida. You know, I mean, I'm just saying, these are the kind of guys you're dealing with, you know, then they don't fucking play around. Before steroids, Greg was married for 10 years with two kids, but his underworld lifestyle soon replaced the regular family man. Here you are, I was a married man, I was cheating on my wife. I was living a drug deal lifestyle, that's what happens. You're out there, you're making money, you're living at night, you're in the clubs. Greg began an affair with a woman named Julissa. When his wife kicked him out, they became partners in crying. She was rough, she was in prison 11 times. She was an ex-heroine. She was Puerto Rican, she knew how to speak Spanish, and I had just started dealing with the Latin street gangs and stuff. But the steroid dealing trade was getting ever more dangerous. As soon as they get upstairs, a guy comes jumping out of a closet with a shotgun. And the guy's holding the gun to me like this, and he tells me, give me the fucking money. And he told me, I don't remember the exact, I had like 15 or 20,000, I had a lot of money on me. So I'm like, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. And he cracks me across the head, bam! You know, now I'm bleeding, you know, and I hit the ground, and about 30 seconds later, I just heard a scream, and then a bang. And I see the shotgun guy literally almost falls into my lap. And the gun falls right into my lap, you know, the shotgun falls right into my lap. And what it was was Jolissa came in the room and shot the guy in the ass. If she didn't come in that room, we're guns blazing. I don't know if I'd be sitting here today. You know, the bottom line is, she saved my ass because those guys would have killed me. But Jolissa, a drug addict, died of an overdose on the 10th of September, 2000. Things were unraveling, and Greg's luck was about to run out completely. I had been selling drugs for years. I had been selling drugs for years, man. And you always heard that you're being watched, you're being watched, you know, you gotta watch what you do. So I didn't really, you know, I figured, oh man, I've been here now for the longest time. You know, I didn't think that, you know, that anything would happen. I'm in the gym this one particular night, and I'm with a friend, and we're in the back room at the gym, you know, the locker room. And as I come out, I hear a banging on the door. And I'm like, oh man, it must be one of my friends that forgot something, you know. And sure enough, I open up the door and a swarm of cops compiling in. A massive amount of illegal steroids. These 12 West Chester Robb-Will reports it appears the man wasn't just selling them. One look at Gregory Valentino's arms, and you know something's going on. The 40-year-old is charged with criminal possession of anabolic steroids with intent to sell. Police say they found $75,000 worth of illegal muscle-building drugs at his home, and the powerhouse gym in Yorktown where Valentino is a part owner. My arrest was headline news. I mean, you know, I paid the price for being a big player too. I lost everything I had from my cars to my family, my house, my all my money, my bank, everything, my gym. I owned a health club. They took the whole health club. Look it, I'm working out here in this basement. That's what happens. You're sitting in a jail cell saying how the fuck did I wind up here? Yesterday I'm walking around, and the next minute you know, you got no money left. Your cars, you know, the cops are driving around in your car. You know, your ex-wife's got some guy in the bed saying, man, you know, we're your money. They're living off your money, and you're sitting in a jail cell with a bunch of momos asking you, you know, you can eat that corn? Dude, eat it. I can't eat. I'm ready. I'm thinking of ways to jump off the top balcony and kill myself.  andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx I bought back ten grand worth in a suitcase. It's amazing what you can get in a suitcase. Can't lift it, but it's... And just paid a tax on it. That's all they... It was for me. It's all for me. They have to prove it's not for you. This supply feeds a thriving market. An estimated 20% of those using gems in the UK have used steroids. In response to this demand, Mick Hart has become a self-appointed drug expert for the bodybuilding scene. I don't really... I don't call myself a steroids expert. Everybody else does that. I'm an experienced steroid user who's called a steroid expert. I'm called a steroid guru. I could spell it. The side effects and the problems that people know about more are, in general, kicked in through lack of knowledge. It's that knowledge that people want. That's the reason why I do what I do. Mick Hart has built a business road testing bodybuilding drugs and reporting back to his readers. But the self-appointed guru was to meet his downfall. It arrived to me on my desk in a small tub. Make... Check this out. Oh, rather, what do you think? Have you heard about this? What do you think about it? Never heard about it. Did a bit of research on it. A phone to make a mine up. He says, take it 20 minutes for you to bed. It'll knock the fat off you. So I think you won't. I was a chief correspondent. So I've got to write about this. You've got to type about this. The dosage was a tiny, tiny little bit behind of a teaspoon. And I tried this. Boom. I felt such a buzz. The fat dropped off me. Absolutely dropped off me. Wow, this is good. So I went from a tiny, tiny little bit on a teaspoon. That would be a tub. I was eating two tubs a day. Two tubs a day. In that time, I nearly... I fell asleep in my car, nearly killed people at bus stop. Fell flat on my face, smashed all my face in. Had to physically pull out. 7, 12 of my own teeth. I'd made the ultimate mistake. Being a classed as a helper and a guide, I'd fallen full flat into this myself. The drug Mick thought was for fat loss was in fact GHB, otherwise known as liquid ecstasy. Once again, Mick put pen to paper, this time to write another underground bestseller about his GHB hell in tears on a keyboard. The man who was prepared to take anything on the supplement black market was about to hit rock bottom. In June 2005, Mick Hart suffered a massive heart attack. I got sent to hospital and the doctor said to Dr. Look, he asked me, did I have a tic steroid? Yes, but not last year, only last year. And he started giving me the, well, this is what you get. No, no, no disrespect, doc. You do your tests on me now, you do your tests. It wasn't steroids that he didn't, the architect was not induced by steroids. The architect was being out of shape, too much stress. Maybe they had beer too much, working, starting work at say six o'clock in the morning, getting home at seven, eight o'clock. You know, that's the reason why I got the architect. It basically stress, worry about this, worry about that. Plus the kids have been on school, that's gonna be anybody on our to take. Whatever Mick Hart believes about steroids, it's clear that something has taken its toll on the 47 year old bodybuilder's health. And the evidence that these drugs lead to serious health problems is growing. When you take very large amounts of steroids, the health risks are obviously going to be greater than people who take a modest amount for a short period of time. Certainly people who take very large amounts of steroids over prolonged periods of time are very likely to have much more problems with hardening of the arteries because of the adverse effects of the steroids on cholesterol levels. So my guess as a scientist would be that men who are using very large amounts of steroids are quite likely to have an elevated incidence of heart disease, of heart attacks and strokes when they get into their 40s and 50s and 60s. Arnold Schwarzenegger's former training partner, Steve Mahalek, is not in denial about the effects of steroids. When you take anabolic steroids, they take over running your body. The problem is, it's very difficult to come off. And the only way you come off is if tragedy struck. That's what happened to me. I still probably would have been on. Steve first knew something was wrong when he started passing blood in his urine. It was his liver dissolving. Right before Sonnegan, we found a grapefruit-sized tumor and three golf balls-sized tumor on my liver. I went up in hospital. I went cold turkey. Physical symptoms were I had extreme pain because of the liver tumor. Or every joint in my body was hurting beyond imagination. My body shrunk down from 220 pounds to about 146 pounds. I almost lost my mind. I went up in a mental institution. A mental institution. It was a horror story. And then came the finale. You plant one little tiny seed of anabolic steroid in your body, even one cycle of steroids. One, that seed grows embedded in every cell in your body over years and years and years until it's full-blown something. Tumor, cancer, prostate, infertility. That's what happened to me. I thought I was over it. I got off this stuff. But no, it was still playing its dirty tricks on me. And what do I get? I get a massive heart attack. Right? Because the steroid time bomb was still kicking. Even though your muscles on the outside are big, on the inside you are rotting and you're rusting. And this is what happened to me. Boom, rushed me to the hospital. Bam, heart surgery. This happened to a lot of bodybuilders, the heart surgery. Fine, finally get over that. Got it all clear and well done. Boom, I get hit with a stroke. Okay? And this is all from the steroids that watched the artery slowly from the time when I first took them in my early 20s. By the time Steve Mahalic's steroid journey was over, he was left with a testosterone level of a 12-year-old girl and testicles the size of peanuts. But he's lucky to be alive. So it seems, his Arnie. Arnold Schwarzenegger took steroids. And like Steve, he's had heart problems, undergoing heart surgery in his early 50s. But worst heroes serve as a warning for today's wannabe muscle now. Joe Middleton is at the start of his bodybuilding journey. He's prepared to do anything to get to the top. This is his first time among some of his heroes. This is my first competition I've ever been to. Absolutely psyched. It's fantastic. Really can't wait for the show to start. Can't believe I'm actually here. So many people around. I feel small compared to them, but absolutely brilliant. APPLAUSE From what I've seen tonight, it's been fantastic. Just the feeling I've got, sat there watching these bloats pose right off against each other for their title, was just so motivating. Joe might be young, and he might be starting out, but he's not that green. He knows now that to get anywhere, he'll be under pressure to take steroids. At first, actually, what I had to do with steroids, I was a bit naive. My dad always said to me that these bloats were on steroids, and I didn't believe him. The more reading I'd done, the more I found out about it, and I realised, yeah, they all did take steroids. Joe's been honest with his parents, and they're worried. I personally hope that he doesn't take that at raid. And as a parent, I'd be concerned that, you know, the bad things that could happen to him, you know, to actually get into that lifestyle. I don't know how it's going to affect him in the long term, what's going to happen to his body, you know? He has side effects, you know, mood swings, and because you just don't... Well, I just don't know. There's nothing more satisfying than being the best, and if that means taking steroids, lots of steroids, lots of tablets, to me, it's worth it. MUSIC ..AND THE BODY BUILDING In the world of competitive bodybuilding, men's bodies are now well beyond the limits of what nature intended. And these surreal cell sculptures are still a magnet to young men everywhere. Incredibly, an estimated 5% of British men under the age of 30 have used steroids. It seems to me that this preoccupation with male body image and the associated problem of steroid use is not going to go away any time soon. I don't see any trend that is going to arrest this phenomenon over the next decade or two. You don't need those steroids. All you need to do is hard work. What everybody has forgot to do was to do hard work. When I went to the U.S.A. and I went to America, I never took one steroid. It wasn't until I trained for the Mr. Universe that I was an idiot that I finally took steroids and only killed myself. Today for Steve Mahalik, all American champion, the explosion in steroid usage is part of a very modern problem. Here we go. We've got drug generation. From the day you're born, you go to Puget Shirt if you have a problem because you were drugged. Turn on TV. What do you see? Drug for this. Drug for a hair game, drug for hair loss, drug for fat, drug for losing your weight, drug for diarrhea, drug for constipation. It's a drug for everything. This is what the kids are getting, this generation. Drug, drug, drug, drug. Now the kids, 17, 18 years old, he wants to have muscles. What does he do? He takes drugs because this is what we taught him. And we got to now try to unravel and say, hey, slow down, wait a minute. Maybe the pill isn't the answer and maybe the now is not the solution. Have a taking some time, get back to the old ways of doing things. You're going to live longer and have more success. Mick Hart, advocate of C-steroid use, denies that anything he's done to his body has had an impact on his feeling health. Let's take steroids out of the game. Great. Are we going to save the world? No. Let's take smoking out of it. Yeah, we'll save the world. Let's take all these druggies out and bury them. Yeah, that saved the world. Let's take coffee away. That's going to stop everybody shaking. You know, that's fine. That's an ideal world. Then we can all wear nice little hats and walk around old in-hands. I would predict that over the next 10 years or the next 20 years, you and I will see a lot of cases and hear a lot of reports of one or another major bodybuilder or other athlete who developed heart disease or a stroke at a seemingly premature age and that this in many instances will probably have been attributable to steroid use. And what of Greg Valentino, the ultimate in steroid pumped bodybuilding? He paid a terrible price, but he's left to tell the tale. And he still enjoys telling that tale. Look at that. I let the needle in. Richie, look at this. Come here. I let the needle just like stick in there and then hang. Oh man. I love it though. It's really, it's fucked up. You saw this take before? Rich, you saw this? No, what the hell is that? That's me. Look, I'm draining a hematoma out of my arm. Wait, look. By the end of the tape. Oh man, you look even. Bro, look at that shit. Look, look at the needles all bent like a fish hook. Oh gosh. Lodge, I'm talking to Bob. See, I'm on the phone. I'm talking to Bob, will be. Bob was on the phone with him while he was doing that. And I said, Greg, you gotta go to the hospital. No, I was just scared of it. Stupid. I was laughing, right? And he's going to me. What are you laughing at? You should be going to the hospital. Look at it, look at it, look at all that shit. That must have been local. Look at the pus floating on top of the blood. Oh gosh. Look at that shit. It looks like a fucking ball sack without balls. It looks like a breast implant. Bob, come how lucky he is, he's alive. That's when I was happily juiced up. Well, let me tell you, we came in great. That was fucked up. That was really fucked up. That was fucked up. It was really gross. You guys like that, huh? Ha ha ha. Have a good one, fellas. Thanks, guys. 3,000 miles away, can Greg's steroid horror story be worn off, wanna be muscle man, Joe? Oh, how can you do that to yourself? Oh my God. You know, I don't like this. He's shoving that in his muscle and it's... It's not hurting him because it's not real. No, I know, it's not... But it is real, Joe, I'm sorry. There's limits to where, how far I would go. I would... I would, you know, I would take steroids, eventually. I don't want to know that, Joe. You know, I would. I would never take it to an extreme like that, where he's able to drain his muscle. In experience, I've got quite a high pain pressure, but it's sticking the needle that long in my muscle, straight through it, and continuously doing it, draining fluid out of it. I mean, I don't think I'd want to do that, no matter what. How much money I could get? No. Good. I still could be the biggest and the best. It's not that kind of freakishly weird big. But you could end up like this, Joe. You know... I just... As a mum, I could not sit by and let you do it. This is really, really scary. To... To actually think that Joe might end up... End up like this. The thought really frightens me, to be honest. I don't know. I don't sound quite as good. Oh, I'm sorry, Joe, but I can't see anything more. I'm not here looking to be like, don't look at me as a role model. Because I am no role model. What I had to do to get that... I don't know if I could ever do it again. I don't think it's even in me to do it again. I had to take a beat and sit in a jail. I mean, I had to do a lot. I had infections that almost killed me. I had to watch my girlfriend die. I lost my family, lost my children, made... I lost a million dollars. I sold my soul to the devil. I had to also bend over when it was time. It was time for him to collect. I stuck my hands in the air and I told him, be gentle. And the new series of Hidden Lives continues on Monday at 10 with Extreme Twins. Stay tuned, more details coming straight up for that. And next on 5 p.m. Thursday night, John Barnes' Football Night.