 andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx and this is not medical advice, this is just our findings. So if you are going to change your diet or take any of these supplements, we do recommend that you consult with a physician. Our top pick for the best multivitamin supplement overall goes to Nutracost, which has a great list of ingredients, great dosages, and is at a great price point. Some of the main ingredients that you want to look for in a multivitamin are vitamins such as A, C, D, E, and K. Especially in today's world, you can't get enough vitamin D where people aren't outside. You have things like magnesium, zinc, copper, amongst other ingredients. Nutracost multivitamin contains some of the main ingredients that you want in a multivitamin such as A, C, D, E, and K, as well as iron, magnesium, selenium, and riboflavin. Vitamins such as vitamin D and iron are highly important when in today's world where people aren't getting enough sun or they're not eating enough red meat, a lot of people, their stomachs can't handle red meat, so they have to find their iron somewhere else. So multivitamin is great for that. And when you're not getting enough sun, vitamin D is a great supplement to take. As an added bonus, Nutracost multivitamin is non-GMO, gluten-free, soy-free, and it's also a nice vegetarian option. Nutracost multivitamin is also manufactured in an NSF certified GMP compliant FDA registered facility. The reason Nutracost multivitamin is our favorite multivitamin supplement of 2025 is it's under strict compliance. It comes from a great company. It's got a great ingredient list. It's vegetarian friendly and it's at a great price point. Next on our list of best multivitamin supplements is the best supplement for muscle building, which is MuscleMed's vitamin T. It's got all of the benefits of a multivitamin for your overall health, as well as the added benefits of testosterone boosting ingredients such as fenugreek, tribulus, longjack, and boron. So that really helps athletes and bodybuilders and anyone really looking to put on muscle mass in doing so. Athletes, bodybuilders, strength athletes, they have different dietary regulations, which is where a supplement like vitamin T comes into play because it has an added bonus of a testosterone booster with ingredients such as fenugreek, longjack, boron, and tribulus, which help the body to produce testosterone more directly, as other supplements might use ashwagandha, which just reduces the cortisol levels and allows the body to produce testosterone. This is a more direct boost. So if you're an athlete, a male over 50, or someone who just has low testosterone in general, muscle mass vitamin T is a great supplement to maintain your overall health and boost your testosterone naturally. Next on our list of best multivitamin supplements is Performance Lab Nutri-Genesis Multifermin. It is an all-natural supplement with dosages of all of the vitamins that you need aimed at men. This product is on our list because it upgrades nutritional status for optimal whole body performance and is designed by specialists for men's specific nutritional needs. Next on our list of best multivitamin supplements is Caj multivitamin, which is filled with a fully disclosed and clean formula, 100% plant-based and vegan-friendly ingredients, 21 essential and organic ingredients, all from Whole Foods. It's got a high absorption rate and utilization. The only downside is it is a higher price point. Next on our list is the best multivitamin for men over 50, which is Transparent Labs Wellness Series Multivitamin. Transparent Labs Wellness Series Multivitamin has a transparent label with all of the ingredients that you need in a multivitamin, no additives, no dyes, it's gluten-free and it's vegan-friendly. And best of all, Transparent Labs Wellness Series Multivitamin is dosed at levels that are needed for men over 50. So it's the best option for people in that age range. Performance Lab also has Nutri-Genesis for women, which is the same standards, the same results, but it's clinically dosed for women's specific nutritional needs. And that's why that is also on our list as the best multivitamin for women. And that concludes our list for more information and a more detailed review of each of these products. Go to generationiron.com or search generationiron, best multivitamins on Google. Even if you are healthy and even if you do have a very balanced diet, these multivitamins can still be helpful because even if you have the perfect diet, you still might not be getting the micronutrients that you need. Let us know what you think in the comments below. This is Dylan signing off.