 bierrgoogel, bierrgo.com. It's Dylan from Generation Iron, bringing you the top creatine supplements. Creatine is one of the most researched and safest supplements on the market. That helps to activate the satellite cells in your body. Repair the micro tears after you lift. In this video, we're going to be breaking down the best creatine supplements overall. Not just that, but also in separate categories. Such as the best creatine for bulking. The best creatine HCL. And many others. Just as a disclaimer. I am not a doctor. Or licensed medical professional. Of any sort. So if you are going to change your diet or take any of these supplements, we do recommend that you consult with your primary care physician. And with that, let's jump into the best creatine supplement. The first category is the best overall creatine supplement, which goes to none other than NutriCost creatine monohydrate. It is simple, effective, and comes from a reputable company, which is NutriCost. The best creatine supplement overall goes to NutriCost creatine monohydrate, which is simple, effective, and it comes from a reputable company, which is NutriCost. NutriCost creatine monohydrate is just pure creatine monohydrate, which is the most researched and safest form of the supplement. NutriCost offers both flavored and unflavored versions, and we love both of them. They mix well, and they pair with other supplements well. As far as the pros and cons of NutriCost creatine monohydrate, it has no artificial additives or fillers. It comes from a reputable company, and it's at a great price point. As far as the cons, it does not mix well as some of the other creatine supplements on the list, but that's a minor thing. And that's why we deem it the best creatine supplement. As far as the price point of NutriCost creatine monohydrate, it also hits our list as the best budget creatine, coming in at $21 for 100 servings. Not only is it the best creatine overall, but NutriCost creatine monohydrate is also our favorite budget option, as it comes in at $21 for 100 servings. Next on our list of best creatine supplements is Transparent Labs creatine HMB. Not only does it include the 5 grams of creatine monohydrate, but it also includes the added bonus of HMB, which is hydroxymethylbutyrate, for added recovery. HMB is a substance that your body produces naturally when it breaks down the amino acid leucine, so supplementing with it can help your body recover better and grow better. Transparent Labs creatine HMB includes 5 grams of creatine monohydrate, which is the recommended serving size, 1500 milligrams of HMB, and then 5 milligrams of black pepper extract, which helps with enhancing nutrient absorption and fighting inflammation. As far as the pros and cons of Transparent Labs creatine HMB, it has the addition of HMB, which is great for recovery, it's got a great ingredient list, a transparent label, which the company prides themselves on. It comes from a reputable company, which is Transparent Labs, but it is a premium priced option and only available through their website. In addition to Transparent Labs creatine HMB being our favorite creatine monohydrate supplement, it's also our best for muscle gain, best tasting, and best for women. Next on our list of best creatine supplements is the best for bodybuilders, which is Mutant CreaKong. It separates itself from other supplements as it uses the CreaKong creatine blend, which contains three different versions of the supplement. The three versions of creatine in this blend are creatine monohydrate, which we've already talked about, creatine magnesium chelate, and tricreatine citrate. Creatine magnesium chelate is a form of creatine where it's bound with magnesium to help improve the absorption and enhance the effectiveness. Tricreatine citrate is a version of the supplement where it's three creatine molecules and one citrate molecule, making it highly soluble and can be better for dietary supplementation. Mutant CreaKong has four grams of this CreaKong creatine blend. As far as the pros and cons of Mutant CreaKong, it is a tri-blend, which is great for recovery and can be great for bodybuilders, but it does not tell you how many grams per serving in each of those creatine forms. In addition to being the best creatine supplement for bodybuilders, we also have it listed as the best creatine supplement for post-workout because of that tricreatine blend. Next on our list of best creatine supplements is our favorite creatine supplement with Decanate, which is Muscle Med's Creatine Decanate. And that uses their patented Decadrive technology to help further muscle recovery, energy output, and ATP. For those wondering what the Decadrive technology is, it uses decanoic acid, which is a saturated medium-chain fatty acid. As far as the pros and cons of Muscle Med's Creatine Decanate, it helps to support muscle growth and recovery and boost your ATP and energy output. However, the Decanrive technology is newer and less researched. Next on our list of best creatine supplements is Kase Creatine Ecl, also known as Kase Hydrochloride, which is a form of a supplement where it is bound with hydrochloric acid and is better soluble in water and can be easier on the stomach, making it our top pick for cutting. As far as the pros and cons of Kase Creatine HCL, the pros are that it is 750mg of pure creatine HCL, which is great because it's highly soluble in water and it's easier on the stomach. But as far as the cons, it is only 750mg of creatine, which is far less than the standard 5g. In addition to being our favorite creatine supplement for cutting, Kase HCL is our favorite HCL creatine supplement. And it also offers a pill form, which is our favorite creatine pill. And that's a wrap on the best creatine supplements. Just as a reminder, creatine is a great supplement for helping you to build muscle as it helps us repair those micro tears, boost energy output, and ATP production. If you'd like more information and a more detailed breakdown of each of these products, we have a more detailed article on generationiron.com or Google Generation Iron Best Creatine Supplements. Let us know what you think in the comments below. This is Dylan signing off. This is Dylan signing off.