 arabin, People think that they don't do anything for you, but in reality, they are a crucial part of the recovery regimen. BCAs, also known as branched-chain amino acids, can be broken down into leucine, isoleucine, and valine, which help do different things throughout the body, overall improving the recovery process, boosting growth hormone, and burning fat. Although BCAs are found in many different foods, supplementing with them as well helps you give you that competitive edge, especially if you're a competitive bodybuilder or strength athlete or some other type of athlete. Just as a heads up, I'm not a doctor or licensed medical professional of any kind, so if you are going to take these supplements or change your diet in any way, shape, or form, we do recommend consulting with your primary care physician. Now let's get into the best BCA supplements. At the top of our list of the best BCA supplements is NitroCross BCA, which comes with 6 grams of BCAs per serving at a 2-to-1-to-1 ratio. So it's 3 grams of leucine, 1.5 grams of isoleucine, and 1.5 grams of valine. As far as the pros and cons of NitroCross BCAs, it comes in with pure BCAs, it's third-party tested and comes from a reputable company. However, it can be slightly chalky when you mix it. Next on the list of the best BCA supplements is the best option for muscle gain, which goes to none other than Transfer Labs BCA Glutamine, which has a 2-to-1-to-1 ratio of BCAs plus the added benefit of glutamine, which serves as a building block for proteins and helps to recover faster. So what is glutamine? Well, glutamine serves as a vital nitrogen carrier and energy source for various tissues and cells, particularly within the gut. It helps improve the protein synthesis and helps you recover faster. So having glutamine within your BCA supplement gives you an added benefit to your recovery protocol as you have the BCA supplements themselves as well as the glutamine there. So we've already talked about the 5 grams of glutamine that are in Transparent Labs BCA glutamine, but it also has 4 grams of leucine, 2 grams of isoleucine, and 2 grams of valine, which is why we took it and put it on our list as the best BCA supplement for muscle gain. The only cons to Transparent Labs BCA glutamine is it might be a little harder to mix, and it's only available through their website. Because of that added recovery, Transparent Labs BCA has made our list as the best BCA supplement for long workouts, and it's also a vegan product, so it's made our list as the best vegan BCA. Another one of the top BCA supplements is Mutant Gear, which is great as it has 7 grams of BCAs, which can be broken down into 4 grams of leucine, 1.5 grams of isoleucine, and 1.5 grams of valine. Mutant Gear also has 3 grams of essential amino acids, also known as EAAs, which are amino acids that the body cannot produce on its own and have to be sustained through the diet. Next on our list of the best BCA supplements is Cage Pre-Workout, as this is a pre-workout with all of the benefits of that, plus the added benefits of BCAs. Now, a pre-workout supplement is great because it gives you the energy, focus, and pumps for your actual workouts, and then having the BCA supplement with that gives you that added recovery to get through your workout. That being said, Cage Pre-Workout is a great two-for-one option, as it is a pre-workout and a BCA supplement in one. As far as ingredients, this is largely a pre-workout, so you're going to have 388 milligrams of caffeine for that energy focus. You're going to have 280 milligrams of sodium and 250 milligrams of potassium for the muscle cramps and pump, but then you're also going to have 6.5 grams of BCAs on top of that for the added recovery. As far as the pros and cons of Cage Pre-Workout, it is a pre-workout with stimulants in it, so if you're someone that's sensitive to stimulants or does not want that, this is not the product for you, but then you have the added bonus of the BCAs in there for the added recovery. Another great BCA supplement is Cellucor Alpha Aminos. It's a recognizable brand. It's got 5 grams of BCAs, and in our experience, it's been great for performance. Cellucor Alpha Aminos has the standard 2-to-1-to-1 ratio of leucine, isoleucine, and valine. However, it is slightly less BCAs than some other supplements on the list. And that's a wrap on our list of the best BCA supplements. Again, these are great supplements for helping you recover and grow, whether it's post-workout, pre-workout, even intra-workout. And we hope that this list helps you find the best product for your needs. And if you want more information and a more detailed breakdown on each of these, go to generationiron.com or Google Generation Iron Best BCA Supplements. And if you want more information and a more detailed breakdown on each of these, go to