 O-yah, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education education, education, education education, education education, education education, education education education education education education education education education education education education education education education education education education education education education education education education education education education education education education education education education education education I'm not a doctor, licensed medical professional of any kind, so if you're going to take these supplements or change your diet in any way, we do recommend consulting with the primary care physician ahead of time. All right, let's jump into the list. At the top of our list of the best meal replacement supplement is Carnivore Lean Meal. If you're a fan of the Carnivore Protein, this is the same protein source with added fat and carbs and a great amount of calories to make it a full-blown meal replacement. Carnivore Lean Meal can be broken up into two different serving sizes of two or three scoops, and the two scoops can be broken down into 220 calories, 27 grams of protein, 27 grams of carbs, and 0.5 grams of fat. And then three scoops can be broken down into 330 calories, 40 grams of protein, 40 grams of carbs, and one gram of fat. In terms of the whole food ingredients that are in Carnivore Lean Meal, this is your steak and potatoes meal, as it is hydrolyzed beef, sweet potato, and potato. So between the whole food ingredients, the great ratio of macronutrients, and the beef protein base, and it comes from a reputable brand, this is our top meal replacement of the year. Now if you don't have time to mix up a shake or make a meal, you can always take a meal replacement bar, and our favorite meal replacement bar is Transparent Labs grass-fed protein. At 270 calories total, with 16 grams of protein, 20 grams of carbs, and 17 grams of fat, this protein bar gives you all that you need for a full meal. The downside of meal replacement bars is that they are filled with relatively high amounts of sugar, including Transparent Labs grass-fed protein. So realistically, you shouldn't be chowing down on this four or five times a day. So as far as the pros and cons, Transparent Labs grass-fed protein is great for getting some quick protein, carbs, and fats, but it should not be treated as something that replaces your breakfast, lunch, or dinner. Sticking with Transparent Labs, our next favorite meal replacement supplement is Transparent Labs Mass Gainer, as it has 780 calories, which can be broken down into 15 grams of fat, 110 grams of carbs, and 53 grams of protein, which is why it made our list as the best meal replacement supplement for muscle gain. So the big selling point here is the 53 grams of protein, which is perfect for athletes, bodybuilders, people who are looking to put on muscle mass, as it does have that high protein content, but it also has the benefits of a meal replacement supplement. As far as the pros and cons of Transparent Labs Mass Gainer, it comes from a reputable company that third-party tests their products. It has a clear and transparent label. It has great protein content, but it is a premium-priced option. Another great meal replacement supplement is Health Code Complete Meal, which has great protein content, low carbs, and a good amount of fat, which is why this ranks as our best low-carb meal replacement supplement. As far as what's in it, one serving size is equivalent to two scoops, and that's 400 calories, which can be broken down into 27 grams of protein, 19 grams of carbs, and 27 grams of fat. As you can see, this does have lower-carb content than some of the other products on the list, but the trade-off is that it does have higher-fat content. In addition to being our best low-carb meal replacement, Health Code made our list as the best meal replacement supplement for digestion, as this is a vegan product, so it's easier on the gut. Another great meal replacement supplement is Cage Clean Meal, which is filled with whole food ingredients that are working overtime to deliver the clean meal experience, and that's why this made our list as the best whey-based meal replacement supplement. Coming in at 260 calories total with 29 grams of protein, 20 grams of carbs, and 5 grams of fat, you're getting a great ratio of macronutrients in clean meal. As far as the clean meal ingredients, you're getting whey protein, quinoa and oats, amongst many other vitamins and minerals. As far as the pros and cons of Cage Clean Meal, it's a great amount of protein coming from whole food ingredients, but it is only 20 servings per container. This product not only made our list as the best whey-based meal replacement supplement, but it also made our list as the best meal replacement supplement for women. And that's a wrap on our list of the best meal replacement supplements. Whether you're on the go, need the extra meals, these are great supplements to choose from, and we hope that our list helps you find the best option for you. For more information and a more detailed breakdown on each of these products, we have a more detailed article on generationiron.com or Google Generation Iron Best Meal Replacement Supplements. Let us know what you think in the comments below. This is Dylan, signing off. Thank you, Thank you.