 I think he looks great at 85, man. He doesn't look melted, you know. He doesn't look melted, you know. Not yet. Gravity, man. Hello, and welcome to this week's Generation Iron Podcast. Your host, me, Victor Martinez, along with Edwin Mejia and Vlad Yudin. Welcome. How was your Thanksgiving, man? Thanksgiving was delicious. You see me? I'm a little bloated already. Yeah. Nah. Nah. I didn't eat enough, actually. Definitely a lot of leftovers. And I'll be looking forward to going back and eat some more. Yeah. So we have another special week here. Big holiday week we had just now, of course. A lot of sales and obviously big thanks to Transparent Labs for you guys that have not taken advantage of the Transparent Labs sales. They still have some promos there available. They have a free starter kit to purchase. Make sure you check them out. 100% grass-fed beef. No funny stuff. Incredible clean ingredients. And we thank them for the support here once again. So today we have a great few questions from some of our loyal subscribers. And one of them comes to us from Gabriel Suarez 3046. And that first question is, Vic, I'm happy you're back. But question for you. Would HGH help you in your situation as far as recovering quicker? Also, is it better to take HGH before or after a workout? Why and why not? That's a good question. Will it help me? You got some for me? Send some this way. I'll take it. No, of course. Any injuries that you do have, whatever it is. I mean, even for mine, actually, even though it was an infection, but I did have a lot of, you know, fusion going on. So remember that GH helps in recovery. It helps bones, tissue, connective tissues, anything. I mean, but am I using it? No. Like I said, if you have some, give it to me. But that's a good, I mean, look. I mean, the natural approach for this one may be, you know. Yeah, I mean, there's a lot of new remedies out there. I mean, look, I mean, I was told that HGH now, for you to get HGH, not only do you have to be prescribed, but you need to be, like, it has to be a medical condition in order for you to get that. And it's not just, it's very hard. It's not just like, hey, I need a prescription for, you know, low testosterone. You have to be, I think you have to get a medical recommendation, evaluation. And I think there's a lot into it. And I was looking into it because Rick Collins, who's a well-known lawyer, he spoke on this. And it's not as easy as people think it is. Yes. Unless you go to Mexico, of course. Well, to get it prescribed and only paying your co-pay, that is hard. Because you get it prescribed, you're getting something that's worth, you know, if it's the pen, $1,500. If it's the Serrano box, which is, like, $2,500, just to pay a co-pay, it is very difficult. But you can go the other route and just approach a rejuvenation clinic, and boom, you're going to get GH prescribed. It's going to be compounded, not the original. So less effective? No, no, it still works, again, but I'd much rather pay a co-pay of $30 and get something that's $2,000. Or you can go the route now. Peptides, right? Peptides have been proven to be a quality recovery solution for many of these clinics and regenerative health clinics. BPC-157, I heard, is an incredible peptide that has helped many of athletes that we've worked with on their recoveries. And I'm actually considering myself. So maybe I'll do a trial run for everybody here on the podcast. Oh, yeah. You always say you're going to do it. You still haven't even done one shot of tests yet. Maybe he did it. He has the healthy approach. So I got to appreciate that, you know? Yeah, yeah. No, no. I'm going to try. I'm going to do a TRT as well for everybody here. Do it, man. I'm going to do it. Vic, he's asking, was it better to take HGH before or after the workout? Okay, now for that one, to answer your question on that one, remember, you release GH. Let me explain when. When you go to sleep, naturally. You release it. Now, before, is there going to be a benefit? When I competed, I did it before cardio. Before cardio? Empty stomach before cardio. Empty stomach? Yeah, yeah. Wow. You let it rip. Do that cardio. Optimize fat burn. You know, also helps you recover, you know? Let you eat and get back into the gym. Yeah, but then you work out. You have two options. You can do it before or you can do it after. But when you work out, you naturally release, you know, growth hormone. So a lot of times I would resort to, you know, if I'm sleeping, I'm releasing it naturally. I said, you know, I'm not going to do it before sleep. I'm going to do it before cardio in the morning. And then the other best time to do it was right after the workout. Again, why? For recovery. The faster you recover, the faster you can get back to the gym and do more workouts. I was working out about three times a day. Wow. That's a lot. At the time. Yeah, it is a lot. And I don't think people do even two days anymore. Probably not. That's like three hours in the gym you spent. Yeah. Yeah. It was three hours, but it was very explosive. No talking. You know, no pre-workouts. Just go in there, smash your heart, go home, eat, rest, get ready for the next one. And it was, it worked, you know. It worked. It was definitely one of those things. So you have to choose from the, you know, explanations I just gave you of when is best. Also, you got to keep in mind, can you afford it? Right. You know, I used to get, you know, probably like 10 boxes a month. Those shots are expensive. You know. It's a lot of. Yeah. It was 10 boxes. I will keep five and, you know. Gift out the rest. Ah, yeah. I don't know. There's something with it. I don't know why. All right, guys. Remember, this is not a medical advice. This is just Victor's experience. Yeah, yeah. My experience. Don't try this at home. Again, you can look into it. I mean, again, you use, remember GH is only introduces IGF right after. So pick and choose. Keep it affordable. And, you know, do not skip child support or use GH. All right. All right. Now, the next question is very elaborate. So it will require some more juice talk, I guess. But this is a Patreon special, guys. So if you're watching us on YouTube, please subscribe on Patreon to see a full episode with this very interesting and direct question from Emma Daly, actually, a fan of our show and a loyal listener. You need to take your muscles to the max. Whoa there, Turbo. Do you even know what's in that stuff? Oh, yeah. See, most protein powders are filled with artificial sweeteners, food dyes, and filler. Really? I wouldn't put that stuff in my body. Neither would I. Transparent Labs is made with just a handful of all-natural ingredients without any of the weird stuff. Transparent Labs. Protein without the weird stuff. Now, let's talk about this, you know, the Jake Paul upcoming fight. Now, he was supposed to... Damn. I know you have some opinions on that. Jake Paul. So Jake Paul was supposed to box Javante Davis, who was basically, I think he's like 140 pounds, lightweight. Lightweight, but he's practically punched. Jake Paul was like 6'1", I think, and he was like 200 pounds. So the whole fight was like... The weight was off. Completely off, and it was an exhibition match. And then, literally two weeks before the fight, some kind of accusation came out about Javante. I think it was all staged, honestly. I don't know what that was, but the fight fell apart. Javante is not... I guess Jake bailed out of the fight or something because of the allegation against Javante Davis. Oh, I think it was... Oh, yeah. Some spousal abuse or something. I don't know. I mean, it was mixed. Javante never issued an actual statement. It was just a mixture of different articles that came out. And then Jake said... Bad press. And Jake... Bad press. And Jake was like, I'm not dealing with it. Yeah. And then, suddenly, a week or two... Gotta respect him for that, though, man. But we don't really know what happened. But then they announced that he's going to fight Anthony Joshua, who's 6'6", 245 pounds, heavyweight, former champion of the world. And now they're going to box in December, which is a couple of weeks away, basically. So it's just crazy from fighting a lightweight champion to a heavyweight champion. Yeah. What are your thoughts on that? What are your thoughts on this? And do you think it's actually going to happen now? I mean, you say it's going to be an exhibition fight. Is it going to be like Mike Tyson? No. Well, Joshua's much younger. I think he's in his prime, Joshua. That's what I'm saying. He's in his prime. I've seen him in box, man. He's got good technique. And he's got power, man. I think people are going to be very tuned into this fight because they're expecting what they've always wanted to see. That's what Dana White said, yeah. Is a massive knockout of some sort. They should show the contracts, man. I want to make sure it was like any holding back. Yeah. No, listen. I agreed. Agreed. And I think that a lot of this now, you see with many sports, you see a lot of sports betting. So betting now is really changing the dynamics of the integrity of sports, right? Because you have all these athletes and boxers and potential fighters now delving into betting and potentially rigging fights and rigging events. And it's very possible that this could happen. But like I think... Do you think Tyson was rigged or was it just Tyson just couldn't really box? That's a good question from Bank Act. Do you think it was rigged? What was rigged about it? I don't know. I don't know about rigged. It was just... Tyson was just chilling, man. No, they said Tyson was holding back. That was the theory. It wasn't holding back. It was already counting the money in the bank. Tyson was just chilling. I mean, I didn't get the whole, you know, glove biting and all that. And I saw Jake a few times, could have unleashed on Tyson. So I saw Jake holding back. Jake said he was holding back. No, he was holding back. Jake was holding back. Not Tyson. Jake was holding back. And again, it's cool to see Mike Tyson up there, you know, take a dive for the check and everything. And Jake getting up there, you know, putting some money in Tyson's pocket. It was great to watch that. But at the end of the day, a lot of people that love Tyson, hardcore boxers, were like... It was like no go for them because... No, it was a terrible fight. Yeah. But what do you think about this Anthony Joshua thing? Do you think that will happen actually? I think it will probably get... I mean, I'll let Vic die. It will happen. You think so? Yeah. I mean, will it happen how we want it to happen? That's the question we should ask. Well, if Jake wins that one, then he solidified great boxing. Oh, no. Yeah. Well, I think the fight will probably end up getting canceled. Or postponed, sorry. And then they'll do some sort of other fight on another date or something. It's always drama. I have a feeling he's going to back out as well. And then he's going to fight some MMA guy again. You know? He just... I don't know. He just does it. And there's not much going on, I guess, in the world that we want Jake. Jake Paul to kind of lead us on to one of his, you know, rabbit hole of fights. And is it going to happen? Maybe. Is it going to be a real fight? Right. Right. As long as it's on Netflix. Yeah. I'll watch it. Whatever. So, if Jake Paul ends up winning this one or even tying this one. Well, if he actually wins it, wins it. Like, they're really fighting. You'll respect him as a fighter at that point? No, no. He's going to... Not me. He's going to get the respect from, you know, the boxing world. The hardcore fight. I think so, too. I think finally they're going to praise him. And you just hope, I mean, it is an all-out fight, you know. You don't want to see that holding back and dancing around and possibly. But I don't know. Which one of his fights were actually no holds barred fighting? I mean... So, it's always that if... He fought Tyson Fury's brother and then he lost that one by decision. Tyson Fury's brother. Tommy Fury. That was... Tommy Fury, yeah. But it's the if factor when it comes to his fights, you know. Right. He's at the end of the day. He's a... They're performers. He's a business man, you know. He's a business person. We also were part of this whole slap contest thing with Logan Paul and a lot of the stuff behind the scenes. We could tell what was going on. So, it's like, look, they're performers at the end of the day. And they're actually trying to make a show about it. So... Performers. So, be that as it may, just, you know, keep us entertained, you know, without any fallacies or anybody throwing the towels, you know. Especially for the boxers that... Remember the first day you decided to box. Let's not make this, you know, something you just, you know, throw under the freaking rug and look at it as just the check. What about Chuck Norris? Fight your guts out. Maybe he'll fight Chuck Norris. Chuck Norris? I don't think he will, man. Chuck Norris is 85, probably. You see the picture of him that came out recently? He played martial arts, you know. He looked... What do you think about his physique? He just posted... I think he looks great at 85, man. Yeah. He doesn't look melted, you know. Melted. Not yet. Gravity, man. Gravity is... Yeah. It's kind of like a physique update by Chuck. I mean, Chuck is 85 years old now. It's crazy, man. It's that total gym, man. It works. You know, it's that total gym. Remember those commercials? It was like every night I would play that commercial. Every night, 2 a.m. Yeah. Chuck Norris was always there. I think that, you know, as annoying as those infomercials are, they're back again. I mean, you've seen these, like, live TikTok shops and all this other stuff. But, like, if you look at those infomercials, I would say Chuck Norris is someone that you would highly respect from those infomercials. Unlike anybody else in those infomercials that you've seen before. Hate on Chuck, man. Chuck's been around, man. And George Foreman. And Chuck Norris. George Foreman also. George Foreman. I mean, come on, man. Anybody would choose a freaking piece of equipment and just be out there at 2 in the morning, you know, and be a Chuck Norris or a Tony Little minus the Botox, and you'll do it, you know. Who was that guy? He's promoting this, I guess, testosterone boosters. I think he's, like, a football player or something. New Genics or something like this. New Genics. Who was that? You know what I'm talking about? Yes. Commercial is also, like, on TV. I'm talking about these days, like, currently. Yeah, yeah. New Genics. New Genics. New Genics. Just go to a TRT clinic, man. New Genics. It's like a commercial where he's, like, I think he's an ex-filt player. You know what I'm talking about? This really big guy. And he's, like, take these pills. Your wife will thank you later. Was it Lyle? No, no. Was it? I forgot his name, man. It's a modern-day infomercial. I know. Brain fart. Sorry. We usually, I would have gotten that on a trivia. But multiple choice, I would guess it. I know. Hey, guys. Have you ever taken a look at a nutrition label behind a bag of chips? It's a complete chemical cocktail. Seed oils, MSG, vague ingredients that sound more like a science experiment than an actual snack. So masa is part of a growing movement to bring back real food, real snacks, similar to how our grandparents used to have real food before snacks were made in the lab. Masa chips contain just three ingredients. Nixtamalize corn, sea salt, and natural grass-fed beef tallow. That's it. Snacking masa chips is unlike eating regular chips. It tastes great. You feel good. You feel satisfied. There's no bloating. And you truly have a great snack. And because these chips are made with real food, you find yourself satiating. You won't find yourself uncontrollably binging or hungry afterwards. Personally, my favorite is the masa tortilla chip original. It tastes great. It tastes amazing. It really leaves an incredible flavor. And the aftertaste is my favorite out of all the masa chips. Now, if you love masa, you're really going to love Vandy. Vandy is masa's sister company that has three ingredients. And honestly, my favorite is the original because the aftertaste really is incredible. It tastes like you're eating a burger. So I highly recommend that for anybody that's a big snack. Ready to give masa a try? Use code IRON for 25% off for your first order on masachips.com or vandychips.com. Or simply click the link on the bio, video description, or scan the QR code to claim this incredible offer. Don't feel like ordering online? Masa and Vandy are now available at your nationwide local Sprouts supermarket store. Stop by and pick up a couple of bags before they're gone. So what do you guys think about this, the gentleman out of Vietnam who had one leg and I think he won a bodybuilding competition. His name is Fat Wong Han Street. One-legged bodybuilder from Vietnam, redefined strength. He was performing some, not a bodybuilder, but more like a power. Not from Brazil? No. Vietnam. Yeah, Vietnam. Vietnam. I saw the post. I think it's great. I know he was down and out because I believe he woke up from an accident in his job and wake up to one leg, which would have been nuts because when you expect it, it's different. Wasn't he like in Mexico somewhere? Did he woke up somewhere? No, not in Mexico. That would have been your kidney, though, in Mexico. Yeah, not a leg. But, yeah, I think it's an inspiring story. Most of us that have been through injuries can relate to it. But losing a leg is just extreme. And for him to pull out, he said he was standing, passing by the gym until the owner offered him, you know, a free gym membership. And he just took a leap of faith. And, look, his entire demeanor changed. Motivation is just an inspirational story. And I think it's great, you know, for a lot of people to see this and, you know, follow suit. It's incredible. There's a lot of people that have no missing body parts and they still can't get to the gym. I know. You know, it's interesting. We saw NDO Champ a couple of weeks ago, Ed and I, we ran into him at a gym. And I remember he told me a story how when he was – he still competes now, but when he started competing, he got shot on his leg. And he still did a show. He shot shot on his leg and then he did a show, a bodybuilding show, like a week afterwards. Isn't that crazy? I don't know. Where are you to get shot, bro? In the bodega? I don't know. He gets shot random. In Maplewood, New Jersey? Ah, damn, bro. I mean, those straight bullets don't have a name. Well, he grew up in Newark. I mean, he's – Oh, in Newark? That's all you had to say? When he emigrated over here, I think he was raised or he was growing up in the Newark area. So, he's definitely been – That's all you got to say, man. He's great, man. He's a motivation to me. I mean, the guy never stops. Yes. And D.O. is definitely high-octane, bro. Unbelievable. He's going, man. He does it. I think he just won the Masters not too long ago. Yeah, he did. He's doing an Olympia Masters next year. Yeah, he's competing a lot now. He confirmed to us that he's also got some training from Derek Lunsford, Mr. Olympia champion. And from his advice, from Derek's advice, told him to make sure he goes into competition. So, he's shutting down a lot of his haters because a lot of haters don't like influencers. Hey, N.D.O., come on, man. He is bored. You know he used to train with Akeem Williams, the old training partner. Yes, yes, yes. No, N.D.O. gets around, man. He has the energy for it. I mean, seen a video where he walked from here to Florida. Did you see him fight Roy Jones? Did you see the boxing match with Roy Jones Jr. and him in the metaverse? Did you see that? No, no. I was never into the metaverse. I was never into that, man. It was a real fight, actually. Instead of the metaverse, I would just take acid. But no, no. No, I'm not into none of that. Virtual nothing, man. Anyway. Hormone Replacement Therapy, HRT. TRT, testosterone placement therapy. They all kind of go into the same bucket of hormones. Men and females, they all have the same exact hormones. For males, they need more testosterone than females. And for females, we need a little bit more estrogen than males. Basically, what that means is if you get your blood work done, your testosterone is low, we try to get it to an optimal level. We walk into where our medical assistants would be. They're contacting patients all throughout the day, making sure patients are feeling good, looking good, and performing their best. It's making sure they're hitting their goals, making sure they're tolerating the medication properly, and everything is going well. Patient care and patient service is number one to us. And if they have any questions, concerns, issues, then we're taking care of them, too, as well. A TRT company or Titan Medical, what they do is they make people healthy, and they get people to really live the dream of life. It's one of those things I always say, do you want to live a long life or a quality of life? And that's what Titan Medical does. Let's talk about this new gym that opened up just literally two blocks from where we are at right now, which is the new powerhouse gym. You both actually been there already, right? Yeah. I'm going to skip right over. Yeah. It's pretty impressive. To be honest, I mean, for people that don't come to New York or don't come here often, I could tell you could know and you could tell that there aren't really many bodybuilding gyms, if any, in New York City, in Manhattan. Let's just put it like that. You go find them in Queens, Brooklyn, Greece. None. None. Wow. But when it comes to midtown Manhattan downtown, it's some of the most expensive real estate in the world, number one. Number two, there is a powerhouse in New York, but it's not in Manhattan. That's Francis' gym in Long Island, which is in Salyacet. That's about an hour out from Manhattan for most people that don't know. It's the backup, bro. Traffic is even more. With traffic, it's probably even more. It's 45 minutes. But if you're coming into Manhattan and you're coming to Chelsea, which is a pretty desirable neighborhood, you will find Powerhouse Gym that just opened up. Shout out to David Roth and those guys. They're on 27th Street here off of 6th and 7th Avenue, and it was the old Planet Fitness. Never saw the Planet Fitness. You know, I went to the Planet Fitness. I went there once. Don't say that too loud. Come on, man. My bad, man. If you edit that part out, please. It's completely different. It's too blot from here, bro. Come on, man. It's a completely different gym. They have infrared saunas in there, cold plunge in there, three floors. Wow. Three floors? Three floors. And for Manhattan, that's a pretty big deal. What's the square footage, you know? I'm not too sure. It's got to be 10,000, right? Yeah. It's got to be. The upstairs was pretty big. Yeah. I mean, great equipment. Yeah. And it's literally a walking distance from Madison Square Garden and Penn Stations. For those visiting New York, highly recommend it as well. Yeah. But remember, guys, you know, not all powerhouses are built equally. You know, each one of them has their thing. And the Mecca is the Mecca. And the Montaneri Brothers, just the Montaneri Brothers. Once you go back, those are like the founding fathers of powerhouse, man. You can't compare. Steve's gym is the best, do you think? Oh, man. You cannot compare, man. You can't compare, man. I don't know. Colin Farrell, Brad Pitt. Can you compare? No. It's just different, man. It's different. Different. Yeah. Yeah. No, I mean, look, I mean, I don't think this new gym opening up is taking anything away from Beth Francis or the original Mecca. But I think that when you're looking at people in New York City, time is money. And honestly, time is money for me. So I'm looking to go to the gym across the street not an hour away. To be honest. You want to go some iron, get a good workout. Why there's no bodybuilding gyms in my head? So they're all in Jersey now? Like, look at Iron Culture is in Jersey. They just opened a new one. Aside from the ranks. Aside from the ranks. That's what it is, right? Yeah. Yeah, because the numbers just, the numbers don't tie up. They don't, they don't, the math doesn't work in Manhattan for a lot of people. Bodybuilding gyms do not pay the bills. So it's like one of those dynamics you got to figure out, you know? Right. You're going to put it, you're going to do something. I'm sure the guys who did Powerhouse here in New York, they already have, I think they have one in New Jersey as well. The Powerhouse? Yes. Our friend, the Angel from Elevation Fitness is about to open a gym, but it's in the Bronx though. Still in there. No, no. The Angel is hitting a pocket where it's right in the right location. That gym is going to be, it's going to have a thousand members in a month. The Elevation will be easily. Yeah, yeah. It's in the right area. There's no good gyms. Planet Fitness is like a stone throw away. Like I said, there is no gyms. So, no competition. If you guys are in the gym business and you want to have a gym or a fitness studio and there's a Planet Fitness, don't fret, man. They're not a threat. Okay. I have a question. What do you like in the gym when you go there, right? Do you like the old school look like a diamond gym or do you like more modern look? I like compact gyms. I don't like shopping mall gyms. Right, right, right. You know, I don't like something that's going to take you half a day to reach the other side of the gym. And, again, equipment, the vibe, the setup is what I look for in the gym, you know, being comfortable. If the cardio is not too crazy, it's fine, you know? Yeah. And, again, so it doesn't matter if it's, you know, 5,000 square feet or 15. It's really, you know, the equipment. How it's positioned, how it's placed, basically. The equipment. Also, talk about gym openings. I was in the, you know, Iron Culture. They just didn't need gym in West Orange. Orange in Jersey. Yes. What do you think about that gym? It's insane, bro. Yeah. It's insane. It's different. That's huge, though. That's big. It's one of the biggest ones they have up to date. I think they started off. Was that the best? The first one was five. The second one is 20. This one is just. I've been told by at least three people that's the best gym in the USA. Wow. Shout out to the owner. He invited us actually to host. I mean, that's not a quote from me, but I heard from three people that is the best gym in the US. It's a bold statement, man. Do you disagree with that? It's a bold statement, man. I mean. It's just I've been to a lot of gyms. What is the best gym in the country, Vic? What is the best? Man, it's just there's so many different flavors. That's the thing, man. For you, I'm saying. For your flavor. I can't just say you like chocolate ice cream, man. I'm saying for you. That's a tough gym to beat because I saw the equipment in that gym. For your personal opinion. I mean, they put $10 million into that gym, we heard. And it's very hard to explain it. It's a lot of big investment. Yeah, man. It's just, I mean, come on. You're going to compare. There's the Mecca. There's Reds, which I keep reading up. Reds down in Baton Rouge, which has, you know. I've never been there. No, no, I mean, it's just they're all different. They all have their, you know, the kind of, the touch, you know. So it's basically, when I see that gym, it's like throwing Powerhouse, Beth Francis, and David Barton into one. Oh, wow. It's a good explanation. Do you like Ghost Gym in the Mecca, the West Coast Mecca? Do you like it? Ghost Gym, I like it. It's not because of the actual gym. It's because of the people. I'm in history. In the history, you get to see that. You get to see Arnold any given night or day, any given day. Arnold doesn't work out at night. You know, see Charles Glass. Get through a workout with Charles Glass. You see Michael Hearn. You have to be that four in the morning. So I never see him there. It's just, again, it's a stomping ground for everyone who's new, up and coming, or any, I mean, you see the Black Prince always there. Robbie Robinson. Yeah. So that's what it is, is who goes to the gym that makes the gym. It's not just about the equipment that's just thrown there. So when it goes to Powerhouse, you know, Venice Beach, it's just a vibe. Right. Well, shout out to these new gyms opening. Shout out to Powerhouse in New York City now. And obviously, you know, Iron Culture. Yes. They're really putting up the bar, really, for elevating the gym culture here in New York State and obviously New York City and many other gyms to come. Tell us in the comments below, guys, which gym is your favorite and why? Yeah. What's your favorite? Let us know. Now we're going to have the gym debates. Yeah. You know, and, you know, those guys, you love your gym. Fight for it. Come on. Let us know. All right. Awesome. Okay, guys. Thank you for watching this Generation Iron podcast. Remember, follow us, like us, comment. And if you want to see any of our prior podcasts, tune into iHeartRadio, Apple Podcasts, or wherever you stream. And remember, we're on Patreon. Follow us. Support us. We love you guys. Till next time. We'll be right back.