 아니라 아니라 아니라 아니라 아니라 아니라 아니라 아니라 All right. Back, back. Hello and welcome to the show. Welcome back, guys. Today we got a doozy for you. We're talking about the gadush god, Wes Watson. He's found his way behind bars again. He is home. We're going to talk about what that means and what that entails. Arnold vs. Olympia. We just got back from the Arnold Expo. It was amazing. We're going to talk potentially about Larry Wheels. I'm looking at the teleprompter in front of me and it has Larry Wheels, question mark, question mark, question mark. I have no idea what that might mean, but I'm sure Vlad will tell us. We're going to talk about meaty cereal, buff and flavor wars, and potentially if we have time at the end, we'll talk about an irrelevant washed up has been snitch bodybuilder. And whether or not he wants to put his money where his mouth is with what he said about Rich Payana, you said, right? Yeah, yeah. Tune in to the end. We'll see. Yes, sir. Well, first of all, it's great to see you again, man. How you been? Fantastic, man. I'm a little hoarse. I think I've been screaming every single weekend for the last... Were you screaming all over the Expo at the Arnold? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's crazy. My voice has not returned. And then right after that, we had a Hummus Fit event, a grand opening in Miller Place up here. And it was just like screaming the whole time. We did like buffet eating contests. Wow. It's fun shit. How many locations do I have now? Hummus Fit. I think that's number 14 or 15. Oh, wow. Yeah. Wow. That's a lot, man. That's awesome. It's nuts. It's nuts. And I never tried Hummus Fit. We need to get one of the... I'll send some buffins to this spot, guys. I just dropped my own signature buffin. We got... What flavor is that? It's Welcome to the Snow is what it's called. Do you guys know what a snowball is? Like Hostess Snowball? Yeah, yeah, yeah. With the coconut marshmallow with the cream filling and the brownie? It's that. Oh, wow. But it's 25 grams of protein. Nice. It's amazing. It's really good. It's healthy. We just dropped... But it's like 400 calories for 20... We call it like Better For You. It's in that space where like... If you're in a contest prep and you're watching this, it's like you're not going to fucking eat that probably unless you're... You know, it's your cheat meal or whatever. Luckily, we're never in contest prep, so... Yeah. Well, if you boys aren't in contest prep right now, I just need to make sure. Just go try it. Yeah. But it's in that Better For You category where it's like it's 400 calories, it's 25 grams of protein. Is it better than eating a Hostess Snowball? If the answer is yes, you eat it. We just dropped a Twix one called Twist Bar. We just dropped a German chocolate cake one. We have crazy flavors coming out all the time. Oh, amazing. If you give me an address... Yeah. I think I actually know the address. I can't tell you guys what their address is because that would be bad, but I'll send it to the GI offices. Thanks, man. So, Wes Watson, what do we know? Because there's been a lot of different news breaks on him. Is he improving right... Is he locked up right now? First things first. You need to be good friends with Wes, right? So, Wes has... Before I knew who Wes Watson was, this guy had me blocked on Instagram. And I realized it. And then I tried to get him to unblock me and tough guy me by going... I trolled his girlfriend. He was dating this girl named Megan or something at the time. And she... Do you remember the girl who was on the flight? And she was like... She was coming from the back of the flight and people were trolling her for whatever. And she was like, I have a bunch of followers on Instagram. And it went viral. I think so. Do you remember? Yeah, I do remember that. He was dating her at the time. And so I covered that. And I went to her page and she edited all of her photos and I covered the edits. And I was like, I'm going to troll her because Wes is then going to tough guy me. And he never said shit about it. And I was like, wow, dude, you're a... I did this intentionally because I didn't know who he was and people would send me his stuff and I'd be like, it says unavailable. And they'd screenshot it and be like, oh, it's Wes Watson. How the fuck did this guy block me and I don't know who he is? So he's been like, Johnny Bravo's been dragging him through like hundreds of videos about him. I've never seen a guy teabag somebody so many times, honestly. Like, honestly, dude, it's like, Jesus. Like, it's hard to watch. You feel bad for the villain. Yeah, I feel bad for Wes. I'm like, damn. I've never seen somebody's nuts in somebody's mouth. Like, John Bravo's sack has to be actually pickled by this point than being Wes Watson's mouth this long. But what's the latest on Wes? What do we know? So Wes Watson is currently out on, was currently out on bail. Four. He assaulted a guy in a gym. They were beefing over Instagram. He said, show up. The guy showed up. He said, we'll fight 1v1 in the gym. And then Wes jumped in with like four of his friends. Right, right, right. And that was what happened there. That was like the beginning of the end. That was the beginning of the end. And now this isn't Wes's like first or second or third violent, you know, arrest or whatever. But they gave him bond for that and they fought the bond and then they finally let him out. And so he's out on bond or bail or whatever for that situation. He kidnapped and held at gunpoint and threatened and beat his current girlfriend. From what I understand, and I don't know if this is the God's honest truth, but what I was told was he asked her to marry him. She said yes and then no, or maybe no. And that enraged him. And he beat her and kept her in the house. Wow. And he has like those security goons that go around with him. And I guess he had one of them post up at her door in her bedroom and make sure that she couldn't leave. They took her phone from her. They held her for like three or four days. And she finally gets away and calls the police and all this stuff. Wow. They arrest him. And then they put a bond on him for like $115,000 or something. And he goes to post it. And the judge from the other case for the guy that he jumped in the gym said, Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. He can't be out on bond. He's out on bond for me right now. You have to revoke it. And so they revoked it. It was like 9 a.m. Wes thinks he's getting out. So he's locked up. He's waiting. He can't get out. Wow. There's nothing, like you can't do it. Because I see him on all his social media. I guess those are previous recordings from before or whatever. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So he, like he's in there. He can't get out. Wow. And this is all in Miami. Of course. Yeah, yeah. So the one judge, I guess, got apprised of the situation, filed the whatever, you know, appropriate paperwork and said, revoke his bond. Like he's in for this right now. You can't let him out. And it's too, you know, I guess it violates the conditions of his bond. So what do you think is going to happen to him? He's probably going to be in there for a minute. I mean, he's probably the most hated influencer in Miami right now. He's probably like one of those guys that people really don't like. I don't understand how he became popular in the first place. Like I watch his shit and it's just like, it literally feels like that dude at the gas station trying to get 15 bucks from you and telling you some crazy story about how. The one that gets, he's the guy that gets upset at the gas station when you don't have change. Yeah, yeah. I just need 15 bucks to get home to my kids because my wife's pregnant. Like dude, every time I hear the guy talk, it feels like that. I have no idea. But then there's a reason those guys do that and it's because people give them money. And so I guess that's the brilliance of Wes Watson. But yeah, he's locked up. So I mean, at bare minimum, he's going to have to wait for this. Is he considered to be a fitness influencer or business influencer? He used to be. Because he works out, obviously, right? So I did a video on, and this is probably why he initially blocked me. I did a video on Tom Hanks has a son named Chet Hanks. And if you look up Chet Hanks, you're just, it's not what you think it would be. You're like, Tom Hanks' son, let me look into this. Chet Hanks is like Wes Watson Jr. And I did a video on him years ago because he was like pretending to have created this success for himself or whatever, leaving out the fact that his dad was Tom Hanks and he actually can't fail. And his mentor at the time for his coaching business was Wes Watson. And Wes was teaching these kids how to like con these people for tons of money, I guess, or whatever the fuck he does. What a great coach. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Coaching, coaching, coaching, coaching, coaching. It was a go. It's all coaching. But Wes has been a coach forever. And I mean, like I've been contacted by clients of his and seen stuff like Baller Busters posted a lot of stuff of his. And it would be like they paid him 15 grand to be like a one-on-one mentee. And it would just be Wes like yelling at them for asking basic questions. Like the guy was like, hey, I don't understand like this, macro split. And Wes was like, why the fuck are you calling me right now? This is bull. Like Wes, he paid you 15 grand for the year. But honestly, this is, whoever's paying him are weird. Not him necessarily. He's just taking it. He's just doing it. Dude, think of, like there's weird, think of, okay, this is the best way to explain it. When you are scrolling in your algorithm and you see really weird and then you share it to your friends. Like for instance, I saw some crazy video of some like dude wearing this like balloon fetish gear on Instagram the other day. He sells it. And I was like sending this to all my boys to bother them. And I was like, damn, there's somebody out there that's funding this. There's people out there buying it. So many that there's thousands of views on this. Now, a lot of those views are probably people like me that see it and say, let me send this to my boys to troll them. But there's also people out there that legitimize it and buy it. And that's the same for like Wes Watson and anything. Like there's a ton of people out there that will spend money on a ridiculous like coaching from a dude that is actually a convict and has zero portable life skills other than being a dick and a bully. And he finds them and they pay 15, 20, $30,000 for the year and then he continues to bully them and they love it. I don't know if it's some weird fetish thing or whatever. It has to be something like that. There's a Wes Watson sugar baby theory. Have you heard that? No. Somebody looked up, it was a couple cars and something and they were like, this guy owns these cars but Wes is driving them so perhaps, question mark. Oh, I see. Somebody's taking care of him. Somebody might be taking, that's the Wes Watson sugar baby theory. My favorite is ball busters when they go after Wes Watson and all this stuff. They love going after him. They went crazy. Well, he has fake, fake something. Yeah, I mean, I think that they prove that he doesn't own these Lambos and these cars and these houses and it's all rent. Well, the, the Rivalta or whatever he was driving appeared back at the, whatever it was a few days ago after he got picked up. So the one that said the convict license plays some black Lamborghini or something. Wow. He has his back there. Really sad. Let's talk about, who is Malibu Max? Because I know you made a video about him and people are talking about this guy. Who is this guy? Sir, put some respect on his name. It's Malibu Fit Max. So his name is, his, his, I haven't heard him before, before I've seen the videos exposing him. What did he do? Dude, this guy, it was like meteoric. He, I think maybe January he started posting. His name's Lee Markham. January this year he started posting. His name's Lee Markham. He lives in, he lived in Michigan. I think he moved to Dallas or Texas now to work with the brand. No, no. There's no Malibu. There's no Malibu. Yeah, he's, he's some dude. He was born to, his father worked for, what's the, Amway. His father worked for Amway. Pretty successful family. Nothing like that. He decided to start, he's like 45, decided to start posting in January with this persona and he was telling people that his face looked the way it did because he looks very odd. It looks like he has a bunch of Botox and fillers. And he was telling people that his face looks the way it looks like it does because of an IED that he sustained when he was in Iraq or Afghanistan. Like an injury? Like, like, yeah, like a purple heart injury. And he was on a live stream saying that he had received a purple heart and all this stuff. And if you ever looked at, like, I saw him the first month he started posting. His videos would get tons of views and tons of comments and they would all be like asking what's up with his face or like making fun of it. Or like posting like weird Mickey Rourke photos because he kind of looks like Mickey Rourke on like fillers. And he would reply to a couple of them and be like, oh yeah, I got an IED injury to the face. And then he put it in his bio eventually. And that was, and then people would just like argue with each other and be like, why are you bullying him? He took an IED for the country. Like, blah, blah, blah, blah. And people started sending it to me. A couple of my friends that work as like athlete managers for companies reached out to me and they're like, hey, like, and this happens all the time. They're like, what do you think about this guy? Do you know anything about this guy? And I was like, first of all, this doesn't make any sense because the dude literally looks like he has a bunch of fillers and he gets Botox and that's weird. I don't think that's what an IED victim looks like. Like, I mean, you can see it. There's guys, they're completely wiped. Like, you take an IED blast to the face. Like, you don't have facial features and maybe it looks like kind of normal after extensive plastic surgery but it's not like a normal person's face. I was like, let me look into it a little more but I wouldn't sign him and they were like, okay, cool. And that was that. And then, like a month goes by when he reaches out to me for help. Max. Malibu Fit Max. Lee Markham reaches out to me. A guy named Walker that we both know mutually puts us together. Sorry for my voice, by the way. I'm so sick right now. He reaches out to me and he says, hey, this guy Lee Markham, he needs your help. He's getting extorted by a photographer. Can you help him? And I was like, yeah, sure. Let's, you know, what can I do for him? Of course. And in my mind, I'm thinking, I'd love to talk to this guy because if I can get him in front of me, I can then ask him all these questions and he'll have to answer me because I'm right there and then he's going to know who I am and what I do and not going to be encouraged to lie to me. And so he starts telling me this story about how he hired this photographer. Malibu Max said it. Yes. And the photographer he hired had extorted him and wouldn't give him his footage. And I was like, oh, like who's the videographer or photographer? Can you explain? And he, I guess at some point in this conversation discovers who I am and just says, oh, it's all good. I figured it out. Thanks. Bye. I was like, the, and, and then he thanks me. He says, whatever you did, thank you. I was like, this ain't right. So I figured out who his videographer was. It was a guy named Jasper Fuentes and I figured this out because he had tagged him before and I reached out and I was like, hey dude, do you know anything about this extortion thing? And he says, he tells me the real story which is they had worked together and they had agreed on splitting 50-50 of any profit that this guy had made out of his social media likeness and then when that came to Malibu signing a contract, he got rid of him and never gave him anything and he in fact made $0 in the entire time that he worked with Malibu and he was pissed about it and he said, yeah, I didn't send him his stuff because I never got paid and I was like, interesting and I said, have you sent it to him since? Because if you remember, Malibu told me, hey, it's resolved, all good and Jasper said, no, I never sent him anything and that's when I was like, ooh, interesting. wait, so what happened next? Well, I'm like, I'm sitting there thinking, why is Malibu trying to end this conversation with me and telling me everything's okay and thanking me for it? That's a little weird, right? So I asked him and I was like, hey man, why have you here about this IED thing? I see a lot of people asking questions. What's the truth? And he replies and says something to the tune of, man, I'm making a documentary on this. It'll be out next month. Malibu next? Malibu says, it's so stressful and I'm having trouble sleeping and I was like, no, like, can you just answer the question directly? Like, did this happen or did this not happen? Like, what's the truth here? And he says, thank you for everything you did. Thanks for whatever you did with Jasper. I appreciate it. And I was like, what the f*** is going on? Which led me to make a video. Guys, this is a very serious video with questions that I have for this guy, Malibu Fit Max. And in my video, I said, hey, I had this conversation with Malibu. Here's everything I know. And I had, I had been searching for like a month at this point and I had a 2016 video. No, no, no. I had an article from 2016 where he talked about the IED. I had a video from 2010, October. Wait, so how'd you find out that he was not a victim of the whole explosion, the Purple Heart thing? We're getting there, sir. We're, we're getting there. We're storytelling. I'm just, I'm just anxious. I want to, I know, I know, I know. So at this point, I don't know for sure, right? I just, I'm assuming that this is bull because guy got really weird with me and wouldn't answer the question directly. And I'm thinking like, man, if it's me and I had like, I got the Purple Heart, I can show you a picture of, or I got my TD 214 or I'll just say like, I stand on business. Yeah, it happened. Say that. Like if it's true, just say, why would you say, I'm having trouble sleeping, I'm putting a documentary together. That's your answer to, did you actually sustain this thing that you've told? That's a weird reply for sure. Exactly. Super weird. So I put a video together. I had a bunch of, a bunch of evidence that sort of led to it not being true. I had talked with people and he was in the 293rd military police company and I talked to a few members of that. He wasn't in military. He was, he was, he was in the 293rd military police company. He deployed to Afghanistan or Iraq. I can't remember which it was. Who's calling me right now? Whatever it was. And so that was true. And so I reached out to people that I could find because that's really small, right? Like the 293rd, it's like a couple hundred people tops and you can find certain ones of them and they're on social media and I reach out to them and I talked to a few of them and there's very well curated documented records of what happens on these because it's a year long deployment and exactly four people got injured on that deployment. One died, three got injured and hit by an IED blast. So it's like facts and you can talk to these people. And so I reached out and I talked to two or three people. I can't remember. I talked to two and one had spoken to somebody else recently. So like three people I had heard information from and none of them remembered Lee. and I showed them pictures of him and pictures of him from back in 2010 and they were like, I mean maybe but like I can say definitively that he didn't get injured and I was like, well why? And they told me, you know, when somebody gets hurt it's a whole to do. They have bereavement about it. They have like mental health counseling about it. It's a big deal and I was like, well, and by the way, this person I'm talking to does not have any information that I can see in front of them. They don't have paperwork in front of them and they weren't really ready for the questions that I was asking and I said, well, who did get injured? They name the rank, name, injury, date, time, location. Somebody actually got hurt. Somebody actually just happened to. They remembered exactly what happened and who it happened to and when it happened to them and how and what day and what they did. They remembered everything and I was like, damn, so like it's not possible that Lee Markham could have survived an IED blast and nobody ever knew about it and he's absolutely not. Like, okay, so that's interesting. Then I find a YouTube video that Lee Markham's dad, remember the guy that worked for Amway, he was also a pastor, I believe, and I found a YouTube video that his dad had uploaded on YouTube back in 2010 and it was October 2010 which would have been maybe three months after Lee Markham got back from his deployment where he's speaking about his time in the military in front of the church. Face is totally fine, mentions no injuries, and talks about how dangerous it could have been at certain points for him. He looks exactly like a normal person, no scarring on his face and by his timeline this would have been a few months after getting his face blown off by an IED. So I put this video out and I was like, hey, I have this, this, this, I talked to these people, here's my text message with Lee, Lee wouldn't answer me in a text message so I'm asking you publicly, is this true or not? And then that video's up for, I'm not even kidding, like 15 minutes. Can I get a DM from a blank profile with a DD214 and medical records from the VA? And there's no Purple Heart, there's no combat badge, there's no anything, nothing that says he sustained an injury. Instead, there's a medical record from Korea before his deployment to Iraq, Afghanistan, wherever it was and it says that he reported to a barracks hospital, had fallen on his face drunk because he drank too much in Korea and sustained a chipped tooth and a lip injury. And so that was the IED and that was that. And so I posted that in the video. Malibu told a news reporter that in 2010 is when this happened, he was discharged from the military in 2010 after an IED blew up in his face in Afghanistan. That's what he said, 2010. I also need to show you what Malibu was doing in 2010. Hold on. In June 17th of 2010, date right here, he competed in this bodybuilding show. Assuming that this is the same Lee Markham, he placed third in the lightweight category. In October of 2010, here's him at a speaking engagement that his father posted on his father's YouTube channel. We know this is him because one, well, it looks just like him. And two, he commented 15 years ago first from the username Malibu Markham. Lee Markham is his real name. Now in this 15-minute lecture, he does mention his service. He does not mention an IED or anything to that effect. This is filmed in 2010, October, which should be the year that he has said himself that he took an IED to the face on his deployment. And then he- That's when he made the video replying to me. And if you watch his apology video, he lies in it. He says, oh, I created this idea because I couldn't handle the comments on social media about the way my face looked, blah, blah, blah. But we found an article from 2016 when he was talking in 2016 about how he survived an IED blast to the face. So, I mean, in reality, this guy's been a piece of shit forever. Everybody from the gym, he worked at Crunch, which was his first videos were filmed in Crunch. They all reached out to me, every trainer from that gym. Hey, he was a douche. He did this. He sold my clients drugs. He robbed my clients. He tried to get this guy put out, like just all sorts of crazy stuff. There was a kid from the gym that said he bullied me. He called me stinky. He sprayed me down with deodorant. Like all sorts of like need-spirited bully shit. And, you know, I guess it is what it is. his face got the way it is through actual like fillers. I think he's just like, Oh, that's how he looked. I think he just looks like that. And then I, but it's kind of a sad story. I don't know if I'm supposed to say this, but can this get somebody in trouble? I'm not sure. Censor yourself when you say it. Can this get somebody in trouble? Wait, let me think about it. Let me think about it. How do I say it? Okay. It's possible that somebody might have reached out to me that has done work on Lee Markham's face and they possibly may have confirmed injections and fillers in his face. Think about that. That's a crazy story though. But is he still popular right now at this present moment? I mean, I don't, I guess, but like people forgive him. I mean, it's like a liverking situation. They canceled him from the Arnold. So they were supposed to have him out the Arnold. They didn't bring him. Yeah. I went over to his booth because the pro subs, I went over to their booth and I was like, it's still signed by them, right? Yeah. Yeah. I don't know how long that's going to be, but, but, uh, so what do you think about this, Ed, this Malibu Max situation? I mean, I think it's pretty, uh, it's quite the whirlwind. I don't know if people will really understand a lot behind the scenes of what's happening, but I think it's, uh, the, the, the basic and the takeaway and the sad part of it is a dude got into the fitness world and went to the straight top in 60 days lying about military service and nobody thought to check. Nobody thought to like, look and be like, is this even true? I mean, most people just don't, don't have the time, I guess. But like, I mean, dude, when, like I said, these managers from other companies reached out to me and said, John, what do you think about this? And I told them all, don't sign him. It seems weird. Like initially, immediately look at it. Like something's not right here. Like this doesn't make any sense to me. I mean, I've met tons of guys. Like I trained with a dude at the Arnold that he had his legs blown off and he's not like super social media, glorifying it, trying to be out there. It's just like dude's life was up. It took a ton away from him. You know, he's just happy to be alive. And this dude's like something off, bro. Something's a little twist. I don't know what it is. Interesting story. Probably one of the wildest stories of this year in the whole media space for influencers, right? Yeah. It's bizarre. I got a lot of weird hate, but like all the accounts that were sending me hate were just like, you know, like those dead private profiles or like they just post memes. It was like weird. Not a single like real person. Maybe somebody hired them fake accounts. I mean, people, you can probably hire anybody now these days for any troll online. I feel like there's just tons of like really dumb people out there. Like that's what you got to chalk it up to. Like there's tons of dumb people that are like, oh, I liked him so much and he was so positive, but he's alive. Oh, I can't confront the truth. Hate goop. Goop bad. Tell truth. No. Goop bad, bro. Goop bad. So you were just talking about the Arnold Expo, right? What do you think about this whole rivalry that's been like shaping up and brewing up? No rivalry, bro. There's no rivalry, bro. We've been talking about it for a while and you always see the comments. I mean, let's be honest. We see the comments online. Arnold is better than the Olympia. Arnold is so much better than the Olympia. This is so much a better show. But we discussed this the other day. It's the same promote. I mean, it's the same judges and similar promoters. At the end of the day, it's the same judging. It's the same people coaching. Sir, allow me to interrupt. 99% of the people that are going to the Arnold or the Olympia, no, not the Olympia, 99% of people that are going to the Arnold aren't going to the show. They're going there to go to the Expo. So the Arnold is like, you could put the Olympia inside the Arnold. They both share the same thing, a show. And at the Arnold, I don't know about you, but I looked around and there weren't very many empty seats. And I was just at the Olympia and I looked around and it was pretty empty. Yeah. Well, I think a lot of that has to do with the brands that they have there too, which I know they get a lot of support. I mean, I think Young LA took over 75% of the Expo this year. Yeah, that was crazy. It was huge. They had a, you know, so I mean, this makes it a different year in many ways because of that. Every year. I've been going to the Arnold for 11 years now. Every year, the Arnold's always bigger than the Olympia. I've never even seen them as the same thing. In my mind, I see the Olympia as a show and the Arnold as an Expo plus the greatest bodybuilding show in the world. So I guess it's two things, right? So it's obviously... I'm an Arnold propagandist, man. We're talking about... I love the Arnold, bro. It's my favorite thing. The Expo and then we're talking about the actual competition stage show and the... Yeah. He likes both better. I mean, the Arnold Expo is... Nobody with a brain is going to say, well, the Olympia Expo is kind of close to the Arnold Expo because you could like... You could forget that the Olympia Expo is in the Arnold Expo at any point. But isn't the Las Vegas Convention Center much bigger than the Convention Center at the Hyatt? Did you go to the Olympia Expo? We've been to them. It was like, okay. I mean, I could walk around and not get stopped and be okay there. I was comfortable there. At the Arnold, absolutely not, bro. I can't go anywhere. I could not leave the booth one time this weekend. If I tried to get out, I got stopped and I had to go back in. Sure, sure. It was... We barely got out for lunch on Friday, which was the lightest day. So we know the answer about the Expo from Goob. Yeah. Yeah, Expo's way better. The Arnold Expo, I think, will always be... Unless something crazy happens, there's just no way to switch that. No way. I don't know anybody that's like, man, I can't wait to go to the Olympia Expo and get all my free samples. It's just not... That's definitely not the culture of that. But they're paying... It's like the serious super bodybuilding fans that are paying a lot of money to sit in the seat and go... And the intention for that weekend is we're going to prejudging, watch open, finals, watch open. And that's what they're there for. Sure, sure. And there's people that do that for the Arnold too, but much more people... I mean, dude... Are there for the Expo? I... It was actually super fun because I'm 35 now and I remember back 24, 25, going to the Arnold with like six of my boys. We all like rent two hotel rooms. People are sleeping on couches, sleeping on the floors and you're just there to like... You know, you're going to pay your $15 at the door every day, whatever it is, like 45 for the weekend. You'll be able to go in, meet everybody. You have a list of people you want to meet. Go see all your brands. Try to get some free T-shirts. Do all the pull-ups, push-ups, bench press, all the stuff that you can do to get free stuff and spend your whole day there. You can pack a weekend. Never could we ever actually afford the tickets to go to the show because it's expensive, but we had so much fun and didn't even need to think about it and it was awesome and like, I love the Arnold for that where you can go and not have enough money to buy, you know, the two, three, $400 seats or whatever. So we've heard a rumor that the Arnold was looking to move from Columbus, Ohio. Is that something that you can verify? No, definitely. I don't think that'll ever happen. No? Yeah. I could see them doing another like a mid-year Arnold. I think that would clap. Oh, like adding another show in the U.S. We have one in Brazil too now. I mean U.S. It's like another, like imagine they have another U.S. Sure, sure, sure. Expo. That would clap. I think they could do that and I would see that as a possibility. And man, if you went, you guys went this year, right? No, I wasn't there myself this year but some of our guys were. The most insane I've ever seen it. We had guys there filming, yeah, for sure. It was horrible to move around like they needed a fourth day. Yeah, I know. They shut down Young LA because of the fire marshals. Was Larry Wheels at the Arnold this year? It's possible. I don't know. Are you a fan? Like I'm telling you, I did not leave my booth the whole time at all. Are you a fan of Larry Wheels? I don't care for him, honestly. He's becoming like a big viral sensation lately, right? You being like, let's say, you know, obviously online and your audience is, right? So do you think Expos have been revived after COVID and after the pandemic? Yeah, I mean, 2021 sucked. 2022 was like, everyone was kind of suspicious of like, is it actually going to happen this year? Right. And then 23 is like when, and you guys know Brian Powers, like I think they brought him in 2020 or 2021 and he comes from like Anime Expo, like that sort of, pedigree area of like building up Comic-Con type of things and like that's Brian Powers. And if you look at it, you're like, damn, he really did streamline and make a lot happen for the Arnold in the last four years. Like it's as big and back as it ever was, I think because of him. That's good. I went 2019 and it wasn't, like I just remember being with my friends and being like, damn, this isn't, like I remember 2014, 2015, it was a different situation and it sort of died and we sort of like speculated on like, is this going to continue to be down and now it just feels like it's only this. I mean, I talk about the Expo a lot today. Really stuck on that topic. It's the F***er Honor Expo. Go next year. Why are we still talking about this stuff? All right, so what else we got? What else you guys want to talk about? Larry Wheels. I mean, he's been in the news with Johnny Bravo, has exposed the Larry Wheels files. Yeah, I saw that. I saw that. I mean, what do you think about everything that's happening to Larry and he does a really good job in staying in the news and staying relevant. More importantly, I know he slapped this other guy on camera. That's all bullshit, bro. Like, all of that, all the live stream. a gimmick and it looked like he was also sued in court by a former partner. That's real. That's real. That's real. That looks pretty real to me. That's real. Yeah, he got sued. He borrowed like 50K from a partner and then apparently never paid him back and then that partner exposed him all over social media with a lawsuit and Johnny Bravo covered it. Yeah, but I mean, like all the live stream, bro, we're at a point where we have so much reality TV and people realize that reality TV is fake that the new reality TV is these fucking live streamers, bro. They're all, I mean, I'd say most of them are plants picked up by companies and production companies and they're like, hey, we're going to stage all this shit and walk around and you slap this guy and you punch this guy and you get in beef with this and it's like, what is this happenstance of all these people just happen to be in the same areas? Because the streamers, man, I mean, that's where the big money is nowadays, right? It's literally reality TV just in a different format. They've just moved it over there. It's the same thing. It's the same production companies, same people controlling it. This is my conspiracy theory. Guys, I don't watch any of that shit. I don't have a Twitch. I think you might be right about that. I'm not on kick. I know. I think I'm definitely right about it. We're going to pull back the curtain and be like, why is all this exactly the same? Why are they all encountering the same scenarios, going to the same couple clubs? It reminds me of, do you remember Jersey Shore? Yeah. They had four locations they went to, Jim Tan Laundry, the same people. It was scripted. They knew which girls were coming back, the grenade episode. There was no way that was real, bro. No way that was real. Zero chance that it was real. All right, guys. So I guess we covered everything, right? Meaties? You want to talk about meaties at all? I don't want to talk about meaties. You want to talk about meaties? What is meaties, bro? Tell me. They're really made out of beef. Did you get paid for this? No, but I feel like we should get some meaties if it's real and we should try it live. Not live, but recording. Let's look at it. Can we get a, can I have a second to look at meaties here? Can we get a shot? I'm going to type in meaties in my phone and get some weird stuff. What is it? Meaties cereal? I sent you an Instagram link. I don't know if this is real. Meaties cereal. Let's see what we can find live. Meaties cereal.com. That's not an endorsement. I didn't get paid for that. All right, here we go. So, oh my God. They have chocolate peanut butter meaties. So just natural ingredients. That's it. No fillers. No extra real food. It's just meat. It's 100% USA beef. Gluten free, dairy free. No artificial ingredients. 20 grams of protein. Get the crunch, the slurp and the sweet, sweet milk at the end of your bowl. But skip the crash completely. Never again choose between cereal and your health again. Now, after you eat a bowl of cereal, do you always crash? Not really. What about you? I haven't had it in a long time. You don't crash after your bowl of cereal? I haven't. None of us seem to understand what this marketing is saying. But apparently, you can skip the crash completely. Why cereal? Sorry if I'm distant. You just weren't meeting my expectations before now. Ditch the grains. Keep the cereal. Whip up a protein packed bowl in seconds and feel great all day. How to... They have instructions on how to make a bowl of cereal on the website. How to prepare. Pour meaties into a bowl. Pour milk, preferably whole milk, onto cereal. Enjoy. Wow. Pretty simple. Can we see the... Ground beef breakfast cereal. Real crunchy bites made from grass-fed American beef. It's dried beef, basically. Lightly sweetened with raw honey and pure... This is cereal for weird people, bro. This is definitely cereal for weird people. They're completely sold out and you can buy it April 15. So they already have supply chain issues. So we can't even get it. There's no way. It's $14 for a box of cereal. Cereal. How much is regular cereal? If you're in a normal spot in the U.S., $2.99. If you're where I live, like $7. And I think that's... Yeah, where we live today, cereal's well over $5, $6. Oh, we got 12 grams of fat. Some... Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. You guys ready for this? Yeah. How much is it per box? It said $14.99. $14. How many servings do you think you get out of a box? Two, three, four. You get two servings out of a box of cereal? Be honest. No, this one I'm saying. No, Xavier, you buy a box of cereal at the store. How long is that going to last you? A couple bowls, right? Yeah, a couple. Two bowls. Three to four bowls. So, wow. Bro, you got to... That guy's got big bowls. This is two servings per box. $7 for a bowl of meat. So, for the buff in your flavor, would you make a beef-flavored buff in? Or no? No, bro. No. 12 grams of fat. 17 grams of carbs. 20 grams. So, you are paying $14 for 40 grams of protein. And it is in a disgusting cereal box called Meaty Cereal. Maybe it's delicious. I don't know. Maybe I'm hating. We have to try it. This literally looks like... Can we zoom? It sounds like if the money put a bunch of beef jerky in a cereal box. Yeah. I think it is beef jerky, probably. You got to find this picture. It's on MeatyCereal.com. It literally looks like somebody spilled over dog food. I'm sorry, Meaty's. Maybe you guys are nice people. Why are you so mean to Meaty's? This is a horrible idea. Maybe it's delicious. Meaty's is probably my sponsor. You know what? This is probably a company made by a really nice guy that just had a bad idea and he's really rich. And Jesus Christ, bro. Imagine I'm just the hater of the century and this is a good product. I don't believe that that's true. Oh, they got 551 followers. I feel horrible. Jesus. I can't find a picture of the actual product, though. That's weird. Oh! They're really small boxes. There you go. So it's $14 for a box that is a mini box. You again, Meaty's. You again. I take it back. I take it back. We'll have Meaty's on here for you guys. We'll sample them. Do we really have Meaty's coming? Oh, God. Yeah, this is no doubt a huge scam. I'm not going to eat that. They're feeding it to their kids in this video. Jesus Christ. All right, guys. On that note, I'm out. I'm going to go find the closest place to buy Meaty cereal and or a bridge to jump off of. I'm done with this world. See you guys next time. Thanks for tuning in. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.