 ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahoritaf ahorita pretty aware that people can go into chat chat gpt now and just say you know i'm really struggling with my mental performance can you provide me with a plan and it's kind of it's there and it's not it's not bespoke to them it's not what they need but it's uh it's available to them and how that interferes my business right and have you had any clients do this or what yeah i've had i've had a few clients playing around with it it's not quite there yet but it's almost there and you can kind of feel people that attempted to tempted to leave right well has anybody laughed over the head of it they're talking about it and the people are talking about it yeah right so they're talking about it inside your community and you're worried about other people seeing that and going well we can get value from this we don't need to pay you anymore they're going to cut you exactly right all right well look here's how i would look at this and i really encourage you to think differently about this a business using AI is going to give you trouble AI itself is not going to give you trouble because you just provide so much more value beyond that i have been at your events i have seen the people shaking hands i have seen them hugging each other i have seen them challenge each other that is not going to happen on chat gpt for now anyway we coach a lot of businesses gyms fitness professionals health and wellness experts mindset performing coaches psychologists you name it and this is a threat to everyone so we're going to have a team meeting about this and looking at a solution to this later on today so we're on it business it's just one thing after another you think you've solved one thing and then it's another problem and then you get a little period of rest a little period of peace and then boom next thing blows up in your face marketplace is always changing and uh like i suppose the way to look at it is if you're not evolving you're not adapting you're not working with changing customer needs changes in technology changes in marketing changes and all that stuff then you're going to get outpaced do you think AI will really hurt your coaching business i mean why would anyone hire an online coach when a chad gpt can create a fitness program for you the hot topic nowadays you're seeing AI AI AI AI taking these jobs taking whatever it is it will absolutely have an impact on online coaching and coaching in general the extent of that impact is obviously not really known just yet it's part of the world at the moment so is it going to take jobs of course it is AI AI AI it can be an uncomfortable It's a side that I don't really see when it comes to pressure. Yes, I have seen him slightly under pressure. I think pressure drives him to deal with the situation, make it better and move on. I think pressure drives him to bite him. I think pressure drives him to bite him. I think pressure drives him to bite him. I think pressure drives him to bite him. I think pressure drives him to bite him. I think pressure drives him to bite him. I think pressure drives him to bite him. I think pressure drives him to bite him. I think pressure drives him to bite him. I think pressure drives him to bite him. I think pressure drives him to bite him.