 Hello and welcome to this week's Generation 9 podcast. Your host, me, Victor Martinez, your host, me, Victor Martinez, along with Essan Farah, Vlad Yudin, and Edwin Mejia. Welcome. And we're gonna start off with, obviously, giving a shout out to our sponsor, Transparent Labs. Transparent Labs. Thank you again for another episode, and we're gonna keep them going, keep them going. We're gonna start off with question of the week. We got two today, actually. Yeah, we have two questions today, and they are brought to you again by the Transparent Labs, you guys check them out. They have the cleanest nutrients and sources of protein for their 100% grass-fed protein. No funny stuff, just transparent ingredients. Make sure you guys check them out. They're also doing a giveaway with purchase of their kits, and Vic is a big advocate. So, shout out, you know, check them out. I love it, it's only six ingredients in the whole thing. It's amazing. It's a very clean protein, very clear. Yeah. So, no binders. Yes, the questions come to us from, I'll start with the first question, from Joe Bananas1088. Joe Bananas. What is it, a Goomba? Yes. Joe Bananas, man. Joe Bananas. He eats a lot of bananas. He goes, hey Vic, hey Victor, do you think your 2007 Olympia version could beat the 1995 Olympia version of Kevin? Kevin Lebroni, I think, right? Oh, you cannot compare, man. Yeah. Yeah, that guy was on a different level. Kevin Lebron, I gotta save. I have to put him up with me. That's the best version of me to go up against him. You cannot compare. I love Kevin Lebron. You are. Kevin Lebron. You are. I love Kevin Lebron. You are. I love Kevin Lebron. You are. I love Kevin Lebron. You are. At the 90s, Kevin was my favorite. But at the 2000, especially 2007, Victor, the size, bro, the size goes different. So he would destroy Kevin Lebron? Different level. Kevin has the name, shoulders off. You cannot. I mean, Ronnie Coleman started and these, those guys keep going for after Ronnie Coleman. So the monster, the monster of the bodybuilding started basically off the Ronnie Coleman area. And he was finishing. I was finishing up, but Kevin, again, he has some, one of the best shoulders in history, I have to say. Yeah, his hands, entirely his hands. It's crazy. So to answer Joe Bananas' question, Victor Martinez, 2007, would destroy Kevin Lebron in 1995, right? I say yes. All right. I say yes. I don't know, man, because Kevin was just some. Kevin was nice, too. I'm joking. Kevin is amazing. Alien muscle bellies, man. Yeah. So I'm going to stay humble and say, man, I bow out from this one. I have to say something from 1995, Kevin. That was the best year after Kevin. He was like a rock. He picked the best. He was like a rock. Hard. But still, he couldn't beat Dorian. I mean, you say you couldn't, or they didn't let him. Oh, he didn't give him. That's true. Conspiracy. You feel him. He couldn't. You feel him. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Like, get it. Or they wasn't allowed to. Did you ever compete against Kevin, Vic, directly or somewhere? When he came back, was I there when he made his comeback? I think you were there. In 20. 2001, 2002. He came back again. The latest comeback. No, he came back. No, no, the latest when he competed at 15. 17, I think. No, I know. But 2002 and missed Olympia, I think. No, no. 2002, I didn't compete that year. No? No, no. I didn't. I didn't compete. I don't think. Nigga, I didn't qualify 2002. I just started, so I was still kind of getting used to the ropes. I think there were gaps that were you guys missed each other. Because he came back and I think you kind of just came off. Yeah. And you came back on. When he came back, I'm not even. 2017, I think it was, right? 2017. Big comeback. Yes, yes. I competed. It was the worst Olympia I ever did. I mean, I just. But you still beat him. You beat Kevin LeBron that year. Oh, no. I don't think I even got a place, because the expediter told me, oh, you guys are not coming back out. Yeah. Oh, yes. When they cut the. Yeah. No, no. I know they always. The routines, they cut it. But I knew we always come out to kind of at least give away. But the expediter told me, you're not coming back out. But they always do this. He goes, no, you guys are not coming back out. Damn. So you. You didn't place ahead of him that year. No, I got no placement because it looked like I just kind of abandoned it. So I left. I changed to go watch the show. And then I'm like, wait a minute. Then they. I should be up there. MF. Yeah. So no, it looked like almost like I was bitter because I didn't place top 10. It looked like almost. Right. You know, you can start assuming why I wasn't there. But in reality, it was the expediter. Right. Or, you know. Let's go to the second question. Yeah. So the second question comes to us from Megan Davenport 10 47. So the question is, hey, you got. Hello, guys. What is your opinion on fat loss injections? Cool sculpting and EM sculpting. Do you think the benefits outweigh the cons? For example, it may cause body symmetry. Um, em sculpting. Em sculpting again, if you have a frickin. I mean, if you have. I'm not even going to say fat. If you have lor on you. That was good. If you have that big giant that you could just kind of make a frickin. I don't know. A meatloaf out of it. No, it's not going to help you. I mean, I think. Cool sculpting. Breaks up some of the fat. I would have to say if you're in somewhat. In good shape or very little fat. It could have some benefits and it does. I tried it. But, um, if you're super fat, no, just diet and cardio because. It's going to cost you hundreds of thousands of dollars to actually trim off any fat or whatever fat. You might think might get you somewhat looking decent. It's just not going to be enough. Those things are expensive. You know, we're talking about. You're doing like eight, 10 sessions, two to $4,000. That's a lot of money. You know, it does feel good again, but if you're in shape. Or not too much fat, you can get some details. It does help, but it's not going to supersede diet and actual training. What about the injections? Fat loss injections. Fat loss injection. Like what? I think she means periosempic. Oh, zempic? No. ozempic is not fat loss injection. No? No. ozempic is a loss weight injection. Yeah. Lose weight. It's a lose weight injection. It's not fast. Restrict yourself. It's two different things. I think that's what she means. They work. They're effective. Those peptides do work again, but you still have to work out because now you're restricting your eating and then once you stop eating. Diet. Diet. Yeah. If you don't have a diet, if you put any- You still got to eat good. Yeah. Still got to eat good and train because once that fat is gone, you're going to start looking weird looking. But what about the cons? She asking if there's going to be a body asymmetry if you do those cool sculpting. Are you going to start looking weird? No, because they focus on certain areas. You know, most of it being the abs. Right. For example. So not the whole body. Yeah. It's not the whole body. If you're going to start doing the whole body, it's costly. It's a session. Very expensive. Yeah. It's super expensive, you know? So like I said, if you're already in shape and you want to get detail, it does work because it focuses on those areas, you know, where they actually, you know, they think M-Scope is designed electromagnetic, whatever. You know, it's just, that's what it does. So it does give you a good pump. The only thing, I think if they zap you for too long, you do get nauseous. Oh, wow. I've experienced it before. And again, I tried it because my friend sells the machine. Really? Yeah. And I tried it. How much is the machine? I heard it's like over $200,000. Oh, wow. You know, the machines and a cool scoping again, it's very pricey. And is it a treatment? Can you do it? Does it work? Yes. To be, you know, having a beach body between now and the summer, not at all. You still got to push hard. You got to do the cardio. You have to diet and you have to work. Still have to diet. Yeah. But it's like a machine, right? You attach it to your muscle and it contracts it for you. So you can just be sitting on a couch and it's good. Does that ever work? You're not talking about? Yeah. What do you call it? It's like a pulsating. Yeah. It's pulsing. Yeah. I mean, it's kind of like, you know, penis pumps. Do they work? You know? You know? You can't praise that. I heard those work actually. I heard those work. I know, but it's all going to be temporary. Yeah, there's some guys that come off of prostate, you know, which is... It's going to be temporary. No, how's the work? The person eating pizza and cheeseburger and then put it in and then watching the Netflix with the ice cream. Ice cream, watching it. It doesn't matter how much the shock in the muscle. You're going to feel the pump. You're like, man. End of the day in calories. Yeah. You're going to feel the pump, but you're not going to walk out and somebody's going to say, wow, you look great. It's one of those self-improvement pumps. You feel the pump. Again, I think it's work for the same thing that before you say it. It's for like a two person, three person. Just an extra person. Yeah. All right. Well, anyway, guys, submit your questions in the comments below. Shout out to Joe Bananas and Megan Davenport. Joe Bananas, man. Let's do that thing, okay? Joe Bananas. So... All right. You need to take your muscles to the max. Whoa there, Turbo. Do you even know what's in that stuff? Oh, yeah. See, most protein powders are filled with artificial sweeteners, food dyes, and filler. Really? I wouldn't put that stuff in my body. Neither would I. Transparent Labs is made with just a handful of all-natural ingredients without any of the weird stuff. Transparent Labs. So, Ronny Coleman made the news a couple weeks ago. Ronny is always saying something that always people take and make it in the headlines. King Ronny. He said something like, basically, in reference to Derek Lunsford winning the Arnold Classic this year. He's saying... He's basically saying that you can win one. You're not going to win both. So, he's kind of indirectly implying that Derek is not going to win the Olympia this year, basically. Because he just wined the Arnold and Mr. Which is pretty interesting. Because that's a question that goes both ways, right? Like, in other words, Samson won the Olympia and he didn't win the Arnold. That's the... No, right. That's the difference. That's the difference. It's like, nah, nah. That's the difference. Well, I mean, he's... First, Arnold and then Mr. Olympia. No, but he's saying... He's saying... He's saying you can't win both. He's saying he's not going to win the Olympia this year. No, it's the same year. It's the same year. That's what he... Same year. Same year. So, that means the first is Arnold and then second... Which he won. Second is Mr. Olympia. Which he's not going to win any soon. Yeah. I mean, it's hard. The last person does that was Ronnie Coleman. Ronnie did it. Ronnie just Ronnie Coleman. That's why he doesn't want anybody to... That's why he mentioned that. I mean, can he? Will he peak twice or three times or... He's doing his run too. I mean, he could. He could. But again, it's going to require definitely, you know, his coach, Chris Asito and Derek to really have that head right. You know, head right. I heard... He was at Feeble. He was raving about, oh, he's going to destroy everybody. Chris Asito was raving about. Yeah. Everyone talked about him. At the Pittsburgh? At the Feeble. Yeah, Feeble. But where is he going to destroy everybody? Yeah, he was talking about... Pittsburgh, right? Yeah, he was talking about Pittsburgh. Yes, yes. At Feeble. He was talking about Pittsburgh as well. Yeah, yes. A couple of weeks ago. Wow, that's a lot of shows for... It's a lot, man. But you know what? I haven't seen a former Olympia do so many shows before an Olympia show. But when you have this kind of money, and you have Young on your side... Not just that. Pittsburgh is a Jim Mania show. It's a Jim Mania show. And this is the first year to put the prize money. Yeah. It's the highest prize money, and it's going to be an entire expo. Oh, yeah, really? Yeah. The Pooja Expo. First time in the last. Yeah, it's going to be huge, man. Nice. And you know, the boss is putting it together. You know, it's going to be spectacular. I'm trying to see who I can drive down with, you know, and check it out. But what do you think about what Ronnie Coleman said? Do you think Ronnie Coleman, like why do you think he's saying it? If you remember that movie that you guys make it, the King Ronnie Coleman? Yeah. That movie, he said, it's, I was almost dying backstage. Yeah. Because it's too, I mean, right now, right now on the back then, method for to be cut and ready for show, it was completely different. It was extreme. Yeah, that was extreme. Right now, it's not that extreme. They push, but they don't really get the condition where you almost like that feeling where you almost die. I think we have just one or two bodybuilder to bring that condition on stage. Where you feel. But if you bring that condition, it's really hard. It's really, really hard. But now, who you have? You have, you have Derek coming in. You have Chris Goff, I heard he's coming in, right? Yeah. Is he coming for New York too? No, he's definitely doing Pittsburgh, right? Pittsburgh. And then, who else do you have? Hardy? Hardy's doing it? In Pittsburgh, no. No, no. Oh, you're talking about Pittsburgh? You're talking about Olympia right now. Pittsburgh or Olympia, which one are you talking about? Well, Ronnie's saying to win both. Yeah. Right now, you have the Pittsburgh that he has to do. Correct. And that's before the Olympia. So now, he's cutting. Yeah, his chances. It's very hard. Yeah, his chances are going to be. If he's doing Pittsburgh, it's impossible to win in Mr. Olympia. Yeah, it's going to be rough. The challenge is up to par. Can he do it? Will he recover enough time? If he puts the formula together, he could. But do you remember Samson DeHouda? He did one week before Mr. Olympia in French? Yes. Yes, but it's close. And everyone said he was wrong, that was wrong, that was wrong. And he come and win Mr. Olympia. Yeah, but that was close. That was close and it's only a week or two. I think you have a better chance when it's close as opposed to the spread. Yeah, you're right. To rebounding. Yeah, the rebound and then getting jump-starting the system again. Speaking of jump-starting the system, you guys seen this Chris Random? Chris Maloney posted his leg workout. Uh-huh. Guys- For those of you that don't know Chris, Chris has been one of the, I mean, very, very well-known TV actors for many years. I think he was SVU, right? And a few other shows. Law & Law & Order. Incredible physique. I wonder what TRT he's on. 64 years old. 64. 64, man. Are you impressed with his lifts? I'm impressed only because, you know, not just his age, but also, you know, what he does for work. And he's been entertaining us for many years. Yeah. That's impressive, you know. But now, it goes to show that when you are successful in one field, there's no reason why you shouldn't take care of your physique. Right. And train like him, you know. You think he's on TRT? Oh, I think so. Definitely. It'd be crazy if he's not. If he's not and he's doing that, I'll be impressed. Yeah. You gotta have a little fuel in your system to do all that, man. No, TRT for a 60 years old guy, it's a must. It's not bad. It's necessary. I think it's necessary. It's not bad. It's not like, yeah. It's a one hormone, you're missing it. Right. Why not? Why not? You know? Well, it's pretty impressive. His squad routine is pretty cool. And I think he's been in the news lately and he's been on a few morning shows. And I think we'll probably end up having him here come to the GI. And he's always active, you know. He's not such an actor. It's cool to be really impressed by somebody. It's the main thing. Man, but squatting like that, man, I'm just more impressed by his knees. And he's doing very nice form, actually. Yeah, good form and everything, man. So that alone is impressive. TRT or not. I want to get your opinion on training abs. Because Charles Glass revealed his favorite workouts for abs, right? So he said, a seated crunches, standing rope crunches, leg raises, and seated oblique twists. The bodybuilders, have you trained a lot of abs when you're on computer? Yeah, yeah. But I only did them probably once or twice a week. Usually in the beginning of the workout, so I could train my abs indirectly throughout the workout. Yeah. You know, the worst thing you can do as a bodybuilder is leave abs for last because there's a 90% chance you won't do them at the end. Because you're tired. Well, it's such a drag, you know. But most of my ab work was done at home. I don't think, I barely did abs in the gym. Really? Yeah, you can just do them at home. It's not like... Do you still do abs now, Vic? I mean... I don't think so. I don't think so. No, I don't. I try to do them once a week. Sometimes I have a bi-week. But abs are essential because it actually helps with a lot of back issues. Yeah. Yeah. And you suffer from low back pain or whatever, even sciatica. A lot of it will be abs and train your glutes and you'll avoid a lot of these issues. Yeah. Can you explain to me, I know we're on the topic of Charles Glass, but can you explain to me why someone... I mean, obviously we all know the bubble guts. The bubble guts. The bubble guts. The bodybuilding bubble guts. But that is not only exclusive to bodybuilders because there's other guys out there that are not professional bodybuilders that do have bubble guts. I mean, the bubble guts is a big thing. I mean, unless you're a power lifter, strong man, it doesn't suit you. Right. So how do you avoid the bubble gut? And what are your best way? As you age, right? Eat less. We all want to know what we can do to reduce bubble guts. And can you explain that a little bit? As you age, I believe in intermittent fasting. Yeah. Eat less. Eat less. Become efficient, not fuel dependent. Don't load. Obviously, if you're not training as much as you did as a professional or just as a bodybuilder, don't eat that much. Don't eat that much is actually kind of nasty. You know, eat that much. When I see a girl that eats more than me, I only think of how big her dumps are going to be. Because I lived on the toilet when I was eating those six, 8,000 calories, man. I was like, I needed a toilet strap on, man. Oh, my God. But it's not fun, but you have to kind of think about it. You're having all that food, man. He's thinking about home. He's thinking about home. I'm saying that when you see a big plate of food and you're at a restaurant, I'm like looking like, damn, look what she's eating, man. She's going to blow that house down, boy. Wow. Nobody sits on the throne more than me at home, all right? That's all I'm saying, you know. You're a woman eating more than you. Like, dude, man, what's up with that? But these most people have to start eating a small portion. Got it. Small portion. So, in other words, intermittent fasting is a solution. And, you know, obviously, intermittent fasting can be 16 hours, can be 24 hours. We've seen people do both. We've seen people do three days, you know, water fast. So, in other words, integrate intermittent fasting. Yeah, do that. And, you know, for those that have a gut, what would you recommend? Obviously, eating less, but like, is there anything else you can do? Oh, eating less. You have to eat some food enzymes. You know, gut health is everything, you know. Are you going to the bathroom often enough? You know, if you eat that much and you're not going to the bathroom, constipation is going to be your freaking killer there. Yeah, digestive enzymes. Yeah. Probiotic. Probiotic. Those pills, it has to be taken to bring it down. Yeah, and we always talk about probiotics and prebiotics here at Generation Iron. Obviously, we have a whole list of prebiotics and probiotics on Generation Iron people can tune into. But, yeah, those are very important for gut health. Very important. You have to. And, again, you know. I give it to all my clients, actually. Yeah. All of them. Probiotic and digestive enzymes. You can have some sea moss. Sea moss, yeah. That helps your gut. But, man, you know, you can actually avoid all the gut. You know, before, I remember, it used to be called beer bellies. But it's more than beer. Yeah. That's more than beer, man. Yeah, that's more than beer. Because I drink beer. I don't have that belly, bro. It's more than beer, all right? Don't let that be a beer belly. Right, right. Freaking. I mean, obviously, beer is not a good combination. I mean, yeah, but I'm blaming it on the beer, man. Giving beer a bad name. Right, right. Eat too much s*** belly. So, yeah, I mean, and I guess, you know, the other topic we want to discuss today is, you know, making rounds is that Big Rami, former Mr. Olympia, is coming back. Big Rami, shout out to Rami. We're trying to come back. What's up? Is it rumors that he may come back and people are estimating that, what is it, 80% chance now that he might come back? He said it. He's 80% sure that he wants to make Olympia comeback this year. Which is strange. I thought he was done. Speaking of comebacks, I mean, we've talked about this before. There's always a comeback. Well, he's got a strong fan base, you know, huge fan base. And he's Big Rami. I don't think you could count him out. He's won already two Olympias, you know. Or he's got one Arnold, two Arnold? Two. Come on. He's decorated pretty well with the awards. And again, this is not even doing the smaller shows, you know. Did the New York Pro. But he should. Why not? If he feels the hunger to still compete, he loves to compete. He's still, you know, with the process. Why not? I think he should. Again, grace the stage and, you know, come back with a different game plan. You know. You want him to retire. You said it on many of them. I think he should be retired. But if he wants to come back, he has to be doing this small show. Like a Pittsburgh role. Yeah. I mean, Pittsburgh right now is the best stage for a person like Big Rami. First of all, go over there. They look at himself around the Drake Lonsford, Arnold Classic and Mr. Olympia champion. You know, speaking of comebacks, I've spoke to Kai Greene recently on a record on this podcast. And I asked him very directly, Kai, what would it take? Just answer to the people. Because he's been teasing a comeback. Yeah. Right. And I asked him very specifically, what do you want to come back? Like what people need to do? He said, he basically said money. Yeah. Like, you know, UFC fighters, when they go fight, it's a guaranteed purse, a contract. Yeah. So that's what he's basically requiring. So you're saying pay me. Yeah. I know. Pay him. Kai's making good money, man. Kai, you know, you got no child support, you know. That's all I'm saying. He doesn't have too much expense, huh? No, I'm saying expenses, I don't know if they are expenses, probably for the costumes and the wigs and everything else somewhere. Come on, bro. I'm just trying to put it in perspective here. But, Kai. Do you think promoters, there's wealthy people out there, right, that love bodybuilding. Do you think they should put the money for him to compete? No. No? You don't think so? No, no, no. But that's wrong, though. Because if you really want him to compete, I think there's a company out there that has enough money that can say, Kai, I want you to compete. Here's some money. And I think Kai will do it. He's good for it. You know? Why are you saying no? Because if that person wants to spend money for Kai, why not give him that money to Samsung Dota? Well, Samsung's already competing. He's doing it for the hell of it right now. And we don't want to beg him. I'm saying, he's saying if, you know, you want to see Kai compete. If somebody has enough money, they have a company. Be honest with you, I don't want to see Kai compete. That's a perfect preference. Come on, you don't want to see a handstand, bro? Come on, man. I don't want to ruin that vision I have from Kai Greene in my mind, you know? Although, if he does come back and he ends up winning, that would be a big look. How about this? Wining for who? To who? I'd love to see Kai Greene and Phil Heath. Okay, I was going to say that next. What if... And Victor. I mean, these, those group, you know? What if there's a pay-per-view event, unsanctioned, let's say. Just a pay-per-view event, like a novelty act. Kai Greene and Phil Heath, they pay them both, whatever they require. Would you watch it on pay-per-view? Yes. I'll watch it. Kai versus... Yes, I'll watch it. Yes, if it's put together, like one of those, you know, Logan Paul fights. Yes, I'll watch it. Where people actually do the pay-per-view. Yes. But that was my idea. I said that before and, you know. But the question is, you said you would watch it. You said... Yeah, I'll watch that. I think it would be great if you had like, you know, Kai Greene just like talking Phil and Phil talking Kai. Yeah. It would be really entertaining. In fact, if they played those roles, even if it were semi-fake. But if just Kai Greene compete against other bodybuilders, it's not... You want to see against Phil. Yeah. Against Phil. That would be epic. Why nobody's doing it? Why nobody... Well, somebody's got to put it together, you know? Maybe Logan Paul can see this and say, man, let me tap into the bodybuilding scene. Maybe generationality. Let me ask you, Vic, a question. What are the probabilities in your opinion that Kai comes back and does compete? What are the... On his own without getting offered a check? Yeah. Like what are the percentage probabilities? Very low. I think very low too. Very low. Yeah. Very low. Here's another question. Yes, but I think somebody's good and will be good to pay him to see him on that stage. And I think he's right. They should pay him. But just to compete, to have a toss up and be judged by the judges to maybe do great, maybe not. And who knows? Is there bad blood because of what he's done along the way that they're not going to give him the placing? You know? It's like a lot of factors go into it. I don't know. Do you think it was a mistake from the Olympia not to crown him Olympia at one point for the Olympia brand itself and for the... I mean, there's a lot of mistakes the Olympia has made over the years. You know? I mean, that's just a given. It's part of the whole Olympia. You know? Yeah. I mean, there haven't been perfect judging panels. It's just... There's been a lot of toss up. And again, I just... I mean, because not to take anything away from like guys like Sean Roden, Big Rami, others, but Kai Green not winning in Olympia in many ways could, hypothetically, we could look at it in a way where it's like it was definitely a mistake. Yeah. There's many mistakes. And if they do want to see him, you know, go through the process and put himself through the grueling preparation, I think he should get paid. Do you think it's a good business move? Let's say you want to get Phil and Kai to compete, right? You got to pay him at least probably 150 grand each, right? Nah. More. Do the pay-per-view, man. Get the money split. You think you'll make the money back on pay-per-view? Of course. You think people are going to... Of course. Listen, I never pay for a Mayweather fight. I'll pay for this. You know what? That's a good point. I still won't pay for a Mayweather fight. I think that window's closing very rapidly. It is. It's growing. So, you know, there's a chance to do it, but they have to do it, I would say within the 12 months to, you know, 24 months. But come on, Kai and Phil right now, at their age, they can still do it and they'll still be better than Logan and Mike Tyson fight. Right. Be way better. So here's our last question of, you know, what do you call the chances of, let's say, someone like Chris Bumstead coming back to compete? What are the probabilities of that in your opinion? I mean, coming back, he just barely left. Well, I mean, it's almost going to be 12 months actually in October. I mean, you know, you can ask me that in a year from now, he comes back. But right now he could still be back. Yeah. I mean, it hasn't really left though. Yeah. It wouldn't even be exciting. I mean, I'm not surprised. He should hold off until making, you know, if he wants to make a comeback, make it a real comeback, it's holding on for at least a year or two. I'm not surprised if he come back after five, six years at the open bodybuilding. Yeah. But he needs to come back. Open category. But hopefully it's going to be another like dominant champion in that league. Right. Against that, in that division. I mean, so they need to come back exciting. Like, no, he finished, he finished the classic. If he coming back, he has to be go to open. Oh, pro bodybuilding. He needs the size. I think he rest for five, six years at that moment times. He's 39, 40s and muscle maturity comes, the size comes. If he wants to come back, he has to go to open category because he's king of the classic right now. Yeah. That's what I'm saying. It would be exciting if he just comes back, compete against the same. You know what I mean? Yeah. Not interesting. We have anyone in classic comeback at the classic, two left-hand comeback. No. No. No. The only one that made a comeback was the original, you know, classic Mr. Olympia, which was Danny Hester. Oh, your friend. Yeah. Yeah. Your buddy. I forgot about Danny. You know, he left and he left for a while. Yeah. He came back just for this category. And where was he competing? That was a comeback. What division was he competing? He was doing men's open, by the way. Yeah. He was men's open, but not in the high rank of the league. Yeah. Yeah. He was competitive. And again, he was still kind of, so this category opened him up. It was kind of waiting for him. So, he did great, man. You know? And he is Mr. Olympia, so. Actually, they don't call it Mr. Olympia. They call it Olympia champion. Olympia champion. Olympia champion. Only one Mr. Olympian in men's open. Yeah. One Mr. Olympia, you know. But, you know, classic Olympia or whatever. I don't know. I have a question. Yeah. Frank's in 1973, 74. Chris Bombsett, 2020, 2022. Who is winning? I still think Chris. You can't compare the size wise because Chris Bombsett is bigger than him. Way bigger. Way bigger. But, as a nice physique wise and definition, Frank Zayn, wow. Yeah. True classic. Yeah. True classic. All right, man. All right, guys. Thank you for watching us in this week's podcast. Remember, follow us, like, comment. If you want to see a prior podcast, please tune in to iHeartRadio, Apple Podcasts, or wherever the hell you stream your podcasts, man. You know, check us out. Thank you for our loyal listeners. Till next time. Peace.