 Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Unt Then there were people in there, not a whole lot, but there was some. As I stick my claim to a treadmill and begin to get ready to climb on board, I get a tap on the shoulder, I turn around, I look, and guess who it was? Justin Compton? Am I right? Am I right? I'm really, really, really savvy with his social media setup, man. It was just really, really interesting because this was the first time that I got a chance to meet him in person. We met totally like off the cuff. No one was around. It was just like, oh, snap, there was no cameras. It was just, it was really cool. It was really cool. I have a great respect for him as a captain of his own industry. Really, really smart young guy. It's crazy. Crazy to meet him like that. He's still in his 20s. I think he's honestly, if not the biggest, but in the top five of the most popular influencers of today in the bodybuilding fitness, bodybuilding fitness, whatever you want to call it. Yeah, there's a lot to be said for what he is and the space he occupies. So anything you can share about the conversation? Anything that was interesting for the audience to hear? No, I think it was just very pleasant. Very pleasant. Very, very man and respectful young guy. He was just insightful and hungry about being able to advance. He was actually getting ready to compete. Yeah, man. I just wanted to be able to shout him out. You know, watch his journey. He's getting ready to compete at the Arnold Classic this year. Right, right, right. Yep, yep. And he looked good. He looked, he really looked, he really looked good. I'm like, oh, shit. Okay. All right. Nice. All right. Okay, so back to, you've been trending this whole past week. A lot of, I guess, bodybuilding media picked up that story. You know what I'm talking about, right? Do you want to talk about it at all? Do you want to say anything about the situation that transpired? I mean, there really isn't a situation. It's not, you know, everybody needs to get their grab on likes and shares. Sure. And it's, it's, it's, it's a cool thing. I mean, you know. But at the end of the day, it's, it's really nothing more than that. There's, there's no, I mean, there's, there's, there's nothing to say. I think that it's interesting. I've heard a lot of people who have a lot of different takes on that. Sure. I'm sure you, I'm sure you've heard it by now. I'm sure you've heard, you know. Have you heard what Justin said about what, when you told him to shut the fuck up? Have you, have you heard what he, what he thought about it? I understand there's a lot of noise that's come from over in that direction. Here's the thing, you know, at the end of the day, you know, you know, we are what we are. You know, there's nothing that you can really say that's going to really, you know, you know, it's, it's, if I thought there was a problem, then, I mean, I would handle it, you know. But that's not what that is. That's, that's not, you know what I mean? Most people, when they don't know, and aren't aware enough to even understand that they don't know, will continue to just become emboldened in their position and continue in the direction that they go on. You know, so it is, it is, it is definitely what that is, you know. But, yeah, I mean, yeah, I would, I would love, love, love to, to get wrapped up in what it would be a distraction. And it's just not, that's not where, you know, it's not, that's not where, there's, there's, there's, there's no opportunity in that for me. It's just not. At least, I mean, you know, not taking, I mean, at least, I think it's good to have moments, you know, like, it's just, everybody is scared to say something, you know. He has an opinion, you have an opinion, people have an opinion, let's, let's talk about opinions, you know. I don't, you know what I mean, people should just speak their mind, you know, if they want to. Well, I think there's something to be said for being responsible, because at the same time, when you're not talking responsibly and you do have a position where you have a lot of people looking at you and sponsors and fans. And that's the thing, fans, you know, there's a lot of people that are fans of you or have a perception of you. And when you, you know, when you speak out of turn or when you speak in a way that can come off as very hard, you know, the truth is, you don't know, you know, the fan that you're speaking to. That was a fan five years ago, seven years ago, 10 years ago. And what happens is for a lot of what can sound like overreaction, you know, I mean, I understand, you know, a lot of times you got, it's really the heart of that hurt fan and enthusiast that you didn't know you were going to hurt when you spoke to as sharply as you did. And that's really, that's really, I think, the largest takeaway that I got here. There's a, to whom much is given, much is required. There's a lot of people that you may see and not respect the vulnerability that they may be looking at you with. Or that they may actually, you know, interpret the things that you say. So there's a lot of responsibility that you have. And I think what happens is when you've been where you've been and when you are where you are, truth is a lot of times it can be very easy to take, take it for granted, you know. So I think it is something to be said for talking responsibly and being responsible when you, you know, sometimes we can, we can say, I don't care. I just want to, I just want to say what I'm going to say. But then that's what everyone does. Even the person that's, even the person that's talking from the most ill-informed perspective, you know, they just want to say what they want to say. They don't know about being responsible. It doesn't really matter. It's like being an older brother talking to your little brother or, you know, being a parent talking to your child. You know, your child, if you ever seem like a two-year-old can get mad through a tantrum and they can hit you. And, you know, there you are, the older brother or the parent in that situation, as stressed out as you may be. And as much as you may think that, hey, man, you know what? I'm going to teach you a lesson. Fact is, there's still a baby. There's still underdeveloped. And you really have to, a lot of times, respect that more than you would expect for the world to be able to respect that about your position. Because everybody doesn't know you. They can't see, you know, the perspective that you're talking from. If the world says to you, hey, look, you couldn't win the Olympia because you did this. It's a narrative that a lot of people have accepted, you know, but just because you accept it, it doesn't mean that that's the truth. You know, and facts, what everybody wants to say when they're really not as informed as they'd like to be, the facts are still out of your reach because you were not in a position of authority enough. You hadn't climbed enough, high enough on the totem pole to be considered in those decisions. Nobody cared about what your perspective was. And nobody cares now as we are adults and as we are, you know, athletes and pros still working with the responsibility of creating a livelihood for ourselves, making a living, advancing the entrepreneurial spirit of our developing enterprises. The truth is, it's not, you know, it's not any more easy today to do that. You have to find a way to get that done. And as you're doing that, you know, yeah, we'll, we'll, we'll, we'll share wisdom. We'll share ideas. A lot of us will teach. But all of us have a responsibility. We, we, we, we, we, we just do, you know, and I think it can be very easy at times to overlook that, to forget that, you know, you can get wrapped up in your own thing and you can talk, but you can hurt the fan. You can hurt the enthusiast and not every fan or enthusiast is going to tell you that they've been a fan or enthusiast. You know what I mean? And, and this is why I'm saying that you do have to be responsible with what you say, even when you think you're talking. I hear you. So yeah, that's, that's, that's kind of, that's where I'm at with that. It's not, you know, as far as, you know, other stuff, I mean, everything, it's, you know, there's no problem. Because if there was a problem, you know, it would, I would deal with it. Um, but seeing what I see it is, you know, more, more than what I think other people are able to see. You know, I, I see, I see the hurt fan. I see the past bodybuilding lover and enthusiast, um, that has started out just like a lot of us do. All of us as, as, you know, pros now we started with our eyes bright and excited about the sport, excited about gains, excited about growing, pushing, pushing the boundaries, you know, and ultimately, you know, for a lot of us, we get to a place where the things that we expected to become of our careers, to become of what will be our legacy. A lot of that doesn't happen the way that we wanted it to, you know? Um, and then we still have to continue, you know what I mean? Um, and now I think what happens is with that is a responsible way that you have to do that because you're still talking to the fans and the enthusiasts that are coming up behind you. And they are still, you know, bright eyed and optimistic. And, you know, you can still, if you don't choose to speak responsibly, you can damn them. You can hurt them. You know, you can jade their perspective just because you may be at a place where you're like, ah, this doesn't work. Right. Um, which is why I'm so adamant about that point. A lot of people will tell you all day that the reason why you did not achieve this is because you did this. And that's only because they don't know any better, you know? Um, and if it was your life in your position, um, to see more, you know, um, to understand more. They're conversations and relationships that you have insight that you gathered from your travels because you've been to places where they haven't been yet. They haven't been there. You know, you had those conversations with the authority people in our industry that a lot of these people don't even know by name. They don't even know exists, you know? Um, so for the fan that's just tuned in or for the, you know, the up and coming developer that has only gotten, but so far yet in their development, you know, it can be very easy to say, oh yeah, well, I know everything. You don't know. No, no, no. This is what I heard. Bob Chikorillo say, Bob Chikorillo can't tell you anything of the narrative that they don't want you to, for you to know. You know what I mean? Bob, Bob had a position in this game and industry, you know, to keep things, you know, and being, to be responsible for the sport. He was not there to be talking about all the intricate details of what's happening behind the scenes other than what, what they wanted you to know. So, I mean, I, my, my biggest thing to tell the audience and the fans that look, man, you know, don't let anybody tell you that you're limited by mistakes or anything that you can feel, um, should hurt your ability to, to, to have a favorable position, um, or for a decision to go in your favor. Because somehow you've done something so bad. I mean, the truth is, no, you, you go and you do your best. And as you do your best, you can't hold yourself hostage to, yeah, but if I do my best, what if they never let me? No, you have to, you, you have to do your best. You know what I mean? Um, don't allow the question of politics to be the case because that politics door swings both ways. You know, you can turn around and when you've done enough work, you can change that. I've seen it happen. That's how I turned pro. You know, a lot of athletes compete and they don't even understand the game of financing. When I was competing every, every day and I conquered these shows in my life and career, every show I did, I did more than a hundred shows in my career, you know, um, with that every time I competed, the truth is I was chipping away at discovering new things about the process of competing. You know, when I was, when I was many years ago, when I was competing, I believed that every advancement in my career was about me, my physique, what I did, what I didn't see was the financing and the other things that needed to happen in the right order to support that advance. Because what, what happens when you come to the show and you think your physique is great, but you still didn't crack the top five. What happened? People will say you were overlooked. If you really looked fantastic, well, then they'll say, well, well, why was that? Somebody will say politics, but then what does that mean? So I think anyway, it takes a lot of experience a lot of times in this game and industry, particularly for then to come away with the, having enough work done to see what the politics component even really means, you know? And it means more for the person that's actually living it, working in it and having to deal, deal with that in real time. You know, it just becomes too much to say. You'd have to teach. You'd have to teach a new fan, you know, with a whole lot of intricate detail and stuff that they don't even really want to know. You'd have to teach, you know, even, you know, an instructor now, a coach now, a trainer now, you know, if they don't have the expansive experience that you had, you know, there's a lot that they still don't understand, even if they take for granted that they do. And so, yeah, I go back to saying this because when you say, hey, well, you know, everyone has an opinion and everyone's talking. The truth is, if you don't know, you know, sometimes you need a little bit of humility to just allow yourself to, in an effort to still recognize your intelligence. And say, you know what, if I don't really know, I mean, I know how I feel. I know what I heard. But if I don't really know, there's something to be said for being able to just acknowledge that. But, yeah, I understand how I can speak and hurt the fan. If I speak now and I do that, what I do is I hurt the sponsors. When I speak now, I hurt and I hurt and I hurt more than a lot of times it's even easier to see. At the surface, you know, so it's worth it to be responsible. You know what I mean? And, yeah, at the end of the day, people that don't have to think about that, you know, that are able to say, oh, well, I'll just do it. I'll say what I want to say when I want to say it. Yeah. That also means, though, that there's certain levels that you haven't graduated to yet, you know, because at the right level, you have to consider these things. You just do. Right. Kyle, let's take a quick, quick break. And as always, thank our title sponsor, G Fuel. Now, to our listeners out there, if you guys are looking for one supplement to improve your cognitive health and give you focus and energy, this supplement is for you. Now, G Fuel formula is amazing because it gives you energy by adding 140 milligrams of caffeine per serving and zero sugar. They've added more amino acids and kept the flavor the same. But this time, they improved the formula. So there's no chalky aftertaste. They've added more antioxidants and vitamin E. In addition, they have glycine and taurine. Now, this is supposed to improve your performance and your recovery. It also contains lettenin for mental focus and cognitive performance. So, guys, if you don't want to go to the store, you can go to gfuel.com and put in the code GI20 for a discount. Shout out to G Fuel. And as we said on this show, we recommend G Fuel. Check it out, guys. All right, Kai. We have actually a lot of questions or comments from the listeners. But before we move to that round, I wanted to ask you about longevity, right? Like a lot of people wanted to know if you have a routine, a skin routine to stay youthful. And also, how do you feel about men getting Botox? I know Rich Gasparri, he kind of actually revealed his routine. He was getting Botox on camera. Really? Yeah, and he was actually very proactive about it. You know, he – and a lot of – actually, these days, you know, a lot of men do it and they're very open about it for different reasons. You know, what do you – what is your skin routine and what do you think about Botox for men? So, you know what? It's so funny. 20 years ago, if somebody would have asked me something like that, I'd probably go like, what? What are you talking about? I'm a man. I don't do those things. I don't know anything about that. However, man, I've gotten to a place in my life, dude, I'm ready to consider a lot of new things like peptides. I'm ready. Listen, I'm – I feel like it is time. I'm looking at stem cells, peptides. I hadn't considered anything with the Botox thing, though. How do you feel about it in general? How do you feel about it? Do you think it's normal for a man to get a Botox? I think it's worth – I think it's worth researching a little more. I mean, I don't have – I've never done it myself. I've never done it myself. Even, like, you know, also, too, like, spot injections. You know how people talk about, like, synthol. And other times in my career, I remember finding myself so offended, you know, when forced to come to terms with considerations like that. And now, as I get older, I feel like, yeah, you know, there's a lot – I think I see things a lot differently. I am all for being able to be invested in doing things that help me feel better and age well and keeping up with what it takes for me to feel like I'm able to live an abundant life, capable of doing any of the things that I appreciate being able to do. I want to be able to get up and run. Do you have a skin routine specifically? Do you use any type of products? Do you have anything that you're – you know, anything that you stand by? I mean, honestly, brother, as long as I can remember, I use MagiShave. That's about it. I don't really have, like, some exfoliant or anything like that. But I tell you what, this question has made me think about it a lot more seriously. Like, I need to develop one. But it's – you're talking about Botox. You know, it's – I feel like 2026, even, like, going back five years ago, it became so normalized, you know? Like, I know a lot of gym owners that do it, you know? Like I mentioned, Rich Gasparri is obviously a hardcore bodybuilder, right? Old school guy. And he's very open about it. Shout out to Rich Gasparri. Shit, I would do that since you. Yeah, shout out, man. I would do it if I – but I would also want to research more about it. Have you ever – you ever tried anything? No, I haven't done it, but I'm also, like, I'm not against it, you know what I mean? And I don't feel like it's a taboo or anything like that, you know what I mean? Yeah, no. I remember when I was younger, there was exercises in the gym. Like, a lot of – when I was a teenager, nobody – no man in the gym that I trained at would do things like donkey kickbacks or glute kickbacks or seated hip abduction. Those were identified as women movements. Right, right, right, right. Mm-hmm, maybe. Even some stiff-legged deadlift variations were identified as just being, like, you know, not the kind of movements that, you know, men were supposed to do in the gym when I was a kid. However, I think it was Darian's era, you know. So after Rich Gasparri came along and this dude had these cross-striated boots that were ridiculous, you know, I think it became commonplace to understand that just because you squat, you squat and leg press, if you were really after trying to get, you know, the development in your glutes and hamstrings, like that guy Renel Janvier, there was this pro bodybuilder like 30 years ago. So Renel, Renel Janvier, I think his name was, stood at these Venetian blind cross-striated glutes that were, like, just next level. This was before Ronnie Coleman came to the table with the lights out. And it's certainly after Rich Gasparri had brought, you know, that into the floor. People didn't even know. Most people didn't even know. You could develop your glutes and have them cross-striated in such detail until he did it. But that, like, revolutionized the sport. So anyway, I'm saying this to say that as you go forward, I think the quest to try to bring those things, by the time Darian and Nasser came to the stage that year, where you saw Darian and Nasser, like, masterfully teach a master's class on, like, what it meant to talk about, you know, pushing the boundaries of size, shape, and, you know, separation and dryness. You know, Darian had the glutes and spine erectors that were just so crispy. They matched everything from every angle to dryness everywhere. And Nasser didn't have it. If you were to, just in your personal opinion, right, I know it's completely different. In their prime, if you take Rich Gasparri versus Dorian Yates in their prime, whose physique do you find more appealing, in your opinion? Well, here's the thing. I think the case could be made for either. I mean, because there was a time. Just for you, for you specifically, for you. I kind of remember when you asked me, hey, well, which did you like better? I like the foundation. And because Gasparri came before, came before Darian. Yep. I'm like, I have to believe that there's some benefit to the presence and contributions made by the legacy of Rich Gasparri on the sport. That by the time we get to, you know, Darian, it enhanced some of the things that Darian would be aware of just from having been exposed to, at least in theory. You know, so I believe you can't have the greatness of Darian without, you know, going through the experience of Rich Gasparri. So for me, that feels like going more to the source. Right. So, yeah, I would acknowledge that first. Yeah. Guys, I want to talk about something important. If you're in your 30s or your 40s and you start noticing decline in your pumps in the gym, you don't feel the same energy. You feel something is off, even though your diet is on point and you still feel strong minded inside, but something is not going your way. Then most likely testosterone is suffering. That's why I want to bring up this supplement by Mars Men, the natural testosterone booster. You know, myself, I noticed it, you know, working hard, long days of work, of course, and still going to the gym, still trying to keep up. You know, you notice it's just not the same anymore. So that's why I personally want to endorse the supplement, which is Mars Men, the natural testosterone booster. So Mars Men basically helps your body unlock usable testosterone. So you feel like yourself again. This is what I've learned. Your body makes testosterone, but a lot of it gets locked up and can't be used. There's a protein called SHBG. It's basically handcuffs with testosterone. So even if your body is producing testosterone, that protein locks it up. You can't access it. It's like having the money in the bank, but your debit card is just not working. So Mars Men is designed to help free lock testosterone so your body can actually use it. No synthetics and no needles, just real ingredients to help optimize energy, focus, and strength. When you start taking Mars Men, you'll feel stronger. You'll perform better in the gym and the recovery gets better as well. You'll be more consistent and your natural energy will go up. So it's not the same thing as drinking coffee and over and over again. This is much different. It comes from the inside. It's real energy you can feel and use and you feel much better after going to the gym. Mars Men supports healthy T-levels, energy, and stamina. And now Mars Men offers a 90-day money-back guarantee. So there's absolutely no risk. Worst case scenario, you don't absolutely love it and you get your money back. But over 90% of the users report higher energy levels. Thousands of guys are feeling incredible results. Just check out the reviews on our website and you'll see for yourself. So for limited time only, our listeners get 50% off for life plus free shipping and three free gifts. Just go to mangotomars.com. That's mangotomars.com. It's a perfect way to start off your new year strong. That's mangotomars.com for 50% off and three free gifts at checkout. And after you purchase, they will ask you where you heard about them. Please support our show and tell them who sent you. So like I said, guys, Mars Men, give it a try. Feel better. Feel more energized and get better pumps at the gym. Mars Men. All right, Kai, we've got lightning round of the questions or comments from the loyal listeners. So some of these you might not appreciate. But don't be upset at the messenger. I'm just reading them, okay? Okay. So this is the lightning round, Kai. So just try to answer these at a lightning speed, okay? Can you do that? Yeah, we'll try. It's got to be known. All right. I make no promises. All right. So first one is Mark Harris 9154. What does Kai consider his greatest flaw, weak point, and his physique over the years? And what has he done to address these shortcomings? Love from Ireland. You know what? I think overall, if I had it to do all over again. One of the things that happened in my career, I learned how to work my back. And in that, in doing that more effectively, I learned how to turn my hands into hooks. And in the beginning, it was very, very challenging for me to do that because my biceps and my arms responded so well. And my arms were also so very long. I really do believe that I was destined to be a six-foot dude. And even though I haven't subjected myself to any, like, tests or anything to kind of confirm or deny, I do believe that I was meant to be a little taller than I actually turned out. But that said, my arms were very, very long. And a lot of work that it took to kind of improve my back and get my back to work like I needed it to, I had to, like, take my arms offline. So I think with that, over time, I developed a very interesting distance in under-training, like, my forearms, you know, bicep, brachioradialis area. My arms. And I guess if I had it to do all over again, I would probably have been less restrictive on how I approached training for my back and would have actually did more, would have been more unafraid to train my arms as much as I did. All right, Kai, this one is from, I guess, from an angry listener, okay? So, again, just remember, I guess he's upset at something. But it's for YXK92. Instead of crying and complaining why you didn't continue competing, 90% of bodybuilders compete even when they're getting 10th and 15th place. You were so close. So this is in regards to, a lot of people think that you were so close to winning the Olympia and that you didn't compete. And I know it was a whole situation about the contract and the weeder thing. But is there anything you want to say to this gentleman or woman to this comment? Well, I think here's the thing. There's a luxury in being the fan and the enthusiast at home watching the sport. You know, we talk about the scenario where you have the person sitting in the living room watching the pitcher on the pitcher's mound in the baseball game. And kind of question the reason why they make this play or that play and find it very easy, you know, to challenge the thought process without understanding one that you're also, you know, in the comfort of your own home. And that is the benefit about being the fan, the enthusiast, you know, the fan and the enthusiast is not close enough, you know, to the action to really get a chance to understand why every play is made and why the outcomes that they see happen the way that they do. You know, you know, it's like the movie gladiator, you know, the Russell Crowe lead character, you know, Maximus was now supposed to fight the emperor, you know, but shortly before coming out into the arena, the emperor had given word that the gladiator was supposed to be mortally wounded. In which case that was to assure that the gladiator that the emperor faced in the arena in front of all the fans was not supposed to fight at his best, you know. That was information that the fan and the enthusiast was just not allowed to see. And there were reasons for that, you know, in order to improve the experience for the fan and the enthusiast at home. And the truth is they're not supposed to know everything that goes into every decision, you know. If you were to take that away from the fan and the enthusiast, you also, you know, make them more participant than they actually really want to be. Because what comes with that is the pressure, the stress, and sometimes the anxiety that can be very, very overwhelming for the fan and the enthusiast. So, yeah, you know, just to keep things in its proper perspective, there are reasons why the fan is supposed to be where they are. And why even as you being the athlete, you know, with respect for the fan and with respect for the industry, there are things that you're not supposed to say, you know. And hopefully, you know, if we're reasonable enough, you can read between the lines. But that's not by accident. There's a lot more that happened. All right. Let's leave it at that. Next question is from Japiro. Japiro. The bodybuilding meal that he can never get tired of and the best cheap meal he's ever had. Yo, man, very honestly, PBJ was the s***. There's nothing like a good PBJ. I'll never forget. Remember those moments where you might have had like a higher fat, you know, allowance in your diet? And with that, there might have been like a spoonful of peanut butter, you know. And like, you know, once you've been, you know, training and dieting, you get to this place where, okay, what? You can have that spoonful of peanut butter. And it was like, but then that was it. It was a spoonful of peanut butter. That was it. That's it. You know, and it's like, wait, but oh my God, I want more. I just can't stop. I just want to, man. So what I've learned to do during my prep earlier in my career was to like, okay, abstain from it for now. But now when we go into, this is it. We're finished. Once we get finished with this, man, I'm looking forward to the whole PBJ. We got to eat the whole loaf of bread with the PBJ, peanut butter, and jelly. PBJ was an awesome, awesome cheat meal. Yeah, awesome. Nice. All right, and the last one, and this one is a Patreon special, actually. So if you guys not... Shout out to Patreon. Yeah, sure. If you guys not subscribe, please switch over. If you guys are subscribed, please switch over to Patreon for this one. This one's from Cape Town 990. I just thought about something. I don't know if you ever spoke about this publicly. I just remembered a story that I've heard. I don't know if it's even true or not, but I don't know if you want to talk about it or not. I remember, I forgot what year it was. Was it 26, 15? I heard a rumor that you went to Prague, and then you also like, you had something happen to you where... Do you know what I'm talking about? Something happened to you in Prague where you didn't feel good or something, so you didn't compete? Was that... I don't know if you ever spoke about it publicly ever, or was it ever brought up. Did it ever happen or no? Something happened in Prague. Well, you and I never spoke about it off camera, so I don't even know. I don't know. I just heard... Is that... No? I'm like, I don't know if I'm supposed to take the fifth on that or... Oh, okay, okay. I wasn't sure. You never spoke about it publicly ever, but I heard something. You went to Prague, and then you didn't feel good, so you didn't compete or something like that. Or you did compete. I don't know what happened. Yeah, you know... Okay, we don't have to talk about it. It's fine. It's fine. One, two, three, four, five. Bam! All right, all right, all right. I got it. So I just remembered... I just remembered... You were talking about the emergency room, and I just remembered... I remember that story somebody told me. I don't know. I don't know if it was true. All right, never mind. All right, well, that was our lightning round. Kai, that was great, man. Oh, that's what's up. Yes, yes. So yeah, I suggest to all the audience, whether they want to hate or congratulate, I think this is the way to communicate with Kai through here. I hope you agree. Oh, yes, what's up? Yeah, we got... Yes, yes, yeah. Hey, I mean, you know, it's funny, because I remember Sean Ray wrote... He wrote an address talking about this so many years ago. The Sintol thing? What are we talking about? You almost took your girl. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I remember that story. And I forever saw it like that. It was always like, ah, fuck this guy. You know? So even though he's an amazing dude, I just hung out with him last weekend. You got to take his girl now. I can't do that. That's Chris Comer. Jedi Master Chris right there. Well... There we have it, Kai. There we have it. Hey, I appreciate you, Vlad. Appreciate you, man. I guess if you're listening, this is the voice of yours truly. Kay with the A.K.A. Mr. Getting It Done. Chilling with my man, Vlad Duden. We just did this podcast. It is the Kai Green Effect. And we will bring this to a close. Thank you so much for tuning in. Until next time, let's keep it positive. Let's keep encouraging each other. Peace. Unt Unt Unt Unt