 3. 3.5P. 3.5P. 3.5P. 3.5P. 3.5P. 3.5P. 3.5P. 3.5P. 3.5P. 3.5P. and 405 and I think that the thought of being able to curl 315. That's crazy, man. Yeah. That's three plates in a bar. That's like... Yeah, six plates. There's three plates on each side. What's up, everybody? What's up? What's up? What's up? This is the Kai Green Effect. I am the voice that you hear right now and I'm joined by Vlad Newton. Yes, yes, yes. My Generation 9 family is here. We're about to do something dope. We're going to come to you and say a little something of interest. Maybe, maybe not. But at any rate, we're very happy to be able to have this opportunity to do it. What's up, Vlad? What's going on today? How you doing, man? How's your week going? My week is off to a brilliant start. Really? I've been in the studio, in and out, working on a lot of different things, but I'm very, very thankful to be able to do it. Man, it's a new year, Vlad. This is the 2026. I know, man. I know. What's anything new, man? What are you working on? An album? Actually, you know what? I've done a lot of releases, but, man, I'm working on this really awesome animated series. It hasn't been picked up yet by, but, you know, they say life and death is in the power of the tongue. So, KI Afro came in as a project that I've been working on. It's a part of a larger thing called Dynamic Muscle Company Comics. And, yeah, man, I am really, really excited to be able to say something very soon about where it's going to be and what's going to happen. But, yeah, man, I like the possibility of film. What do you think about these enhanced games? I know we spoke about it, like, months ago, but now it looks like it's happening, actually. They're going to have a first competition in summer of 2026, and Thor has joined the competition. It was a big news, actually, a couple of weeks ago. Thor, you know Thor, right? You guys are... Yeah, I know, personally, the dude is actually a really, really awesome guy. So, he announced that he's joining the competition. He wants to break his world deadlift record, which he's still holding right now, actually. I think it's at 500. It's over... It's 1,100 pounds, which is 505 kilograms. So, he wants to break that record in the enhanced games. You were kind of... Last time we spoke, you were kind of like... You weren't very... I don't know what was the word. You weren't, like, super excited about it. You were kind of saying it's kind of a little bit strange. You call it enhanced games, right? Like, what do you think about it? First of all, you know, Thor is a dude that is... He's a mountain of a man capable of extraordinary beats of strength any way you slice it. This dude is a world record holder and has been... You know... He held the record before and is technically looking to break his own record. He could have done this anywhere. Sure. I think it's a... I don't know. I think it's a... It's a privilege to these games to actually have his presence and association with it. I mean, this guy is not, you know, anything to be taken lightly. He was able to dominate the field of strongman. That means he was clearly the strongest man in the world for multiple years. It's not a... You know, you take a minute and just sit with just how... how significant a feat that is. You know, the strongest man in the world is a competition that's been held, I think, for the last 20 years. Probably. Did you see his boxing match with Eddie Hall? You know what? That was another thing that was highly... highly anticipated. I don't know if it delivered quite what I was expecting it to, but shout out to him and Eddie Hall because they actually got a chance to, you know, mix it up a little bit. I mean, as they, you know, with the trash talk, you know, gave a spectacle for everybody and they both cut a very healthy check for themselves for doing it. But in his games, are you going to watch it or are you... do you think it's a good thing for him? I think... I think that that guy is interesting anywhere he goes, anything he touches. He's like... he's a dude that, on average, is like close to 400 pounds. I mean, you know, he's like almost, you know, close to the seven feet tall than I am. And at the end of the day, I think anything he does or is willing to... willing to try to do on the camera is something for the cameras to see and I think there's an audience that would definitely want to see him do it. So, I think he puts his money... there's money in that. So, I would play to see it. Okay, let's take a quick pause. As always, we want to thank our title sponsor, G Fuel. And for our listeners out there, if you guys are looking for clean energy that you can take on a daily basis, G Fuel is for you. Now, G Fuel formula is amazing because it gives you energy by adding 140 milligrams of caffeine per serving and zero sugar. They've added more amino acids and kept the flavor the same. but this time, they improved the formula so there's no chalky aftertaste. They've added more antioxidants and vitamin E. In addition, they have glycine and taurine. Now, this is supposed to improve your performance and your recovery. It also contains lettenin for mental focus and cognitive performance. So, guys, if you don't feel like going to the store, check out gfuel.com and use GI20 code for a discount. Check it out. I want to ask you about your, you last competed at the Arnold Classic Brazil, right? Was it Brazil? The last one? Brazil. You won that one and then, that was 2016 and then you won Australia before that and then you won the main Arnold Classic. You won three in a row basically, back to back. Yeah, you know, I think that was the first year that they actually did offer multiple Arnold Classic in one in each continent. I think it was, it was big. I think they had, they had five Arnold Classic up for grabs that year. I think it was the very first time that they offered that and yeah, I was fortunate enough to be able to mix it up, get in there and capture three in that same year. So that was, it was crazy about it. It feels like it was a couple of years ago but it's actually 10 years. Isn't that crazy? 10 years passed by. How does it make you feel knowing that it was 10 years since you last, right, last competed? Yeah, it was, yeah. Does it feel like 10 years ago? Does it feel like 10 years ago? Does it feel like 10 years ago? You know what, honestly man, it feels like the weeks go by so fast. It seems like we have Monday and then before you know it, it's already Friday, you know. I think one of the things that I can recall, that was the first time that I had gotten back into doing multiple shows back to back. I think it used to be the tradition in bodybuilding when competing at the higher level to, I mean, you compete very regularly when you're like an amateur and then even your first, your first years as a, as a developing pro. But I think the way the, the dream went, at least how it was back when I was doing it, it felt like the rites of passage or the sign that you had truly arrived in the sport was kind of what you worked to do. And once you'd gotten there, you really only focused on one show a year, you know, for a time it would have been like, you know, the two big shows would have been the Arnold Classic and the Olympia. I'm sure everyone can remember the old, you know, rivalry battles between Jay Cutler and Ronnie Coleman. You know, but that was like the, the Super Bowl experience of the sport and technically you're right to kind of compete there really depended on developing yourself to a place where you could have be looked at as having value there, you know. So you kind of built yourself to that place. In 2016, I had spent the better part of, I think, the last three or four years before that trying to develop into that, you know, where you could look forward to getting ready for just one show, try to make improvements between that and your last and you tried to show your best there. So when that experience happened as it did, the way that it did, not going to the, the, the Super Bowl experience, which was the big O, kind of freed me up to have to consider other options and other opportunities. Going to the Arnold Classic, that year represented a very big opportunity. And when they actually ended up introducing five Arnold Classics to hit, yeah, the stakes were very, very, very hot because now, you know, you didn't have the luxury of still aiming to compete with the idea of, well, you know, where I place this is kind of good. I think the pressure was really on you, particularly if you wanted to distinguish yourself as an uncrowned personality in the sport, you know, because uncrowned or not, you know, you're only as good as your last show. So when you show up to compete, the expectation is to show and prove, you know. So I felt like there was a lot of pressure on you to go into not just the one Arnold Classic, but now it was multiple Arnold Classics. And I think it was on. It was really on. I think because the truth is there's always so many great guys, always so many great athletes that at any given time, you know, any one of them could step up and hand you your ass if you didn't prepare properly or even if you did prepare properly but just found yourself just, you know, I just don't think I don't think you could have said you were totally unbeatable. And there were some really good guys that were competing around that time and could very easily slip into any one of those other shows or opportunities that were offered with having multiple Arnold Classics, one on every continent. The Arnold Classic is an invite-only event, right? They have to invite you to compete there. So have they been reaching out to you every year and try to invite you to come and compete? So, you know, it's funny. When I first turned pro, my first two years as a pro, in fact, I couldn't get the Arnold Classic people, I couldn't get anybody to respond to me at all. It was like, it was like, you know, just, just not, I mean, you know, obviously people are busy, a lot to do. I sent, you know, I sent my letter or I sent them the video, the, you know, the video intro. Hey, how you doing? I'm Kai Green, just received my pro card at the so-and-so show. I'm looking forward to being able to, you know, try to secure an invite to the Arnold Classic and it was crickets, man. It was crickets, you know. I think, yeah, I think I ended up, I ended up speaking to Steve Weinberger. Steve Weinberger actually was, was, was the guy that actually, you know, really did go out and, um, um, make a case for me. Yeah, shout out to Steve Weinberger. That was, what's up. And now, are they reaching out to you like in the last 10 years to invite you? Oh, um, to, to compete at the Arnold Classic? Yeah, yeah. No, no, no, no. No? Not at the Arnold Classic. If they were to reach out to you these days and invite you to compete, would you, would you consider it? Would you think about it? Um, it, it, well, you know, it's possible. It's possible. It's possible. You know, I, it's one of those things where, I mean, yeah, I, I didn't retire. That's what I'm saying. You didn't retire. Yeah, that's, that's why I'm asking. Yeah, I think, I think also too, that's another reason why it really is important to like, I mean, first health is first, you know, taking care of yourself is like really, really important. But like with that, you know, I, I've, I've met people that would say, even sometimes when I do lives and stuff, I would hear people say like, well, why are you still doing cardio like this? Why are you still, you know, um, training like you do? Um, um, even surprisingly, there are times when people turn around and say, hey, you can turn around and say, oh, um, you know, why are you still thinking about, um, training to such a degree? Um, um, um, as if, or even why are you carrying a certain amount of size, you know, to still be, you know, in the low 280s, you know, why wouldn't you just totally, um, downsize? Or, or how dare you? If, if you were to, let's say, commit to, uh, doing a show, um, how much time would you need to be stage ready in your opinion? I don't know. I think, um, I think you could be stage ready. I think you could be stage ready relatively quickly, I think. But if you were to think about meeting the standards, the higher standards, No, to be competitive, to be competitive to them. I mean, like, not, not just be to be competitive, but also to be within the realm of some things that you would be proud of yourself and possibly even look forward to, um, you know, to give it a fair shot. Yeah, I think, I think anywhere like 10 months, like 10, 10, 10, eight months. Yeah. So it's a, it's a full year commitment, basically. I believe so. I remember, I remember some years back when, um, when, um, I think, I think, you know, there's always people that will tell you, oh, you look like you could do this in just, just a few weeks. And it's, it's like, uh, um, I, I think that there's, there's a lot more that we need to be done. I mean, in the mind of the athlete that wants to give himself the chance to feel like you are, like you've justly earned, um, your right to, to the idea of confidence. Do you think since the last time you've competed in, in, uh, 10 years ago, basically, right? Um, do you think the level of competition, if you were to compete right now, it, it's gotten like more fierce, more, you know what I mean? Like the, the level of it, do you feel like it's gotten harder? Like if you were to, if you were to make a, not a comeback, but if you were to compete right now, would you be, uh, feeling just as comfortable as you were 10 years ago? Or would you think like, okay, now we have, uh, the guys are even, even more intense now, you know, the physique. Yeah, I don't, I don't, I don't think it would be intelligent to be, to be standing there thinking that, yeah, no, I got this a lot. No, I think that the talent, um, has definitely, um, stepped up. There's a field out there that is, that is, you know, amazing. And, and, and that's what's saying that there are a lot of new guys that are competing now that weren't competing, you know, back then. But even with saying that, there's a whole crop of guys that were competing, um, six years ago that aren't competing now. And, and, and, those athletes had stepped up significantly since. Like, I remember when there was a time when I was welcoming Big Rami on stage, you know, um, and what would have been maybe his first or second, you know, appearance at the Olympia, you know, um, and it was one thing to stand on stage with, you know, that developed athlete at that time in his career. But, since stepping away from the stage, Rami then went on to become, you know, even the reigning Mr. Olympia at one time, you know, um, and certainly, you know, it goes without saying that he had drastically improved, you know, his level level of competitiveness, um, and contest readiness, um, you know, since the last time that I've been on stage, you know, and there are many athletes, I think, that are just like that, you know. Kai, so, um, you don't drink alcohol, obviously, and a lot of our listeners or maybe some of them do drink alcohol. The problem with alcohol, though, gives you bad hangovers, and if you're looking for gains, if you're going to the gym, unfortunately, drinking alcohol can deter your gains, can slow you down, and can make you feel really, really bad. That's why there is nowadays. Nowadays is specifically designed for those of us who love to work out and love to see gains, but sometimes, uh, we enjoy a drink or two. Uh, nowadays has no alcohol, which means no hangovers, no crashes, no burnouts, and nowadays welcomes you to join No Hangover Club because you've earned this. We see you out there, guys, crushing your workouts, building your thing from nine to five, going to the gym, working, and setting a standard for yourself. But sometimes, you need a drink. That's why there's nowadays. Nowadays is a zero-proof THC beverage. Delivers clean, reliable buzz with absolutely no hangover, no empty calories, and no regret. Just bold flavor, good energy, and full presence. So this way, you're not giving up chasing your goals. You're choosing a better way to do both. You work hard, you play smart, because you've earned this. We welcome you to visit TryNowadays.com slash Kai to get 20% off your order. That's TryNowadays.com slash Kai or use code Kai at checkout, K-A-I. So guys, give it a try, be responsible. You must be over 21 years old to try it, and check it out. See if you like it better than alcohol, and if there's no hangover, there is no guilt. Check it out. All right, Kai, you ready for the lightning round? Yes. So the first one is from, these names are crazy, me. Fake Dentist underscore zero. Fake Dentist underscore zero. Yeah. All right, he's saying here, Kai, I want bigger arms. They're lacking. How many times do you recommend a trainer arms per week, and how many exercises for biceps and triceps? Also, how many reps do you recommend per set to grow? So he wants bigger arms. What do you recommend for that? So, uh, bigger arms, I would think about, wow, bigger arms. I mean, there's so many ways you can attack that. I would think first beating the hell out of them, like, you know, like some CT Fletcher type, like, I'm just gonna beat you into the ground. Shout out to CT Fletcher. Um, uh, I would, I would suggest something like that to start. I don't know. Um, but then I think you can, um, who's to say, first, I would, I would, I would suggest you beat them the hell up, um, so that they're really, really sore. Sore, I mean, sore. A lot of times when the muscle doesn't get sore, it means that we probably have some issues with activation, you know? Um, so a lot of times our ability to improve activation means to be able to find it, find it, um, neurologically, your mind and muscle connection, you know? So let one of like first, like, um, just beat it up with a lot of activation, activation, a lot of reps, a lot of reps, right? A lot of, a lot of, a lot of attempts at contracting it and stretching through a full range of motion and contracting them, um, you know, partial reps, long, full range of motion reps, you know? And then once you really got them sore, then just take notice of where they are. What do you feel? Um, whether it's your, your bicep and your tricep, you know, um, arms, arm day. Um, so it's so funny because I used to have this exercise, a bunch of us used to get down and do these pushups until we just couldn't do them anymore, do these pushups. It's like these sit right in your triceps, you know, um, do them until you can't do anymore. Then grab a weight could be like a 20 pound weight, 20 pound dumbbell. Um, I think it's cool to do this because a lot of times to grab a weight that's heavier. Um, I've seen people like really like, you know, uh, either tear or, or, or, or, um, um, strain, strain your bicep, um, the tendon. So, yeah, you do those pushups so you can't do them anymore, like 20 reps as high as you can do them, you know, um, and then lay on your back, take a 20 pound dumbbell, and extend. Are you here? Got me? I'm going, uh, what do you call that? I would call them like tricep erectors. Um, but your elbow is pointing straight up to the, to the ceiling and you lower your tricep, you're lowering your, you're lowering the weight down to when it becomes like plush with your shoulder and then immediately erect, um, flex that elbow, I mean, extend that elbow. Um, so your fists are pointing at the same ceiling. Um, do that as many times as you can. Like, I don't know, let's say 60 reps. Ah, and then get up, get on your knees, bicep curl, hammer, until you can't do them anymore or try to do 60 reps. If you did 60 reps on your back, you need to do 60 reps that way. So even that 20 pounds at some point just really starts to feel like it is too heavy to do just one more rep. And then you start to cycle all over again. I'm just saying this to do maybe three, four, five times. At some point, if you did it right, man, the next day, you should be sore. Sore, sore, sore, sore, sore. Now, I think that soreness, we'll talk about helping you find where the muscle is contracting the muscle. That soreness is a very good thing because it helps you, you know, with the development of a sharper, crisper mind and muscle connection. How many times a week do you recommend this type of workout? Right off the bat, one day, obviously, one day, and then you follow that up the following day with being able to do one of, they're ultimately the three bicep exercises that I would like to consider, you know, a, a feature curl or a concentration curl. Anytime you, yeah, it's a preacher curl and a straight bar curl and a hammer curl. Those three. And then, overhead tricep extension, nose breakers. That's the, it's kind of like a skull crusher? Ah, skull crushers are different. The skull crushers, you bring the bar, it looks like a little higher down to you, like your, you know, your forehead or just above that. And, I don't know, I think, I think there's something to be said for a nose breaker. So you're bringing the bar down to your nose. All right, second question here is from Piero, Piero09276. What was the movie College Debts you and Tony Freeman were a part of? Did you, when did you film it? Was it ever released? College Debts. I actually looked it up online. It was some kind of, it was like a screenshot from a movie. It was actually listed on IMDb. What was that guy? And was it ever released? Shout out to Tony Freeman. That's right. He did, I think at the time that we, I got, I got the opportunity to get casted for that. There was, I think the original script was my guaranteed student loan or something like that. But yeah, when I read for it, I think, I think it was, it was called something like that. And somewhere in mid-production, they changed the name and it became that. I was, I was, I was surprised to see the name change. But yeah, it was so many years ago. Was it, was it released ever or no? I don't know. You know, interestingly enough, sometimes you can do, you can get casted in a role for a film and, and it can sit in like the, I don't know, what do they call it? That, that purgatory realm. Oh yeah. Uh, for sometimes even years before it's actually released. And I think in the beginning, you may feel very, very anxious and excited and waiting for it with your fingers crossed, you know? And then I think sometimes you just kind of like, there's sometimes you just kind of move on and you don't see when it actually, uh, you know, what actually became of the film. I know exactly what you mean. Uh, uh, uh, Yeah, man. All right. I think you need, I think you just need to do a lot of work, man. You need to do a lot of work, you know, a lot of work because a lot of times you just don't know what will actually make it. And particularly when you're not in, in control of, you know, who's financing the film or what the other, what the other resources are necessary for the film to, you know, successfully make it out of that purgatory realm. Um, I think sometimes the best thing you could do is just like, try to, you know, do your best at doing a lot of different projects. Um, yeah. Guys, so there's a lot of, um, ads out there for ED. I'm sure if you're scrolling online, you see it all the time popping up on your social media. However, Blue Chew just introduced a brand new product called the Gold Standard. You must check it out. Blue Chew Gold is the newest innovation from the number one Chewable ED brand. That's not your grandfather's little blue pill. This is 4-in-1 beast that's setting gold standard for performance. Now, they're combining their ingredients not only to create a blood flow to keep that rocket pumping, but it's also increasing your arousal and connection brain and body. Blue Chew Gold dissolves under your tongue and works within basically 15 minutes, which is nothing. That means you can get it on quicker and stay in the game longer. Elevation without hesitation. This is peak passion and peak performance in a single chewable tablet. I'm sure all of you guys heard of Blue Chew before, but the Gold Standard will take it to the next level. Make life easier by getting harder and discover your options at BlueChew.com. Get 10% off your first month's supply of Blue Chew Gold with code KAI. That's promo code KAI. K-A-I. Visit BlueChew.com for more details and important safety information. And we thank Blue Chew for sponsoring our podcast. So guys, go to BlueChew.com, check it out, give it a try, and remember, this is Gold Standard, this is the new wave. All right. Next question is from Jensen0986W1. What is the heaviest weight you have ever curled? On this show, you revealed how much you've benched before, you revealed how much you squatted, but do you remember what's the heaviest you've curled? Um, so there was a time when I was, when I was younger, I saw some guys that, um, folks have curling like 315. I remember thinking, God, I just, I remember being a teenager and just getting over the, the, the, the, the idea of, uh, being able to bench 315, um, and 405, and I think that, uh, the thought of being able to curl, uh, 315. That's crazy, man. Yeah. Um, that's three plates in a bar. That's, that's like, that's, yeah, six plates. There's three plates on each side. That's insane. Um, yeah, neat. Now, suffice it to say, I never, I never got to that, that end, but I did curl 225. Wow. 225. But I mean, there's, you know, another time too, because I, I think that, uh, there was a time when I was very impressed by moving a lot of weight. Um, that's a lot of weight. Like, did you, did you attempt to curl 315? Actually, did you try it? Uh, I probably did, but, um, Wow. The fact that I didn't tear my bicep doing some like that means that, yeah, because I think, it's funny because when I was younger, I didn't see a lot of guys, you know, tearing things like biceps and stuff. Um, I, the only bicep tear that I knew of in real life was like, uh, Tom Platt's, you know, Tom Platt's had, um, you know, been very public about his bicep tear and having it surgically, it actually came from the bone itself and he had it, that surgically reattached. I mean, that's a lot though. That's a lot of, that's, that's heavy, man. 225 curl. Wow. That's crazy. All right. Last question is a Patreon special. Yes, yes. And this one comes, this one comes from money, money, money, make fresh nine. Money make fresh nine. Shout out to you for the name. Or credit equity, right? Um, um, and you did them and it still just, you, you know, you, it costs you more money. Obviously it was to keep that, that trade money. Um, uh, it costs, it costs a lot. Ah, I can't even imagine, man. All right. Well, guys, this is our Patreon special. And that was our final lightning round question. Thanks guy. All right. Very, very happy to be able to have this opportunity. Thanks Vlad for throwing those wonderful questions. And thank you guys for throwing them at Vlad. Listen, uh, we look forward to coming back to you. We'll be here again. This has been the, Kaid Green effect. Uh, for me and Vlad, wouldn't wish you guys to remember to keep it positive and let's keep encouraging each other. Until next time. Peace.