 What's good, what's good? What's good? Oh, you in the kitchen? What are you eating, bro? You don't want to know, brother. I got, well, it ain't KFC, I'll tell you that. Oh, thank God, thank God. Welcome to the Kai Green Effect. So what's good, man? You ready for this new exciting episode? Absolutely. Each and every time I get the opportunity to cross these roads with you, brother, I feel excited and brought to a higher level because of it. Beautiful, beautiful, man. What's going on in your life, man? What's new? I'm actually working on a bunch of projects that I feel very, very excited about. I've been developing this interesting concept of seeing what this TikTok Live show opportunity has done for me with my ability to think about creating show content. You know, lately I've been featuring on my TikTok Live a show called Battlezone. K Green, Battlezone, KL Zone is dope because I get a chance to get a lot of athletes, male and female together in one room on one, you know, what do you call it when we have the floor, the what do you call that, the, that, you know, that, that turf. Yeah. Get, you know, a group of people assembled on some turf in a gym and set up some challenges and watch everybody compete, you know, to kind of best each other. You know, some, some weeks I've actually had an opportunity to see some female athletes go up against male athletes and, you know, male athletes go up against each other. And surprisingly, we've gotten a chance to see women athletes, you know, do, do the damn thing and kind of put a lot of dues on it. But it's awesome. Awesome. Battlezone is dope. You know, I'm just kind of enjoying the idea of being like a, a show creator and developer in that respect, you know, so TikTok was cool for that. I look forward to seeing him, man. Thanks for even asking me. I mean, you know, that was definitely not a moment I was trying to promote. But yeah, I've been able to film this thing live, um, on Sundays, you know, between like, uh, was it like four and seven, uh, even this Sunday coming up, you know, so beautiful. It's cool. Awesome. Awesome. So we've got a, we've got a couple of topics to talk about today and, um, there's some questions from the listeners as well. So that's what's up. These listeners involved. Yeah, man. I want to give you a take on, uh, fasting, you know, water fast. A lot of people have been promoting it a lot, actually from Arnold Schwarzenegger, Dana White. It's been preaching that lately. Um, like a three day water fast. Um, what's your take on it? Have you done it yourself personally? Personally, I can recall different times in my life, um, having done that, um, one because of like, uh, religious or spiritual pursuit. But then also I can say that there are times I think in the regular practice of things with like eating and just living your normal life. Um, there are times when I've gotten sick or, you know, found myself under the weather and the process of fighting like a virus or something like that. Um, naturally like, you know, uh, withholding myself from food and consuming, you know, fluids. Um, um, just like totally removed from the, the overall structured approach to thinking about fasting as a thing to do. Um, and it just became a natural thing that we ended up doing. Um, just, uh, in an effort to kind of write myself or put myself back together, um, and dealing with like some of the challenges of virus and overcoming some, um, infirmity. Did you find it beneficial? Did you, did you find it beneficial? Yeah, I think so. I think, I think, you know, there's, uh, there's just some times in my life when naturally, you know, um, that, that was the thing that you ended up doing. I remember years back when I was, uh, a younger bodybuilder, you know, uh, training and eating and for, for whatever reason you might've had like a, even a, uh, an infection. Um, uh, and yeah, man, you, you missed a meal or you missed two meals or you went two days, you know, um, we didn't have much of an appetite. You know, uh, you drank some water and the truth is you probably would have thought, Oh my God, I'm going to lose my games or something's going to be wrong. And, um, it turned out that it was just what your body needed. You know what I mean? Um, behind it all underneath it and, uh, on the other side of it, you were better off for it. And technically if you looked at it today, like, you know what, that, that did fit the design of a fast, you know, um, and a naturally induced fast that you, you, you, you, like, I feel like your body might've even just knew, you know, Hey man, don't give me nothing. Don't give me nothing. Don't give me nothing. Hey, what happened? I tried to eat and I, man, I threw it right up. It's like, Oh, well, what do you do with that? Just drink some water, lay your ass down and take it easy. You know, 48 hours goes by and then, wow. You know what? Surprise. You've been exposed to, you know, some of the benefits of a fast that you probably didn't even know you needed. Um, but you certainly were better off because of it. But would you do it consciously? Like on purpose, would you do it like as part of your routine or like a diet, like, like a once a month type of thing? Would you, you know, what's crazy? I actually got a chance to get exposed, you know, recently to like different faiths, different people doing a bunch of different things. So, uh, I've, I've gotten a chance to meet a lot of people that are Muslim. And, um, this time of the year, from what I understand is a very important thing that happens. Ramadan. Ramadan. Of course. Yeah. And during this time, you know, no matter what you are, who you are, even if you're an athlete, um, you know, a person that's committed to the faith. Um, is supposed to, uh, abstain from eating, you know, um, um, during the day. Um, and it's a very interesting thing, but, you know, people do this in an effort to like, from what I understand, step out and grow in their faith, you know? Um, and it's, uh, it's, uh, it's a, it's a religious observation that, um, for a lot of reasons is done. Um, and I think, uh, I think a byproduct of that for some people has also been the discovery of even some great physical, um, benefits that, uh, seem to be with their fingertips on more than I could even talk about right now. Um, but yeah, yeah. Have I, have I, I, I think on another level someday in the future, I'd like to think that, um, I'd be interested in exploring some of those possibilities. All right. All right, guys, you know what time it is. It's time to level up. And Blue Chew just dropped a revolutionary new product. Blue Chew Gold is the newest innovation from the number one chewable ED brand. That's not your grandfather's, uh, little blue pill. This is four-in-one beast that's setting gold standard for performance. Now, they're combining their ingredients, not only to create a blood flow to keep that rocket pumping, but it's also increasing your arousal and connection brain and body. Blue Chew Gold dissolves under your tongue and works within basically 15 minutes, which is nothing. That means you can get it on quicker and stay in the game longer. Elevation without hesitation. This is peak passion and peak performance in a single chewable tablet. I'm sure all of you guys heard of Blue Chew before, but the gold standard will take it to the next level. Make life easier by getting harder and discover your options at BlueChew.com. Get 10% off your first month's supply of Blue Chew Gold with code KAI. That's promo code KAI, K-A-I. Visit BlueChew.com for more details and important safety information. And we thank Blue Chew for sponsoring our podcast. Once again, guys, go to BlueChew.com for 10% off. Put on the code KAI, K-A-I. Check them out. BlueChew.com. I want to get you a take on the, there's a, there's, I think one orthopedic surgeon was, I think it was an article actually detailing his observation of Ronnie Coleman. Basically, he kind of broke down what he sees by watching his physique lately and kind of watching him walk. Because Ronnie Coleman is still struggling to walk. I don't know. You, you know that, right? Like he's still walking on like crutches basically or, or like one of those wheelchairs when he moves around, the Expos. So the surgeon was saying that basically there's a, there's a, there's a big level of, of atrophy. Uh, on his quadricep muscles basically, right? His quads or whatever. So I guess what they're trying to say is that he's not really going to become quote unquote normal again, you know? Like walk normally again after that. Like, um, what do you think about that? And, uh, I guess it's just part of being what, I mean, part of, part of his life right at this point. Um, man, um, and shout out to Ronnie Coleman and his family. Um, yeah. I, um, man, that, that is a, that's a hard thing to hear. Um, hard thing to hear. Um, I don't, I don't want to consider myself in the practice of trying to limit people. Um, you know, I, I really would want to imagine on some level that there's, you know, an infinite number of possibilities that, you know, um, I don't know, but I guess as time goes by, I'm sure, you know, there are people that look on and they see the things and they can become very discouraged. Um, and maybe are not as willing to imagine something else. I would just pray that is that, um, that, you know, a champion like that is just conditioned for the condition is made to be as comfortable as he can be. Um, he was able to still experience to, you know, greater degree, you know, the quality life and what it means for him to, to experience that. Um, um, yeah, man, I, I don't know. I don't know. I really don't know what to say about that. Um, I know as an athlete, a lot of times when we're, when we're younger, um, some of the, uh, cautionary tale of, of, you know, the life product of what we do, you know, there are people that can turn around and say, well, you know, Kai Greene couldn't do because he had a relationship with a grapefruit, you know? And that's the reason why he didn't become, and it's so terrible that he, you know, but I think, I think, I think a lot of times, um, you know, there's a lot more. Um, to the reason why we do what we don't do. Um, and I think. There are consequences that do come along with some of the choices we make, you know? Um, and not all of them, you know, are, are, are, are negative. There are such things as positive consequences is through, you know, through our actions and our work. And a lot of times we're able to discover some really awesome things about ourselves and they, you know, become the reasons why we do, you know, we also learn limits, you know? Um, and hopefully we get a chance to understand what those limits are before, you know, we go over the edge, so to speak. Um, and it's too late to come back from it. Um, you know, I, I just would probably want to encourage every young, young athlete, a young, aspiring. Um, hopeful, you know, that are in the process of, you know, developing what it means to be the success that they're working to become, you know, um, to. Be a little bit more mindful and be aware, you know, um, it's awesome to see some of the champions that we look up to, you know, living their life accordingly to their passion and their dream. And, you know, we get a chance to celebrate some of the fruits, um, and also, you know, um, respect and appreciate some of the sacrifices that become the lessons learned that can help us all, you know, better decision-making or maybe, you know, just, uh, a better course of action and choice for you. Yeah, man. Well, he himself doesn't have any regrets. So, you know, I think people kind of like, I don't know why people even make these, uh, things anymore. He's gonna, he, money Coleman on numerous occasions basically said that, um, he would have done it all, all the same again. You know what I mean? You gotta respect that. Yeah, of course. You gotta respect it. You gotta respect it. You know, um, you gotta respect it. He was, this dude was able to teach the whole world what it looked like, you know what I mean? Yeah. To go for it. You know what I mean? To really go for it. Um, I mean, it wasn't too long ago. Everybody wanted to be Ronnie Coleman in the sport. You know what I mean? You wanted to, you wanted to win the medals like he won. You wanted to stand on stage like he would. I remember being a, an aspiring hopeful in the gym training. And it was probably the first time that I've ever seen Ronnie Coleman come to New York, you know, uh, and guest pose. I think he guest posed for, uh, it was Steve Weinberg, I believe. Um, he and Vicki Gates were, uh, they came to the gym. I swear I was at this gym called Johnny Lats Gym. Remember that gym, Johnny Lats Gym? Yeah. Victor Martinez. We talked about that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So we were in the gym at the front desk, you know, and suddenly it was like, uh, it was a, a second floor walk up. Um, elevator opens and out of the elevator walks, traps, round delts, small waist, wonderfully thick, sweeping quads, glutes that were ridiculous, calves that were just like out of this world. These tight, um, it was a lot going on. It was a beautiful, amazing looking, um, athlete. Her name was Vicki Gates. She came to the counter. We all knew who she was. It was like, you know, and just before anybody could say something stupid. Like, wait a minute. It was like, tremors in the porous. Like it was like, we're shaking it. Like, I don't know what's going on. Next thing you know, the elevator door opened again. And out came the most awe inspiring specimen of man. This dude had traps upon traps, delts upon delts, these round bulbous, you know, just gulps of muscle everywhere. Perfectly shaped. He looked like a walking, not a Neil Anderson, but a little bit of a walking, but a little bit of a walking, but a little bit of a walking, but a little bit of a walking. And then he was like, I don't know what's going on. I don't know what's going on. Next thing you know, the elevated door opened again and out came the most awe inspiring specimen of man. Not a Neil Anderson trophy. You ever seen them old logos for like gold's gym? Yeah. Yeah. I know what you're saying. Uh huh. This dude was, was that and then some. And if you trained at a gym where you thought you saw big guys that were training, training back with the heavy deadlifts, you know, on back day, as strong as you thought they were, the strongest of the strong. When that dude showed up in your gym, it was like, forget those guys. This was the one, the pure, unadulterated. This is what you wanted it to look like when you went to sleep and you dreamed. This is what he was. And he was, he was amazing. I mean, everything was around calves, quads, three dimensional and huge. It was like, it was amazing. Anyway, it was Ronnie Coleman. The dude came to that gym. He was supposedly in town at guest polls that day. And we'd never seen anything like that in person ever, ever. I'm forever changed, you know, as a result of being exposed to what that image looked like. Now we all could only talk about it in memory and it becomes this, the source of legend, you know. Yeah. Fast forward what it took to become that, to look like that. We all thought we were ready to do, you know, and we would have done, you know. But it takes more a lot of times than the efforts that we're even able to see. And sometimes, you know, it costs a lot. It costs a lot, you know. So there's a part of me that, you know, thinks that man deserves a lot of credit for, you know, being willing to make himself the sacrifice. Because, you know, there was a time when he was that image. That was, it was, God damn, this guy is amazing. Like, it was. Would you do it? Would you do it if, if somebody would, I mean, tell you, hey, you know, you can be the best bodybuilder at the moment, but you're not going to be able to really walk 10 years from now. Would you, would you, would you, would you pursue that even though they would tell you, you know what I mean? It's a hypothetical, it's a hypothetical. I think every athlete that's, you know, willing themselves, revving themselves up in the moment to get ready for that next big set. You know, that next big one personal, you know, personal best, deadlift, personal best squat, the best numbers that you think you can conjure. You know, everything that you would do to celebrate the development of what the next level of your gains development will look like. You know, I think at that moment, you know, you do believe that you're ready and you are willing to, to put it all on the line. You know, I think, um, and in your own way, you kind of come to terms with what looks like your own version of that. And you keep doing that, you know, I think for me, you know, you have to celebrate, you know, um, and, and athletes like that because not everybody is able to do that to that, to that level, to that extreme. It's, um, you know, um, it is intense. It is very, very extreme, you know? Um, and yeah, there's some things that can happen as a result of that. And as a result of that, you know, people talk about overtraining, but overtraining sounds, you know, okay to consider when it's just a little bit of muscle soreness and maybe, you know, but, you know, the longterm, you know, um, there are times when I, my, my life, when I thought that I was, I was ready, you know? Um, but then it takes an example. Like, I mean, this man gave everything and he put everything into, you know, his commitment, you know, everything. Guys, I want to take a quick break and tell you about my new nighttime ritual. Uh, now this product here, as you can see, it's by, by optimizers. I kept hearing about this magnesium product and I decided to give it a try. Now, most of the magnesium supplements only use one or two forms. Magnesium breakthrough combines seven different forms of magnesium. Plus key co-factors that help your body actually absorb and use it. And people cannot stop talking about this. Deeper sleep, feeling calmer, better workout recovery, of course, and even improved digestion. And this product is extremely easy to incorporate into your daily routine. After hearing all the buzz, I wanted to try for myself. So I decided to give it a try. And also I want you invited to try it as well. Here's my challenge to you. Try it, track your sleep, pay attention, how you feel. See if you wake up more rested and refreshed. You truly have nothing to lose and a whole lot to gain. And this part matters a lot. Bio optimizers offers 365 day, no question asked money back guarantee. That's a full year at zero risk. So join me. Over the next month, I'll be documenting my experience. And I can't wait to share how it goes. And you can try it as well. So go to biooptimizers.com slash Kai and use the exclusive code Kai, K-A-I to get 15% off any order. Make 2026 a year. You finally started sleeping great again. So guys, if you want to try some good sleep, try this product here. Go to biooptimizers.com slash Kai. Give it a try. Kai, before we move to the lightning round. Have you seen this picture of Larry Wheels and Derek Lunsford? I guess they were posing together. Did you see that picture? Oh yeah? That's what's up. What do you think about Larry Wheels, man? He's been going viral like every day. Did you see the slap thing? He slapped some guy on camera. Have you been following this at all? The Larry Wheels? I think he's a smart guy. I think he's figured it out. I think it is, this guy is entertaining. He's putting it together. He's got it. He's got it. He's got it. He's got it going on. That's what's up. Yeah. He's been streaming on, I think, Kick. I think, what do you think about the streamers these days? Have you ever thought about doing that? Like when you just stream for like 24 hours? I don't know how long they stream for. The kids do it these days. A lot of streamers, you know, they, they, it's the new form of entertainment basically, right? It's very, very possible that that's something that I would, I would, I would like to, to think about more vividly. I mean, you know, nowadays there's so many options available to you, man. And, and, and here's the funny part with these invention, with these inventions, there's now opportunity for you to like, just create your own path, pioneer your own way, you know? You know, um, you know, uh, you know, they, they used to say when, when I was younger and then you made your bed and now you have to lie in it, you know? Um, whatever that is. And usually that meant dealing with some consequences of your actions that were negative, you know? Um, and that's it, you know, all your opportunities are gone, you know, now you just got to sit there and wallow in your own mess. But with all the new developments and platforms and these opportunities that are now just so, uh, vast and vivid, I mean, the truth is you can, you can create a whole new situation for yourself if you choose to. But do you have any note, I mean, do you have any comments on, on him posing on his latest physique with a Derek Lunsford? Did you, did you, um, did you take a look at that picture or no? Let me see. Can I, I want to do that. Um. I just want to get, I just want to get your opinion on this, on this, on this pose with a, let me see if I can pull it up real quick. I have it right here actually. You probably can't see it, right? Can you see? Ah, uh huh. What do you think? Um, I think it's great. Looks, looks, looks interesting. It was huge. Yeah. Well, I mean, Derek Lunsford is, is also the reigning. Oh yeah. Yeah. But in comparison to him, he looks, Larry looks like his physique. He's very, very, very, very, very, very far forward. Derek is, is, is very far behind him. You know, there's an optical illusion that's, that's potentially going on there. Hmm. Optical illusion. Okay. Um, I think that, um, there's, there's, there's, there's a lot of room for, you know, not to take anything away from Larry wheels, but you know, let's not get it twisted. You know, there's a, there's, there's, um, optical illusion that, um, masterful bodybuilders, you know, that are presenting their physiques on stage are supposed to observe and be aware of. You know what I mean? Um, I'm not saying anything that, that sounds crazy. Um, I think that. That's a very awesome looking photograph, um, for a person that is, you know, identified as a one-time strong man and so on, you know, and it's also so cool to be able to, you know, stand next to, um, you know, the award-winning pro physique, you know, in this case, you know, the most decorated of all. All of them right now. And to be able to see yourself, you know, um, looking like you belong in the photograph. That's an awesome, an awesome thing to say to your credit. Um, if you, if you did that, if you, if you stood next to Derek, uh, Lunsford, like, uh, if you were to do this, what Larry did, that would have went super viral, man. As well, it should, because that is, that is, that you're standing next to the highest man on the food chain. No, because of you, no, I think it's because of you, because people, people can't wait to see how you would compare it to today's Mr. Olympia. That's what I'm, that's what I'm getting at. Come on, Kai. Guys, as you know, on this show, we stand by the products made by Momentus. It's a great brand. But today specifically, I want to talk about their new product, Fiber Plus. As we get into the year guys, when we talk about energy recovery performance, we often overlook the importance of digestion. Gut health is extremely important. That's why Momentus supplements made Fiber Plus. As you may know, fiber actually plays a major role in energy, stability, recovery, focus, and overall performance. Once you understand the importance of gut health, you understand that Momentus Fiber Plus is not just another supplement. It's fundamental. When the gut health is not dialed in, other supplements lose their importance. You can be doing everything else correct, but without strong foundation, the results always fall short. And fiber is often a missing link. Momentus Fiber Plus is a complete 3-in-1 formula, with soluble fiber, insoluble fiber, and a prebiotic resistant starch. It's a combination designed to support gut health from start to finish, by feeding beneficial gut bacteria, improving digestion, and stabilizing blood sugar for steady energy without spikes or crashes. Like everything else Momentus makes, Fiber Plus is built with science first formulation. Clean and minimal ingredients, and never artificial additives or flavors. Every product is independently certified, and tested. There's never any containment, heavy metals, or banned substances. Everything is verified for accuracy. And if the product doesn't meet their standards, it never hits the shelves. Visit LiveMomentus.com and use promo code CHI for up to 35% off your first order. That's LiveMomentus.com, promo code CHI. Like I said, guys, do not overlook the importance of digestion and gut health. Check out Momentus Fiber Plus. All right, let's get to the lightning round, man. We have four questions from our loyal listeners. I'm going to read the questions, and you give a lightning speed answer. All right, man. We have here, first question from Farms Reps. How does Kai feel about Boyer Cole's recent comments about him on Sean Ray's show? So check this out real quick. Boyer Cole was from like back in the day, like, you know, Arnold's, during, you know, Arnold's time in the black and white photos, you know, when they were doing all the preliminary stuff that was going to become like those black and white photos that fill up the paint. Fill up the pages of Arnold Schwarzenegger's encyclopedia of bodybuilding. I mean, Boyer Cole was one of those guys from the from the sixties, you know, that was just impressive. You know, the Mr. Universe winners, they these guys that, you know, they were the awe inspiring physiques that, you know, would go on to, you know, inspire the bird of foxes and attract. The guys that would later become the Vince Taylor's. So you respect this guy? You respect this guy. Absolutely. Tremendously. If there were ever such thing as like a master Jedi, you know, of this thing. I mean, that dude would be like older than them. I mean, he would be like, he would be like from it. I haven't seen the show. I saw a paraphrase. I was given like some points of what he said. I mean, the biggest, I don't know, there wasn't really too many comments. He just said there was a shame that he didn't win Mr. Olympia. I don't know. Should he mind his business or what? Oh, Boyer Cole? Nah, actually. So here's the thing, man. You know, did you miss that? Did you miss that joke? That was in reference to another people talking about it. Did you like how I just like walked right by it? Of course. It was like above my head, man. I know. It's up there. I'm down here. You see? There you go. But yeah, I mean, if that were a landmine, it'd be like I just stepped right over it. You know what I'm saying? Of course. But real talk, I'm saying to say that that dude was masterful. Masterful to, you know. There used to be a TV show that they had on cable, on a cable network called Flex Magazine Workout. And Sean Ray was like the. Oh, yeah. He was the star. And then you had, you know, these awesome supporting characters there that were Boyer Cole and I believe Anya Shriner. These were, these were, I mean, it was, it was, I thought, a great cast. Um, because Boyer Cole brought to that cast, you know, elite level bodybuilding from a, from an era at a time very well before Sean Ray. Um, and Anya Lama. Um, the dude was, uh, you know, he's one of those dudes that would know a whole lot. He, he can afford to forget more about bodybuilding and some of the things that were done in the old days and the effort to develop their physiques in the gym. Back then they used to have to make a lot of their equipment themselves, you know, in an effort to train, you know, um, you know, that guy can, would forget more about what he'd learned in his path in physical journey to be an athlete at the sport. Um, then a lot of people would ever care to learn in a lifetime. This dude is, uh, yeah. Well, shout out to Boyer Cole. Now I know who he is, man. Ah, well, I mean, there's some Google searches there, but, uh, yeah, the dude was, the dude was masterful to say the least. I respect Boyer Cole tremendously. Next question is kind of general. I don't know if you even want to touch this one, but it's by David H seven, eight, three, two. Um, David H seven, eight, three, two. What's good. What tips can you give people who work behind a desk to get leaner? Naturally stuff like taking caffeine before lifting, taking, creating, taking cold plunges, post-workout, et cetera. So he works for, he works behind a desk and he wants to get lean. If you work behind the desk, you want to get lean. First thing I would tell you before even talking about cold plunges and this and that, man, I would talk about a looking at your calories, calories, calories, calories, calories that you take in. If you're trying to get lean, one of the things you don't want to do is eat in the surplus. You don't want to take in. So in this case, if you take in calories and let's say it's like a bank, you know, uh, when you want to save money, when you want that surplus to grow, then you want to, you want to put more calories or more money in than you actually allow to come out. You know, uh, in this case, when it comes to like, you know, your ability to maintain your body weight or in this case, get leaner. You want to, you want to do more work, you know, to burn more calories, um, and do less eating, um, in, in order to have less calories, um, less calories available, um, to sit in store for surplus. So, um, that's one place I would start, you know, it's usually very immediate. You know what I mean? If you go to a, regardless of what people say about their genetics and, you know, you know, big boned in my family, you know, big bones running my family. My mama was fat. I'm fat. Grandmama was fat. Everybody just fat, you know, I'm just big naturally. And it's like, well, hold on, you know, cause you can go to countries where, you know, eating has become a privilege that a lot of people don't have access to, you know, in the same way. And you'll see, um, one thing you won't see is big people, you know? Um, so that said, start watching your calories. That's all you take in less calories and you spend more calories. Uh, you'll already begin to get leaner. Believe me. There's one way, one place to start. But now as far as cold plunging and all that other stuff, that biohacking stuff, it sounds like you're talking about over there. Your boy came with the AKA is looking into kind of getting involved with stuff like that. You're talking about like all of that. I'm like, you know, cause your boy is only going to be 32 for the next 18 years. That's about it. I'm not trying to get old. Still want to look good. A lot of things I want to do. You still do infrared sauna? Do you still do infrared sauna? I have never done infrared sauna. Never? Or regular sauna? No, I've never done that. Huh? But I will. I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm on the, I'm on the fence, Vlad. I'm like, I'm trying to find out more about it. Peptides and you know, I hear it. Yeah. TRT. You know what it is. That all good. I've heard. Yeah. I've heard. All right. Yes. Bond the river. Oh, my shout out to you. What's good. Do you have a guilty pleasure? You want to know what her name is? I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding, man. Oh, man. Did I, should I show you like this? The fruit bowl over here is like a, let's look at the refrigerator. Hold on. Wait a minute. Guilty pleasures. Guilty pleasures. I mean, you know, what do you think you gonna see if I open the refrigerator door up right about now? I don't know. Just kidding. Just kidding, brother. I'm just kidding. I won't even subject you to that, man. It's all good. But yeah, man. Guilty pleasure. Guilty pleasure. I don't know, man. I have to think about that. I have to think about that. Well, maybe next time. To be continued. All right. Next question is a Patreon special. Um, it's from Aero Bust Peak. He's asking here, so it's a Patreon special because it's a controversial question, I guess. All right, Kyle. Well, that's the lightning round, man. Well, that was a very fast lightning round, man. I know, right? Well, we're getting better at this. Ha, ha, ha. Vlad, I think we have just a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Ha, ha, ha. Vlad, I think we have just a very short time together these days. I know. It's getting shorter and shorter. I know. We gotta make it longer, man. Hey, that's what she said. There you go. Perfect setup. What up, bro? Ha, ha, ha, ha. Till next time, brother. That's what's up. I appreciate you guys. Thanks. Good out. you