 extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract I'm in cyber somewhere. Is it a posing room? Are you in a posing room? Actually, how did you know? You're too smart, man. There's a mirror behind you. I think it's for the posing, right? Are you at Wolf's Gym? Yes, I am. Nice, nice, nice, nice. Yes, I am. Maybe I should put it down. How's that? Beautiful. I can't compete with your background yet, but I'm working on it. This is good, man. This is awesome. A lot of people are complaining that sometimes you have the camera too close, man. So I think this is perfect, man. Ah, okay. I like that. Perfect. What's up, everybody? It's your boy, Kai Green K with the AKA. And this is the Green, Kai Green Effect. I'm here with Vlad Yudin, and we are going to do something really awesome today. We're going to have a conversation about a lot of things that are going on in the sport right now, and maybe even something that's near and close to you. What's up, Vlad? How's it going? So today's episode, you know, I want to talk to you about, I guess, gaining weight. You know, it's obviously an interesting subject. You know, people gain weight for different reasons. But Samson Dowder made the news last week, actually, because he said until he went up to, he's going up to 350 pounds, I guess, off-season weight. I think it's off-season he meant, right? Right, Eric? It's off-season weight. I mean, it's pretty heavy, obviously, right? He's taller than a normal bodybuilder, but still. What do you think about that? And also, I wanted to ask you, what was the heaviest you've been ever in your career? Well, you know, an old-school bodybuilding wisdom is that you have to go off-season, you know, taking some more calories, training a little heavier in an effort to actually put on more muscle. So there's seasons. There's a time to pack it all in and get ready, you know, that contest prep phase. And then you have the time after that where the responsibility is to get off the contest diet, get off the contest prep, recover, heal, you know, and pack on some more size, build some more muscle. And you believe that you can do that more effectively when you're carrying a little bit more body fat, subcutaneous water, probably in the off-season. So usually, in the old tradition of how this is done, most athletes would do that. They would go into their off-season after, you know, a good competitive season and call that their time to make improvements. So I did that for a number of years. I think when I started, I wasn't nearly as muscular and as sizable as I ultimately became in the course of my career. I think when I first started, like, tracking my weight and, you know, believing every day was a day to gain and to make those positive gains. And I remember every time coming in the gym, you know, back then, the idea was to push the limits and to, you know, test your boundaries and hopefully see that you were a little stronger than you were, you know, at your last training session, you know. And with that, the gains were coming. I started out, you know, under 200 pounds. I remember when I started tracking those things. It was a peewee, prepubescent, aspiring athlete. And I think, you know, in time, you know, I was able to graduate and eventually put on more and more muscle. Within some years had passed, I think, you know, I was able to compete heavier and bigger. And ultimately, my biggest, I think, it's a surprise, I think, for a lot of people because I wasn't very tall. So 5'8 was last I checked. The tallest I think I've ever been in my life. But 320, I think. 320 is the heaviest. 320 is about the heaviest, yeah. That's a lot of weight, man. That's almost like Samson's 350, 30 pounds difference. But when you were 320, right? Because I heard that your body doesn't understand, like, whether it's 320 muscle or if it's just fat. Like, it still struggles, right? Like, was it difficult for you to, like, did you feel the pressure on your heart, like your organs, like stuff like that? Or did you feel that weight or no? I think it's relative to where you've been and maybe some other things that are going on in your life. I think pressure on your organs, that may be a topic for another conversation or, you know, in that of itself. But I think your awareness, you know, changes. I think certainly the first time I was able to crack 200 pounds, I think I was still like a teenager. And I think back then, 200 pounds on me really didn't look as dramatic as 200 pounds I thought would look on others. You know, I remember, you know, Victor Martinez is one of those guys that, you know, his 260 would look like, you know, what I would have to have been 300 pounds to, you know what I mean? To kind of look like when it was like, you know, at the top of his game or just not even at the top of his game. Just like there was a time when Victor was walking around just bulletproof and just, you know, just looked like he tore out of a cartoon character or a comic book. And I remember guys like me looking around thinking to ourselves like, damn, you know, that's how much is Victor weight? You know, he's too, he would be 260. And I just imagined that he was probably 325, you know, he just was so round and full. Yeah. And yeah, the same look on me to have that. I think just because of the difference in structure and just like composition and that composition can also change, I think, depending on where you are just in your developmental history. But yeah, that said, yeah, I think. Damn, what was the question? I guess that that that weight, you know, how do your body feels at that weight? Because that's a lot of that's a lot of weight, man. That's heavy. I could still walk on my hands. I used to I used to I used to play a lot of Capoeira and stuff. I think when I was a lot lighter. Wow. And actually, I loved I loved I loved I loved that art form martial art. And there's a time when I really used to imagine like, you know, do something really interesting with it. Shout out to Capoeira Brazil. Shout out to Chalapa. Hey, do you remember one time, maybe a few times, but you did a handstand at Olympia. I forgot what year it was. So you were literally upside down. I could walk on my hands very easily and comfortably until about two, like, so like 230, you know, 240. I could still walk on my hands. Great. Around 260. I would start to make missteps. It was a lot. And I started to break my fingers. So, yeah, you know, I think a very interesting thing to try to try to balance with putting on more size. And eventually I kind of learned as a pro bodybuilder that there's some things that you cannot do, you know, and still think that I'm aspiring to be a pro. I'm going to be ready. Because a lot of times when you're competing, you have contracts. You have contracts that you are able to state that you will be in this kind of shape and condition, you know, on these specific dates in the year. And one thing you can't do is set yourself up to, you know, run into injuries that were unplanned. So with that, the amount of wear and tear, I think that I learned that your body is subject to with even just walking. If you're trying to do it upside down on your hands and not your feet, yeah, it's probably better to do at lighter body weight. And if you're, you know, really committed to the idea of, you know, improving your game as an athlete, part of that game meant, you know, putting on more size, then you had to concentrate on doing that. Part of that didn't mean to run the risk by doing things that were just, you know, extra. So that said, yeah, I felt really good and comfortable within my own body at body weights that a lot of times people would have said were not, you know, were not favorable and ideal to do, you know, things like that. I remember Wuli used to do back flips at like, you know, 260, which was very impressive to see. That's dangerous, bro. That's so dangerous, man. People have died like that on bodybuilding stage. Yeah. Or suffer some really bad injuries. Like, you don't realize just how crazy, how quick it would be to, you know, to pull a muscle or tear an Achilles heel or something. So, yeah, yeah, there's some things I think I was more prone to not even considering risks like that with certain movements until I started getting heavier. And the heavier I got, the more, I guess, you naturally learn to understand that, yeah, there's some dynamic movements and things that you probably should just not do. You know, even running, running, like in the morning, I used to, I lived in my hood, you know, as a young man for the entire, like the entire earlier parts of my youth. I can remember, you know, even living like at the projects and stuff. I'd be the guy that would be running. I'd live in a project, but I'd, you know, do my morning run in the morning, you know, two or three miles. You know, my cardio can do every day, you know, and I remember like people in my neighborhood with like on the avenues would look up, you know, and call me Black Rocky. Oh, there's Black Rocky, there's Black Rocky, you know. Yeah, Black Rocky. I thought that was funny. That was funny. That was. But you know what? I'm talking about gaining weight, right? It was a sad story actually last week also. It was a fitness coach. He died after attempting to gain 50 pounds by binging on fast food. So he was trying to basically show how fast he can gain the weight and then how he can lose the weight afterwards. So it was like an experiment he was doing for his followers, I guess. And then he ended up dying from a cardiac arrest. Now, he was binging on fast food, I guess. It made me think when you said that you gained like 40 pounds one time after the competition when you like binging on some food. And it's like this is very dangerous, right? Like these type of drastic gain or loss. Yeah, it's like that's dangerous, man. I didn't even think about that before. That will in itself put a lot of pressure on your organs, you know, your heart, your kidneys, your lungs, you know. Yeah, it's and and that stress. I don't know if everybody is just aware enough to even know what that discomfort is exactly when your body is experiencing it. You know, there are times in my life and like preparation for shows and things when, you know, I taste metal in my mouth. You know, I wouldn't know. And certainly the first the first time or second time that I ever can recall experiencing that. It's one of those things that happen almost like the check engine light that comes on your dashboard in your car, you know. And, you know, I don't know about you, but for me, when the check engine light comes on, particularly if I feel like I've just been to the car dealership or I've been to the, you know, to maintenance issues, you know, place to go to with my car. If that check engine light comes on too close to a time when I feel like I've just, you know, supposedly already taken care of those things, you know, chances are I'm prone to ignore that, you know. And in fact, it's not until for me, a lot of times it was, you know, it became a real issue like, oh, wait, I, you know, my training day is now been affected somehow by this feeling. I might need to, you know, what, what is that? Yeah, I got to sit down. What is that from? There was a metal, was a metal taste from? Well, I mean, the mineral imbalance, you know, so, you know, sometimes you can be severely dehydrated. You know, your boy's always into that thermogenesis, you know, ah, it's the hoodie. Shout out to dog sport. But, yeah, I mean, so you can, there's sometimes, I think, as the athlete, you can get very comfortable learning how to deal with being very uncomfortable. And so comfortable, in fact, that even with the natural check engine lights may come on, you know, you're already running a default program, you know, that's like, eh, no, it's not, it's not that big a deal. It's just a metal in my mouth. I don't, what is that? I don't know what that is. What is that? I don't know what that is. And it's not until it persists and persists when it's like, wow, you know what, I'm actually having to have a conversation about it with myself and then maybe with someone else. And it's like, hey, you know what? Yeah, you're dehydrated, man. You might need to do this when that happens. How's your potassium? Hey, man, how's, you know, some of those levels that we probably don't even realize are important until we go get some blood work and then start going, oh, okay, now we have to take notice of it. And pay attention a little bit more. But yeah, just to answer your question, yeah, I think there's a lot that you'll take for granted, you know, with these fluctuations in your weight. A lot of the fitness and training enthusiasts are very interested in dropping weight. You know, how many Mrs. Joneses do you know that are trying to just get into that new dress size? You know, and how many, you know, young guys like us have decided, hey, man, I'm just trying to get bigger, just trying to get a little stronger. And as a result, end up trying to push things or drop things very, very fast. Let's say you're trying to, you know, drop some water, you know, to make a wrestling match. You know, you're trying to make weight, you know, and there's some drastic things that you could do to do that. There's even some of us, you know, making check-ins. I know a lot of athletes that are doing their check-ins with their coach. And sometimes, you know, in an effort to do that, maybe a day or two of too many extra calories, they don't want to be detected by their coach. So they'll turn around, oh, I got to do these progress photos. And it's like, oh, you know what? I'll just, I'll just, I'll just, I'll just, I'll just, I'll just, I'll just do an extra hour of cardio on the step mill with the garbage bag and sweat gear and maybe even a diuretic or two. That's dangerous too, man. That's very dangerous. Very, very. Because again, these fluctuations in weight that we're talking about, that can be drastic. And with that, the pressure that can be put on these internal organs. Yeah. Do you count your macros and your calories these days? Like, meaning like, do you count them or you do everything kind of by eye? And when you used to compete, did you do like the scale thing where you actually measured everything or where you did everything by eye? So, you know, there's a time, I think a critical timing in every athlete. Career, or at least as a, as a developing bodybuilder, where the scale is very important. You know, it's like being a young person going to school and learning your ABCs, you know, or learning your, your, your times table. You know, there's some basic fundamentals that you got to get a handle on in order to be able to, with certainty, improve your ability to do this craft. You know, so, um, with saying that, yeah, when, when I was younger, another stage in my, my life and career. Yes. You know, um, I did have a scale, you know, and you looked at that scale religiously, you know, and you weighed and measured everything or everything that you thought was of significance, you know, enough. To, you know, to have an effect or impact on your condition. And, um, with saying that. I think. Practice. Practice allows you to kind of develop. extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract extract You know, old school bodybuilding used to be, you know, packing your Tupperware, you know, at some point, yeah, you can develop an eye for, you know, what six ounces looks like and feels like, you know, in the particular protein source. And I think the same thing can happen with complex carbs or whatever. So, yeah, I think to do something for so many years, there should come along with that kind of experience a little bit of confidence in sighting, being able to look in sight, recall what four ounces looks like and what six ounces looks like and what 100 grams of carbs may be, depending on the source. So, yeah, yeah, I think at this stage of my life and career, there's a little bit of like familiarity enough to kind of cite some things for the most part. I mean, I don't walk around with a scale today, but if I had to, I'd kill it. And I'm pretty accurate with identifying the difference between eight ounces and six ounces. Nice. Kai, before we go to the lightning round of questions, anything else you want to say about Samson going up to that extreme weight? And obviously, he's doing it because he wants to make improvements, right? He didn't win the Olympia this year, so he's obviously upset. But do you think the size is the issue for him? Like, do you think that was something that he needs to actually improve? I think, honestly, I think, you know, I think Samson is in a very, very unique and interesting position, you know, because, you know, he is, there's no one like him in the sport right now. You know, there's no one that is like him in the sport right now, you know. And as much as, you know, I'd like to say it, or maybe any of the elders, you know, above me, you know, in like experience and time and with tested wisdom in this game, you know, I think, you know, he's just in a very interesting and unique position. You know, you know, it is, it is, everybody wants to be the top athlete, you know, when the big, when the big contracts are there and the money is there and the spotlight is there and the opportunity that looks like, you know, you can't go wrong, you know, for being just what you are, you know, and there's this opportunity a lot of times that, you know, a lot of people can want to be, you know, want to claim to understand, you know, what the pressure and responsibility may be for you behind the scenes and, you know, in front of the camp, you know, but there's only one him, you know, and he has to be responsible enough, you know, and insightful enough to kind of still, you know, make all these bright decisions, you know, with a lot coming at him at this time. I mean, you know, it is an interesting place to be. So with saying that you turn around and you make some choices, hey, man, you think is that, you know what, I'm going to make improvements to my physique. These are the things that I'm going to do in order to do that. You know, a lot of people can stay on the sideline and say, oh, well, that's not the way you do it. You don't need to do it that way. Of course. Of course. Of course. You know, I want to just one, just say shout out to the brother for doing it, you know, because that is not a comfortable and easy road to take, you know, and yeah, he he's handling it, you know, you want to, I remember Flex Wheeler. I heard, I remember when I was, when I was just a fan of the sport and looking up and I remember like when, when, when Flex Wheeler was like, you know, in the spotlight with it, with, with everyone looking at his cartoon character. The muscles and, you know, the muscles and, you know, everybody wanted to have, you know, delts like Flex, an upper body like Flex, brown sweeps to his claws like Flex, small tapered waist like Flex, round calf cobra heads like Flex. And I remember hearing an upper body like Flex, and I remember hearing an upper body like Flex, and I remember hearing an upper body like Flex, and I remember a time in his experience when his delts were just so sore. So sore, you know, just, just, just sore. And it's funny because, you know, now looking back on it, I don't know if it was, it was, if that feeling was related to just the amount of work and punishment, you know, or if it was actual, you know, issues within rotator cup, or if it was, you know, but all of it, I guess, can account for the idea of the wear and tear and the, the, the difficulty of the work that is being done, you know, 24. 24, 24 hours a day to be where he was at that time in the spotlight, you know, I got to imagine that, yeah, man, you know, it's unrelenting, you know, the, the work and the stress on a guy like Samson right now. Okay, I want to take a quick, quick moment and give a special shout out to G Fuel, our sponsor. Now, this is an amazing supplement that you can take every day to improve your energy, improve your immunity. Now, G Fuel specifically improved their formula, so this way they keep the same great taste, but no more chalky aftertaste. This specific formula contains twice the amount of antioxidants to support your daily overall health, adds the same 140 grams caffeine per serving, and always zero sugar. Now, they've also added glycine for focus, muscle strength, and recovery. This is a perfect formula for everyday use. It'll give you clarity, it'll give you energy, and it'll boost your immune system. So, if you guys don't want to go to the store, please go to gfuel.com, type in the code GI20 for a discount. Shout out to G Fuel. Okay, so we have, we have questions from the loyal listeners. This is a lightning round, so I'll give you the question from the listener, and then I guess you'll give us a lightning, a lightning speed answer. Are you ready for it? Well, you know, it's kind of green, so I don't know, but whatever's gonna be. All right, so we have three questions, one is a Patreon special. So, I'll start with the first one. This one's from Shamble-F9S. That's an interesting one. Kai, would you have won the Olympia if there wasn't a posing routine? That's the question. Okay, well, thank you, Shannon. You said Shannon. Shamble. Shamble. Okay, well, I appreciate the question. Would you have won the receipt? Would you have won the Olympia if there wasn't a posing, a reward for good posing? I guess he just says it wasn't a posing routine. I don't know exactly what he means. I guess posing was one of your strengths, actually. So, posing was beneficial for you to win, right? I don't think for the most part there was a lot to be added to your overall score for your posing. I think that there is room to investigate whether or not there's some things that you could have done better with your posing. With respect to the execution of how you went about hitting your side chest, you know, if you were to practice doing a vacuum, you know, more in the offseason, you know, and as a result, you know, I mean, there's probably a number of tens of thousands of things. A person that's truly committed to improving their game could probably look at past performances and say they could stand to have improved. And I think with saying that, you know, I'm not immune to that. I think even somebody that can do an entertaining posing routine would still not be so far advanced that they could say that there's probably not things that they could have done better in just the basic ability to go through a mandatory posing round and be more effective at how you could do things. So, I don't know. I think that's an interesting question. I appreciate it. I think there's always room for improvement. So, um. But you know what? You were right. Kai, you were right. They don't actually judge. They don't give points for the posing routine. And these days, actually, at Olympia, for example, only, I think, the top 10 get a chance to do the posing routine. Where back in the day, like maybe five years ago, everybody who was competing at Olympia, let's say 20 competitors, right, or whatever, men's open, they all would do the posing routine with the music and everything, you know? So, that changed a lot, actually. It's even less important now. It was saying that, you know, Phil Heath also had a lot of help, you know? He had a lot of help. And it's undeniable, you know, that, I mean, I'm not talking out my ass. I mean, there are people that know, they feel he had a lot of help, you know? And I believe it, you know? As posing? What? Well, he had a lot of help with just like how the judging went down, you know? Oh, Kai, come on. They're going to hate on you for this, man. They're going to say, come on. Hey, man, call the spade a spade. I've been to Spain. I've been here and back. I've traveled the world. Did you say Spain? Yeah, I've been to Spain. I mean. That's the controversial one, right? That's when. But see, that's the thing. It's always this explainable away. Well, well. Oh, my God, Kai. You know, I mean, at the end of the day, as I said, you know, in all fairness and all respect, still given to everybody that would feel as if they have a right to weigh in on this. You just made the headlines again. Phil Heath was protected. And he did experience some protections at times that I think, you know. You know, if the playing field was. And I mean, also, too, with all due respect, you know, Mr. Olympia is a unique, you know, thing. Mr. Olympia comes into the competition with some unfair advantages for the sake of being Mr. Olympia. I tell you what, in this new era of bodybuilding, it is very interesting to see for once the dynasty era is over. And to see that, hey, guess what? It would look like, you know, the reigning champion is not coming in, at least with these shows that we've seen recently, with the same kind of unfair advantage that we've seen other people get a chance to kind of benefit from. Now, I'm not going to take away from the awesomeness of some of the things that, you know, that athlete was able to bring to the table. Phil Heath, you know, is definitely, you know, at his best. That dude was a bad dude, you know. But even the baddest, you know, got his ass handed to him. And I mean, if they don't want to honor it, if it wasn't respected and appreciated, then I end up becoming like the dude that sounds sore to say it. But I'm just going to have to say it. Because if nobody else is going to say it for me, then I just have to do it myself. Well, that's the headline right there. That's the headline. So this is a perfect segue for the next question, actually. It's a very controversial question, Kai. I wonder how you're going to answer this one. You're probably going to be very politically correct, which I understand. But it's a great question, I thought. Well, you ready? This question is from a loyal listener. His name is AwesomeDrew0982. Was it awkward to be cordial with IFBB judges in the organization after you were robbed of your Olympia title? I want to say allegedly robbed, but anyway. He said, now who's politically correct or not? That's a good question, actually. Well, I think for all the young men that can hear me and know, or everybody in life that understands what life is, there's a time and a place for everything. And a lot of times there is just not enough room, you know, to be for your feelings to be the things that take the priority, you know. So your feelings can be what they are, but that's the so what. You know, a lot of times in order to be appropriate, a lot of times in order to be what you are supposed to be in an effort to be responsible and a demonstration of what right thinking looks like. In every situation, you're still a professional and you're still a part of an organization with a responsibility of upholding the higher idea of what it means to be. So regardless of what your feelings are, you know, you have to be able to control yourself and you have to be able to, if need be, put those feelings aside. But was it awkward? Is it awkward? Was it awkward back then when that allegedly happened? This is what I will encourage. I will encourage each and every one at the sound of my voice that aspires to do something of greatness that makes every sense to you, that appeals to every part of what it means to be the passionate you, you know. There's disappointment. And then there's also, you know, tragedy, you know. There's disappointment and there's tragedy, you know. You never want to overreact, you know. And I think the best way to answer this question is to encourage everyone that can hear my voice, that wants to know, to experience it. You know, if you put, you know, every reason that you are weighing and measuring each meal that you eat and account for every second of your day, and you dutifully, you know, work towards the desired end result that you believe is in your grasp by just doing the best job that you can. And you do it. Even when it looks like it is impossible. You get it done. You become Mr. Getting It Done. So, was that even a little bit awkward or what? I'm answering the question, man. How would you feel? How do you think you would feel? Because I think if you don't feel, if you don't feel like, man, this is crazy intense. I mean, then the truth is you probably weren't really invested in that. You know what I mean? Because if you really, really, really do care and if it really, really, really does matter to you, then yeah, it could feel like your soul was ripped out of you. It could feel like, yo, man, you broke in my heart, you know? But you can't let them win. And they don't win. You never, as they say, you never, as they say, crushed out. You know that term? You don't. You still rise. And that's why you're a champion. Yeah. All right, Kai. That was a great answer, man. So now we have a Patreon special. So for those who don't know, sometimes we get to talk about topics that are very controversial for YouTube. So we have to switch over to Patreon. So this is a question that talks about, you know, certain things that will be flagged. So we got to switch over. I recommend everybody go to Patreon and subscribe right now. All right. So this is from Slick, Slick Hotel to Patreon special question. Well, that was our lightning round. That was a great answer, Kai. Before we finish today's episode, anything else you want to say about Phil Heath and all the help that he got? Anything else, Kai? Just get it out of the way, man. You know, I'm respectful. I'm respectful. He's, you know, granted, you know, the dude has accomplished a lot and the dude is definitely, you know, one of the greatest of all time. However, he did get his ass kicked. He just did. He did. He did. He did. And the truth is, whether they choose to, whether the fans want to say it and acknowledge it or not, you know, whether they choose to hate me forever, you know, I'm not even trying to be a heel right now. I'm just saying, man, I mean, look, man, it's one thing that it's a, could you imagine how amazing life would be if, if when you really did get your ass kicked, you know, hey, you know, you kind of got that help and support that kind of like carried you over the few points that you needed and justified it with some nonsense, you know, because, hey, look, the sky's blue and water's wet. Kai, is there, is there one question you would want to ask Phil if you had, if you, if you had a chance to ask him one question, what would it be? Oh, because I ain't got to ask him I wouldn't ask him anything. All right, let's keep it positive. Don't let me say what I would say. I mean, you know, but anyway, yeah, yeah. All right, man, well, we got to tell him, man, we got to rub this up. Yeah, it's awesome. Oh, man. Oh, it was a pleasure. Everybody should, should pray for that kind of protection. Just look, man, when you, you know, when you just made that mistake and you came home drunk and it was like that moment before you did the thing that you know, you ultimately are going to have to spend years apologizing for that you're never going to be able to say sorry enough. Don't you think it would be great if life just kind of offered you like that extra two points, that extra five points, that extra little nudge that was like, yo, I know this dude, Kai Green, walked down an entire battlefield of athletes to get to you, Phil. I know to get here, Phil, you, you put on four pounds of muscle this year, but Kai Green came from the back. He was 20th. He was 25. He beat everybody. He beat the Branch Warrens. He beat the Johnny Jackson. He beat the Dexter Jackson. He beat the Victor Martinez. He came there. He worked and worked and worked. And at the end of the day, the big boss, he was protected. Yeah. He was protected. He was protected. But that's it!