 abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, abogенное-, ab First of all, everything good? Great. I'm very happy and thankful, man. Thankful and happy. Yes, yes. We're in a good place. Great space. I feel good, like James used to say. All right, so there's a couple of things in the news I want to get your opinion on. First of all, Arnold's son has been making headlines. He did two shows at this point now, two amateur shows, natural shows. He did an MPC natural show where he won something. He didn't get the overall, but he won his class, I think. And then a couple of weeks later, he did, I don't know if you're familiar, a natural organization called PMBA. And at that organization, he got a pro card, actually. So he's a pro in the IMBA, PMBA federation now. So interesting turn of events. First of all, what do you think about his display, his physique? Well, you know what? I think it's a tremendous accomplishment for anyone that comes into the sport and decides to take their fitness journey to the next level. Certainly, you know, every athlete or everyone interested in training and subscribe to the lifestyle of bodybuilding doesn't necessarily have to get on stage. Right. You know, but the fact that he has been able to embark on his own fitness journey and, you know, see that develop to the end of finding his way to get on stage, compete as an athlete. That's a big accomplishment. And then to go beyond that and actually turn professional and decide that he wants to continue to develop himself and continue that journey. I think that's awesome. That's like certainly something that needs to be recognized, you know, big accomplishment. The fact that he chose to do it naturally is a very interesting thing to note. You know, there's a lot of options. And as you know, I, too, have earlier in my career, you know, I spent a long time competing as a as a athlete with the distinction of being natural, you know, 100 percent. So that's like I think that's awesome. I think it's awesome. I think to have somebody that is able to get the kind of attention that he's able to get, you know, with the association that it has. I think it gives a very positive spotlight to the fact that even, you know, the option exists to be able to compete in a place where you don't have to make those kinds of choices if that's not something you desire to do. Sure. I wanted to get your take on something. So he did an NPC show, right? That means if you do any NPC show, it means you need to get an NPC membership, right? Correct. I, I, it's been so long since I've been in a amateur competing in the NPC that I am not quite sure if there are any changes that have occurred since I did compete as an amateur in the NPC. But the requirement that used to exist was, you can, you know, you can show up, you can, you know, pay your entry fee for the show. And then I guess to continue to compete, you probably have to pay dues into the organization. Um, and I think they're like annual. So. Yeah. Yeah. Well, that was, what was interesting to me. I don't know if you are pro and if you are IB pro, right, you have to be exclusive to the IBB pro league. You can't be doing an IBB pro show and then doing some other organization show, right? You have to be exclusive, right? What I'm saying is he did, he did, he did two different organizations for, maybe it's different for amateurs. I'm not sure, but I find it to be interesting that he was in two different organizations. Hey, you know what? I think, I think I had it wrong. I think, um, in order to be a pro, you do have to register once you've earned your, your, your ability to compete with pro status. Right. Um, and I think that requires a payment, uh, annually, um, to be an active member and participant of the, of, um, you know, of your pro. Pro, uh, pro organization. Um, I don't know how that, how that, how that unfolds when you talk about being in another organization. Um, so maybe that's interesting. I, I, I wouldn't know. What did you say the name of that organization is that he's a pro in? So it's called the, the professional one is called INBA and the amateur arm of that organization is called PMBA. So they, they're together. I know, I know the, I know them, you know, we actually, if you remember, we shot this documentary called 90 for life. We shot at their events and, um, this, they host something that's called the natural Olympia every year in Vegas. So actually, uh, yeah, it's, it's, it's, uh, they, you know, they, they, they're a serious organization, you know, but they not NPC, the separate organization. And they, they promote, uh, natural only bodybuilding basically. That's awesome. Shout out to them. You know what? Anyone, anyone that does support, um, you know, uh, having the choice, you know, um, I think is, is, is, is awesome. I think there was a tremendous service offered me when I was, uh, an amateur coming up, a teenage bodybuilder. In fact, I remember, um, it was awesome to be able just to have a playing field where you could, you know, try your hand at developing some things and feel that you were still on a level playing field because, um, you know, you probably hadn't, you know, gotten to that place where you thought that this was something else to do, you know? Um, so yeah, I, I, I think, I think, I think organizations that offer opportunities like that are great organizations. The NPC, believe it or not, offers, uh, a, a natural, um, bodybuilding show alternative, um, that I think is a very, very, uh, valuable, um, opportunity to offer athletes. Yeah, for sure. So I guess we'll see what happens with Arnold's son, Joseph. Um, it's interesting to see what, if he's going to actually pursue this or if it's just like a couple, kind of like a thing he did to, to prove to himself, you know? So being, obviously he's a pro now, technically speaking. So he won the pro card. So, uh, it's going to be interesting to, to, uh, to see what's next, you know? Interesting that he would, he would make these choices, you know, they say like, like father, like son. Um, awesome to, to kind of see, you know, him, the son, um, make these choices, um, and try his hand at developing his own legacy. You know, it's just such a, um, it's a very big shadow, you know, that you can find yourself, uh, uh, you know, having to deal with. But I, I don't know, it's just his father. So, you know, um, yeah, I don't even think what, what could you say about that? Oh, it must be so difficult and challenging being the son of, of sloths today. But I would imagine that the standards would be so high because you, you know, you're, you know, your dad was legitimately the godfather of, of the sport. Well, yeah, it's going to be a lot of comparison no matter what, you know? Yeah. I have a question. Think about this. There are athletes that have gone on to, to, you know, in the way or on the way to discovering what their bodybuilding or, uh, genius would become, you know, spent a lot of the time in their earlier years of development comparing themselves, you know, um, in the shadow or to, you know, the shadow of the great oak. You know, Arnold Schwarzenegger has been an inspiration and, uh, um, I guess a, a thing to compare yourself to for everyone, you know, um, for a very long time, you know, it was Arnold Schwarzenegger's image that set the standard, you know, for, for, for, for the things that we know and take for granted, you know, the standards that we know in, in, in, in life. And then even like, you know, beyond that in the imaginary realm, we start talking about like even film and television, you know, Arnold Schwarzenegger, you know, was like the, the blueprint for even, you know, the T-1000. And I mean, damn Conan. I mean, his influence is, is, you know, like the, the blueprint he's literally been the blueprint and the standard for so many things. It's touched, influentially touched so many, uh, walks of life. Um, you know, bodybuilding, you know, it's, it's just the tip of the iceberg. And I don't, I don't know if you ever really want to have to try to run from that shadow, you know, um, I don't think you could. Guys, I want to take a quick break. Um, talk about energy and focus because we all need it in our everyday lives. So Advocare brings a special product called Spark. Spark energy is not just about keeping up. It's really going to take your strength and you focus to the next level. Whether you're hanging out with your family, going to work or going to the gym, the spark energy gives you focus and energy that you need. Spark energy and focus is your go-to pre-workout ritual. When you need reliable energy and power to get through a lift, ride, run or class, mix it up, sip it and get dialed in and ready to go. Make it your go-to pick me up for the 2 PM slump or swap coffee for spark to start a day strong. It has 120 milligrams of caffeine for alertness and concentration, delivering sustainable energy. But it's not about just energy. It has amino acids and taurine to help balance caffeine without jitters or crashes. It has vitamins like B vitamins, B6, B12, vitamins C, A and E to support your immune health for everyday wellness. And of course the taste is amazing. And like I said, for me, it gets me through the day, through the week, on all the shoots and all the travel that I'm doing. So I love this product. Right now, spark energy and focus is offering 30% off and free shipping. Go to drink spark.com and use code Kai. That's K-A-I at checkout. That's code K-A-I at drink spark.com. So guys, check out this product. This is my favorite mango strawberry. They have a lot more flavors. Check them out. Spark. Since we're talking about bodybuilding, is there something you want to see change or improve in competitive bodybuilding? Is there something you would want to see change or improve? Especially, I'm talking about competitive bodybuilding, right? We're talking about competitions, stage, anything that you've experienced over the years that you thought about that you would want to change or improve? I guess more transparency, you would imagine, maybe for like the judging. I think the posing aspect of it could step up and be valued a little bit more. I think, and I think, I think the opportunity for the audience to be able to see a more influential role become of the posing round of this experience. I think that's one thing that would probably help to improve the performance, you know, individually for each of the athletes. I think it would also make things a little clearer. I think for the fans and enthusiasts on how a champion is determined. And I think it would also allow for the performing aspect of it to be restored in the minds of the fans of the sport to be the art form that I really do think that it is. I think now in the current judging, it can possibly be looked at as overlooked. Interesting. Do you believe that a best bodybuilder always wins Mr. Olympia? I believe that a lot of, a lot of, how do you say that? Um, you know, I think it's, it can be very subjective. Um, very subjective. Sometimes you are comparing apples and oranges, you know, um, you know, Right. It was interesting to see an Arnold Schwarzenegger stand as the example of, of, of what could be. And, you know, but I was very thankful, as I said earlier, uh, or another time in one of our other conversations, I appreciated that there was a Franco Colombo, you know? Um, and, you know, I think that there's a time when, you know, somebody likes, you know, a Franco Colombo is busy, you know? Um, and I think to like one or the other is not necessarily to say that one is better than the other just might, you know, be that preference that I think sometimes numbers and judging may. Um, it doesn't become as transparent, you know what I mean? Um, how do we, how do we, how do we arrive at, at the idea that, you know, an Arnold physique at this show is better than a Franco Colombo physique, you know? Um, and is there a time when a Franco Colombo physique, you know, um, you know, can fare well over an Arnold's physique? You know, if there's there, if there's apples and oranges, then sometimes you feel like an apple. I mean, sorry, sometimes you feel like, sometimes you feel for an apple, you know? And sometimes you feel for an orange. Your boy Kizzy K with the AKA is like grapefruits. Then I'm dumb. Anyway. You know, on the last episode, we spoke about the most beloved bodybuilders. We spoke about the most hated bodybuilders. And then, uh, in your opinion, in your personal view, who's, do you have like the most underrated bodybuilder who never got his proper dues? Who's amazing, which is something didn't click. Maybe it was under. Wow. That's interesting, man. Um, who never got them. But you know what? Sometimes there's a lot of reasons for that, you know? Like, like, you know, um, I don't know if you remember, there was a guy named Phil Hill. Um, now there was an amazing physique that some would say was like light years ahead of, um, you know, just way before its time. Um, yet if you look at any of the Mr. Olympia, you know, uh, lists, you never saw Phil Hill on stage competing at the Super Bowl of our experience. So we question why not, you know? Um, you know, there's a guy like Aaron Baker that comes to mind. Uh, some of the newer fans and enthusiasts of the sport might not be as familiar with Aaron Baker. But, damn, you know, there was a guy that's one of, one of my favorites from, you know, back in the day that, uh, you know, some would say very controversial. Oh, really? Why? Well, I don't, I don't know, you know, um, you gotta look at him because this, this guy was, wow. He was, uh, there was a lot, I think there was a lot of things to say about that, you know, um, you know, tremendous promise, man. Tremendous promise. Um, but why does it, why doesn't a guy like that, um, place higher at the Super Bowl of our sport? You know, um, some would say maybe this would fit in their category of someone being underrated. I don't know. Interesting. What do you think? I'll give you two names. Tell me if you think they're underrated at all. Um, Barry DeMay and Serge Nubret. So there's another guy, Serge Nubret. I mean, you, you going right to the, there's another controversial dude. Uh, Serge Nubret, you know, believe it or not, I, I, I can recall, uh, some years back hearing a lot of controversy, you know, behind the scenes that went on, even in like 75, Mr. Olympia, you know, related to the name that you just proposed, Serge Nubret. Um, not Barry DeMay. Barry DeMay is, you know, Barry DeMay is still around, you know, shout out to Barry DeMay. Yeah, shout out to him. He's a great guy. Yeah, yeah. The Flying Dutchman. I, you know, I used to, I, yeah, I, yeah, Barry DeMay is, what's up, man? Yeah, man. But Serge, the controversy was that he had some kind of fallout, I think, with, uh, maybe Wieners or something. So when they were filming the movie, the Pumping Iron, like they barely showed him, right? He got second place that year, I think, but they barely showed him or they cut him out of the film or whatever. Not only did he play second, but you, you don't see him, but for a blip. Right, right, right. And the, uh, original Pumping Iron, the, the, the, the, you know, the movie, it was as if Serge Nubret was only mentioned once and, like, he, you saw maybe not even two seconds of him. Oh. The only person, matter of fact, the only person that you've seen more of that you probably would have wanted to see more of and only then was only, like, two minutes would have been, like, Robbie Robson. You know what I mean? Why was that? I don't know. But, uh, Serge Nubret and Robbie Robson were very, very, very. No, Robbie, I mean, he explained why. I mean, he, they didn't, they didn't agree on a price or whatever it was. They were paying, they were paying somebody, something like that. I don't know. That's, that's what he said. I wasn't there, so I don't know. I don't know. All right. Why was Serge Nubret not, not, not rated any highly, any higher than what we saw? Serge, Serge is great, man. Definitely very underrated. Definitely very underrated. All right. So, let's go to the lightning round, Kai. So, we have some questions here and some comments, actually. So, uh, the first two comments come from Bruno Valentino and Oliver Grizzly. And this is in relation to when we were talking about the most hated bodybuilders. Remember, you said Heidi Chupan is the most hated. And I said a tie between Lou Ferrigno and Sean Ray. And then we had a conversation with that. But they, they're suggesting some more names to add to the list here. Uh, Bruno suggesting the most, this is the most hated, right? He's suggesting Phil Heath, Lou Ferrigno, Derek Lungsford, Nick Walker, Sean Ray, and Bob Chicarillo. Wow. And then, and then Oliver Grizzly is saying, Derek Lungsford has to be the most hated bodybuilder. He has earned nothing. Really? Why? Why Derek Lungsford? He has earned nothing that he has been gifted with. And he is arrogant about it. I never, never thought that about Derek Lungsford. Really? Derek Lungsford is super likable. I don't know what they're talking about. You know, I mean, honestly, I mean, I, yeah, I've, I've always seen him be nothing but a gentleman. Anytime I've met him. Yeah, he's a great guy. I don't know what he's talking about, but he was hated after he won the last Olympia. That was a lot. He got a lot of hate, actually. You know what's funny about that, man? I think one of the things that is a pressing reality there is, is that, you know, when you are like, when you are Mr. Olympia, you are at the top of the food chain. You're the, you're the highest decorated professional bodybuilding athlete in the world. You know, um, and you can't get there without being, you know, just, you know, you gotta be a bad dude, you know? I mean, just, just, I mean, you gotta be almost relentless in your, you just don't get there by accident, you know? And I think a lot of times, you know, there are few people in the world of their own personal experience that knows what it's like to be, you know, at the absolute best of your game and hailed as the absolute best in your field. Like there's nobody else, you know, that is, is, is known to be better than you at the thing that you call your field of expertise. I mean, you know, there's a lot of people that may aspire to say that they're the best, but you know, um, that's always subjective, but I mean, to actually be the number one declared, you know, to be at the top. I mean, it can be, I think it's very hard for most people to be able to relate to what it takes to be that person with that kind of distinction. And I think it's a very, very easy for a person at that position to be over. I don't want to say overlooked, but just, um, misinterpreted, you know, maybe not, you know, it's not, you can't get there by accident, you know? For sure. But I can see the other people on the list. I can see Nick Walker getting some hate for sure. Uh, sometimes he's, he can be very like outspoken. So people like talk about him and then Bob Chikarillo definitely gets some hate, uh, from people. Phil Heath got some hate, of course. Um, yeah. So there's some, there's some names on the list, I guess, that people can, uh, I wonder what, uh, what else people will suggest as far as the hated bodybuilders, you know, but that's, that's a, that's a solid list, right? What do you think? You know what? Yeah, but I, uh, it's, you know, the more you do, the more the body of work that you put out there, the more you're willing to share, the more you're willing to, to speak up and, and, and, and, you know, act as unafraid to talk about and be engaging, the more likely it would be that somebody can very easily walk away with, you know, uh, like you or hate you, you know what I mean? Um, but in no way, I think it's easy to be misunderstood, man. It's really easy to be misinterpreted. You know, um, you know, I, I kind of want to approach everything with the, with the, with at least an effort to understand that it's really easy to be misunderstood, particularly when you're in such an elite level and small group, you know, it's not, you know, they're far more, you know, the, the number for those that are competitive and aspire to do the damn thing is going to be much greater than those that are actually able to occupy that very small, um, you know, population at the top, you know, that number at the top or to have ever been at the top, it's small and it's very easy to be misinterpreted. I think like when we did, when we did generation iron one, um, one of the things that I thought was, you know, interesting, at least, you know, to be included in my thought process behind this and, um, I remember hearing someone say, Hey, Kai, you sound like the underdog in that film. And it was like, Oh, at first I thought, well, you're trying to say something negative. What are you trying to do? Hurt my feelings. And like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It's a good place to be Kai. Because, you know, being, being, you know, thought of as an underdog is a, is a, is a position where a lot of people can identify and relate very well and easily to, you know, most people, even the guy that you think, you know, um, is at the top of his game can many times it is like, you know, on the way to becoming can feel very, um, underrated, you know, and with enough reason to feel afraid, you know, um, most people can identify very well with what it looks like or feels like to, to kind of feel like you don't have enough, you know? Um, but how many people do you know that actually are able to say that I feel very confident in the belief that I am the absolute best, undisputable, without a doubt? Um, most people know that most people know that they're not, you know? Um, and truth be told, the person that's able to get to the top, you know, probably spent a lot more time feeling like they had a lot of work to do with a lot of reason, you know, to, to do the work that allows them to distinguish themselves as being really, really, really good. So, um, but then Phil Heath, yo man, this dude was at the top. So it was a lot easier for a lot of people, you know, not to identify with what it feels like to be at the top. So, you know, I, I think that there was something really, um, important with his ability to have shoulders big enough to carry that weight, you know? Um, cause that's not an easy thing to do. Sure. All right, let's go to the next one. Uh, this question is from Ted K one. I believe he's a loyal listener. He submitted some questions before. Uh, it sounded like he was a little drunk when he wrote it, Kai. Uh-oh. That's a very interesting question. I'm going to read, I'm going to do my best to read it for you. Okay. Uh-huh. All right. So, Kai, I believe you've met Lee Priest before, correct? You and him had, have amazing arms, some of the best in your business in a lot of people's opinions, but have you actually trained with Lee Priest? Question mark, question mark. Would you ever be down to train with him? Are you scared to maybe? Y'all are your own men though, so no pressure, but me and the fans, I think, would love to see y'all train. Keep on striving, Kai. By the way, thanks. And Vlad too. Oh, that's for sure. So, are you scared of Lee, uh, training with Lee Priest? Oh. Uh. Oh, man. Nah, actually, shout out to, shout out to the viewer that offered the, the, uh, the question and the comment. Um, and, uh, as far as, to be, yo, Lee Priest, man, let's, let's, I mean, I was a teenager when Lee Priest was, you know, uh, on the cover of the magazine and like, you know, doing the damn thing. There was a time when Lee Priest was like, you know, at the top of the food chain to me, this dude was like, uh, he was accomplished in every way that I had dreamed to be, you know, when I was still actively dreaming to become, you know, better than I was. So, uh, yeah, um, suffice to say, I've looked up to Lee Priest for a very long time. Um, and to be able to grow to a place where someone would, would later see something dope of my career and make the comparison. That's really, that's really interesting, man. You know, part of me should be flattered to hear that. Um, yeah, man, Lee Priest is like, believe it or not, he's like, he's a goat. He's a goat. It's like, uh, you know, seeing Ronnie Coleman, there was a time when Lee Priest was like one of these mythological characters. If you got a chance to see him in real life, there was a time, Vlad, where we couldn't see athletes that looked like Lee Priest did, you know, at the top of his game when he looked like that. Have you met him in person or no? Have you met him in person or no? Oh yeah, absolutely. Okay. Okay. Yeah, man, he's mad cool. He was, um, you know what? Well, we didn't train together, but a lot of times we like cross paths and we're training in the same gym. Um, but this is at like years after he's retired. Lee Priest and I are not in the same, uh, we're not in the same, we're not contemporaries at all. Lee Priest had like, had come and, you know, done the best he was going to do with the body of work that he was going to put up in the sport and move on. Um, before I'd even turned, well, yeah, before I'd even turned pro, I remember there was probably one, one time, maybe, maybe once or twice that I actually competed in the same show where Lee Priest was competing. He was like, he was like on his way out of the, of the competitive pro bodybuilding experience around a time when I was really just, just, just, uh, just coming up and certainly well before I was able to come into my own. Um, I think it was the Ironman. One of the last two Ironman competitions that they had before the Ironman, um, came to its end. There was a time when the Ironman had like a 20, 30 year history. Yeah. And back then, if you had said that there would ever come a time when the Ironman would not exist, you know, people would have told you then like, absolutely not. The Ironman is always going to be around, you know, just took for granted that it was, you know, it was, it was such an impressive show. One of the big, big shows to compete in. It's gone. It's been gone now for a very long time. A lot of, a lot of newer fans of the sport. Um, probably don't even know what I'm talking about when I'm saying. Yeah. They don't. Yeah. Maybe from the pictures, you know, but that's about it. Uh, let's go to the next one. This one's interesting. Uh, weird, weird question. Uh, front West seven, eight, nine, zero. Kai, what do you think of Kali muscle? Do you think he's full of it? Question mark. Yeah. You know what? Um, Kali muscle, uh, so funny, man. A lot of times I would hear people like say, uh, Hey man, you look like that guy, that bodybuilder. That's all on, on, on, on, on, on social media. Like really? Oh, wow. Great. You know, Hey man, yo, can you get your autograph? And I'd be like, wow. Okay, great. You know? Yeah. Let me, let me see if I can get a pen. And be like, yeah. Aren't you Kali muscle? What? That's crazy. Yeah. Shout out to Kali muscle. Real talk. Um, yeah. What do I think about Kali muscle? Yeah. I think, um, you know, believe it or not, he's a, he's a brilliant personality, man. He's got, um, he's one of those people that has been able to develop, you know, his social media presence. Uh, you know, he's a strong personality that is, uh, I gotta give him credit, man. And the dude was like, you know, he was doing some things that I, I, I wanted to do, um, with the development of seeing some things happen. Um, and what do I mean? Okay. So I went to, I went to do an audition. I remember for a movie role that was, I just wanted this movie role so bad. And actually it looked like I was going to get it. Yeah. I went to the audition. I got there. Matter of fact, um, there's this really awesome guy. His name was Neil Pressman. Now this dude, you know, if you ever want to hear about enough for people that are outside of the film and, you know, television industry, they'd probably be like, I don't know what you're talking about. But I remember hearing Arnold Schwarzenegger talk about, um, one of these influences that was really helpful and instrumental in helping him get, you know, his foot, his feet underneath him in acting. He mentioned this guy by name. And then he was like, I'm going to do a pressman. I found myself in the opportunity to sit and meet with the same gentleman. You know, uh, two years later, I was actually called to do an audition. And this dude was awesome. He helped me. I got an audition for a movie called, uh, the name of the movie. I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you once I finish it. So I got an audition. I got an audition to do this film. I walked in there excited to do it. Now, mind you, at that time, I lived in New York. I lived in Brooklyn. Um, but this audition required you to be, you know, in LA, you know, and when you got there, you had to lie and just say, look, you, you, you, you, you, you know, live in LA. Um, you just don't say it, you know, because like, you're going to be called and they're going to want you and you're going to, you're going to just need to be able to tell them that you live in LA, because if you say you don't, they're going to think that you can't use you and they won't, they'll just, you know, you'll just forget it. So it was like, fine. I went to the audition. I was very excited about, you know, doing this, doing this read for the role. And then there was only four other bodybuilders that had, that had, you know, actually, you know, auditioned for this role. And I went through the script. I was totally, you know, I felt like I was totally capable of doing this character. And then I saw that Kali Mussel had just left. And mind you, this dude was like, at that time, this character was everything that I thought I could do. And I was, I was there. I was so strong. I was so ready. I did all this other stuff to, to get, you know, to get into the, the way of feeling and being and thinking to be ready for this character. And, uh, I got there and I saw that Kali Mussel had read for it. And mind you, the photos they had of Kali Mussel was like, so immediately I felt like, oh my God, this guy was exactly what was supposed to be. Everything that at the moment I felt like I, oh man, I thought I could do it. And then I was like, oh no, this, this damn, he's got this role. Cause this, this was dope. This was so dope. And he was so that, and I realized everything that he'd been doing on his social media prior to this was like an announcement to the world. It was like auditioning every day, you know, and there's some parts for some body else probably would have said, this guy's not perfect for it, but this, this guy right here, he was the epitome of the very character that I was about to read for. And I remember thinking, oh snap, damn it. He got it. Damn this Kali Mussel. I hate Kali Mussel. That's what I said. Anyway, I had to get myself together. Anyway, I went to the bathroom. I had to like slap myself, slap myself, get myself together, came out. And I did the best impersonation of a Kali Mussel I could have done as I read for this role. And believe it or not, when the smoke cleared and the dust settled, I actually got casted. I got the role. I got it. You beat him. Yes. And the name of that movie. Well, actually, so we were supposed to fly out to Budapest and we were supposed to be going for like six weeks to film. No, I'm so excited. I got it. I got it. Kali Mussel. It's like, yo, thank you. Because everything and everything that I'd seen him do, I just found my own way to do it. As I really felt myself to be committing to, you know, the letter of this character. And when I landed the role, I thought I couldn't be any more successful than I was very, very thankful and proud that I could identify myself as in the moment. And then the film fell through. It actually didn't happen. Really? Oh, man. I always remember this moment of Kali Mussel. Kali Mussel actually helped me get a great role for a great film that Neil Pressman actually helped me land the audition for. So it was cool. Wow. Crazy story, man. I had no idea. And the name of the film was actually, you probably don't want to know what the name is, so it doesn't matter. All right. All right, Kali. Last lightning round question. This one is for Patreon. So if you're not subscribed, guys, please check it out. All right. All right, Kali. This is all we have for today, man. Great answers. Holy shit. That's it? That's it, man. But wait, Vlad. Y'all didn't ask me what the name of the movie was. I thought you didn't want to talk about it. What was the name of the movie? Oh, man, Vlad. I thought you didn't want to say. What was it? Oh, the name of the movie. It fell through. But it was called. Damn it. Yeah, I just I just go ahead and say it. Yeah. The name of that film was actually. The name of that film was actually. The Crow 2. Oh, really? Wow. Yeah. That fell apart. Yeah. Unfortunately. Oh, man. Yeah. The next. The next. So Jason Momoa at that time was signed. The story had it that he was supposed to be playing. Wow. The Crow. After Brandon Lee. This is all this other stuff that happened that I'm probably just not qualified to talk about. But yeah, man. Man, that's crazy. Yeah. Could have changed my life. I know that guy, Pressman. He's definitely a legendary producer for sure. Shout out to him. Yeah. He's what's up, man. He is what's up. All right, brother. Till next time. I look forward to it. Next week, we're going to have Eddie Hall. It's going to be a good one. Uh-oh. I'm looking forward to it. All right, brother. Peace. Hey, thanks, Vlad. Thanks, Generation Iron. Bye. For more information, visit www.fema.org For more information, visit www.fema.org For more information, visit www.fema.org For more information, visit www.fema.org For more information, visit www.fema.org For more information For more information Thank you.