 fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen Yes, yes, yes. Good afternoon, good morning. What it be, what it be. How you been, man? I can't complain, man. I'm in a good place. I feel like Zardone right now when I see the background. Like a what? You feel like a what? Zardone. You remember the Power Rangers? I've never seen that. Oh, so, well, there's a TV show. Huh? I know what it's about. I've never watched it. Is it good? Well, I mean, you know, it's a kid's show. It was, you know, a team of heroes, and they had a commander or person that they would get their assignments from. And this character kind of looked like he sat in a space where it was just a floating head. What was your favorite TV show growing up? My favorite TV show? I had a bunch of them, actually. Yeah. I don't think you can start to say those things without, like, without dating yourself. Really? You know. I mean, you know, Tom and Jerry is classic. Tom and Jerry. Wow. Fred Flintstone. I don't know if you know about the Flintstones or the Jetsons. My favorites of all time were, like, Hanna-Barbera. Hanna-Barbera. They had, like, the Herculoids and Space Ghosts and Birdmans. Yes. Yes. All right. There's somebody out there that just heard me say that and is like, oh, that's what's up. I remember those days. Trip down memory and lame nostalgia. Yes. Yes. Nice. Nice. Nice. So, Kai, you've seen... What was yours? What was your TV show? I like SpongeBob. SpongeBob was good. Oh, my God. Vlad, you're young. You're young. You're a young guy. Oh, SpongeBob is pretty old, man. SpongeBob is like, come on. I mean, you know, the Flintstones were, like, the first animated family TV show slash cartoon that was, yeah, animated in, like, the longest running to be as successful as they were was, like, a groundbreaking milestone in television history. They made a movie, too. They made, like, the actual movie. Yeah. Yeah. How familiar are you with, like, The Honeymooners, Jackie Gleason? Never seen it. Yeah, see that? That's the young man in you, brother. That's the thing that makes you the envy of guys like me. Yes, yes. But speaking of arts, man, you dropped an album, right? 2025, you put on an album, right? Afro King Kai, right? K.I. Afro King, well, it's not me. It's my musical persona. The musical, of course, of course. K.I. Afro King, yes, sir. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But there you go. Which is me. I know, I know, of course. But not me. It's your alter ego. I don't know, I know. But the Grammys just passed, man. Did you, are you into that type of stuff? Do you watch the awards? Do you watch the Grammys? You know what? I actually didn't see the Grammys this year. I didn't. I didn't. I didn't. I'm actually, I'm still excited about it. But no, I haven't, I haven't gotten a chance to check that out. I was wondering if you follow it at all. Like the industry's accolades of the music industry. I was wondering if you actually ever pay attention to something like that. You know, I'm used to. I used to. I think, who hasn't ever grabbed a comb and sang into it while looking in the mirror and imagining themselves doing something amazing and maybe spectacular, like maybe even becoming Mr. Olympia. Very interesting, man. Yeah. Dreams are important. I feel like we should integrate some topics into this outside of the fitness and bodybuilding. You know, I feel like people want us to talk more about other subject matter. You know what I mean? Ah. So I figured I figured we're bringing other things that are current. You know what I mean? So I figured I'd ask you about the graphics. Since you are an artiste, you know. Ah. Are you going to drop more music, actually? Are you going to drop another one this year? Yeah, man. I got some rather interesting things I'm looking to do this year. Well, not me. That's K-I-Fro King, of course. Right, right, right. Of course. Yeah, man. Yeah. I'm pretty excited. I'm looking at, oh, man. You know what? You know what? It's one of those things where if you talk about it and you're not as, like, if you didn't have your cue cards and have everything queued up for the right soundbite, you know, a moment of free, tell me about it really quickly, can be the thing that you use to lose your audience. And forever turn them against you. Because you were talking about it when you were just not prepared. So, you know, I'm more than a dreamer. You know, I believe in getting things done, you know, one step at a time and continuing to work. So, behind the scenes, the work is certainly interesting. Certainly. Certainly, yeah. But it continues. And, yeah, man, I'm really excited to be able to try to say some things about that, like with my artwork and with the ability to even talk about the music. Kyle, let's take a quick break and give a special thank you to our title sponsor, G Fuel. Guys, if you're out there looking for a supplement for focus, endurance, energy, this is for you. Now, G Fuel, as some of you may know, they are originally started a company to focus on the gaming industry. But since then, they've expanded into the fitness industry and improved their formula. So, now you can enjoy G Fuel with the same great taste, but no aftertaste and no chalky texture. Now, they've added more antioxidants. They made it more glycine for muscle strength and recovery. And they kept the 140 milligrams of caffeine per serving. Always zero sugar and way more amino acids. So, guys, if you don't want to go to the store, you can go to gfuel.com and put in the code GI20 for a discount. Shout out to G Fuel. So, guys, give it a try. You will love it. All right. Let's get back to bodybuilding. So, I want to get your opinion on this. William Bonack, he made some statements a couple of weeks ago, actually. He said that he lost or he's losing his passion for bodybuilding. He said his passion for bodybuilding is fading. And specifically, he's saying it's different now, the vibes and bodybuilding. He's basically saying that everybody's for themselves now. There's no brotherhood in the bodybuilding space. I want to get your take on it because, you know, like I guess back in the day, there was more like friendships in bodybuilding. But you yourself were always kind of like on your own in a way. I remember at Olympia backstage, you were always like you were kind of to yourself. So, you were never part of like the groups, right? So, I want to get your take on what he said. And like does the brotherhood need to be existing in bodybuilding really for people to compete? I want to get your take specifically on it because, in my opinion, you were always kind of on your own. You know, I don't think I was the only one. I mean, I can recall hearing Darian Yates, you know, publish memoirs where he talked about feeling like the dark horse of bodybuilding. I think he was even, you know, he even, you know, called that, called himself that at one point. While he was in the throes of his, you know, the peak of his career. You know, he was, he would go off to Germany. I mean, England and train, you know, all year round, you know, in the dungeon and then come back, you know, that one day for the Olympia. That one, that one time and then to actually, you know, go on the tour. I think if they had the Grand Prix to follow, win everything and then go right on back home, you know, to England and, you know, dwell in the dungeon. So, yeah, long story short, I, you know, I think, you know, different athletes have different experiences in the sport. You know, I have, I remember, I got to say this because I'm reminded of seeing Will Bonac respond very, very, very well to like other athletes that he was close to. I think when Sean Roden won the Olympia, you know, I think Will Bonac, if I can recall properly, looked like he was more excited for him, you know, than even Sean Roden was, you know, at the moment when he won the Olympia. I mean, so, you know, my hat's off to a guy like that because, I mean, he was genuinely, he looked genuinely just beside himself with, you know, happiness and, you know, he celebrated Sean Roden's victory as if it was his own, you know. So, I think there's no doubt behind the scenes, you know, just how passionate he may actually be as a man and his ability to appreciate the feelings of brotherhood that he had no doubt with Sean Roden. And I would imagine he's like that with, you know, a few guys in the sport. So, yeah, I think it's his experience. But for you, for you as a competitor, right, when you used to compete, right, you didn't need, when you were going to shows or whatever, you didn't need anybody there to be friends with in order for you to be focused on competing, right? For you, it wasn't like a thing you were looking forward to. I'm going to go to Olympia. I'm going to see all my friends there, right? It wasn't a thing. Yeah, that was certainly a different, my approach was different, you know. But, you know, I don't think I was the only athlete or person that approached it like that. I think the idea of camaraderie and friendship, I think it's great when you're able to have it and experience that. I don't think it's something that you can only have just one time or another. I think there are moments that are awesome when you have them and they may sneak up on you, you know. So, you almost have to, like, be ready for it and make yourself available when they do. But, yeah, I think there's a lot more at work, too. I mean, Will is now, he's a seasoned pro veteran. He's been, this is not his first rodeo, you know, merry-go-round. He's been, he's proven. He's been working for quite some time. In fact, I think he started coming on really strong just around the time I started running into some issues and stuff. And he went on to continue to just, you know, catch his stride. And I remember, you know, getting a chance with Generation Iron and Sean Ray some years back. We got a chance to do some commentating at the Arnold Classic. Yeah, yeah. And him and another Mr. Olympia up-and-coming soon-to-be, you know, champion and winner, Brandon Curry, were fighting for things, top honors at the Arnold Classic some years back. I remember. Exactly. Yeah, I mean, that was like a dogfight, you know. Yeah, certainly he's experienced a lot of bright, shiny moments in the sport to his credit. I think he's hitting it. It's been years. It's been more than a decade. He's put in some really solid work. I think he's hitting a retirement, basically, with that statement, in my opinion. Well, how long are you supposed to, you know, represent as hard as he has? I mean, I think it's only, he's only right and natural to be thinking the things that he's thinking. I think that, but it's up to him, you know. And he would know how he feels, you know, more than anybody else. I think his presence at the big pro shows has been very, very valuable. And, yeah, man. I would never want to tell an athlete, yo, man, you better not, you know, because you never know what are some of the things that is, you know, weighing heavy on his heart as the reasons why he would choose that. I mean, you know, he's also a family man. I'm sure, you know, with a certain amount of commitment to travel and to his experiences as he has, you know, as a pro. There may be some things that he, you know, he may also want to do. And while he's still, I mean, this guy's, he's not, he's not in his 70s. This is still, this is still a young man. You know what I mean? And, yeah, if he wants to do some other things, sometimes you have to step away, you know, just to be able to have more availability to do some of the other things that are also very important, too. Sure. All right, Kai, let's go to the lightning round. What's good? So we have questions. You're going to answer them from our loyal listeners, and you're going to answer them in a lightning speed, right? Of course, because you know my name is Kai Green, and that's what I do. I know, I know, exactly. All right, first question. It comes from Shamble F9S. Shamble F9S. Okay, let's get it. Kai Green, what was your most fulfilling competition that you've entered? Fulfilling. That's, I guess, it depends on what you define it as fulfilling, right? Most fulfilling. Do you have one like that? You know what? It's funny, because if you ask me that the night before, the night before the show that I, you know, dieted for, worked for, trained for, day in and out, got up in the morning with that as my purpose for being. Went to bed at night, but that is the purpose and goal of my being. Reasons why my existence, you know, was somehow wrapped up into that. Chances are, the most fulfilling shows that I have ever done would be each one of those experiences. Every single one? Every single one? Honestly, I mean, yeah, I think it's like a... Can't be every single one, Kai. Come on, not every single one. You know what? There was a time, believe it or not, there was a time when I lived in an institutional facility. And the idea of being able to, you know, exist outside of that space in a place where you could be free and not restricted as you were was like a pipe dream. You know, there was a time when they would say, hey, well, the judge said you're supposed to be here. Your action said you were supposed to be here. You are a condemned man, sir. This is where you belong. And this is where you will be. Fast forward, you know, when somebody started talking about the possibility of being able to compete in like my first bodybuilding show, it would have meant, though, that it would... The ability to do that would have meant that I would have needed to get clearance from a judge. A whole bunch of paperwork would have needed to be shuffled backwards and forwards. It was impossible because none of those things were going to happen, you know. Fast forward, though. Yeah, man, I had like just some amazing people that I got a chance to meet. And for some reason, they saw me and they kind of saw me committed to the idea of, yeah, man, I'm going to do this bodybuilding show. I started dieting. When I first... When I started my first diet to getting ready to compete, I did what I thought made sense because I didn't know how to diet. I didn't know science. I ate bread and water. And while I did that, the institutional facility said, you know what? No. This guy's trying to kill himself. They put me in isolation. So I started to find it. And I wasn't able to work out unless I was able to do pushups. Anyway, I'm saying all of this to say that the possibility of doing my first show was thought of as impossible. And if I'd have asked anybody for encouragement on the sidelines or brotherhood, they would have said, hey, man, you know what? Keep working. Keep believing. There's a possibility that that will happen. No one was going to say that. It was impossible. So that said, I'm saying all of this to say that when I got the opportunity eventually to do my first show, as I still couldn't get a judge to turn around and say, hey, you know what? We're going to let you... You know, it turns out the people in the facility, the institution, the institutional facility that I was forced to live in at the time, man, somebody smiled. You know, there was an institutional worker that happened to be worked in the education department. The dude was an English teacher. And I know you know a little bit about that story, Black, because we went over that so many years ago. Oh, yeah. The documentary, First Generation Iron 2. Anyway, I'm saying all of this to say that it was an impossibility. You know, and I went from being a person that believed in something that made me look like I was foolish because it was impossible. There's no judge that's going to give no clearance for it. There's no social workers that are going to, you know, take the responsibility. But somebody did. And guess what, man? I was allowed to leave an institutional facility, you know, leave the restricted environment. Go to my first bodybuilding show, stand there on stage, do the whole thing, the prejudging, the night show, the weighing. And then I went back to the institutional facility with my first trophies, man. I was a winner. And it meant everything to me because to do it meant that it was impossible. And I did the impossible. Anyway, I'm saying this to say to you that, yeah, man, that victory in itself made it that much more likely that I would learn how to believe in the importance of being willing to do the work. And how valuable it is to do the work. And how more important it is to believe. So, yeah, yeah. It was very important, man. That was a victory beyond victory. So, yeah, man, that was a very important one. I want to ask a follow-up because I feel like people complain, actually, in the comments. They say, I don't ask your follow-up questions sometimes. And I feel like I want to ask. This is the moment I want to ask the follow-up, Kai, if you don't mind. Yeah, let's do it. A couple episodes ago, I brought up a show. And I guess you didn't want to talk about it. You diverted from the conversation. It was a Prague thing. When you went to Prague, you said you don't want to talk about it. You plead the fifth. So, was that also fulfilling, the Prague thing? Was that fulfilling or not fulfilling? Well, when you say Prague, what happened in particular? So, I went back. I went back and I read. Because I heard something about the Prague. And I read the Prague thing. I think it was 2015. You went to Prague and you, I guess you weren't feeling good. So, after the prejudging, you didn't want to compete anymore. Something like that. And you left the competition. So, I wanted to see. Do you know what I'm talking about? No. No. All right. I just left. All right. We're going to have to. No, no. I'm here. Vlad, I'm trying to be with you. 2014. No, 2014. 2014 Prague. You went. Okay, 2014 Prague. So, there was an article written about it. You went to Prague. You did the prejudging. And then you complained about. It said health issues. So, you left the competition. I think Dennis Wolf ended up winning. Oh, wow. Is that what happened? That's what the article said. I don't know. Man, I got to see that article, brother. I'm like. All right. All right. I'm at a loss. I mean, there's so many shows. And sometimes there's so many. I mean, I've competed in Prague. I got to try. I got to try for the audience. I don't want to. I don't want people to say. I don't. I don't ask you questions. You know what I mean? All right. Let's go to the next one, Kyle. Let's go to. One day. One day you will talk about it. All right. Hey, I would love to. I just don't recall exactly. I mean, I actually did some. I did a bunch of things in Prague, actually. I really did. I'm sure you did. Yeah. All right. Let's go to the next one. We don't have that much time. All right. So next one is from Reno 911 underscore. Reno 911. Shout out to you. Let's get it. Kai, please tell me your top three favorite movies to watch of all time. And don't say you love them all. Please. Yeah, no, I wouldn't do that. My top three favorite movies? Favorite movies. Do you have that? Damn. Damn. I keep it real simple for you. I could say the first Star Wars trilogy because I was a fan, man. Oh, yeah. You know, Anakin Skywalker. I felt like I understood Anakin Skywalker. Yeah. Personal relationship with him. But I also felt like I had a personal relationship with Darth Vader. For real. For real. That was like my mama. I'm just kidding. Yes. Oh, yeah. All right. Yeah. That was a good one. That's a good one. You know what? The Warriors. The Warriors. How about that? Oh, that's a classic. You're a classic, of course. Yes, it is. Yeah, man. The classic. The Warriors. And if I had one more. So, you know, one more to throw at you would be, damn. Let's say. So we say Star Wars. We have The Warriors. You know what? The Wiz. The Wiz. Not The Wiz in a box. With Michael Jackson, yeah? But The Wigs. Michael Jackson, right? With Michael Jackson, right? Yeah. Michael Jackson, Diana Ross, Nipsey, Russell. Yes, yes, yes. All classics. Yeah. All classics. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Richard Pryor. Richard Pryor. All right, right, right. Yeah. Classics. All right, good. Those are good. Those are good ones, man. At this point in the year, the workouts are not just aspirational. They're real. And the supplementation is more important than ever. That's why I want to bring to your attention a great company called Momentus. Now, this is a fantastic company that manufactures supplementation. What's really great about this company is that they take pride in the ingredients they use. And they test every single product to make sure it meets the standard. And if it doesn't meet the standard, they throw it away. Now, what makes the company different is the pride they take in the ingredients and how clean they are. Momentus Source is the highest quality ingredients on a planet. The whey protein comes from grass-fed European dairy cows. The creatine uses the purest form of creatine monohydrate. And every formula is made with clinically backed nutrients. No fillers, no artificial sweeteners ever. But what truly sets Momentus apart is their testing and transparency. So every single product is independently certified by NSF. Meaning it's tested for contaminants, heavy metals, banned substances. And it's fully verified for label accuracy. So you always know exactly what you get and what you put in your body. And like I said, if the product doesn't meet the standard, it never hits the shelves ever. If you want to start a new year right and rely on one supplement company, I truly recommend Momentus. And like I said, they have a variety of different products. Proteins, creatines, omega-3s, and everything else you can think of. And everything is always third-party tested. Right now, Momentus is offering our listeners up to 35% off your first order with promo code KAI. K-A-I. So check out LiveMementus.com and use promo code KAI for up to 35% off your first order. That's LiveMementus.com. Promo code KAI. So on this show, guys, I truly recommend this brand. This is a brand you can trust. All right, let's go to the next one. Uh-huh. This one is interesting because I feel like you've addressed it on a few episodes. But let's try it again. Why not? Dan Murray, M4N. Hey, Kai, it's good to see you doing well. I just wanted to say you are really inspiring. And I just wanted to ask if you ever plan on competing ever again. And also, if you did, I believe the lineup today would be in serious trouble. Hmm. You know what's interesting, man? First, I want to say thank you. Thank you for such an encouraging comment. You know, man, I think I look at some old photos of, like, Lee Priest. And I see old photos of, like, Paul DeLette, you know. And there was a time when these guys were, like, they were, like, the gods of our sport, you know. Regardless to where they placed, you know, ultimately, you know, it's just something so amazing, you know, about the way they actually existed. And it still exists in history, man. And it's, like, you know, to look at them the way they looked, then it's a snapshot in time. And it's history. But if I expect Lee Priest to look exactly like Lee Priest looked, you know, when he won the Iron Man, you know, the Iron Man isn't even around anymore. No, it's been good. There was a year when Lee Priest was, like, just, like, just, like, just amazing, amazing proportions. It's crazy. Because you see him today, and he looks like a great athlete, you know, in the sport, to his credit. You know, you see him, he still looks like a cartoon character, you know. And he's getting older. But I'm saying this to say that things change. People change, you know. I want to believe that my best is still in front of me, you know. And I work today, and I will continue to work with that expectation as I work in the back of my mind. You know, I think it'll be interesting to see what happens. I always want to, you know, keep the door of possibility open. Because there are things that I still feel like I didn't get a chance to thoroughly work out and get out of my system, you know. I agree. I agree. I can't wait for that day, man. I look forward to that day. I look forward to that day. Hey. Talk to work well. All right. Kai, so this one is a Patreon special. And it's a, I guess it's a controversial question here. So it comes from, it comes from Creative Sammy 777. You're talking about the car situation. You ever had a road rage situation where you got really upset behind the steering wheel? I lived in New York, brother. Are you kidding me? But here's the thing. Interestingly enough, when you lived in New York and you get into that, you know, their cats have got some things for that. Florida is more dangerous. And I remember having things like that and not being in a good position, you know, because that could be very, very unhealthy. Very unhealthy. That's a health care right there. Yeah. All right, Kai. That was all the questions that we have for today, man. Thank you for answering them. And hopefully people will submit more. Hey, that's what's up, man. I appreciate the opportunity. Hey, Vlad, I hope you didn't take that as if I was being evasive, man. I really just, I really didn't know what you were talking about. Oh, no, no, no, no. I'll find the article. Don't worry about it. That's what's up. Yes, yes. All right, brother. Good news. Good to see you, man. Likewise. Likewise. AD, thanks for holding me down. No problem, guys. Yes, yes. Later, bro. All right, guys. Peace. All right. Peace. Thank you.