 What's up everybody? It's your boy, KAI, that's right. And this is the KAI, green effect. We're in a green effect. We're in a green effect. We're in a great place today, because we're on the road, still getting back. It's been a long way back. And Vlad, how you feeling today? Good, man. You've been traveling non-stop, right? You've been away for like two weeks now? Uh, actually, three, technically. I was out at the, uh, I was on the road just, just before the Olympia. Mm-hmm. And, uh, yeah, I've been moving around ever since, ever since. So, I want to get your opinion on this Nick Walker situation. He was, he was in the news heavy last week, actually. Um, so after placing six at the, at the Olympia, he got back to, uh, I guess, New Jersey, and then him and his coach had a fallout. He basically got rid of his coach, Kyle. You know, I know Kyle well. He's a great coach, actually. And Nick is a great athlete, you know, there's no question about it. So, um, immediately after Olympia, Kyle made a video where he took, you know, he took blame for Nick's, you know, placement. Uh, they were disappointed at the, at number six. And then I guess Nick was going to announce that he's doing Arnold Classic. And then literally two days later, Nick said he's, he no longer has a coach. And now they went back and forth with each other, I guess, on social media. Um, what did you take on this situation? It's not, it's not a great obvious. I like, I like both of those guys, you know, um, but in your opinion, right? Do you think that there should be loyalty between a coach and, uh, an athlete or rather athletes should have a loyalty to the coach? What do you, what did you take on the whole situation? So here's the thing. Your success or failure always belongs to you. It doesn't even matter. Of course. It doesn't matter who your friends are, who's on the judging panel or, you know, um, you know, the relationship that he has with, with his coach. I think those relationships actually end up becoming very, very personal anyway, you know, um, and they're subject to peaks and valleys, you know, two people can have a difference of opinion now and next week. And then two years from now, you know, they come together and, you know, do their thing and work their magic again and do something else. And then it'll be a headline again, you know, because you know, both of these personalities are in the spotlight. But you stay, you stay with your coach. You, you stay with George Farah and, uh, after not winning the Olympia one year or two, I mean, you, you stay with him, right? You stay with him. Is that, is that because what was the reason why you stay with him? Because it was loyalty or is it because you felt like he was a good coach for you regardless? Well, here's the thing, you know, Shakespeare, he talked about to that own self be true. You know what I mean? Um, I think a lot of times people will talk about loyalty and not really be clear on, you know, what the term loyalty means, you know, and understand that it may be very different from person to person. You know what I mean? Um, being able to share a vision that's in alignment, you know, with, with the person, um, or to work on a team effort, you know, with people that share a like mind and in common vision, um, is important. And if there should come a time when, when that changes, you know, um, you may need to step away. And if you do, I don't think it becomes a question of, you know, not, um, being loyal as much as it may like, uh, you know, your parents may love you, but at some point you're supposed to grow up and move out, you know, and sometimes to stay, to stay there, despite the fact that you're supposed to grow up and have your own, just in your own process of maturation. Right. Someone may say, well, that's not being loyal to your mama. Go ahead and stay depending on the mama breast. Suck on that. Stay there a little bit longer. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Come on. I'm just saying we do have a Patreon now, you know, just in case. But you staying with George Farah, that was to you, right? It's not because of loyalty, because it was business wise. It was good for your career and it was good for, he was delivering and you were, you were happy with the results, right? It was not, nothing to do with loyalty, right? Well, people will call things, you know, will call things loyalty or whatever. But I think, you know, at the end of the day, my relationship with George was a very, very high valued thing, you know? And with that, you know, it was important to always maintain an idea that would be, you know, be favorable, you know, within the integrity of my relationship. You know, I would never want, you know, somebody that was helpful and supportive to me as he was to feel like I would deliberately, you know, cut him or hurt him or try to cause his business disruption or interruption, you know? Because in a situation like that, particularly when George Farah was my coach, I mean, you know, the truth is I was still a high profile, you know, athlete in my sport. And as we continue to work together and as I continue to see, you know, breakthroughs happen in my career, as I continue to work, I think, you know, the higher you climb, the more spotlight, you know, you may find yourself, you know, with the pleasure and company of. And I think with that, there comes a lot more responsibility, you know, because now if I didn't carry myself a certain way, you know, it wouldn't even matter how he felt. Technically, if you don't respond accordingly or act responsibly, your attempt to say something can actually hurt this man's business. You get what I'm saying? Of course. Um, um, and you know, thank goodness for me that every time that we did work together, when we, when I put my hat in there competitively behind the scenes, you know, we were able to, you know, come out on the winning side of being very, very successful. Um, and with that, it allowed me to trust the fact that our vision were in alignment, you know, um, it allowed me to believe, uh, more in the process. Um, and it offered me peace of mind that helped me hold it together while, you know, I was working through some of the very challenging parts of the process that I think, um, can be very, very interesting. For a lot of athletes, you know, um, so yeah, be able to have a, uh, you know, a good peace of mind is very, very important to be able to have developed a good support system. I remember getting ready for like 2016. I had like, um, I had three very important career building shows right back to back to back. The Arnold's yeah, of course. Yeah. I mean, it was the first time in history that they were going to have like five Arnold classics, one in every continent. And I was, uh, I was, uh, contractually signed to do three. You want them all, you want them all. Well, but you know what, a lot of that, I have to say, you know, I remember working in the trenches of that there was so much pressure and responsibility. I felt, um, that sometimes the pressure in itself could wake you up in the middle of the night. You know, it sits on your chest like a pregnant fat woman that won't let you breathe. I'm telling you, bro. We got it. Okay. Today I want to introduce our audience to this great supplement called G fuel. It's an everyday supplement for energy, for endurance, for focus, and has zero sugar, of course. Now this company been on the market for a long time, but they've improved their formula. So it's much better tasting. They've also added glycine to the formula for muscle strength and better recovery. Now this is the product you take for energy, for focus and endurance. It's amazing. It's an extremely clean formula. It has all the natural ingredients. It has zero sugar and 140 milligrams of caffeine per serving. And it's packed with amino acids and they have amazing flavors. So I recommend everybody go to gfuel.com and at the checkout, dial the code GI 20 for the discount. Yo, were you, were you upset when George Farah hit you with that bill for the first class flight to Australia? Was I say that again? Were you upset when George Farah, uh, sent you that invoice for the first class flight to Australia? You know what? Looking back on it so many years later, what I remember, I remember the tremendous peace of mind that I had when I had to, and I'm gonna be real honest, man, because there were times when I had to do a lot of traveling back then. And one of the things that, you know, any athlete, you know, working in this, you know, in this field, you know, you know, that understands, you know, some of the tricks to the trade, you know, it is, you know, there's nothing like being in a hotel room with a different lighting system than what you've been used to, to track and check and make notes and assess and to feel blind, to literally feel blind, and to be able to trust that you had eyes with you that have been with you for the whole process and were helping you to land the plane. Now, you know, especially when, you know, as an athlete at the top of my game, some years back, that was like, I had a lot of money invested in this. I know. You know what I mean? Once you start talking about a plane ticket for mama and nana and, and, and, and, and coach and, you know, I mean, man, listen, you know, these shows were expensive. I know, man, it's crazy. It's crazy. It's, it's, it is, it is, it is unlike anything. A flight to Australia, bro, first class to Australia is like 10 Gs, man. I remember your former manager was like, what the hell, George Farah? We got to fly in first class to Australia. Oh, well, you know, I'm gonna be honest for me. And this is, and this is one of those things that I, that I believe, you know, Nick Walker is addressing when he is talking about the, his feelings that relate to this, because very honestly, you know, I think he's carried himself with a tremendous amount of integrity, you know, and I think he's also a victim of living at a time when there used to be a time, you just have to wait three months before you could get the results for, you know, the Olympia. We used to wait three months for the issue of the magazine to be published, to hit your newsstand, and all that while, if you weren't privileged enough to have the kind of financial resources and the, the, the luxury time to be able to, you know, just jump on a plane and drop a, you know, a few thousand dollars for a weekend of, you know, VIP, you know, expo and everything else. Yo man, you waited, you waited for three months to get the results and you did it gladly and you celebrated when you got those results. Anyway, I'm saying all it is to say the fast forward, you know, I believe, you know, the athlete is in the position of passion, you know, because you got all the responsibility on your shoulders and listen, man, all of the fans, the sponsors, you know, your ability to even talk about financially looking at what you can depend on as you start doing the numbers, running the numbers for your next, you know, advance in the development of your career, you know, um, like gladiators on, on, on Monday morning, you know, the day after the gladiatorial matches, there are athletes, there are like gladiators that are looking at injuries that are, they're assessing, you know, financial costs, you know, how far are you in the hole right now? Are you trying to afford chicken breast for the next two months? Or are you like, Hey, you know what? I'm just going, you know, you know, I'm Frank and beans it for a minute. Do you think it's a, do you think it's really messed up if, let's say you have a coach, right? Cause I know some athletes do it actually, actually, George Ferrer told me that that happens in the industry. Let's say you have a coach, right? And the week of the competition, you start sending your pictures or talking to other coaches for second opinion, uh, without your coach knowing George Ferrer told me actually this happens to him a lot. People send him pictures, like other athletes that they said, let's say another coach is coaching them, but they want to like get his opinion on it. Um, do you think that's kind of like cheating on your coach? So here's the thing. It's a very interesting position for the coach, because listen, everybody lies, everybody lies. So you're a coach. You got all your eggs invested in this athlete. You want them to do really, really well. You know, you're giving them your time. You're investing your resources, everything that you think, you know, that you've been looking at, you got to step back and research again and again and come back at it with answers to every question that they have. Cause you know, athletes are nervous. They got their pride on the line. They got their, their feelings wrapped up into what they're doing. And now guess what, you know, in their quest for answers, they will eat up a lot of your time, your energy, you know, and we're saying all of that. The truth is every coach has been working in this game long enough. They have to know that everything that they do, their athlete does not tell them everything for everything that you write down on the program. Your athlete will say, absolutely, boss. I'm doing exactly what you said. And the truth is they're still cutting corners. They're still have their own idea of what they think works better for their body. You know, if you put, if you like, you know, George could say, Hey man, I want you to do more grams of, of, of, of, of, um, of carbs. Then I was used to in the beginning of our program, my, my program by myself without him. I wasn't, there was certain, there was certain, um, there was certain, um, it required commitments that at times I was not willing to make, you know, the, the kind of relinquishment of all of them. Did you lie to him? Did you lie to George? Well, what I'm saying is in the beginning, our relationship and our ability to work together grew over time, you know, um, there was a time when I, I, I, you know, I had a, I had a coach and a friend named Oscar Arden many, many, many, many, many years before. I remember, I remember there were no muscle mass days, right? Uh, yeah, yeah. And now here's the thing that I realized as, as we're talking about this, you know, the, the whole idea of the coach, coach client relationship, you know, I think, especially when you're talking about like, you know, being in the spotlight like that, you know, I mean, I guess it can vary from individual to individual, but I know for me, these were, these were very close personal relationships. Yeah. Um, what happened to that guy, man? What happened to that guy, Oscar? Wow. I was, I was looking for him when we were doing your documentary. I needed to interview him and everybody I talked to guy, the guy said, the guy vanished. He like disappears for, for, for maybe a year and then he reappears. What happened to him? Wow. Kaiser Soze. Maybe we could do a new documentary, like finding Nemo. No, I think, I think, I think, you know, I think relationships go through peaks and valleys. I think people grow, we're still evolving and developing as men, you know, and, um, I think your relationship, you know, uh, as, as intimate as a relationship like that can become, you know, I think they're, they're still subject to the same kind of changes. And I think, um, it's okay to be able to, to have a difference of a, of, of opinion and maybe even, you know, a difference in strategy. You know, you may want to do it. You know, I remember one of the things we used to do was sodium loading, sodium load. And, um, I think, you know, I've learned in my career, you know, since then that that's just not something that, uh, that I, that I was very comfortable with doing, you know, and, um, uh, I was fortunate enough to be able to discover other ways to, to kind of, you know, walk through my process of prep and, uh, you know, there was room to learn new things as well. And, uh, you know, George was very, very, very helpful with, with a lot of that, but with saying this, you know, you still have your, your own process of growing to do. And I think that, you know, just because we read stuff or hear one person say one thing or another, you know, when they talk about the, the, the emotional relationship between those two men, I think that ultimately one of the things they don't want to do is hurt each other's business. You know, like as the athlete, you know, you know, he, you know, this young man has to be able to speak positively in a way of talking about the direction of his career and still inspire the fans and people that are, that believe in his campaign to continue to invest in that, you know? Um, so he has to talk a certain way in order to maintain that. That's just the truth, you know? Um, but a lot of times what he may say in an effort to do that may not read as sensitive to the feelings and thoughts of, let's say a person like his coach and then the coach, you know, in his effort to be, you know, classy and dignified and still speak in a way that allows him to solidify his purpose and speak positively to the continued development of his business. He has to market and promote himself as well. And, and the value of the service that he offers, you know, um, and he definitely doesn't benefit from other people hearing some kind of discord between him and a high level client, you know? Um, so even though their emotions can get, you know, uh, intense, the truth is, you know, neither one of them want to speak negatively to each other's business. And I think a lot of times now, because you have, you know, social media and live mics everywhere, you know, it can very, it can be very hard and very easy to inflame, you know, um, one of the other's feelings. So I think at the end of the day, it's, it's not a question of loyalty because I don't think, I don't, I don't think, I don't think it's really a question of loyalty at all. I think that in the effort to be successful, you know, a company that's looking to advance, they have to, you know, be willing to throw, throw things at the wall and see what sticks, you know, um, and they may have to pivot very hard sometimes in order to restore themselves to profitability. Um, and what should they do that? The company is not going to be considered as a disloyal, you know, to the, to the original, you know, program that they thought about implementing or strategy that they were supposed to be in line with, you know, last year, if they have to pivot hard and, and, you know, to, to improve, um, profitability. So I think the same thing, you know, these it's, it's, it's, it's only a headline for now, but it's a headline that doesn't allow us to really, you know, explore all the dynamic of their relationship. Um, these two men can very easily still, you know, be friends. They'll still, you know, have an opportunity sometime down the line to maybe regroup. Um, and should they do that, you know, um, that's always an option available. I think that, I think that, um, that Nick is in the, in the process of, of sorting some very important things out, you know, um, I know what it's like to go to the Olympia, you know, this is the biggest show of your career and the, you know, two days before the show, you know, your, your, your coach, you know, uh, you know, weeder, the Olympia sat down, had this great meeting and it's like, oh snap, I might get, this is about to happen. I'm about to get the green light, you know, everything that's been going up in press prior to this show has been an invite. You've been welcomed into the good graces of the industry. And now your career is, is, is, is, you know, where you were once the butt of the joke. Now people are calling you by your last name first, you know, you went from being Mr. Grapefruit God to Mr. Green, you know, and it's like, wow, this is really about to happen. You know, I don't want to mess this up. I'm so excited. I want to do my best at the show. And everything that you've been doing is just getting you ready for this one moment. You have everything invested in just one performance and you know, something happens. Some two or three things happen in your, in your hotel room, two, three days before the show, the show happens, you're on stage and you're not in the first call out, but you look around. Okay, hold on, stand up, stay hard, hold on, keep it together, keep it together. Wait a minute, wait a minute. You're not in the second call out. And it's like, Houston, we have a problem. And it's like now, okay, here you are. This is the third call out, but you know, you know, this is not good. This is not good. Everything that I've done all year, everything, every, I was, I was in shape before I was supposed to be in shape. I've drained this. I slept this. I breathe this. I was, this is, this is not supposed to happen like this. And it does. When the smoke clears and the dust settles, you're outside of the top where you expect it to be. But not only that, you're not even where your supplement company expected you to be as well. And guess what? That means that next year, the year's not even over yet. And when your contract comes up for a new, you got real questions to answer. You got real people in your household that are looking at you going, yo, mister, you know, you're going to, how's this thing going to work out? And you're like, it's going to work out this way. How will you justify spending all this time in the gym training? How will you justify spending all this time, you know, getting yourself together mentally to be on top of your game, to continue to advance as an athlete that's ready to cut, cut them down and battle. I do this. This is my, I believe in this. I'm invested in anyway. Long story short. Yeah, man. It's, it's very, very, very tough Monday. It's all Oscar's fault, man. Just blame it on Oscar. We got to find that guy, man. We got to find Oscar, bro. We got to go look fun. All right, Kai, we have a, we have a lightning round of questions, all right? So you remember the rules, right? One question and a one minute answer, yeah? Yes, let's get it. All right. And today our questions are brought to us by a new sponsor, G Fuel. Very happy for that. All right, Kai. Oh snap, shout out to G Fuel, let's go. Yes, yes. All right. So the first question that was submitted to us is by remember tank 012. That's an interesting question, Kai. I know you're going to like that one. Um, so he's asking, you think, Kai, you can beat Phil, uh, Phil Heath in a fist fight? How about Sean Ray? How about them together at the same time? Oh, man. Well, I mean, honestly, I have a tremendous amount of respect for, for, uh, For which one? All right. All right. So can you beat him in a fist fight, Phil Heath or Sean Ray? What do you think? That's the question though. I got, you know, we got to answer it. Man, I, I, I wouldn't even entertain a question like that. I don't want to answer it, okay. Are you kidding? You know what I, you know what I would look like, you know? It'd be a crazy clip, right? You know what I would look like even, even, First of all, Sean Ray is a, is a dude. I mean, I remember being a kid. You're not mad at him anymore for that article. Huh? You're no longer mad at him for that article. There you go, man. But it's funny how time, it's funny how time heals everything, right? Like, time just, you, you kind of forget about things that you were upset about. I'm just saying. Well, you know what? It's exactly my point. This is why, like, you know, for two personalities, you know, in the spotlight, like Nick Walker and, and, and his, um, coach, you know, ex-coach. Um, this is why it, you know, you hear what they say. Come on, Kai. It's almost unfair. Too soon. Too soon. Come on. Hey, hey, no, no, no, no, no. I think, I think, you know, there's a lot to be said for when a man declares, you know, openly, hey man, I gotta go a different, I gotta go a different route. You know, um, he was unsatisfied with, with, with the route that he's taken. And there's, there's a lot to be said for respecting that, you know, um, um, he has to, he has to have his own peace of mind. I remember, man, I'm telling you, I remember going to the Olympia, spent all these years trying to develop the, the, the, the, the, the ticket to get there. I remember going to that dance and not being invited. And finally, finally, you got the invite to the dance, you know, you had the meeting with Weider, you know, everything is looking like, man, this is about to open up, open sesame. And hey man, you know, we've made some miscalculations that evident, ultimately I was going to have to answer for as the athlete. I am the person that is in as responsible for answering for what happens to my, uh, my ship. I'm the captain. It doesn't matter who, you know, what, what credentialing we want to give, you know, to, to the reputable name of the coach, you know? Um, and it doesn't matter what kind of negatives you may not want his business to, to sustain or be hit with. But yo man, at the end of that, you know, you know, you know, first call out, we were always working for the first call out. And now through some miscalculations, you know, we are well outside of that. We find ourselves well outside of that. And, and the truth is no matter what anybody can say, you know, the only person that has to stand on that stage in front of everyone, you know, I don't care what you say later on in the comfort of your own home on a, on your own camera, you know, you know, you know, trying to be diplomatic and responsible in the, in the, in the, in the best effort that even a, a well-meaning, you know, high value personality coach can do and saying, Hey, well, you know, I take responsibility for what happened. The truth is you are not the athlete that had to stand on stage at the biggest Super Bowl event of our sport and take that egg on the face and then have to be asked the question over and over again in the heart of every fan, every enthusiast, even other companies that particularly, potentially were looking at you as, as, as maybe someone to invest in, in an effort to continue to help your campaign advance forward. And like, Hey man, what happened? What do you say? You got to answer that. You have to answer that. And it's not, it's not, it's not unfair to imagine that that can sit in the soul of the man, you know, ah, you know, you can, you know, you got to choke back some tears sometimes and think about that. It's like, it's, it is like, it is the most uncomfortable position that you could possibly find yourself in, you know, as the athlete that is committed to improving your game and trying to come in there and, and, and come in there and, and, hey, all right, brother, respect. Oh man. So I assume you didn't fly a Oscar first class to Olympia, right? How about this? How about this? You only got to pay for the first class. If you get in the first call out, that's a good rule, right? Oh, but see, that's the thing. You don't have a border in the system like that. You know, you don't have a border in that, you know, um, you make your, your, your arrangements and stuff. And the truth is, you know, you have to answer for everything that you do. The ends justify the means. And sometimes they don't. All right. We got, we got, we have two more questions, man. I don't know how we got from fighting Phil Heath to this, but, uh, anyway, let's go to the next question. All right. The next one is, uh, from forever flexing. This one is kind of, uh, you got to help me understand that a little bit. So forever flexing is asking if you could make one food or meal calorie, calorie free on all your preps, what would it be? So one food, regardless of calorie, uh, that you would eat on all your prep, what would it be? One food, calorie free, calorie free means you can eat, I guess, as much as you want of it, but just one. Uh, honestly, I, you know what I used to struggle with, with the, with the process. Of getting ready. I remember eating, uh, I remember eating ice cream. I remember eating ice cream on season, offseason, you know, on season, I wouldn't touch it, you know, um, but offseason, man, I put it down by the half gallon and have to go back and get another half. And then before you know it, two gallons in and it's like, I feel terrible, but I used to, I loved eating ice cream, you know, and now I had to follow that with two large pizza pies. And it was like, yo, I'm a, I'm a train tomorrow hard, like a beast of strong as hell in the gym. But I was at the very, very, very earlier stages of my, my pizza pies. Yeah, I used to, yeah, man. I used to pizza pies. Wow. And it didn't matter that I was lactose intolerant now. Oh my God. We used to put it down. I'm telling you, but I'm saying all it is to say that when it came time to get, you know, into the, the, the, the throes of, of deep, you know, contest prep, and I had to say goodbye to those things. The most difficult thing that I used to wrestle with was my, the, the, the ideas that I would talk about being addicted to food. The taste. Oh man, I can't, I can't, I can't. And I would cry about it while I'd be doing my, but once I got focused on, on like focusing on, you know, being successful, elevating my career, being the physique that I wanted to be on stage and recognize that the way to do that was through my eating and controlling that and managing that more effectively at the end of the day, that was just something I drudged through, got it done and kept moving. The idea of being able to be a successful athlete is not determined by my genetics. Fuck forget the genetics, Patreon. What's up? Forget the genetics, forget the genetics. We're now just talking about decisions, the power of our choices. So that all of that said, there was a time when I had to learn, you know, and I understood that there's a very powerful sword that you wield when you're able to control your thinking and use that over, you know, uh, asserting your dominion over, you know, the things that you eat and want to eat them. So long story short, I got to a place where I used to fight for it, but I got to the place where I was able to control that. And, um, I had some interesting stories about how I got to, but with all of that said, I want to say to you that at this stage in my life and career, so many, many years later, I've now, I stopped counting, you know, my process of prepping things, you know, at 20 years, um, as sure as I am sitting here in front of you, I've now come to the place of understanding that it's been well, much more than that. The time that I have invested in this game as an athlete, as a training enthusiast and, you know, contest prep and bodybuilding practitioner of my own, um, um, uh, elevated sense of what it means to be a craftsman in this game. And that said, yeah, man, I don't care about the way food tastes now, whether I'm on, on contest prep or, or eating normally, it's all just eating normally for me now. I don't, you know, and I think that that's kind of like a rites of passage that now looking back on it, I realized it's something that many may want to work toward attaining because that is, you're not controlled by your addiction to food, or you're not controlled by, you know, your desire to claim that food or anything has dominion over you. Like, you know, you're a champion, not because of your genetics, but because of your choices, you know? Um, so I say all of that to say like, yeah, nah, it doesn't matter to me. If I had to, if I was focused on getting ready to, to, to be my best right now, I just, I just want to do that, you know, and whatever I had to do on the, on the program, um, that determined was the, was the, the specific way that I needed to eat for the extended periods of time that I needed to do that, that, that we just, it would just, that's just what it is. It's not a, you know, I don't care about, Hey, does this taste? Oh, this is so good. I love it. Like, it's not like training your entire body. You have to like, you have to love training your entire body. Not like, well, I just love training legs. I love training back. Like, like, cause to be a, to be a physique artist and a, and a, a bodybuilding athlete at the top of the game, you really have to, you can't, you know, just love training arms, you know? So when it comes down to training them other body parts, I'm like, I don't know, it's just a little drudgery, but now when it comes to arms, Hey, I just love arm, arm, arm, arm, arm. Nah, man, you have to love everything equally, or just be, be even across the board because you need to train everything even across the board. And sometimes you may need to train some body parts more. You may need more volume, you know, to, to, to overcome some set points or sticking points in even your development, you know? Um, so yeah, yeah, nah, I don't. Got it. All right. Okay. We have a last question. This one is a Patreon special because it's controversial and we're going to get flagged for it. All right, I think we're out of time, man. Thank you so much for answering these questions. I know people are going to be excited to hear your answers. And, uh, what are you about to go to the gym right now? Where are you? Actually, I'm still on my way home. Oh man. Sorry. It's been a long journey, brother, but I feel so much better for it. Uh, we're great seeing you, man. Till next time. Um, I wish you nothing but the best. Likewise V. All right, brother. Okay. On this note, I guess we're going to bring this show to a close. So thankful for each and everyone that's tuned in. I want to encourage you to continue to fight the good fight, whatever that fight is for you. Real talk, your achievement, your success, your failure belongs to you. Succeed, succeed, succeed. Until next time, let's keep it positive. Let's keep encouraging each other. And the green effect is over and out. Peace. Peace. too