 Iron, your boy, Vlad Uten, we're going to do something really awesome today. We're going to have a little bit of a conversation. Ain't that right, Vlad? Oh, yes, sir. The last episode ruffled some feathers, man. A lot of people were debating in the comments about your comeback scenario with Phil and everything else. So people were really, you know, they had a lot of emotions about it. Really? What does that mean, V? What does that mean? Well, some were agreeing with you, you know, some were disagreeing with you. Some said, you know, maybe it's time to let it go and not compete anymore, you know. So it was a mixture of emotions, I guess. That's what's up. That's what's up. Well, I mean, you know, everyone is entitled to their opinion and their point of view. I'm just glad they even cared to share it with us, you know, putting it in the comments so somebody can read it. I agree with you. That's what matters, you know what I mean? It matters that people care. That's what really matters. All right, Kai, we got a lot of things to talk about today, right? Let's do it. But you want to do a lightning round of questions first, what people want to hear from you? You know what? I would love to do a lightning round. Go ahead. Let's do it. Hopefully you won't ask me anything too scary. Well, you can always say I want to skip that question or I choose not to answer, right? You can. It's up to you, Kai. It's your show, man. You know what? So I like drink champs for a second. I'm like, no, maybe not. Because we don't drink. Do you ever watch drink champs on YouTube? Yeah, I mean, yeah. Who hasn't? Who hasn't? I mean, you know, they've had some very awesome guests. I'd like to be an awesome guest. Yeah, man. All right. Let's take it to the first questions. This one is from Brandon Perkins 176. Hey, Kai, have you ever thought about creating your own bodybuilding venue like Arnold Schwarzenegger, Jay Cutler, Lee Haney, or Phil Heath? Glad I met you in person back in 2017. Keep up the good work. So he's referring to having your own, like, Kai Green classic, basically. I think you actually had one at one point. Yeah, yeah. We actually ran a very successful Kai Green classic. Friend of mine, Gene, my man, out there. And, man, we did an awesome show, I think, for a couple years. It was actually really, really inspirational to me. Because I'd never thought about being able to see myself realize such a valuable work and a lot of effort to actually throw your own show. Lend your name and attract resources that would provide a platform for other people to stand on and actually, you know, see some of their own dreams come true. You know, I think it's a very interesting thing to do. Of course, to answer the question. Yeah, I loved it. I loved the idea of it. And I would definitely be open to explore something like that. Yeah. Yeah. I would really like to even have a hand in some of the judging or some of the routine and maybe even come up with a criteria that would be used to select, you know, some really entertaining routines worth being awarded, you know. I agree with you. Yeah. A lot of bodybuilders have that these days, you know, like they mentioned Branch, Lee Haney, a lot of people have that. It's something worthy because what it does is it improves the show quality. I think it gives the athletes a lot more to work for. And it opens up a new conversation of how you can develop your own vision to show your physique and how you develop your own ability to present that vision in a way that makes sense practically on stage. Yes, sir. I agree with you. All right. Let's go to the next one. This one, you might not want to answer. I'm not sure. But I guess we'll keep it transparent with the people. Right. So this one is from Eric Sanchez figure nine, nine, eight, six, zero. So he's asking here, do you think that you have something to win in bodybuilding? I'm assuming he means something, something more to win in bodybuilding. Ah, so that's a good question. Really good question. Do you think you have something more to win in bodybuilding? I once heard Lee Labrada given an interview just before being announced as the next competitor to take the stage at the Olympia so many years ago. And I remember one thing that he said in this interview that always kind of stuck with me. He said that as he prepared for every show in his life, in his career, he said he merged on the other side of that preparation with new insights into himself. Now, he didn't say it exactly the way I'm saying it, but, you know, I'm kind of agreeing. I got to paraphrase it just a little. But what I took away from that was that, you know, there was opportunity offered you or certainly I found there was so much opportunity offered to me when I prepared to get ready to compete. I mean, there's always the traditional stuff that you have to think about. But, you know, on the other side of that process of preparation, you know, I felt like you do emerge with some new insights into yourself. How you how you critically thought to solve problems that came up and that would sometimes arise when you think about putting together a day of consistent effort and action. That would, you know, eat on time, train on time, walk through your day with with the same kind of mathematic certainty that you would need in order to feel as if this was a day of success versus a day where there's a whole bunch of excuses and reasons why you didn't complete your assignments that ultimately are going to be responsible for helping you get there. And do the work that you want to do. So, yeah, there is always something to win, I think. They say when students ready to teach you will appear every time. I think I found myself ready to work to realize the new thing that was going to be helpful in my process of development. It was not a surprise to discover on the other side of the work that, yes, there was a reward there. I think with saying that, yeah, every time you get ready to compete, there is something to learn. And with those lessons, there's something, you know, to win. So, yeah, there are there are things to win. It may not necessarily be a trophy. You know, it may not be the title as much as the new insights, I think, into the discovery of who you are and what you are and what that will mean with these new accomplishments to your credit. I think the personal discovery is there with each time you prepare. Yeah. Last question. This one is this one's kind of funny. I don't know. Troy Jim nine asking, hey, Kai, have you ever gotten gotten on an eating binge? What's the most you have eaten in one sitting? Dexter Jackson said you have ran up $150 bill at IHOP just for yourself. Is that true? I saw that video of Dexter Jackson saying that he's he's seen you eat $150 worth of food at IHOP back in years ago, which was difficult to do at that time. Not probably easy, but back then just for yourself. Nobody. I eat, Kai. terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms terms will spike your caloric needs and maybe burn up a hell of a lot more than you can you know at another time in your life even imagine that you can use um i've been training now um for the better part of of of a few years i learned earlier in my career though that the best the best growers are the best um the best athletes in my sport were the best eaters you know a lot of times you'll meet someone and they'll tell you oh man could you write out a diet for me or hey can you put together my eating strategy because i want to bulk up or i want to put on some more muscle and and i i want to fill in the blank and the best piece of wisdom i can say is one of the things that i learned when i was a teenager learn how to get out of your own way i ate with the expectation of defining myself as as the best eater so that meant that once i identify what my goals were you know if the goal here was to actually put on more size then i needed more calories right a lot of times when you tell that to someone hey man you're going to need to eat more calories the first thing they'll say back to you is oh i i eat a lot or i can't eat because fill in the blank at work my job my parents or my my family wouldn't support it i just can't afford to eat more calories and it's like well then why even ask the question you know so if i need to eat more calories then the first thing out of my mouth with eating more calories is how do i get more calories in my mouth even when it came to concerts i'm getting on a diet and getting ready for stage being the best eater meant that i don't have to start my diet over and over again because i keep falling off the wagon lacking the ability to control myself it's only inevitable that at another time in my life when it came time to eat and eat heartily after an accomplishment like winning a show or needing to spike my calories um in a major way to kind of move the needle in the direction that i wanted to go most i could do it um and it wasn't as challenging or as difficult a lot of times as we would imagine it to be um when we don't have that practice well that was our lightning round of questions brought to us by pro-am facebook pro is coming up yes in a few weeks uh there were some updates you know these days i know you didn't do it back in the day but these days athletes they post uh progress updates nick walker i don't know if you got a chance to see i'm sure you did but nick walker posted some updates updates and chrizzo michael chrizzo from europe posted an update they both look um wow they both look uh out of this world you know very muscular already very dense i wanted to get your opinion on both of those gentlemen um specifically and see what what physique are you leaning towards in this situation oh wow well it's a it's a very interesting question when i was a teenager coming up i remember one of the things that happened for me is when i looked in the magazines and i saw these athletes that looked amazing um each one of them if you asked me had something that i wished that i could have and possibly you know could develop for myself um if i got that chance would i want to do it absolutely um a lot of times it wasn't it wasn't all wrapped up in just one physique you know i'm sure there are plenty of people that have probably looked in the old magazines and saw like you know i want the chest of arnold with the with the muscular separation of uh you know franco colombo and you know technically i'm not a very tall guy so franco colombo came up a lot um as a champion for me um when i was a kid um and i mean tons of other bodybuilders but i'll say this um these photos that you're talking about if we were talking about mike michael first technically this dude looks like you know next level x-men marvel movie studio it does oh my god like a mutant yeah i don't even a mutant is is the most fitting word i could imagine right you know first of all the guy's taller than i am right um and just an ungodly amount of muscle um that looks like an anatomy chart it looks like all the damn time it's like it's very hard to find a photo of uh mr chrizzo with no um well i'm sorry it looks like he left his skin at home you know so um um yeah i there's you know there's a part of me that sometimes imagines that there's some muscular proportions that you know might just be even outside of the realm of possibility for even yourself you know um like you know when i was a kid i aspired to be big and huge and then you know there's probably never a time when you thought you know well that's too big you know um i want to be huge i want to be huge and then you know i look at pictures of mike now and i'm like ah i don't know i don't know if i ever wanted to be that big um you know funny thing though um he went and turned pro in a very interesting way here in our organization um he's got some mileage on him he actually comes from another organization and he's you know fighting the good fight i would imagine um this is going to be a big show for him even though he's actually won um another couple pro shows to his credit he won like every when he was in a different organization the ibb europe or whatever he won like everything there is to win and then he moved to the npc first you know and then he got to get a pro card from scratch basically it's a crazy story if you think about it so enough and the spotlight is uh is going to be on him um and this is going to be i think this is a really good time for him and his star you know um it'll be interesting it'll be interesting to see what happens you know even his his calves his leg separation from the front i mean like yeah um anatomy chart material all day and still a relatively small waist i i i like i i like a lot of the the the photos we get a chance to see of him online that are never you know never photoshopped i mean just just the raw shots of him are just really really really impressive i think i've only gotten a chance to meet him once if that oh really have you met nick walker before now i'm gonna tell you a funny story because i ain't even get to nick walker i'm just talking about mr chriso because i want to be you know fair but then i gotta be i gotta say this so i'm guest posing right and this is like maybe a good like more than 10 years ago you know i'm traveling my career is like really doing well at the time um i show up and people seem to know who i am and anticipate that i was going to be there even before i show up and i feel um i feel like there's a lot of responsibility with that but anyway um i get out there i guest pose while i get finished guest posing i'm coming to the back and there's like people backstage and you know i might have to stop and take a picture with someone and someone else and the other athletes that are competing and they're like amateurs inspired and inspired and aspiring and it's like okay you know hey stop here take a picture with a woman okay hey stop there to take a picture with someone else hey stop here take a picture with this baby-faced little dude that's like his mom was there and he was like okay well you know hey man you know good luck be encouraged you know you have this little moment right but it is like it's a moment and it happens so quickly and then so many years later if somebody were to stop you and say hey man do you remember this you'd probably be like well you know uh sure sure and then they show you a photo and the photo of them hey man i was back to the show i took this photo with you and it's like wow this little guy is great he's like you know all right little man you know fast forward this little man has morphed into one of the most awe-inspiring uh physiques in the modern day of our sport right now there's there's there's so much to be said about the story and energy that nick walker brings things to the stage to the conversation right now yeah you know um it is it is humbling as much as we can say your thoughts become things or you know there's there's always this limitless possibility that you know is in the distance in front of you um whether you choose to be an optimist or not you know i think it is just always um unsettling sometimes to realize just how real that is you know sometimes you can be caught up in your own uh responsibilities and magic of your own moment that a lot of times you you don't even know or or realize who it is that you are in front of or who's giving you a moment there's a part of me that feels just because i i have the humbling experience of having been backstage you know at one of these you know shows you were guest posing at and you know to see like you see like a baby warrior you know what i mean i mean i mean just just just see a baby warrior like before you know they put on all the armor and they learn how to use all of their tactical equipment and like you know um but in that moment that they stop and take that photo with you it's almost as if their energy is saying yo man watch me just watch me you know and i can't take no credit for it i can't say it was because of anything that i had to do but i am in awe and humbled you know by just having the opportunity to even talk about that experience i see it from this side of it and yeah i'm biased man i'm biased do you want to make a prediction without don't please don't be politically correct who do you think don't be don't be politically correct without without being biased or unbiased who do you predict is going to win the piss rock pro just one person okay you ready for it i am this this this is it we might even need a drum roll on this one mean special effects all right the man that is gonna win the pittsburgh club this year 2025 is the man that wants it most come on kai i'm saying it it's for real check me on that check me on that hey i'm gonna be honest there is there are people that might say hey man i really really want this i want it so bad and and the stats on paper say yep you know what this guy i don't know if you know but i know i was in the trenches i was getting ready for something called the arnold classic one year and it was the first time that i got a chance to get to the arnold classic after for two years i wrote hey how you doing my name is ty green i turned pro i'd love to be couldn't get an invite i couldn't get a return call or nothing not a nothing nah da fast forward i get a chance to go and i place third i place i place third behind two guys that are the next within the next three years are going to become mr olympia that's amazing so now i had to go back i got ready to go to my first arnold classic where i was i wanted to win i believed i could do it and it was like the only reason why the other two guys that were eventually going to become mr olympia didn't go into that arnold classic was because the guy the one guy that had already fought mr olympia and was now declared an uncrowned mr olympia was going to come into the arnold classic that year and because that was so everybody in the industry was was like well that's the guy is going to win that's it you know on paper it was senseless for me to even think about trying you know it was like oh uh well this this guy who was bad as hell i mean i'm talking about none other than victor martinez i mean back then you know they called him the dominican dominated there was a time when that was just you know that's what it was if he showed up even at like 60 percent his 60 percent was better than like 98 percent of like the whole you know pro kingdom back then i mean so the idea of going into the show and he said hey well you know who you got on paper if you asked anybody back then i was mr grapefruit guy anyway so it was always grateful jokes or whatever and at the end of the day with that said nobody would have said yeah i think i think i might be there in the running i think he might actually even nah it wasn't it wasn't even it was actually two weeks after the show that people were still watching the videos and saying well you know what i i guess maybe yeah maybe maybe so i don't know man it left it left a permanent mark on me because so you never know you can't ever say you just work and i'm gonna tell you because back then i remember i went out to i went out to la i trained at gold's gym living the bodybuilding dream i i um i invested everything i had that year getting ready for the arnold classic i i emptied my bank account i was done this was it this is the rock that i will build my church on and i'll just deal with everything else that happens after that after that but make no mistake about it it wasn't funny to hear that the the the dominican dominator was coming in at that time and back then this dude was bulletproof you know i remember yeah anyway yeah it's crazy so yeah i don't want to do that i want to encourage everybody i understand so so are you a fan of dr mike israel do you know do you know the the gentleman that's been basically trending on youtube uh he's he's not a bodybuilder but he has an impressive physique and he is like very knowledgeable when it comes to science training and substances he made a whole video about you dissecting it's one of your older videos it's the video is basically dissecting how you lift how you used to eat how you posed and he's giving you like major props uh saying you did everything 100 correct like the whole video is dedicated to you yeah yeah and he's you know he's been very popular uh i don't know what you think about that guy you know i've i've i've seen i've seen a lot of his videos recently he's been really he's become really popular um i in fact i met him once i think in las vegas oh you did around olympia time really really bright and insightful dude i think um um he's got he's got a dope kind of wit that is uh entertaining he's got it he's got his thing he's got his niche absolutely um yeah and and just really aware really aware i've i've learned in fact i've learned quite a few things watching some of his videos and training yeah absolutely wow yeah because he's not he's not a buddy he's not a bodybuilder he's more just a knowledgeable guy yeah you know it's funny because you can spend a lifetime um training you know in the gym and you know moving around in your own fitness journey um and experience the world of that fitness experience man you know it's so funny because i realized i can't afford to have a big ego about the things that i believe i understand about my training i just recently have discovered the opportunity to you know do some other training and there was a time when i really thought that forget it you know not to say i had a big ego but listen man i learned how to how to build my legs you know i learned how to painstakingly you know rep after rep set after set chosen exercise after chosen exercise worked and worked to master the form to something that i understood to sculpt the physique or build the physique that ultimately you know was able to stand on the world stage and collect top honors amongst you know the best in my business and industry every time that i've allowed myself to be available and to hear other people's point of view and insights related to training um even exercises that i feel like i was just very very well aware of um and can write books of and on it myself um i have been surprised to rediscover a whole lot of new opportunity to to learn more and um uh i have felt that way um when viewing some of the video work that i've seen him do so shout out to him in addition to training though right like uh mike dr mike and uh greg do set and people like they're very popular online i'm mentioning those two because they they're hugely popular but in addition to training they very openly talk about substances steroids they talk about a variety of things in a very open manner right without necessarily censorship yeah um do you think what did you take on that because obviously i mean they're knowledgeable i'm sure right they're both coaches they both have experienced but like do you think opening up about that to the extent because you come from the era where nobody was were to even uh mention things like that like an open public forum right but they're very open about i mean and they generate a lot of interest but do you think that's kind of like it could be slightly dangerous or not do you think it's a good thing i think information is important to have um i think there are you know there are different audiences for which information can be more or less appropriate um right you know um the opportunity to have access to information um is something that you want most of all particularly when you need it you know um and you know it's funny because at this stage in my life you have a lot of people that are dealing with um being you know slightly older and dealing with you know other issues with their testosterone high or low and you know it's become a lot more accessible and more accepted it's more accepted valid and valuable conversation to have you know um and i guess yeah i i never want to say that well no one should have access to this information the discussions are real i think there is something to be said for you know being able to identify your audience you know um and and how do we protect you know an audience that doesn't um doesn't have any business knowing i mean like when i was a kid there were you know when grown folks would talk they would tell the children to leave the room you know uh up bedtime you know when they turn on that red light and that marvin gay come on hello somebody about to get pregnant i mean um um well kids just didn't belong in the room so um yeah and i think that that the same opportunities exist i think in some of the conversations that we have if if it is that we put them in a in a in a place that you can go to obviously to get that information when you need it um it's great and um yeah i wouldn't i wouldn't discourage it i would i guess i would when i needed some questions answered it was very comfortable knowing that oh is that what that is okay you know um so uh yeah but that was just that was disgusting that was discussed in private though they openly talking about it on youtube that's the only difference you know how many times have you been able to benefit from a conversation that was just open and even though it wasn't on the forefront of my thoughts there are moments where i just happen to be in passing and you know you it's like scrolling through your your your instagram and it's like that thing that comes up that's like oh oh oh is that what that is oh you know at any other time i might have said hey this is not appropriate to be here i i i wasn't even thinking in those lines but like now you know when that when that topic comes up with that particular piece of information that applies to you you know suddenly you know um i'm glad i had that opportunity i'm i'm glad there are people that are able to talk very candidly about i was wondering how you felt about it yeah i was wondering uh i think i think it serves a purpose you know i think it it serves a purpose and and you know personally the the the the things that i wouldn't want to say publicly you know um just in an effort for me to do what i think is responsible for my brand and um my the the trajectory of my career um you know um but with that said um for people that feel differently and are able to tackle those issues you know head on in a way that creates fruit for everybody um i ain't i ain't mad at you i ain't mad at you yeah all right brother great seeing you man till next time hey but i appreciate uh having the opportunity thank you guys of course checking in and letting us do what we do and with that note i'm gonna say to you if you've been listening you've been hearing the words and voice of your boy vlad huden and kai green this has been the kai green effect and we are over and out peace you