 naringin, ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode ode All right, man. How you been? How's everything? I'm great. I'm great. I'm great. Very much in flux, though. Doing a little bit of traveling. Road trip. Oh, yeah? Where you going? Studio, man. KI Afro King is for real. It's for real. That's amazing. I'm happy about that, man. That's good. Well, it's definitely something. It's definitely something creative, artistic. It's a pursuit that I think allows me to kind of blend a bunch of different things together. Kyle, you remember when you had that booth at New York Comic Con? That was cool, man. That was a cool experience. Yeah. Yeah, I expect to do more stuff like that very soon. I have an independent comic book company, so to speak, called Dynamic Muscle Company Comics. Yeah, man. I got some dope stuff. Working on. Amazing. Thank you for bringing me in. Yeah, man. The expo was, the New York Comic Con is actually huge. But ever since the Arnold Classic just finished, right? I don't know if the fans are caught on to it yet, but it's like a rivalry that's going on between the Olympia and the Arnold Classic, right? Do you know about this or no? I mean, I'm pretty sure people caught on to it by now, no? The prize money. Well, I tell you what. Did you hear about the prize money? Exactly. The prize money is one of those things. Oh, man. And then, of course, who has the bigger expo? Well, the expo at the Arnold this year was no joke. This was really, really, really good. Did you see it at all? I saw footage from the expo. It was huge. Oh, man. It is official, official, official. I know some places took a big hit since COVID. But it would appear that, you know, to the day, you know, the expo or the ability to think that people are being held back still in fear or, you know, still kind of dealing with the mishaps related to COVID. And now we're officially on the other side of that. Oh, yeah. No, 1000%. But it's funny, the whole rivalry thing, because they're both kind of like under the IFBB pro umbrella, right? So it's like it's the same sanctioning organization, right? Yeah, absolutely. Clearly, right? So it's kind of like it's interesting why, right? Why this is going on, right? What do you think about it? Well, I think it's really not clear what, you know, things may be looming beneath the surface regarding why it exists and if there really is a thing to consider existing at all. I know that the Olympia has raised the prize money or talked about raising the prize money for this year, in this case, 2026. And it would appear that, you know, Arnold Schwarzenegger, during this Arnold event, made what was the largest cash prize presentation on stage of $750,000. For the first place, right? Yes, for the first place. Well, that's true. But, you know, what's interesting is that, so Arnold Classic, they have less divisions, right? They have less divisions represented where Olympia has to. I think they're obligated to represent every single division that exists in IFBB because that's like the pathway to, you know, to get that Olympia, basically, right? But where Arnold is, they only do a few divisions and then they basically do invites, right? So it's less athletes competing. So if you add up the prize money from all divisions, right, the Olympia is paying out more to the athletes overall. But the Arnold Classic, they got the number one spot as the most for the first place winner. That's interesting, you know. Obviously, you know, for the headline, for the first prize, $750,000 sounds great, you know. But if you do a calculation of how much Olympia is spending, it's probably more, you know. But I guess I don't know how people even think about these things. I tell you what, I tell you who wouldn't think about it. The person that's taking home that $750,000 check. Yeah, yeah. You know, they also actually, you know, do a very significant presentation because they did the Lifetime Achievement Award. Now, I remember personally going through my own experience with, like, you know, working to get, you know, just even the right to go to the Arnold. Originally, I'd been a pro for two years. I turned pro. I wrote, I sent in little videos and stuff. I was, you know, trying to get the attention of whom the powers were to, you know, be invited to the Arnold. And my first two years of trying to do that went just, you know, unnoticed. And eventually, when I did finally get an invite to the Arnold Classic, I remember I'd already experienced some really cool victory opportunities. I got better already had to win my first pro show and on to, you know, securing another pro win just before I was actually able to get, you know, an invite to the Arnold. But I say all this to say that when I finally did get to the Arnold, I was so excited. You know, I spent so much time, so many years training. The first year I got to the Arnold, I competed and I placed outside of the top two. I actually placed somewhere third. That was big. And back then, Arnold Schwarzenegger only shook the hand of the overall winner. You know, this is back at a time when you had the governor of Schwarzenegger that a lot of people, a lot of new fans may find it very, very difficult to recall. But back when he was governor, you couldn't get close to him, you know. And if you did, it was only one person, the one champion of the evening, you know, that got a chance to actually shake his hand and be presenting with the trophy. Now, you know, Arnold's become so much more giving and generous with his time and his attention. I mean, he really, really ran himself, you know, around ragged almost, I think, that weekend, making appearances, coming to the booth. He came to our booth at Darksport, which I think is a customary thing that he tries to do at the expo earlier in the morning. But with saying that, he also kept the commitment of the conference, the champion seminar. That was really awesome. And he gave the athletes an opportunity to stand on a platform with him, take a photo. And he also, you know, signed autographs and things for fans and enthusiasts. There was another notable thing that I thought was really, really amazing. Because back at a time when Arnold Schwarzenegger would only shake the one hand of the winner, they also gave away a Lifetime Achievement Award that was huge and prestigious in itself. And I remember working really, really hard for two years to get an invite. And then finally, when I got an invite, I placed third, which meant that I missed getting an opportunity to shake his hand. So I went back to the projects, trained really hard to come back the next year. And I was fortunate enough to, you know, actually earn a top placing. And he did end up shaking my hand. But that year, I also saw him shake the hand of someone else. And it was the winner of the Lifetime Achievement Award. And that award was prestigious by itself. And it was huge. That year, officially, they gave it to a bodybuilder. Well, a person that I thought wasn't a bodybuilder at all. You know, I couldn't believe it. I was wondering, you know, and they flew this guy in. You know, and... Who was it? It actually turned out to be Sylvester Stallone. Oh, wow. Who, by the way, I discovered actually really did become a bodybuilder. You know, back in the day, he trained with Franco Colombo. Franco Colombo was like his coach. And like, it's really amazing. This dude actually did go through the metabolic system. I've seen that footage. I've seen that footage. Hey, when do you think they're going to give you the Life Achievement Award? I don't know anything about that. I think one day, I mean, maybe sooner than later, right? You're definitely on the radar, 100%. Well, you know what? To be honest with you, I tell you what. I was so excited for Dexter Jackson to win the Lifetime Achievement Award this year. I felt like I got a chance to win just to see him do it. You know, Dexter Jackson is like, he's an athlete that has experienced more than three decades of being at the top of the food chain in the sport. Right. If there's anybody that's, I think, that's put up a body of work like that, you know, I have to say, you know, like Milo Sarashev, you know, comes to my mind immediately. Sure. But certainly no one is like Dexter Jackson. Dexter Jackson, the blade, officially with the Lifetime Achievement Award. I felt like I've loved that guy behind the scenes. I've looked up to him. I still look up to him today. Yeah, man. I was very, very, very excited to see him win the Lifetime Achievement Award if you're on a classic. Do you know if Arnold Schwarzenegger had a fallout with Joe Weider by any chance? Is that what caused the rivalry? Did they have a fallout? No. Well, I don't know if you're aware, Vlad, but Joe Weider has passed on. Rest in peace. Of course. He's, you know, he's gone to that great, gone on to that great, you know, golden bust in the skies, you know. Yeah. But I don't know. No, I was wondering if that was the origin of the rivalry. That rivalry. But I feel like the rivalry really became kind of like next level in the last couple of years. Between Olympia, I'm talking about between Olympia and Arnold Classic. Well, there's been a lot of moving and changes. Even at the Arnold Classic this year, there's some changing of the guard, so to speak. I think Arnold talked a lot about, you know, some of the changes that they've gotten a chance to see during the time that they've hosted the Arnold Classic each year. Every year they regaled everyone with recounting the experience of how the Arnold Classic got started. And to be hosted in Columbus, Ohio. You know, what I believe was a deal, you know, a handshake between, you know, two gentlemen that wanted to do something in an effort to give back and promote a show for bodybuilding. And for bodybuilding, enthusiasts, lovers and athletes like to experience something good in Ohio, you know, made specifically for them. You know, I believe that was Jim Lomer and Arnold Schwarzenegger had, you know, done that world-renowned handshake that ultimately was the start of this huge business relationship that has lasted for many, many, many years. And, you know, rest in peace, too, also recalled Jim Lomer has passed away and a lot of changes. But I guess I'm saying all this to say that there's been a lot of changes, even recently within the organization of the Arnold Fitness Festival, I'm sure. So, yeah, I mean, I don't think it's a bad thing. I think the, I don't know if you'd call it a rivalry, but I think all in all, you know, these are supporting powers that are interested in sport. They're, you know, obviously born under the, you know, the original influence of Joe Weider initially. You know, Arnold was, you know, hugely inspired and supported by Joe Weider, you know, during his, you know, career and reign. And, you know, if not for the development of the Olympia, the Arnold, and I'm sure the people running it with Arnold, in support of Arnold, still acknowledge and have love for the LNB as well. So, guys, in the fitness industry, there's a lot of clothing brands. The problem is it's usually very loud and the quality is bad. It's mostly about the logos and the graphic design. That's why I want to bring to your attention Quince. I'm wearing it right now. This is a hoodie by Quince. It's a simple design. However, it's probably the best quality of stuff available, not just in the fitness industry, but clothing in general. When it comes down to building your wardrobe, it comes down to what kind of clothes you have in there and how well mixes together and how long the clothing actually lasts. That's where Quince shines. Premium fabrics, great, simple design, and everyday essentials that you need, even when the seasons change. Quince has the everyday essentials I love and the quality that lasts. From lightweight cashmere sweaters to short-sleeved Mongolian cashmere polos, linen bottoms and shorts. Tees and 100% Pima cotton and European jersey linen. These are great additions for your wardrobe. Now, Quince works directly with top factories and cuts out all middlemen. So, you're not paying for brand markup or fancy retail stores, just quality clothing. Like I said, the cashmere is 100% Mongolian, the same stuff that luxury brands use. The European jersey linen is breathable and lightweight. To go to their website, their clothing is rated between 4.5 to 5 stars by thousands of people wearing it every single day. And they only work with factories that meet rigorous standards in craftsmanship and ethical production. So, stop overcomplicating things. You don't need a closet full of many options. You need a few great pieces that actually work and last. Right now, go to Quince.com slash Kai for free shipping and 365-day returns. That's a full year to build your wardrobe and love it. And you will. And now, it's available in Canada as well. Don't keep settling for fancy logos and BS clothes that don't last. Go to Quince.com. That's Q-U-I-N-C-E dot com slash Kai. K-A-I. For free shipping at 365-day returns. Quince.com slash Kai. Like I said, this hoodie, I really, really like it. I washed it a few times. It feels great. Didn't lose its shape or quality at all. And I feel like it's going to last me for years to come. And that's what I appreciate, you know, a lot of stuff just has wild logos, you know, and it doesn't last at all. After one wash, it goes to waste. So, please, check out Quince. And I think you will love that brand. I've heard a snippet from a Steve Weinberger's interview recently. They asked him what he thinks about the bodybuilding media today. And he thinks that some of it is way too negative, especially some podcasts, podcasters. I don't know if he specified which ones he looks at as negative. But what do you think about what he said? And what do you think about the – I don't know if you follow any podcasts or seeing what people are saying out there in the bodybuilding space. Mostly social media, of course, you know. It's social media based. But what do you think about that? You know, I think one of the things that has happened, a lot of the business model across the platform has changed. You know, I mean, if you look at even the organization, the IFBB, you know, originally started by Joe and Ben Wieter, it has changed a lot over the years. You know, and it would have to because, you know, even the original influences, the founding fathers, you know, have also, you know, kind of moved on, you know. And with that, you have opportunity for growth, and it continues to evolve. You know, the looks change. The business, I think, changed. Because, you know, with that also comes a change in opportunities for the athletes, you know. There used to be a time when we used to have to go to the magazine in order to, you know, find a way to kind of help your bodybuilding dream kind of come to the forefront. You know, you needed to gain access to the magazine. So you went to the magazine, and through your relationship with the magazine, you know, you could hopefully find your way to partner up into the support of a supplement company. It would be a sponsor to ultimately become the financial means to support your growth campaign, you know. You know, and with that, your ability to get recognized and get in these shows and start placing well and not only support your own interests to grow, but also the interests of, you know, said companies that are looking to, you know, place bets on a winning horse, you know. Through that, you would kind of finance everything. That was like the rites of passage, you know. If you were a bodybuilding enthusiast, an athlete, you know, you wanted to become a pro and to become professional, you know, meant that you'd be able to earn a living, you know, doing what you love to do, train and get ready to compete and prove your game on stage. So, yeah, it's changed a lot because you don't have the same magazine, the same need for the magazines anymore. Now you have your social media platform, you know, that you can influence and touch through just your smartphone. So the industry has changed a lot. And with that, the opportunity, I think, for the individual athlete has changed. And with that, you have expectations for the athlete. You know, there used to be a time you could just train by yourself. You could just train, you know, and just focus on training. Now, you know, if you're an up-and-coming athlete, you know, you still have to think about learning how to market and promote yourself. If you truly do aspire to, you know, to grow in the sport, you got to keep your eye on multiple balls now instead of just one, you know. And your social media development is, like, one of them. It's so funny. I remember, like, back when we came into the industry, right, there was still, like, these weirder athletes at the time. I remember that exclusivity on who, like, shoots with those athletes, takes pictures, writes about them, right? And MD had the same situation. Yeah. But I remember when social media came in a picture, I remember I was talking to somebody from AMI. AMI at the time owned the Weirder. They owned the Weirder publication. So they owned the Weirder athletes. They owned the Olympia. AMI was the owner at the time. That's prior to Jake Wood, of course, for those who don't know. Yes. And I remember I was talking to – because we had, like, a rift. When we became a media in the fitness industry, right, we had a rift with AMI, right? You know what I'm talking about. But I remember I was talking to the guy in charge of that whole athlete department. And I was like, you understand that it's social media now. Your exclusivity means nothing. The same guy goes and posts on Instagram. And everybody sees it. You can't – I'm like, you can't control that. This is all – like – and he's like, yeah, but, you know, we still want to have our athletes. I'm like, it doesn't make any sense. This business model is just – it's going to crash next month, literally, because there's no such thing as exclusivity. It means nothing. Literally means nothing. So, yeah, it was a fun conversation. But I'm like, this is just so outdated, you know, because there's no point of it, you know. I remember they would control who does what media, what interviews you can do. But then it's kind of stupid because you can only do a Flex magazine interview, but you can't do, like – you know what I mean? Like, the athlete is not getting anything from that, you know? So, it's like – it was very outdated, man. But there was – it was certainly another time in the sport because that was, you know, how money was made. Sure. And the avenues through which it were allowed to flow were certainly, I think, tighter then. Now, I mean, you can generate streams of revenue now from just so many more places today than you could then, you know. Yeah. Yeah. But the exclusivity only worked for print magazine, right? Only for print because they do photo shoots, spreads, like workout. It only worked for that specific print or maybe some, like, video, like DVDs that they used to make or something like that, you know? I think it was built on, like, the Weider model. Weider model, yeah, of course. Yeah, yeah. I think, you know, Joe Weider was, like, the founding father, influence on that. All right, Kai, are you ready for the lightning round? Yes, lay it on me. All right, all right. That's what she said. That's what she said. We've got four questions today. So, the first one is actually a comment or an idea. It's from Diego Perez, RV9HP. So, he's saying here – this is in relation to the lightning round, actually. This is his idea. You tell me what you think about it. He's saying try a rapid-fire questions round. Give him, give Kai one minute to share his thoughts on each question. Screen share a timer so he can see it. So, they want to time you on your answers. I like it. Do you like this idea or you don't like it? That sounds hilarious because, you know, you're talking to your boy, KZK, with the A-K-A. So, I don't know. You want to think about it? Sure. Nah, let's go. I'll try it. Okay, next time. I'm an artist. All right. Next time we'll do the – maybe two minutes. How about two minutes? No, one minute is two. Hey, we'll make a deal with it, dude. Let's go. All right. So, next – this is a question here. Ted Carroll, 8884. Liked hearing about Natty Young Kai. Vlad, next episode, can you ask Kai what his highest Natty body weight was? How strong was young Natty Kai? What did he eat as a young Natty bodybuilder? And what was his favorite muscle to train? Great series with Kai. Vlad, good job. So, he's interested in a lot of Natty questions there. Yeah. You know what? I think Natty is a very interesting topic. It seems to inspire a lot of – Yeah, man. A lot of, you know, inquiry and intrigue. You know, here's the thing, though. One of the things I've noticed about, you know, when we come to the topic of natural, there's a lot that is very misunderstood about what it means to be natural. You know, I spent a lot of time earlier in my career competing in natural organizations. And certainly, I say this very, very boldly and loud because I think there's a very – I think there's a very big distinction, you know, that a natural athlete, you know, pays respect to – and certainly the choice to hold yourself to that standard and to kind of, you know, appreciate, you know, trying to see as far as you can go. Unenhanced, I think, is not just admirable, but it's really – I think a really good thing. You know, and I think a lot of times when it's hard to give that credit and sometimes the spotlight it deserves because, you know, when a person starts to look too good, starts to perform too well or able to reach a level that is thought of as being too high, you know, immediately the speculation comes up, you know, that it becomes harder to believe that that person is unenhanced and able to still perform at such a high level. The natural organizations that I can recall competing in when I was younger, I saw that, you know, a lot of splintering and fracturing would go on, a lot of feuding would go on within those organizations amongst themselves. So much so that it took away the possibility of the small organizations to kind of pull resources together to actually create larger opportunities for their athletes. So a lot of times what would happen is they really would just have talent that really just gave them a wonderful place to start. And then eventually, you know, when you started to look for more opportunity and when you started investing more and more of your time, energy and passion, at some point almost discovered that you needed a larger return, you know, and a lot of times that larger return would lead talent, you know, out of their natural ranks, you know. And inevitably they'd go on to distinguish themselves as becoming really, really, really awesome competitors, you know, beyond the veil of natural bodybuilding. So, yeah, I think natural bodybuilding is awesome. I think the root of this experience called bodybuilding is self-development through self-mastery anyway. And I think that, you know, an athlete, you know, choosing to train and develop themselves and to, you know, live the lifestyle of bodybuilding, should they compete or not, you know, is able to do that and doesn't need PEDs to be a bodybuilder or to be a champion. Yeah, no, definitely. But do you want to answer any of these questions here? What was your highest weight or how strong you were at that time? When you were in that organization, what was your highest weight? And I guess the strength? Yeah, so I'm going to, I don't know how aware people are of some of my personal growth and development, but I've been over 200 pounds since I was like a teenager, like 13, 14, 15. Wow. By the time I was, I remember keeping in my notes the idea of being a man child. So I remember that. I walk around 260 with 22-inch arms and I was still, you know, 17, you know, 18. I got a chance to meet Jay Cutler and Caprice Murray and, you know, at the Teen Nationals, which was a teenage bodybuilding that used to be, you know, taken to like rock star level. I wasn't on that level. I went there as a spectator, but you got a chance to see, you know, what big teenagers really looked like, you know, that had, you know, the benefit of four and five, some cases six years of training and, you know, time devoted to the craft of wanting to become, you know, a professional bodybuilder. In their future, you know, I come from a day when, you know, guys like Sean Ray started as teenagers, you know, Flex Wheeler, you know, it was not uncommon to meet a bodybuilder as a teenager at, you know, a place like the Teen Nationals that would eventually go on and become some of the top pros that you'd get a chance to see and look up to like, like, um, um, Ranch Warren. Yeah. Yeah. So, um, to answer your question, yeah. I mean, um, I've been benching like, you know, 500 pounds and as a teenager, um, um, and yeah, no steroids. Like, um, you know, um, 315, 315 shoulder press. I look at some of this stuff now and I go, wow, that was just insane, you know? Um, so, you know, quiet as cat, I think, you know, there are people that considered me as, as, um, confused me for being enhanced. Um, even when I was very, very young. Yeah. Right. Um, all right, cool. So let's go to the next one, Kai. This one is interesting. Uh, it's from ZZ on top zero nine eight. Easy on top. Let's go. Kai, how does, how does guest posing, how does, how does guest posing work at the shows? Do they pay you a certain minimum payment to guest pose? Also, do you have to diet to do a guest posing? Uh, you do, if you don't want people to talk about you negatively, I'm sure you remember the years back when, um, uh, man, God bless him. Sean Roden. I remember that. Yes. Yes. Do you remember that? Oh yeah, man. They went in on him. Yeah. Oh man. Now mind you, this dude was the highest decorated, you know, athlete in the whole sport of our experience, our subculture, our industry. Uh, Sean Roden, rest in peace. God bless him, man. He was the reigning Mr. Olympia, you know, which meant that the day he achieved, you know, being awarded that highest height in our sport. Um, you know, this dude was literally, you know, thought of as the best bodybuilder, you know, in the world. And, um, certainly looked the part the day he, you know, was, uh, was crowned. Fast forward. He was, uh, he was expected to come into a guest posing and, um, approach. Oh, I believe it was the Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh pro. We went out there to guest pose and he was up there with, you know, a bunch of other, you know, pro athletes that were guest posing. Now he wasn't competing. He was there just to make a public appearance, you know, and it was looked at as being in bad taste because it was said that he showed up and he did not look like, you know, expectations would have said that he should have, you know. Um, um, so I'm, I'm saying this to say that, you know, you know, this dude was, he was ran in Mr. Olympia, you know, um, but there was such a negative backlash, you know, from public opinion that was like, yeah, man, they didn't appreciate the idea of him coming in there and not looking like he had, you know, maintained any great shape. And they just talked really, really, um, really bad about him. So I feel like in an effort to answer the question that you just asked me, um, yeah, I think, uh, if you don't try to pay attention to crossing some of those T's and dotting some of those eyes, um, it can hurt you. It can hurt you publicly. Um, yeah, man. I remember when you did your guest posing and when you went to Korea, pretty much any guest posing you've done, you, you always like prepared for that. Like you were dieting or you took it very seriously. I remember. Yeah. I, I enjoyed, I enjoyed guest posing when I was, when I was an athlete coming up in the game, that was a regular thing to look forward to when you got a chance to see. Now, believe it or not, before the invention of a smartphone and, and, you know, the information super highway and all of that, you know, we used to have to wait three and four months, you know, to see the results of your favorite competition, you know? So needless to say, you could not go into your local gym regularly and just happen to see someone that was, you know, on the size and scale of what the top bodybuilders in the world looked like. You couldn't find that in anywhere where you lived. If you lived in somewhere other than, you know, California, you know, uh, Venice golds, uh, chances are you, wherever you trained, whatever gym you went to, the biggest guy in your gym was nowhere near anything that you could see, you know, on the largest stage of our sport. You just didn't see guys that looked like that. All right, Kai, that's cool. Uh, let's talk about the last, last question here. So this one is a Patreon special because it's super controversial. Um, I don't know, I don't know how you're going to answer this question here. I don't know if you're going to, let's see. So this one is a, yeah, it's, it's a PD question. Uh, it's a general question. So again, like you don't have to, you can just answer it, you know, generally. All right, brother, that's all we have for the day, man. So let me know if you want to do this, uh, one minute question thing, or if you, we should stick to the original formula. You tell me. Oh, I mean, the lightning round is, is, is, is, is dope. I think, you know, I just try to power through it personally. If I can answer it shorter, I will. Usually though, what I imagine happens though, somebody will ask you for a short answer and you will give them a short answer. Usually when they don't expect you to give one and then they want context. And then they'll ask you for it. And then, you know, I think you just try to do the best you can. There you go. Let's stick to the original formula. Yes. Yes. All right, brother. Great seeing you, man. Likewise, Vlad. I appreciate you. Thank you. Generation. I. Athena. Athena. Athena.