 p pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, pyrggios, Yeah, man, as we move, get ready to get ready to move into the new year, I want to just take a minute and say thank you to you. Oh, no, man. Thank you, brother. Thank you, man. Yes, yes. Thank you. I'm very appreciative of us doing it, man. I feel like we're just starting to, you know. Yeah, well, yeah, because there's a lot. There's a lot to still do. The last episode, man, you started some controversy with all those comments about Phil, bro. Is that right? Really? What happened? Oh, man. People are going crazy over it. Really? You know what you said about Phil. Ah. You forgot? Well, I mean, apparently there may be some room to maybe set some people in the room. straight if they need it, you know. Well, people can make their own decisions, obviously. This is your point of view, so it's the Kai Greene effect. Yeah, that's right. And without further ado, if you're ready. Let's do it. If you are ready and you are at home and you happen to be hearing our voices right now, you're tuning in to the Kai Greene effect. Real talk. It's happening right now. I'm joined by my man, Vlad Uden. And the family over here at Generation Iron. Real talk. We're excited and happy to be able to have this moment with you guys. Vlad, how are you feeling today? I'm good, man. I'm excited about today's episode because we actually had a lot of people submitting questions for you, so we're going to focus on answering some of those questions. Oh, wow. Wow. Okay. As far as topics, I only want to ask your opinion on one thing, actually. This is something that I was thinking about over the weekend. Kevin Levroni, right? Obviously, a great bodybuilder, entrepreneur these days. But he basically made a statement. I can read you the whole statement. But he's basically saying that bodybuilding for him was, you know, it was a lot of pain. It was very dark for him when he was competing. He opened up about his steroid use as well. But the exact quote was, I'm going to read part of the quote. But it's basically saying, every set, every rep, every competition, I was always thought about my parents. It was created from pain in everything I went through. I would get on a cycle of steroids or something. I was in survival mode. You know, I was thinking, like, is that the same for most bodybuilders? You have to be in a very dark space when you're training because, you know how you, like, you've watched Arnold days, right? The golden era, the Venice Beach, it was sun. Everybody was happy. They were training together. You know what I mean? It was kind of like that thing. And then, like, at some point, bodybuilding switched to, like, a very dark thing, right? Like, where it was, like, you got to be in tremendous pain, you know, psychological pressure. Like, what do you, how was it, how was bodybuilding, if you look at your years of competitions, right? Like, were you always, like, in this dark space or were you in a happy space when you were competing? You know, I think there's something to be very interesting, something very interesting to be said about that. Because I wonder if in order to do it well, it's one thing to be able to do it with, when it represents just positive relief and it's great. And I like to do it after school when the sun is shining and everything's cool. And I think there's a place for that approach. You know what I mean? So if there's a person out there that hears my voice right now and says, hey, you know what, yeah, well, that's me. You know, I feel very positive about it. And, you know, it's just something that I like to do in my spare time. And I appreciate being able to do it. And when that's over, you know, I'm able to, you know, effectively go into other things and appreciate those things as well. It's just beautiful for them. But, you know, and I think that's one way to approach it. I think the person that does it the way that you described Kevin LeBron's description of it, as well as, you know, a lot of other people that are, you know, extremely successful at this. I think it does start to talk about a particular profile that is unique to a requirement necessary, I think, to kind of tap into, you know, what it means to ask for more deliverable resource from this, you know, the passion of being able to work out. And I feel like I can improve my life and I feel better in the moment, you know. But I think in order to be competitive and in order to climb into the trenches of, you know, combat or a combat-like experience, you know, when your success means survival, you know, I think that's what every elite level athlete kind of has in common. The belief that, like, it's a desperation, I think, that the athlete that's able to devote themselves to doing everything that it takes to climb to the next ring, the next step in, you know, the positive revelation of success. I think recently I heard, like, I possibly heard a quote from Mike Tyson that talked about, you know, in respect to his children, that he forbade, you know, his sons to follow his footsteps and go into boxing. You know, when asked why, he said that he said that boxing is something that a person does that has nothing to lose. And I believe he's talking about, you know, the effort of being able to put it all on the line, you know, in the effort and belief that it takes this to create, you know, success that you want to bring into fruition by any means necessary. I've got to reach to the deepest bowel of my possibility of fire to, you know, and what he was saying was that, you know, my children, my sons, you know, I wanted them to have significantly more than I did. And with that, they had everything. Hence, what should have been removed from them was the need of desperation, sure, to face all odds, to fight for a chance to, you know, matter in this life. And I believe that saying that Mike Tyson was successful in doing that for his children. I think that the athlete that is able to tap into the super level of success is a person that, yeah, man, they, you know, it is required to bring, you know, your passion. And with that, you know, the way we tap into that, connect with that is, you know, it may be that you, you know, you may be able to do it from a dark place. I haven't, I don't know anyone, anyone, with the exception of Lee Haney. And I think Lee Haney is, you know, he's a Jedi master for sure. Right. And I mean, Lee Haney was a Godfrey man that, you know, in the forefront of his thoughts publicly. He references that, recognizes that. And I think that, you know, there are things that, you know, I'm prone to listen to, you know, by his example, from his example. But I'm not Lee Haney. You know, I'm not. And I don't think it's impossible to achieve that, that idea of balance. I mean, he's, you know, when I look at him, I see a man that's been able to, you know, have a solid family life, you know, he's been able to be in a committed, loving relationship with his wife, lasting more than 20 years. He's incredible for sure. As a bodybuilding fan and enthusiast, we've got a chance to see, you know, his children born, you know, Olympia. That's crazy. His daughter's name was Olympia. Yeah. Yeah. And to see each one of them, you know, grow and to become their own success, you know, under, you know, the watchful eyes of a father like that. I mean, real talk. I mean, I respect the man tremendously. I would be disappointed to hear if he's able to say that he's a part of this profile. So I still have hope with saying that. I have hope. But yeah, I can totally relate to Kevin LeBron. And I think there's a lot of athletes. So you were in the same place. He said, I mean, he said I was in survival mode. Do you feel like you were in that place as well when you were doing the competition? I think that there's a part of that process that is a natural part for every athlete, you know? I think it would take more athletes to come to the floor and say, you know, if my thought about that would be proven. But yeah, I think there's a part of, I mean, even look at when the great athlete Ronnie Coleman turns around and says, hey, man, you know, he accomplished what he accomplished. The things to his credit, you know, are amazing in our sport, you know? Yeah, definitely. But they can take a very interesting and dramatic toll on your body. And I mean, just imagine what it would take to power yourself through the training that, you know, could lead you to the kind of rewards that we got a chance to see expressed in the physique of, you know, a great of our sport like Ronnie Coleman. What would you need in order to, you know, to power yourself through the pain and the obvious difficulty that is related to taking those steps? I don't think you can do it naturally without a certain kind of grit, attitude and resilience that, you know, may just be in line with what Kevin LeBron talked about, feeling like you're in survival mode. Every bodybuilder, then they go on stage, they usually have to smile, right? I think it's like a tradition, like you smile when you pose or for the judges or something, right? But inside you feel terrible, right? I mean, I can't say that that's everybody's experience, but I know that there's a difficulty with a performer that they get on stage as a ballerina or a martial artist or a football athlete while dealing with the grimace of being what it means to be in the trenches of doing the work. You know, I think that naturally you're probably not going to smile, you know, but to look like you can smile while doing it on stage as a physique artist and athlete is one of the quiet expectations that we know, you know. So, yeah. It can be misleading. And I think it's supposed to be. The fan and the enthusiast at home watching the show is not supposed to be in touch with the hard, tough and uncomfortable realities that like a ballerina may experience. If you see their legs, their feet, their toe knuckles, you know, a bloody bludgeoned toe knuckle that's calloused and been beaten over, you know, so many years of learning how to, you know, practice the craft and demonstrate it while moving beautifully on stage, you know, telling these beautiful stories and swan, wonderful, you know, rose-colored experience while having to work through the punishment that is a natural part of that process of being something so beautiful on stage. Kai, I want to again give a shout out to our sponsor at G Fuel, an amazing supplement company. They make this product that is definitely going to improve your immunity. It's going to improve your focus and it'll give you a lot of energy. Now, G Fuel formula is amazing because it gives you energy by adding 140 milligrams of caffeine per serving and zero sugar. They've added more amino acids and kept the flavor the same. But this time, they improved the formula so there's no chalky aftertaste. They've added more antioxidants and vitamin E. In addition, they have glycine and taurine. Now, this is supposed to improve your performance and your recovery. It also contains lettenin for mental focus and cognitive performance. So, guys, if you don't want to go to the store, you can go to gfuel.com and put in the code GI20 for a discount. Shout out to G Fuel. All right, Kai, let's get into these questions from the listeners. As always, we respect our listeners, you know, we value their time. So, I think it's the best when you address some of these questions directly. Yeah, man. All right. So, the first one. So, this is what we call a lightning round, right? So, a question comes in. All right. So, this one is from Forever Flexing. He's asking. Forever Flexing. Yeah, man. Let's go. He's asking, what was your biggest moment of self-doubt and bodybuilding? How did you overcome it? I think it was expressed continually. I think behind the scenes, a lot of doing is the product of learning. And a lot of the reason why you learn is because it's very important to you to do it. You know? Here's the thing. What I learned, there was a lot of people that would turn around and say, hey, man, because you did not walk away with top honors at the Super Bowl of our experience, yo, man, that means you're a loser. What I learned was that, wow, in order to do this thing, you have no choice but to become a very big winner, you know? Because in the doing of this experience, I think I was taught to discover what I am, you know? And anyone that's able to really walk away with this, walk away from this experience with the discovery of that, what you are, you know, opposed to spending a lifetime and not knowing. There's a lot of people that don't know that it is well within your potential to do exceedingly great things. You know, there's some people that, for, you know, just for lack of a better understanding, you know, sooner think, like, yeah, well, you know, I can't do that because I'm limited by my genetics. I'm limited by, I'm limited by, I can't do. And in truth, the truth is, the limitations of your mind are everything, you know? Because the truth is, if you, I learned that I can do exceedingly great things. That is, that's what it means to be able to give in the morning and have the opportunity to approach your life, you know? And it starts, your success starts with your ability to try. Right. And through that, I ended up discovering that I'm a powerful manifester. I mean, technically, that's what it means to say, this is what I want, you know, versus, well, I can't do it because maybe I have the wrong genetics and maybe I didn't have the right pedigree. Maybe my, maybe my daddy didn't, maybe my mama didn't love me enough. And maybe my daddy, I never knew who he was. And every other fill in the blank excuse as to why a lot of people end up saying, well, this is why I couldn't have never been. And I learned that, no, man, you can be what you will yourself to be. You know, Ty Green started at the bottom of the sport, turned pro and still continued to compete. In 2026, 2027, even when I experienced my breakout year in the sport, I was at the very back. I went to the New York pro. I placed 20th. I was at the Colorado pro the show before that. Yeah. Um, I placed in the top 15. It was only somewhere around 15. And I was fortunate enough that the first 15 places was high enough in the show to have your posing routine considered, you know, for the best posing awards, you know, even in a lineup where there were alumni, um, bodybuilders that had competed on a much higher level than I had, they were going to the Olympia and come back from the Olympia, like Darren Charles. And, you know, just, just a number of great guys in the lineup. You know, uh, Phil Heath actually placed number one top slot that show. He got a check for $10,000. Kai Green, on the other hand, placed somewhere close to the 15th. And he also got a check for $10,000. And with that, you know, a lot of times people talked about, well, you know, a rivalry was born, but it really wasn't born until later on. And like, I was eventually signed to reader publishing. But the point that I'm trying to make with saying this is that at that time in my career, there was literally more than 24 to 30 top of the line IFBB pro guys, um, that stood in the way that stood in between, you know, uh, Kai Green, um, and his ability to get to the Olympia and move into the top slot that I really, really believed, um, I could reach. Right. But in order to do it, I had to walk down a field of, of a lot of elite level guys, you know, looking back on this, I mean, if you look at any footage, you know, of some of these other really impressive athletes that were, I mean, you know, the likes of a Branch Warren and Dexter Jackson, um, you know, Dennis Wolf. I mean, like really awesome. Oh yeah. Awesome dudes. If you like another level of, of, of competition, just recently, it's just, it's just crazy. It's crazy. Cause if, if I looked at the magazines when I was a teenager and if I were, you know, doing pushups in an institutional facility talking about, yo man, you know, I want to get my chest bigger. I want to get better, bigger arms. You know, I want to, I, I dream of going to a place where I could be, you know, uh, competitive and, and, and stand on the same stage with guys that are elite level in the sport of bodybuilding, you know, like those guys that tear out of the pages of the flex magazine. Anybody that thought they knew and understood, you know, what impossibility was would have said, look, man, are you crazy? Did you see these guys? Did you see what this guy looks like? I remember seeing photos and video footage of Dennis James, man, when he was big swole for real, you know, when they used to call him Dennis the menace, you know, um, for good reason. You know, I remember being a fan of the sport, looking up to a guy like that, celebrating just how, you know, awe inspiring his physique looked while he was, you know, featured in video footage was getting ready for the Olympia, you know, um, yeah, man, which was the super bowl of our experience in order for Ky Green to go from where he did, where he was in 2007, standing on stage at the Colorado pro the Sean rake, Colorado pro classic. And, um, yo man, we literally had to walk down a field, you know, um, that was not easy. And anyone would have said it's impossible, you know, but we did it. Yeah, man. You did it. And on the other side of that comes the proof that even the impossible can be possible. You get what I'm saying? I hear you. I hear you, man. I hear you. Yes, yes, yes. Let's go to the next one. That was a good, that was a good explanation. Let's go to the next one. All right. Brood 7007. Many people referred to your 2012 Olympia showing as one of your best. Can you remember anything about that prep and how the filming of Generation Iron movie affected it? Well, you know what? I'll tell you. Generation Iron, when you guys first showed up. Um, I didn't get a chance to see you guys without, you know, the authority in the, in the sport coming to me and saying behind the scenes like, Hey man, this is the real group. This is the real, this is the real filming company. This is, this is the thing. Like if you were sitting somewhere 15 years before this asking for, you know, man, I want to be in, in the top of the top of this game, you know, doing something, getting ready for the biggest Superbowl experience at this event. Um, when Generation Iron stepped on the scene, um, and were introduced to me at the time that, that, that Generation Iron was, um, all of the, like the big or brilliant successes in the credit of Generation Iron had yet to be seen by me. So this was like, this was very, very new. You know what I mean? And, uh, you know, I, I think it was, um, just to, just to be very fully transparent, Robin Chang that came to me and said, Hey, this is, this is the real deal. This is where, this is where it happens. So to answer your question, when Generation Iron's cameras and when I got a chance to meet you, Vlad, and started following and I'm walking through, I was walking through the hood with Generation Iron with me cameras and people were getting out of the way of the camp. Like, wait a minute, you know, everybody in my hood started looking around going, wait a minute, what's going on over there? Hey, big man is doing something big. Black Rocky is over there. It's going down, you know? Um, and it did have an impact on, on everything. Cause at that time to have Generation Iron with me, following me, it meant that if you didn't know that you had arrived in the sport and are vastly becoming one of the, one of the people to watch, um, with good reason, um, it was that quiet validation that reassured me and quietly affirmed behind the scenes like, yeah, this is, this is really happening. It's time to pay attention. If you questioned the possibility of your success before, you know, this is not a time to do that. But it was a great year for you. I mean, it was a great year for you. You got second place. I mean, it was, it was, it was a very tense moment. I remember, I remember filming it. Obviously it was a very tense moment that 2012 was, was a great battle. I mean, I mean that that's, that's, you know, that's, that's the victory. You get what I'm saying? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Of course. I can't express to you again that we were talking about another time when we were doing pushups in an institutional facility with thousands of other young people that probably, you know, could get a little pump of blood in their chest and their arms talking about, yo, I have dreams. Biggie Smalls talked about. It was all a dream. I used to read Word Up magazine. There was a time when I used to cut the pictures out, put them on my wall. Flex Wheeler. Ronnie Coleman. Victor Martinez. You know what I'm saying? I totally relate, you know, and now fast forward, we'll be there. Generation Iron is following you. You're on the road to becoming, even if they said you were placed second that year at the Olympia. That meant that you walked through a class of elite level professionals at this game. Bodybuilding upper echelon. That real talk. Any given Sunday, you know, could have been a Mr. Olympia in the wings. And all were Mr. Olympia hopefuls, you know. Yeah, man. Yeah, man. Yeah. It was great. You beat some top guys in that. Branch Warren was competing in that Olympia. Dennis Wolfe. Man, Van Pukulski. Branch Warren was no joke. This dude used to make guys look fat. Branch Warren, if you put your camera on Branch Warren and like zoomed in on him for a minute, he was so hard. So dry. Man, I'm knocking my phone down. I didn't mean to do that, you know. But Branch Warren was like, I mean, the dude was a, yo, man, I'm not going to lie. I remember being an athlete training and I remember how I had other training partners and friends in my camp that had an elite level of respect for Branch Warren. Just, I mean, the dude was no nonsense. This dude, he was a hard worker and I mean, come on, man. This is, if there were a juggernaut that you could imagine, a mutant in the sport that was, you know, like Wolverine and Juggernaut and Gambit all like rolled up into one, Branch Warren would have been it. Guys, I want to quickly talk about snacking. If you enjoy a snack once in a while, like myself, then you guys know that all the stuff on the market currently contains seed oils. And if you look at the ingredients, there's so many ingredients in the back of it. We don't know even what they mean, but they pack with all the potato chips and tortilla chips. That's why mustard chips is amazing. They taste fantastic and they contain only a few ingredients. If you look at the back of this packaging, for example, all you see is a few simple ingredients like organic beef tallow, organic corn and real sea salt. That's it. So if you guys love tortilla chips, mustard chips is the way to go. If you like potato chips, Vandy is the way to go. Now these are actually empty because I ate them. So if you're ready to give masa or Vandy a try, use code IRON for 25% off your first order at masachips.com or vandycrisps.com or simply click the link in the video description or scan the QR code to claim this delicious offer. And if you don't feel like ordering online, masa and Vandy are now available nationwide at your local Sprout supermarket. So stop by, pick up a couple of bags before they're gone. Masachips, guys. You will love them. Now this one, this one is interesting, Kai. And I guess don't give a politically correct answer for that one. Just give, give you an answer. It's Kai Green. I know, man. All right, question. This is from Mark Harris 9154. So Mark Harris is asking, question for Kai. Are you considering coming back for one go at the Olympia? Sure, knowing that you have, surely knowing that you have a high chance of winning without politics involved. You know, that's a, that's a great question. I, I, you know, that's probably the number, that's probably the number one question that everybody wants to know from you. Is there a possibility of you doing it? Or consideration? Honestly, hell yeah, there's a possibility. I, I'd never retire. You know, I never retired. Um, and that was for a reason, you know? Um, yeah, I didn't retire. Um, yeah. And I'm not talking like to just get attention right now and just be boastful. I think this, this, you know, you hear people say, oh, well, you know, a person gave up. You know, I don't, I don't, I don't think you give up. I think that you, you, you collect yourself, you reflect, um, and you continue to do the work that is to develop and to, to build yourself. Um, and, uh, apparently all of the growth and development necessary had not been done yet. And I'm still a work in process. Um, and the progress is yet to be revealed, but yeah, man, we're working every day. Wow. That's big news. You think, uh, I mean, knowing the current lineup, right? This obviously since you've last competed, there's been some, um, new talent coming in the game, right? Um, yeah. You think, you think you, uh, you can take them. So that's the thing. I mean, new talent, yo man, shout out to all the athletes that are, that are doing the damn thing. I don't, I don't think there's really a place for me to imagine that I need to compete against, you know, the new great champions that are coming up real talk. I think that if nothing else in my role, you should be working to encourage, you know, the new talent that's coming up because there's a new, new group of fans. And, you know, there's a, it's a host of new things that need to be allowed to grow. And my ability to still aim for what is the expression of my best, you know, personal development and athlete on the stage and beyond it, you know, is in no way to step on the toes of the other aspiring greatness that is in the process of experiencing its bloom. You get what I'm saying? Um, yeah. Um, and with that, we can celebrate, we can celebrate their opportunity to advance and still claim room and opportunity to experience my own. I hear you, man. All right. Last question. Um, now this one is a Patreon special. So guys, if you're not on Patreon, please subscribe because that question is controversial and we can't put it on YouTube, unfortunately. All right, guys. So this one comes from, uh, Rodani0101. Problematic symptoms that are showing now related to going for too long a time without, you know, uh, the right amount of water and, uh, the ability to balance those minerals. Gotcha. All right. Well, that was a Patreon special of the day. Thank you so much to our audience for submitting it. And if you're not on Patreon guys, please subscribe. So that was it. Kyle, man, you, you've answered all the questions, man. I think people would be happy about it. Oh, wow. Okay. Is there anything controversial that we could kind of bring in? I'm sure. Oh my God. You, bro, last episode, I mean, you, you said some things, man, about Phil. I mean, people can go watch for themselves, but wow. Well, I mean, I didn't say it in an effort to, to be provocative as much as I guess it is also an example of what it can sound like if you do take the, take the politically correct, you know, gloves off, which is something that is a, an interesting thing to do, you know, um, particularly in this day and climate, you know, because if you say one thing, you may liberate some, but then, you know, you may offend a lot of others, you know, um, and all of us need to be able to, you know, come together and, you know, do our thing. So it's, uh, you know, I don't want to alienate anybody, but you know, if, if you're a fan of Phil, he chances are a lot of times it's my truth may be hard to, to stomach. You know what I mean? I know. I know. But it doesn't make my truth any less valid. No, it's your, it's your truth, man. And then you expressing it. Hey, on that note, yes, if you're listening, real talk, thank you. Thank you so much for tuning in to what we are. This has been the Kai Greene effect. I've been joined by my man, Black Uden and the Generation Iron family. We are signing off over and out till next time. Keep it positive. Let's keep encouraging each other. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace.!