

=== FILE: Best Multivitamin Supplements 2026 ｜ For Health & Wellness [8pPf6maQxYM].txt ===

 andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx and this is not medical advice, this is just our findings. So if you are going to change your diet or take any of these supplements, we do recommend that you consult with a physician. Our top pick for the best multivitamin supplement overall goes to Nutracost, which has a great list of ingredients, great dosages, and is at a great price point. Some of the main ingredients that you want to look for in a multivitamin are vitamins such as A, C, D, E, and K. Especially in today's world, you can't get enough vitamin D where people aren't outside. You have things like magnesium, zinc, copper, amongst other ingredients. Nutracost multivitamin contains some of the main ingredients that you want in a multivitamin such as A, C, D, E, and K, as well as iron, magnesium, selenium, and riboflavin. Vitamins such as vitamin D and iron are highly important when in today's world where people aren't getting enough sun or they're not eating enough red meat, a lot of people, their stomachs can't handle red meat, so they have to find their iron somewhere else. So multivitamin is great for that. And when you're not getting enough sun, vitamin D is a great supplement to take. As an added bonus, Nutracost multivitamin is non-GMO, gluten-free, soy-free, and it's also a nice vegetarian option. Nutracost multivitamin is also manufactured in an NSF certified GMP compliant FDA registered facility. The reason Nutracost multivitamin is our favorite multivitamin supplement of 2025 is it's under strict compliance. It comes from a great company. It's got a great ingredient list. It's vegetarian friendly and it's at a great price point. Next on our list of best multivitamin supplements is the best supplement for muscle building, which is MuscleMed's vitamin T. It's got all of the benefits of a multivitamin for your overall health, as well as the added benefits of testosterone boosting ingredients such as fenugreek, tribulus, longjack, and boron. So that really helps athletes and bodybuilders and anyone really looking to put on muscle mass in doing so. Athletes, bodybuilders, strength athletes, they have different dietary regulations, which is where a supplement like vitamin T comes into play because it has an added bonus of a testosterone booster with ingredients such as fenugreek, longjack, boron, and tribulus, which help the body to produce testosterone more directly, as other supplements might use ashwagandha, which just reduces the cortisol levels and allows the body to produce testosterone. This is a more direct boost. So if you're an athlete, a male over 50, or someone who just has low testosterone in general, muscle mass vitamin T is a great supplement to maintain your overall health and boost your testosterone naturally. Next on our list of best multivitamin supplements is Performance Lab Nutri-Genesis Multifermin. It is an all-natural supplement with dosages of all of the vitamins that you need aimed at men. This product is on our list because it upgrades nutritional status for optimal whole body performance and is designed by specialists for men's specific nutritional needs. Next on our list of best multivitamin supplements is Caj multivitamin, which is filled with a fully disclosed and clean formula, 100% plant-based and vegan-friendly ingredients, 21 essential and organic ingredients, all from Whole Foods. It's got a high absorption rate and utilization. The only downside is it is a higher price point. Next on our list is the best multivitamin for men over 50, which is Transparent Labs Wellness Series Multivitamin. Transparent Labs Wellness Series Multivitamin has a transparent label with all of the ingredients that you need in a multivitamin, no additives, no dyes, it's gluten-free and it's vegan-friendly. And best of all, Transparent Labs Wellness Series Multivitamin is dosed at levels that are needed for men over 50. So it's the best option for people in that age range. Performance Lab also has Nutri-Genesis for women, which is the same standards, the same results, but it's clinically dosed for women's specific nutritional needs. And that's why that is also on our list as the best multivitamin for women. And that concludes our list for more information and a more detailed review of each of these products. Go to generationiron.com or search generationiron, best multivitamins on Google. Even if you are healthy and even if you do have a very balanced diet, these multivitamins can still be helpful because even if you have the perfect diet, you still might not be getting the micronutrients that you need. Let us know what you think in the comments below. This is Dylan signing off.

=== FILE: Is Kai Greene Still In Pro Bodybuilding Shape？ ｜ Kai Greene Effect [JJZegArcaos].txt ===

 Il-faxin-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax-fax days you never wanted to go to aspen colorado something like that or the alps the swiss alps no in a nutshell no is it dangerous at all oh yeah it can be very dangerous you know that sounds like another reason why your boy is just like not a fan do you know who's a famous uh f1 driver schumacher i think his name is uh he's from germany and he was a racing car so you know formula one it's like the fastest car in the world and he believed he went like skiing or something and bumped his head and he's in a coma for like years and years it's crazy man oh wow it's yeah that sounds like another reason why your boy could not be caught crazy man doing those things no boy not my thing not my thing what about what about skydiving you ever thought about that brother not in this lifetime or the next not at all all right i am officially going to be on the record today as a black man i'm not doing that i don't want to do none of that i've known girlfriends that have told me that they looked forward to doing something like that usually that was a good sign that we were not evenly yoked you know whenever they said that to me yeah we didn't we didn't stay together but so long uh oh man yeah i mean just not it yes yes you you just let her go huh uh i mean i mean you know that's you know what man that's just not not my thing man leaping out of the airplane i'm that's just not it if somebody if something would have happened to kai green they would say hey i think kai you know committed suicide oh my god nah man something happened to me something happened you know talk to phil heath or my ex-wife something happened all right well we got uh listen we got a lot of questions submitted to uh to us by the loyal listeners we'll get to it but first um olympia made an announcement uh last week actually that they coming back to the orleans arena again remember that place the orleans absolutely how could i forget so yeah that was that was the space that was the last place in fact where the last olympia was held that joe weider was alive really okay okay yeah yeah yeah that was um that was i mean that was for me that was like one of if not the biggest mr olympia experience of my entire career it happened right there that space the arena for those who don't know right there's orleans hotel and uh and then there's orleans arena which is close to the hotel right you have to walk across the street and that's places like an actual arena it's like a huge it's like i think if it's like at least 10 000 people there at least maybe 15 000 people it's like a actual sports arena they have concerts there and then everybody was like when it was there for a few years people were kind of like talking about it because they didn't like the hotel you know the hotel is kind of like a little outdated right so then they moved the olympia to the planet hollywood for a year then they went to or because of the covid they went to um i think it was orlando right that's right orlando yeah and then they did two years in a row at the resorts world which is a brand new brand new hotel it's beautiful hotel but it's like a theater style experience right it's much smaller i think it fits like 5 000 people there i think yeah yeah um yeah and now they want to bring it back to the arena style event uh what do you think is a very good sign you think about the the size of the sport um you still like going to the expos do you enjoy that uh experience being at the booth and like talking to you do you like it actually does that something give you enjoyment you do you like absolutely i was uh recently at the la fit expo um uh yeah we had uh i had my booth out there and i was it awesome awesome to be able to to stand meet and greet um and just get a chance to touch base with so many people you know yeah i got a lot of love um spaces like that and uh the la fit expo was awesome for me just because of that yeah it was dope i remember i remember the uh you used to go to the expos with the muscle meds your former former uh sponsor and you would be there and it'd be like a line of people waiting to see you the line used to be huge like huge line and then you would still take like time and time to talk to everybody i mean sometimes it's like one person you're talking to enough like 15 minutes while it's like a huge huge line waiting for you man uh well you know what it's it's a really cool thing because a lot of times you know for i mean sometimes people take for granted if they if they see you every day at their gym um or the gym that you train at regularly and sometimes maybe because you can interact with yourself and even though we have social media today um uh we can take for granted almost that there used to be a time where you know we just didn't couldn't see each other you know at the luxury that we had we have today and um yeah man uh i i can recall like the first time i got a chance to like see lee haney in person you know it was uh it was something that was very hard for me to get used to you know um and trust me anything he said you know i took to heart you know i can still remember it you know um just because i was just it was a very uh meaningful uh engagement opportunity and uh to look back on it for me um the first time i met flex wheeler was he nice to you when you first met him you know he was he was he was absolutely um nice to me you know um but i i i was a fan of the sport and i was a fan of flex wheeler at that time and i was i was a lot younger and i'm i i didn't know um that a lot of times my expectations for um the relationship that i had you know with flex wheeler was only in my head you know he was a guy that again you know um even though he was like you know you know king of the mountaintop you know uh before i got the chance to meet him and i had so many pictures of him on my wall i mean i just painstakingly take the time to like cut out you know these the cut around the line you know that's dedication right there man yeah yeah it was it was it was intense it was intense man i had AI had a lot of pictures on my wall um a lot you know that expression you know the expression right don't don't ever meet your heroes because you'd be super disappointed yeah but you know what i i i i thought that too and you know there was a time when i i i didn't realize how unrealistic the expectation was that i had i saw i looked at this picture and i was staring into his eyes it was a cover of a iron man magazine i mean he'd been on a lot of covers but i remember one cover in particular uh featured flex wheeler um doing what looked like a one-arm dumbbell curl and he was like staring out of the picture plane you know and the eye the look in his eye was like so intense and i remember even so funny because there was a time years later uh oscar ardent and i there's a there's a name i hadn't have been said in a long time but he was uh where is he man where's oscar i i haven't i haven't seen him in a long time man but i remember there was a time when i was a teenager and uh he wasn't too much older than me and we were training um and we both had touched and agreed we were like yo man there was this photo of flex wheeler on the cover of fire man magazine and we talked together we touched the green like yeah we remember that it was this intense look and it was like yo man we'd be in the middle of doing these intense training sessions and it was like he would call it out and remember it remember this remember that moment remember the eyes remember the eyes the eyes this intense look of flex wheeler staring out of the picture plane while doing a one-arm dumbbell curl and was like remember what that meant to you remember imagine what he was experiencing and you know think about that as you were like doing the work you know living the lifestyle calling the the the possibility of of one day achieving you know the lifestyle and the credit to your name of becoming an ifd pro and you know one day getting to the olympia stage it was like it was like a transformative uh thing to to reach for it was like that that moment of burst of um inspiration and intensity um we committed to that picture so fast forward many years later you know after nights of going to bed looking at this picture or pictures of flex wheeler and talking to it believing i had a personal working relationship with flex wheeler and now um i get online i wait online i waited for like you know i don't know it was like the better part of an hour um finally it was me it was my turn we had the opportunity to stand in front of him he had some pictures on the table you know he would sign whatever it was that he was going to sign i didn't really need to buy that but i wanted to get it because it was an opportunity to connect with him and it was like all these years all this time and now it's my moment the first thing i say is mr wheeler's an honor to meet you um can you sign this for me and as he goes to sign it which he offers to do he just need to ask me my name so and who am i signing this to and it was like you don't know my name name it was crushing but here's the thing so unrealistic i had this expectation that was huge i had a working relationship with a picture it wasn't the man you know what i mean right right right right so the unrealistic expectation well at least you didn't try stealing your girl uh like chris carmier right yeah well i mean you know it is what it is it is what it is few of us could be so lucky shout out to that chick whomever she was you know she was a hoe she was a hoe then she's probably still a hoe now i'm just kidding oh my god have you ever you ever you ever you ever tried taking uh somebody's somebody's girl when you already became uh famous and bodybuilding a fan's girl that came for your autograph you know what's so funny man i think you know i was i was forever put on guard with that man i think i i never i never wanted to be guilty of of even looking like that you know um in in you know i think i just i i want to say that i i want to believe that i demonstrated an appreciation and respect for the the fan the enthusiast of the sport um things like that is something that i i think can be really really hard um to hand uh a fan and an enthusiast that i i know it took me a minute to kind of recover from that i know so yeah man i don't know i i i would never want to be guilty of that i mean i try to be i try to be on my very best behavior you know what i mean like when it comes to stuff like that like but still like you just still blame the girl for that not the man you know what i mean she was with you that's the thing he doesn't know your loyalty he's not a friend of yours he doesn't you know yeah but but you talk about the the in the eyes of the fan like i just told you oh yeah the fan yeah there's this place of of of of uh unrealistic expectation that again i think in the psychology of it you really do need to be sensitive and allow the fan you know what i mean it's not like but if a person asks you hey man can you take a picture with me and you you know you you want to take the picture with them it that picture though is not for you so you can't turn around and say well hey you know what this is my better side here's the side without the scar on my face or let me just take the better and it's like no if that's the side that they want you know what i mean then then that's the side you give you and you don't you don't ever want to look like um you're confused about that you know i think it's a part of respecting you know the game okay let's take a quick moment here and thank our title sponsor g fuel guys if you're looking for a great supplement for energy cognitive health and every death supplementation g fuel is for you now g fuel formula is amazing because it gives you energy by adding 140 milligrams of caffeine per serving and zero sugar they've added more amino acids and kept the flavor the same but this time they improved the formula so there's no chalky aftertaste they've added more antioxidants and vitamin e in addition they have glycine and taurine now this is supposed to improve your performance and your recovery it also contains lethenein for mental focus and cognitive performance so guys if you don't want to go to the store you can go to gfuel.com and put in the code gi20 for a discount shout out to g fuel thank you again to our title sponsor g fuel check them out before we go to the comments and questions from the listeners i want to get your opinion i was just talking to victor martinez about it actually uh sam so the victor martinez my man yes yes i want to get your take on sam sulik he made an announcement that he's training for the you met sam sulik recently also but uh yeah i met him at the la fit actually yeah yeah so he's training for the arnold he's doing arnold classic this year uh he's saying he's training without a coach so no coach he's preparing by himself um nick walker is also doing arnold classic also no coach do you think this is going to be a trend now of pro bodybuilders doing a prep on their own and uh what is your experience with that i mean once you already you know you started doing olympias you always had a coach right well so yeah well yeah um here's here's the thing you know i remember sean ray talking some years back about about that there was a time when yeah i mean people didn't have coaches you know what i mean um and the truth is i i really do believe that you know the best coaches in this game are very very very sophisticated tools they're really you know um because at the end of the day there's still a lot of work that you as the athlete have to do you know um i remember i remember being a a kid in thinking i wanted to write a letter to lee haney at the time we haney was like he was like the god of the sport he was the multiple reigning mr olympia and there was a time when um as a you know as a kid i remember thinking that man you know if i could just like get his attention if i could like go find a way to meet lee haney i could you know maybe one day make an appeal to him and he and he'll like take me and show me how to become a champion in the sport you know um and maybe then i'll i'll become you know an ifb pro you know like i believe i'm destined to do you know um i'm passionate enough i believe in this thing i really want to be successful as an athlete um that's what i would say to myself you know um um and every year would go by and i i would train i would i would focus um but i didn't get that letter out to lee haney um after a while many many years have passed um never got the letter out to him but i continue to train i continue to focus and um in time i trained enough i focused enough and i was able to start to make the necessary steps to one day um see my career grow and eventually our paths were crossed i get a chance to find myself standing just a few feet away from lee haney you know in a path that was entirely my own you know um and there was a part of me that wanted to say damn you know what i regret never never um you know never sending a letter and never actually going to that gym that i saw you know promoted on on on um animal kingdom workout you know um or the the latest gym that i saw featured of um where lee haney was training you know i never got a chance to walk up to him and give him my story and and and hope that somehow in some way you know i could go to his training camp and ultimately see him make me become a champion um and it's funny because when i saw him i was like man what happened i asked him with this unrealistic expectation in my own head like he was gonna know and he didn't but he said to me something that was like just so influential when you thought about it he was like man you did exactly what you were supposed to you know lee haney wasn't gonna make me a champion if anything he could serve as an example of what it looked like for him to do what it was necessary to see that magic happen in his own life you know what i mean but for me you know if i really wanted to be that if i really wanted to make that happen well it was like the story of the the wizard of oz you know what i'm talking about with dorothy toto the tin man the scarecrow right they went all the way to oz looking for the answers to the questions that they had how did they become better the thing that they really wanted most and the journey revealed to them that they had everything that they so you're saying you don't you don't need a you're saying these guys are right you don't really need a coach i'm saying that the truth is you know you're gonna do what you want to do and if you really want to do this thing you know it's your job to figure it out and that's what sean ray and i think even darian yates were talking about in with their experience their approach you know but for you you felt like it was important to have a coach well you were at the at the you know as as an established professional already you knew about already how to prep right yeah i mean i i'd been my own coach for for almost 20 years you know what i mean um and i and i say that not to step on anyone's toes but i mean like you know you your your coach you know is depending on you to bring to the table your very best effort your very best effort in this case is a part of that that plan that platform to do your best you shouldn't be struggling with it they write out a protocol for you okay they've written out a protocol for you now whose job is it to stay on top of that process you know who's gonna who's gonna be doing the check-ins and do as they're supposed to be you know um managing the person whose responsibility is to control yourself that's you this is what it is you know um but yeah i i think it's i think it's important to understand this and particularly for this athlete that's young he's in the earliest start of his of his of his pro career you know what i mean um a coach is is a is a valuable tool but they're not a crutch you know what i mean i think there's some times where i mean it can be that you know um i'm i'm very thankful for a lot of the wisdom and advice that i've i've been able to secure as a very valuable resource you know to me at different times in my training and career but i also know that there are very important times when i was able to learn very important lessons for myself that allowed me to recognize my my own control um and ability to to um to learn how to develop my own strategy and i think that there's nothing wrong with them doing what they're doing guys so um if you online social media whatever you see a lot of ed advertising for a variety of different pills out there but blue chew is the way to go and they just announced they dropped a brand new product which is gold shoe gold standard blue chew gold is the newest innovation from the number one chewable ed brand that's not your grandfather's a little blue pill this is four in one beast that's setting gold standard for performance now they're combining their ingredients not only to create a blood flow to keep that rocket pumping but it's also increasing your arousal and connection brain and body blue to gold dissolves under your tongue and works within basically 15 minutes which is nothing that means you can get it on quicker and stay in the game longer elevation without hesitation this is peak passion and peak performance in a single chewable tablet i'm sure all of you guys heard of blue chew before but the gold standard will take it to the next level make life easier by getting harder and discover your options at blue chew.com get 10 off your first month supply of blue chew gold with code kai that's promo code kai k-a-i visit blue chew.com for more details and important safety information and we thank blue chew for sponsoring our podcast so like i said guys go to blue chew.com check out the gold standard pill give it a try let us know how you feel about it all right kai let's uh let's go to the lightning round so for those who don't know i'm going to read the questions or the comments and you will respond in a lightning speed okay yes yes all right so the first one is a comment actually and that's he's saying something interesting i think a lot of people wonder this today so i figured you should probably um i wonder what you think about this comment it's from casey casey casey richards um jc richards shout out to him let's get this question i'm curious now all right so he's saying here kai today would win the olympia at his peak i wonder how in shape he is today a lot of people actually uh something a lot of people actually question today well i mean yeah here's the thing because a lot of times people may say you i mean you've seen it happen you know you you you know you just you're just doing your thing you're not really you know watching any markers or anything right and somebody that loves you or somebody that you know might just appreciate you know what you're walking around with today oh man you look like you could be ready in just just a few weeks man man you should do it right now you should do it today you know um but you probably would look at yourself and say hey well you know listen one um i wouldn't even feel comfortable um even saying something like that without you know being able to check certain boxes in the part of my process for preparation you know um so yeah if i if i would have it my own way and consider being able to check those boxes the way i'd like to yeah this is the time table that i would give myself now i i say this because i also remember you know a time where george and i were working together getting ready for matter of fact we we'd already gotten ready for i don't know a string of shows in the process of just um uh a contract offering had come up where um behind the scenes we were approached hey man this show was coming up on this date can you do it you should do it you should be there and it was like ah nah you know what yeah it's not enough time i would need it it's only like six weeks it's just not enough and they were like uh well no we already spoke to your coach and george said i looked at george and george was like brother we got it sign the contract let's go interesting and i remember being like begrudgingly like nah man it's not enough time it's not enough time it's like no man we got it we got it we got it kai kai i got it we got it it's good and sure enough we did but if it were left up to me my own eyes i'd have been like nah man i need a ah i need more time i need to marinate right all right next question is from ovio fit 111 obo fit 111 shout out to you let's do it which pro bodybuilders have you trained with ever and were impressed how strong they are oh wow i've trained with a lot of pro bodybuilders you know um over the years which was impressive i trained with the x-man tony friedman back when he was like just like another kind of god to get a chance to to i remember being a teenager looking up to this dude um i celebrated when they turned pro i thought it was going to be years and years and years later i got a chance to train with them and let me just say this this the strongest most impressive um i have to be pro bodybuilders i've ever got a chance to train with honestly with female yes yeah i don't know it's probably i don't know if this is going to read well but uh i mean listen real talk i got a chance to train with um damn so right now i train with the female pro bodybuilders she's um figure um oxana you know this chick does one-on dumbbell rolls with almost 200 pound dumbbells it is crazy there's no it's just insane kind of strong right but i gotta say this i got a chance to train with this athlete like maybe 29 maybe not 20 years ago but i looked up to her in a magazine i did not know this chick was so strong so strong her name was um diana kudu yeah man i had never trained um every every movement that she did in the gym was like just like this smooth proficiency you know it was strength on top of strength that wasn't that wasn't that didn't the form was never compromised you know whether it was pull-ups whether it was rows whether it was side laterals exercises that i i think at other times of my career i definitely struggled with when i when i looked at her it was always textbook textbook beautiful mechanics that were just like just like a machine you know and then um and uh i'll never forget this i i don't know if i told you one time i was training with this um a friend of mine uh uh paulie nelson this chick did she tore everything in her knee tore everything in her knee that's crazy i mean meniscus and the acls and the ss eyes and the j-i-k-l-m-n-o-p she tore it you know this chick the doctors told her she would never like never like walk normally again when i tell you there was a time i remember getting ready for the olympia squatting like 500 pounds this chick was probably no more than 5'2 and just a gorilla in the gym you know um crazy crazy women women lift women that you're saying uh lifted uh more weight than men that you've trained with i mean you know it's funny because i'm not expecting that you know what i mean right right but there they are not only are they more aggressive i've seen like just just just amazing aggressiveness amazing that you would not expect to see even though i mean it's just crazy man it's crazy it's crazy very inspiring very inspiring all right last question is uh we'll put that in the patreon special here now this this question you know you've addressed it in different different different um interviews okay it's a woman i guess i'm almost scared for this one let's go they asking here can you explain pulling out of the 2015 olympia again you said it's because we didn't let's let's leave it let's leave it at that then let's leave it at that guy you make it sound like i disappointed you but did i just no no no you know people you know they they want to they want to hear the answers you know well i mean here's the thing you know one of the ways you get the answer a lot of times you know there used to be a time with when the when the when the warrior the soldier the athlete the guy that wanted it you know he had to he couldn't just you know he couldn't just say it with his mouth and you know just stay in his comfort zone you know the truth is a lot of the testimony of declaring that you want something means it you know the you know the young the young soldier had to go out and slay the dragon you know what i mean he had to leave home leave his comfort zone you know and all of that was an expression of just really wanting it you get what i'm saying um the race isn't given to the swift to the strong but he that's willing to endure you know so there's some truths that in order to get them revealed to you you there's just some work required what i've learned in my experience as an athlete you know i didn't start out as a top athlete in the sport you know i had to pay my dues and i had to work you know what i mean and there are lessons that you are taught by doing the work that you know are not as easy to just give someone in a you know a two second overview in a cheat seat uh you know some cliff notes you know what i mean um because even if you were to get that it doesn't mean that you would even be able to understand without it you know what i mean there's work that has to be done it's like you know so yeah i did the work and yeah there's some answers that i that i have and it's it's it's it's valuable i guess to the end of what i know but without the right context it would it probably wouldn't ah yeah man you Thank you.

=== FILE: Kai Greene On Staying Away From “Brotherhood” ｜ Kai Greene Effect [iPFn2M8X9oM].txt ===

 fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen fallen Yes, yes, yes. Good afternoon, good morning. What it be, what it be. How you been, man? I can't complain, man. I'm in a good place. I feel like Zardone right now when I see the background. Like a what? You feel like a what? Zardone. You remember the Power Rangers? I've never seen that. Oh, so, well, there's a TV show. Huh? I know what it's about. I've never watched it. Is it good? Well, I mean, you know, it's a kid's show. It was, you know, a team of heroes, and they had a commander or person that they would get their assignments from. And this character kind of looked like he sat in a space where it was just a floating head. What was your favorite TV show growing up? My favorite TV show? I had a bunch of them, actually. Yeah. I don't think you can start to say those things without, like, without dating yourself. Really? You know. I mean, you know, Tom and Jerry is classic. Tom and Jerry. Wow. Fred Flintstone. I don't know if you know about the Flintstones or the Jetsons. My favorites of all time were, like, Hanna-Barbera. Hanna-Barbera. They had, like, the Herculoids and Space Ghosts and Birdmans. Yes. Yes. All right. There's somebody out there that just heard me say that and is like, oh, that's what's up. I remember those days. Trip down memory and lame nostalgia. Yes. Yes. Nice. Nice. Nice. So, Kai, you've seen... What was yours? What was your TV show? I like SpongeBob. SpongeBob was good. Oh, my God. Vlad, you're young. You're young. You're a young guy. Oh, SpongeBob is pretty old, man. SpongeBob is like, come on. I mean, you know, the Flintstones were, like, the first animated family TV show slash cartoon that was, yeah, animated in, like, the longest running to be as successful as they were was, like, a groundbreaking milestone in television history. They made a movie, too. They made, like, the actual movie. Yeah. Yeah. How familiar are you with, like, The Honeymooners, Jackie Gleason? Never seen it. Yeah, see that? That's the young man in you, brother. That's the thing that makes you the envy of guys like me. Yes, yes. But speaking of arts, man, you dropped an album, right? 2025, you put on an album, right? Afro King Kai, right? K.I. Afro King, well, it's not me. It's my musical persona. The musical, of course, of course. K.I. Afro King, yes, sir. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But there you go. Which is me. I know, I know, of course. But not me. It's your alter ego. I don't know, I know. But the Grammys just passed, man. Did you, are you into that type of stuff? Do you watch the awards? Do you watch the Grammys? You know what? I actually didn't see the Grammys this year. I didn't. I didn't. I didn't. I'm actually, I'm still excited about it. But no, I haven't, I haven't gotten a chance to check that out. I was wondering if you follow it at all. Like the industry's accolades of the music industry. I was wondering if you actually ever pay attention to something like that. You know, I'm used to. I used to. I think, who hasn't ever grabbed a comb and sang into it while looking in the mirror and imagining themselves doing something amazing and maybe spectacular, like maybe even becoming Mr. Olympia. Very interesting, man. Yeah. Dreams are important. I feel like we should integrate some topics into this outside of the fitness and bodybuilding. You know, I feel like people want us to talk more about other subject matter. You know what I mean? Ah. So I figured I figured we're bringing other things that are current. You know what I mean? So I figured I'd ask you about the graphics. Since you are an artiste, you know. Ah. Are you going to drop more music, actually? Are you going to drop another one this year? Yeah, man. I got some rather interesting things I'm looking to do this year. Well, not me. That's K-I-Fro King, of course. Right, right, right. Of course. Yeah, man. Yeah. I'm pretty excited. I'm looking at, oh, man. You know what? You know what? It's one of those things where if you talk about it and you're not as, like, if you didn't have your cue cards and have everything queued up for the right soundbite, you know, a moment of free, tell me about it really quickly, can be the thing that you use to lose your audience. And forever turn them against you. Because you were talking about it when you were just not prepared. So, you know, I'm more than a dreamer. You know, I believe in getting things done, you know, one step at a time and continuing to work. So, behind the scenes, the work is certainly interesting. Certainly. Certainly, yeah. But it continues. And, yeah, man, I'm really excited to be able to try to say some things about that, like with my artwork and with the ability to even talk about the music. Kyle, let's take a quick break and give a special thank you to our title sponsor, G Fuel. Guys, if you're out there looking for a supplement for focus, endurance, energy, this is for you. Now, G Fuel, as some of you may know, they are originally started a company to focus on the gaming industry. But since then, they've expanded into the fitness industry and improved their formula. So, now you can enjoy G Fuel with the same great taste, but no aftertaste and no chalky texture. Now, they've added more antioxidants. They made it more glycine for muscle strength and recovery. And they kept the 140 milligrams of caffeine per serving. Always zero sugar and way more amino acids. So, guys, if you don't want to go to the store, you can go to gfuel.com and put in the code GI20 for a discount. Shout out to G Fuel. So, guys, give it a try. You will love it. All right. Let's get back to bodybuilding. So, I want to get your opinion on this. William Bonack, he made some statements a couple of weeks ago, actually. He said that he lost or he's losing his passion for bodybuilding. He said his passion for bodybuilding is fading. And specifically, he's saying it's different now, the vibes and bodybuilding. He's basically saying that everybody's for themselves now. There's no brotherhood in the bodybuilding space. I want to get your take on it because, you know, like I guess back in the day, there was more like friendships in bodybuilding. But you yourself were always kind of like on your own in a way. I remember at Olympia backstage, you were always like you were kind of to yourself. So, you were never part of like the groups, right? So, I want to get your take on what he said. And like does the brotherhood need to be existing in bodybuilding really for people to compete? I want to get your take specifically on it because, in my opinion, you were always kind of on your own. You know, I don't think I was the only one. I mean, I can recall hearing Darian Yates, you know, publish memoirs where he talked about feeling like the dark horse of bodybuilding. I think he was even, you know, he even, you know, called that, called himself that at one point. While he was in the throes of his, you know, the peak of his career. You know, he was, he would go off to Germany. I mean, England and train, you know, all year round, you know, in the dungeon and then come back, you know, that one day for the Olympia. That one, that one time and then to actually, you know, go on the tour. I think if they had the Grand Prix to follow, win everything and then go right on back home, you know, to England and, you know, dwell in the dungeon. So, yeah, long story short, I, you know, I think, you know, different athletes have different experiences in the sport. You know, I have, I remember, I got to say this because I'm reminded of seeing Will Bonac respond very, very, very well to like other athletes that he was close to. I think when Sean Roden won the Olympia, you know, I think Will Bonac, if I can recall properly, looked like he was more excited for him, you know, than even Sean Roden was, you know, at the moment when he won the Olympia. I mean, so, you know, my hat's off to a guy like that because, I mean, he was genuinely, he looked genuinely just beside himself with, you know, happiness and, you know, he celebrated Sean Roden's victory as if it was his own, you know. So, I think there's no doubt behind the scenes, you know, just how passionate he may actually be as a man and his ability to appreciate the feelings of brotherhood that he had no doubt with Sean Roden. And I would imagine he's like that with, you know, a few guys in the sport. So, yeah, I think it's his experience. But for you, for you as a competitor, right, when you used to compete, right, you didn't need, when you were going to shows or whatever, you didn't need anybody there to be friends with in order for you to be focused on competing, right? For you, it wasn't like a thing you were looking forward to. I'm going to go to Olympia. I'm going to see all my friends there, right? It wasn't a thing. Yeah, that was certainly a different, my approach was different, you know. But, you know, I don't think I was the only athlete or person that approached it like that. I think the idea of camaraderie and friendship, I think it's great when you're able to have it and experience that. I don't think it's something that you can only have just one time or another. I think there are moments that are awesome when you have them and they may sneak up on you, you know. So, you almost have to, like, be ready for it and make yourself available when they do. But, yeah, I think there's a lot more at work, too. I mean, Will is now, he's a seasoned pro veteran. He's been, this is not his first rodeo, you know, merry-go-round. He's been, he's proven. He's been working for quite some time. In fact, I think he started coming on really strong just around the time I started running into some issues and stuff. And he went on to continue to just, you know, catch his stride. And I remember, you know, getting a chance with Generation Iron and Sean Ray some years back. We got a chance to do some commentating at the Arnold Classic. Yeah, yeah. And him and another Mr. Olympia up-and-coming soon-to-be, you know, champion and winner, Brandon Curry, were fighting for things, top honors at the Arnold Classic some years back. I remember. Exactly. Yeah, I mean, that was like a dogfight, you know. Yeah, certainly he's experienced a lot of bright, shiny moments in the sport to his credit. I think he's hitting it. It's been years. It's been more than a decade. He's put in some really solid work. I think he's hitting a retirement, basically, with that statement, in my opinion. Well, how long are you supposed to, you know, represent as hard as he has? I mean, I think it's only, he's only right and natural to be thinking the things that he's thinking. I think that, but it's up to him, you know. And he would know how he feels, you know, more than anybody else. I think his presence at the big pro shows has been very, very valuable. And, yeah, man. I would never want to tell an athlete, yo, man, you better not, you know, because you never know what are some of the things that is, you know, weighing heavy on his heart as the reasons why he would choose that. I mean, you know, he's also a family man. I'm sure, you know, with a certain amount of commitment to travel and to his experiences as he has, you know, as a pro. There may be some things that he, you know, he may also want to do. And while he's still, I mean, this guy's, he's not, he's not in his 70s. This is still, this is still a young man. You know what I mean? And, yeah, if he wants to do some other things, sometimes you have to step away, you know, just to be able to have more availability to do some of the other things that are also very important, too. Sure. All right, Kai, let's go to the lightning round. What's good? So we have questions. You're going to answer them from our loyal listeners, and you're going to answer them in a lightning speed, right? Of course, because you know my name is Kai Green, and that's what I do. I know, I know, exactly. All right, first question. It comes from Shamble F9S. Shamble F9S. Okay, let's get it. Kai Green, what was your most fulfilling competition that you've entered? Fulfilling. That's, I guess, it depends on what you define it as fulfilling, right? Most fulfilling. Do you have one like that? You know what? It's funny, because if you ask me that the night before, the night before the show that I, you know, dieted for, worked for, trained for, day in and out, got up in the morning with that as my purpose for being. Went to bed at night, but that is the purpose and goal of my being. Reasons why my existence, you know, was somehow wrapped up into that. Chances are, the most fulfilling shows that I have ever done would be each one of those experiences. Every single one? Every single one? Honestly, I mean, yeah, I think it's like a... Can't be every single one, Kai. Come on, not every single one. You know what? There was a time, believe it or not, there was a time when I lived in an institutional facility. And the idea of being able to, you know, exist outside of that space in a place where you could be free and not restricted as you were was like a pipe dream. You know, there was a time when they would say, hey, well, the judge said you're supposed to be here. Your action said you were supposed to be here. You are a condemned man, sir. This is where you belong. And this is where you will be. Fast forward, you know, when somebody started talking about the possibility of being able to compete in like my first bodybuilding show, it would have meant, though, that it would... The ability to do that would have meant that I would have needed to get clearance from a judge. A whole bunch of paperwork would have needed to be shuffled backwards and forwards. It was impossible because none of those things were going to happen, you know. Fast forward, though. Yeah, man, I had like just some amazing people that I got a chance to meet. And for some reason, they saw me and they kind of saw me committed to the idea of, yeah, man, I'm going to do this bodybuilding show. I started dieting. When I first... When I started my first diet to getting ready to compete, I did what I thought made sense because I didn't know how to diet. I didn't know science. I ate bread and water. And while I did that, the institutional facility said, you know what? No. This guy's trying to kill himself. They put me in isolation. So I started to find it. And I wasn't able to work out unless I was able to do pushups. Anyway, I'm saying all of this to say that the possibility of doing my first show was thought of as impossible. And if I'd have asked anybody for encouragement on the sidelines or brotherhood, they would have said, hey, man, you know what? Keep working. Keep believing. There's a possibility that that will happen. No one was going to say that. It was impossible. So that said, I'm saying all of this to say that when I got the opportunity eventually to do my first show, as I still couldn't get a judge to turn around and say, hey, you know what? We're going to let you... You know, it turns out the people in the facility, the institution, the institutional facility that I was forced to live in at the time, man, somebody smiled. You know, there was an institutional worker that happened to be worked in the education department. The dude was an English teacher. And I know you know a little bit about that story, Black, because we went over that so many years ago. Oh, yeah. The documentary, First Generation Iron 2. Anyway, I'm saying all of this to say that it was an impossibility. You know, and I went from being a person that believed in something that made me look like I was foolish because it was impossible. There's no judge that's going to give no clearance for it. There's no social workers that are going to, you know, take the responsibility. But somebody did. And guess what, man? I was allowed to leave an institutional facility, you know, leave the restricted environment. Go to my first bodybuilding show, stand there on stage, do the whole thing, the prejudging, the night show, the weighing. And then I went back to the institutional facility with my first trophies, man. I was a winner. And it meant everything to me because to do it meant that it was impossible. And I did the impossible. Anyway, I'm saying this to say to you that, yeah, man, that victory in itself made it that much more likely that I would learn how to believe in the importance of being willing to do the work. And how valuable it is to do the work. And how more important it is to believe. So, yeah, yeah. It was very important, man. That was a victory beyond victory. So, yeah, man, that was a very important one. I want to ask a follow-up because I feel like people complain, actually, in the comments. They say, I don't ask your follow-up questions sometimes. And I feel like I want to ask. This is the moment I want to ask the follow-up, Kai, if you don't mind. Yeah, let's do it. A couple episodes ago, I brought up a show. And I guess you didn't want to talk about it. You diverted from the conversation. It was a Prague thing. When you went to Prague, you said you don't want to talk about it. You plead the fifth. So, was that also fulfilling, the Prague thing? Was that fulfilling or not fulfilling? Well, when you say Prague, what happened in particular? So, I went back. I went back and I read. Because I heard something about the Prague. And I read the Prague thing. I think it was 2015. You went to Prague and you, I guess you weren't feeling good. So, after the prejudging, you didn't want to compete anymore. Something like that. And you left the competition. So, I wanted to see. Do you know what I'm talking about? No. No. All right. I just left. All right. We're going to have to. No, no. I'm here. Vlad, I'm trying to be with you. 2014. No, 2014. 2014 Prague. You went. Okay, 2014 Prague. So, there was an article written about it. You went to Prague. You did the prejudging. And then you complained about. It said health issues. So, you left the competition. I think Dennis Wolf ended up winning. Oh, wow. Is that what happened? That's what the article said. I don't know. Man, I got to see that article, brother. I'm like. All right. All right. I'm at a loss. I mean, there's so many shows. And sometimes there's so many. I mean, I've competed in Prague. I got to try. I got to try for the audience. I don't want to. I don't want people to say. I don't. I don't ask you questions. You know what I mean? All right. Let's go to the next one, Kyle. Let's go to. One day. One day you will talk about it. All right. Hey, I would love to. I just don't recall exactly. I mean, I actually did some. I did a bunch of things in Prague, actually. I really did. I'm sure you did. Yeah. All right. Let's go to the next one. We don't have that much time. All right. So next one is from Reno 911 underscore. Reno 911. Shout out to you. Let's get it. Kai, please tell me your top three favorite movies to watch of all time. And don't say you love them all. Please. Yeah, no, I wouldn't do that. My top three favorite movies? Favorite movies. Do you have that? Damn. Damn. I keep it real simple for you. I could say the first Star Wars trilogy because I was a fan, man. Oh, yeah. You know, Anakin Skywalker. I felt like I understood Anakin Skywalker. Yeah. Personal relationship with him. But I also felt like I had a personal relationship with Darth Vader. For real. For real. That was like my mama. I'm just kidding. Yes. Oh, yeah. All right. Yeah. That was a good one. That's a good one. You know what? The Warriors. The Warriors. How about that? Oh, that's a classic. You're a classic, of course. Yes, it is. Yeah, man. The classic. The Warriors. And if I had one more. So, you know, one more to throw at you would be, damn. Let's say. So we say Star Wars. We have The Warriors. You know what? The Wiz. The Wiz. Not The Wiz in a box. With Michael Jackson, yeah? But The Wigs. Michael Jackson, right? With Michael Jackson, right? Yeah. Michael Jackson, Diana Ross, Nipsey, Russell. Yes, yes, yes. All classics. Yeah. All classics. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Richard Pryor. Richard Pryor. All right, right, right. Yeah. Classics. All right, good. Those are good. Those are good ones, man. At this point in the year, the workouts are not just aspirational. They're real. And the supplementation is more important than ever. That's why I want to bring to your attention a great company called Momentus. Now, this is a fantastic company that manufactures supplementation. What's really great about this company is that they take pride in the ingredients they use. And they test every single product to make sure it meets the standard. And if it doesn't meet the standard, they throw it away. Now, what makes the company different is the pride they take in the ingredients and how clean they are. Momentus Source is the highest quality ingredients on a planet. The whey protein comes from grass-fed European dairy cows. The creatine uses the purest form of creatine monohydrate. And every formula is made with clinically backed nutrients. No fillers, no artificial sweeteners ever. But what truly sets Momentus apart is their testing and transparency. So every single product is independently certified by NSF. Meaning it's tested for contaminants, heavy metals, banned substances. And it's fully verified for label accuracy. So you always know exactly what you get and what you put in your body. And like I said, if the product doesn't meet the standard, it never hits the shelves ever. If you want to start a new year right and rely on one supplement company, I truly recommend Momentus. And like I said, they have a variety of different products. Proteins, creatines, omega-3s, and everything else you can think of. And everything is always third-party tested. Right now, Momentus is offering our listeners up to 35% off your first order with promo code KAI. K-A-I. So check out LiveMementus.com and use promo code KAI for up to 35% off your first order. That's LiveMementus.com. Promo code KAI. So on this show, guys, I truly recommend this brand. This is a brand you can trust. All right, let's go to the next one. Uh-huh. This one is interesting because I feel like you've addressed it on a few episodes. But let's try it again. Why not? Dan Murray, M4N. Hey, Kai, it's good to see you doing well. I just wanted to say you are really inspiring. And I just wanted to ask if you ever plan on competing ever again. And also, if you did, I believe the lineup today would be in serious trouble. Hmm. You know what's interesting, man? First, I want to say thank you. Thank you for such an encouraging comment. You know, man, I think I look at some old photos of, like, Lee Priest. And I see old photos of, like, Paul DeLette, you know. And there was a time when these guys were, like, they were, like, the gods of our sport, you know. Regardless to where they placed, you know, ultimately, you know, it's just something so amazing, you know, about the way they actually existed. And it still exists in history, man. And it's, like, you know, to look at them the way they looked, then it's a snapshot in time. And it's history. But if I expect Lee Priest to look exactly like Lee Priest looked, you know, when he won the Iron Man, you know, the Iron Man isn't even around anymore. No, it's been good. There was a year when Lee Priest was, like, just, like, just, like, just amazing, amazing proportions. It's crazy. Because you see him today, and he looks like a great athlete, you know, in the sport, to his credit. You know, you see him, he still looks like a cartoon character, you know. And he's getting older. But I'm saying this to say that things change. People change, you know. I want to believe that my best is still in front of me, you know. And I work today, and I will continue to work with that expectation as I work in the back of my mind. You know, I think it'll be interesting to see what happens. I always want to, you know, keep the door of possibility open. Because there are things that I still feel like I didn't get a chance to thoroughly work out and get out of my system, you know. I agree. I agree. I can't wait for that day, man. I look forward to that day. I look forward to that day. Hey. Talk to work well. All right. Kai, so this one is a Patreon special. And it's a, I guess it's a controversial question here. So it comes from, it comes from Creative Sammy 777. You're talking about the car situation. You ever had a road rage situation where you got really upset behind the steering wheel? I lived in New York, brother. Are you kidding me? But here's the thing. Interestingly enough, when you lived in New York and you get into that, you know, their cats have got some things for that. Florida is more dangerous. And I remember having things like that and not being in a good position, you know, because that could be very, very unhealthy. Very unhealthy. That's a health care right there. Yeah. All right, Kai. That was all the questions that we have for today, man. Thank you for answering them. And hopefully people will submit more. Hey, that's what's up, man. I appreciate the opportunity. Hey, Vlad, I hope you didn't take that as if I was being evasive, man. I really just, I really didn't know what you were talking about. Oh, no, no, no, no. I'll find the article. Don't worry about it. That's what's up. Yes, yes. All right, brother. Good news. Good to see you, man. Likewise. Likewise. AD, thanks for holding me down. No problem, guys. Yes, yes. Later, bro. All right, guys. Peace. All right. Peace. Thank you.

=== FILE: Kai Greene On The Hardest Part About Eating 7,000+ Calories ｜ Kai Greene Effect [KCwwIIorq7k].txt ===

 Nowthatousananastroformin, aromasin, Gluecalia, Nowthatousananastroformin, Nowthatousanformin, studio today what's happening over there well uh yeah kind of sort of uh working on this k.i afro king stuff yes yes amazing in studio it's a it's a nice place man it's just it's pretty crazy but um yeah man i i got a new song that i'm like so excited about can you sing it for us am i singing yeah i'm singing man i'm singing your boy oh can you give us a preview can you get not as kai though not as kai i don't have like my you know my boy when i put on the become k.i afro king you know what i mean it's uh yeah man welcome to the kai green effect yeah man how you been how's everything you know i can't complain i think i'm in a great place getting ready for that arnold um are you going yes will you be there possibly possibly possibly yeah yeah what are you going to be uh what are you are you going to be at the specific booth where where can people find you so uh yeah i'm definitely going uh i'll be at the dark sport booth and uh some other some things to announce now that company dark sport man uh they they're doing great things right it's a clothing company but they've really grown a lot i've seen their movement yeah man i wish i was an owner man i really do because they're doing so well man so awesome we got like a you just have an an awesome you know company infrastructure it's some amazing some amazing talent a lot of a lot of stuff a lot of positive things going on behind the scenes i think they've kind of captured like lightning in a bottle um it's really awesome to be a part of it as i am yeah are they based in la yes they are yeah there's a lot of there's a lot of big clothing companies that are based out of la um they're doing really big numbers like really big numbers it's one of those things where uh you want want to be fast enough to capture lightning in the bottle well they're good at what they do man because they got to do quick turnarounds you know they gotta have they gotta have good customer service they gotta have the styles it's it's it's a very difficult clothing is a very difficult business as i've seen you know michael simpel and his brothers they're kind of beast in it they have uh yeah really streamlined the process and make it look easy and make it look easy um yeah man 100 but you know a lot of times working to represent the larger idea that's like beyond you know the material and the fabric but like really going a long way and representing you know the concept of never giving up um and what it means to be a wolf and not surrendering you know um doing that work whatever it takes 100 100 so since the arnold is coming up i want to get your opinion on bob chicorillo um he was doing a video i think it was a podcast or something he's basically saying that um eventually at some point uh you know how there's so many divisions now right there's a lot of divisions there's a new actually the new uh fit model division that that was introduced last year i think or two years ago have you have you uh you know you want to talk about fit model division yeah you know i actually uh heard a lot about it um just as they were kind of rolling it out um there was a lot to say about it uh recently in florida i got a chance to uh see some of the first uh showcases presenting it i thought it was i thought it was you know it's it's interesting if you're not if you're from like an old school you know wisdom related to our sport you know um it can be interesting you know you can be like well what is this you know it's it's different but i understand it's um it's an opportunity to you know kind of reach people where they are you know and bring them into sport or our sporting experience by having something that uh is developed for them you know um i agree with you but what he's what bob said well i'm going to read the quote because i want to make sure i don't miss i don't want to misquote him but he's saying that um i see that arnold classic having men's bodybuilding women's bikini and women's fitness and calling it a day and that's not to diminish the weekend because all the other divisions that are left out those athletes will still go to the arnold classic because of the expo so he's saying eventually in his opinion they're gonna they're gonna basically just do the the men's bodybuilding women's bikini and women's fitness and and just basically cut the other ones out of the competition do you see that happening and do you want it do you want it to happen um you know yeah it's not like this i realized i i don't have the kind of influence that uh bob chicorillo will represent i think that he's uh the fact that you're quoting him means that there's something to be said for the position that he may have in an effort to vocalize uh some of the uh new things that are coming down the pipeline i think he's probably serving um the purpose of like being a speaker and if he is a speaker you know for you know powers that are actually called new shots with the sport then i think that that is the announcement you know what i mean you're kind of it may be possible that we're getting a foreshadowing of what is to come and i guess with that you know we can count ourselves advised i see what you say you're saying he knows he he was he was he was you know he was basically told to say that in a sense possibly i mean you know uh to be the voice of the sport i mean i remember bob took a role at one time was identified as the you know the athlete's rep and you know i know there's some some work he's doing with sean ray now um with their show um i think it's very very possible you can actually you know be in a position to have uh more insight um and probably been selected to uh to help you know a lot of us understand what's going on or what to expect coming down the pipeline he's becoming very outspoken lately you notice that he he's like involved in like the back and forth with some athletes like nick walker he's like very he's becoming like a a very outspoken person uh before he would never like talk as freely i think you know i don't know i'm not saying it's but i'm not saying it's bad i'm not saying it's bad he's entertaining you know but uh you know something something definitely happened well i you know bob is a very intelligent guy he's not yeah you know he's not trying to do something that that on some level behind the scenes he understands would be um advantageous to the development of the things that are important to him i'm sure and certainly within the sport um um i think that there are many people that will still look to him as um being in the circles um with influence and circles of influence so i i you know i would have to research it further to say with certainty um but i'm implying to think as you asked me this question that there there may be some effort on his part to um put out there some changes that we could possibly expect coming down the pipeline and maybe even you know check the temperature you know as to how people would respond you know to a change like that at the honor classic i think long before they actually even um um made the the the changes with uh cutting women's bodybuilding and removing it from the schedule that um the honor classic some years back um i think we did hear you know um through the grapevine that that was something that they considered so um and then it happened it became reality i think when i first heard it to be honest back in the day i thought i thought they would never do away with women's bodybuilding i thought women's bodybuilding was um but certainly deserving of its own place um on the platform um and then we found out differently i feel the same way with saying that uh there was a time when um you had you had a show called the iron man and iron man was like a huge show you know um i remember you know cutting my teeth and bodybuilding looking at iron man magazine and then you know celebrating the the times that flex wheeler and jj marsh and you know some just awesome bodybuilding talent was featured on the page on the cover of iron man and then all of a sudden he heard you know coming down the pipeline was a change that was going to happen where it questioned whether or not the honor of the iron man was going to be held at all and it was like nah they would never do that of course it was going to be around and then suddenly it wasn't and now for a lot of the new fans in the sport just coming to the sport you could ask them hey what do you think about that iron man like iron man what exactly you know you know they said that the the reason for the when they originally banned or or stopped having the women's bodybuilding competitions was because of iris kyle because she got so dominant so huge and like her physique was just so extreme that that was the reason why they were like let's let's start doing that right that that type of thing but it's interesting because to me if you're looking at the sport right i'd rather watch me personally now right i'd rather watch women's bodybuilding as a competition because it's so extreme than any other female division that's not to say that people right away think that's what you're attracted to but i'm talking about as a sport do you just you know i'm saying like if you want to see the extreme right of the of the competition you want to see physique like iris kyle competing you know what i mean or somebody somebody like her you know i mean i'm not saying that that's that's that's what the most attractive physique but this is we're talking about the competitive nature of of it you know what i'm trying to say there's a difference there's a difference like you know i do um um bodybuilding has to have its place and and in the home you know i think there's something to be said for wanting to be able to create a place that welcomes under the the umbrella of what is body building you know a place of comfort for athletes that are that are behind those you know and i'm gonna have put on the full armor you know um i don't know exactly what the what the answer will be though because ultimately you know behind the scenes is a lot to be set for the money that needs to be made and if people aren't aren't um right financially ready to support it you know um in ticket sales and sponsors that are you know willing to get behind yeah um then i think it you can only naturally expect you know for the exclusion of some things so if you are an athlete if you're a person that uh that supports the sport you know um it is important to show your support you know um because that's ultimately the thing that becomes the life thread to keep it around i agree with you guys if you enjoy to have a drink once in a while but you have a busy life you have a lot of things going on unfortunately as you get older it doesn't get easier all to drink but luckily for us there's cheers restore now luckily cheers restore is a dual action after alcohol aid its ingredients support both your brain and your liver after consuming alcohol it was originally invented by a student from princeton based on a research into a novel compound called dhm dhm demonstrated powerful alcohol related properties in brain and liver so cheers was designed for alcohol actually affects your body not just dehydration today cheers is sold in over 30 000 stores including walgreens cvs 711 and circle k they've sold over 50 million doses and cheers is backed by doctors phds and over 1 000 verified clinicians who shared it with their patients the promise is simple you'll feel about 50 better the next morning after your drink or your money back basically two drinks will feel like one the next morning all you gotta do is take three capsules after your last drink before bed this is not for college binge drinking if you have 12 tequila shots you probably still feel it the next day but if you're a normal adult who drinks responsibly you'll feel significantly better the next day with cheers same night out way better morning with cheers for the limited time only our listeners are getting 20 off the entire order by using code kai at cheershealth.com just go to cheershealth.com and use code kai for 20 off and after your purchase they will ask you where have you heard about them please support our show and tell them we sent you like i said guys check it out cheers restore give it a try let's move on to branch warren so um branch warren um he started calling out athletes these days for not squatting i didn't know that was a thing i think i didn't know people stopped squatting and bodybuilding he's saying that uh grainy grainy muscles come from training not genetics i guess people look at people people look people look at his body and saying he's grainy or whatever he's saying that's pure from training and he's basically saying that the people don't squat anymore have you have you heard about that have you heard that people don't squat anymore well i mean you know some people could say that when when they looked at like darian you know jedi master darian yates you know um i don't recall ever seeing darian yates squat you know now i could be wrong but what was he doing like a like a press yeah heavy leg presses i mean um you know what comes to my mind when i hear something like that is well you know you know you know you think about arnold arnold lee haney you know um ronnie coleman you know um uh you know ass to the grass you know squats you know you too uh but also you know darian who at one time was like the epitome poster child of like grainy hardcore muscle you know bigger and bigger larger than life you know um um i don't recall seeing photos of him squatting but he was i mean he was the the poster child wow i had no idea i mean i could be wrong i'd love to like you know if i ever you know if you get a chance to interview darian yates like that is like one of those jedi masters of the game that uh could go a long way and like i'd love to hear his opinion on that because i don't i don't know if i've ever been able to find a photo of him you know squatting um i question whether or not that has been in his arsenal so it's very possible that there might be some you know another side to that coin i always ask why that's a big thing with me why squats are the best things for legs everyone says why look let me try to do something else oh i did believe that until squats i damaged my hip so i had to try and do something else and i discovered you can do it another way you don't need to do squats um i know i believe in squatting personally um but if i if i had to choose and do something else because let's say i had uh some other complications that i had to work around you know um i look at i'd like to think that there are some alternatives um that would still allow me to you know train um and develop myself to a maximum level even if i had to um um remove squatting from my training protocol what about free weights is it possible to build a bodybuilding physique like uh top-notch physique for olympia with only uh using machines for example that's a big debate too i'm sure look at examples like vince taylor you know vince taylor was like only machine you know one of the that's a desert jedi master right there you know um um i believe not could be wrong but i believe that um it had been said you know in his training protocol over the years that uh he believed in using um machines um and probably would find alternatives to doing uh free weight movements or exercises uh spare his joints and protect them and still put on massive maximum amounts of muscle um in detail i mean he was you know one of at one time in the sport one of the most conditioned athletes on stage and certainly one of the most winning pros in the game um at a time in the sport back when he used to have shows like the niagara falls and you know um knight of champions you know um vince taylor was a very well decorated athlete and a legend in the name of legends in this game um and i believe he um he may have been one of those athletes that used uh you know gym equipment that wasn't uh based solely on free weights so interesting i think dexter jackson what about that guy to answer your question you asked it well with him from what i heard is he he he started like later in his career to use just machines i think i may be wrong but i think he like in the beginning which one this that's no that's no dexter jackson specifically yeah i mean how many videos have you seen with him and in the great charles glass you know changing angles and using you know a selectorized pieces of equipment um i don't think i have i don't think i can recall seeing an exercise video um over the years of dexter jackson training now there's a guy that has like more than three decades of competitive pro bodybuilding experience on the biggest stage in the world um well traveled well seasoned there is definitely a jedi master you know there was one in the sport and i don't think i've ever seen him with the with the bar across his back squatting with three weights you know you mentioned dorian yates he actually um revealed that in his offseason um he would consume 7 000 calories per day um he did tell what he was eating um 7 000 per day wow in your offseason did you did you count your calories offseason um and what was what do you think you consumed um there was a time i made it i made it my business to consume a lot of massive amounts of calories and it's funny because i would meet people that would say hey you know i want to grow and they say um i want to grow how do i grow expecting for me to reach into my pocket and pull out some pills you know a bottle of uh some of this snake oil and say hey you want big legs this is for you i've got it here it is um but yeah we say you know you tell them hey you got to eat you got to consume massive amounts of calories and be like oh no no no you don't understand i eat a lot they'd say you know um but with just a little bit more observation we discovered very quickly that what they thought was eating a lot was basically just like one big meal at the one time of the day that they felt that they were hungry and then after consuming that meal now they felt guilty because they thought it was a lot of food but now if you really thought about calories overall and think about what your calorie consumption for the entire day may need to be in order to really start talking about gains they they are probably under eating um so uh you know i think consuming big calories particularly if you're a person that may say hey well i i i think i like to eat but i only do you know once or twice a day calories massive amounts of calories or calories taken in throughout the day um can add up to big numbers um i got into the way of eating systematically every two and three hours um especially when i was a younger bodybuilder climbing up the ranks trying to grow um i learned early that i believe it's uh important to to be a good eater being a good eater not just abiding by the idea of eating when i was hungry but learning how to eat when i wasn't so i can stay on the clock you know and keep a constant influx of nutrient dense calories uh throughout the day stretched out throughout the totality of my day you think it was more than something you think was more than seven thousand a day seven thousand calories a day uh i think to some people seven thousand may sound like a lot you know um but i believe it or not have heard of figure figure women athletes that have consumed you know that amount if not more um you can you can you can you can get your metabolic rate you know just like moving at such a fast pace that you may need to eat more than seven thousand calories you know what i mean and find it quite easily accomplished you know um so yeah i'm um i don't think it's crazy to hear that so when you ate those every three hours were you hungry every three hours that's the thing i learned how to eat not when i was hungry not being hungry at all you just eat and yeah i think i think of there were three bodybuilders in the in the course of uh i think my my my learning experience you know when i was a teenager that i think spoke very very positively to the idea of to be a great bodybuilder you needed to humble yourself before the thought of being a great eater and for me what that meant was not speaking or teaching the limitations of well i can't do this you know i i can't eat beyond this much because oh you know you talk to people now and they'll say hey i want to get on a diet i want to try to get myself in in great shape you know you start talking about okay well what do you want to do and they'll say hey okay i want you to write out a diet for me you know i don't do that but i found that whenever i was uh willing enough to entertain let's see what we can do just hearing you out maybe trying to you know put some some tweaks in what you're already doing all right um start talking about hey what's all what are you eating um well i eat chicken i believe in like chicken breasts and steak and the old traditions of of you know what you do to spike your protein and you know take in more protein of course you get turkey chicken the first thing they'd say it's like oh well yeah i can't eat chicken yeah i can't eat chicken it's like why what happened is it like a medical emergency yeah yeah it's like i i just can't you know i have one or two meals of chicken it's like i can't uh i feel like i'm gonna throw up it's like well what do you want do you want the results or not yeah yeah yeah guys i want to welcome you to no hangover club and the first rule is you don't get a hangover you wonder how it's possible nowadays for those of us who enjoy going to the gym in the morning having a productive day nowadays is the way to go ditch the alcohol and try nowadays nowadays is zero proof thc infused beverage that delivers a clean balanced buzz no hangover no blow and no regrets just a smooth taste you can enjoy social atmosphere it feels great it's a smarter way to drink whether you're pouring it over ice or just take shots so whatever the vibe is pre-game party low-key night nowadays is here for you to show up and wake up feeling your best the next day because fun should not come at a cost welcome to the upgrade welcome to nowadays and now for 30 off visit try nowadays.com slash kai to get 30 off your order that's try nowadays.com slash kai or use kai code at checkout k-a-i and as always drink responsibly you must be 21 years old to buy it my favorite is the stitching infused shot it's very simple to use it's unflavored and it's great you can mix it with whatever you want or just take a shot all right kai let's go to the lightning round this this is my favorite this is my favorite part so we have questions from the loyal listeners questions from the loyal listeners okay there's a patreon one but the first ones are regular ones and okay some of these i don't know if you're even gonna answer them they're kind of crazy man but we have to ask you know we have to ask all right okay tank of jersey zero eight eight nine tank of jersey zero eight eight nine what's up let's hear it that's a crazy question he's asking when was the last time you got in the fist fight how did it go that is cool i mean man you know what interesting question because i can recall another time in my life man when i used to have to find myself constantly in in in in in in the need to kind of explain myself as to why i did this and why i did that you know have to deal with the constant shame and ridicule that came along with trying to answer the question like well why didn't you learn how to discipline and develop yourself in another way couldn't you talk without you know needing to resort to like you know i don't want to say violence but like you know at some point as you grow and you develop there's certainly an expectation of being able to do more with less you know sure so with that said yeah if you're if you're a grown adult man you know certainly with the command of a lot more resources and things available to you you know it becomes it speaks to your discredit to have to say yep here you go i was caught up in another situation where i was physical altercation with some dude over what it doesn't matter you know um um it just doesn't speak highly of you to just find yourself continually um in those kinds of situations so when i got that you know when i finally understood that yeah man you know i have to expect more of myself to truly become the man that i want to be moving and shaking in my life being able to command larger things making more opportunities available to me yeah i think that uh we had to walk away from stuff like that you know so so uh over a year ago yeah man i'm just i'm i'm i'm yeah there was a video of you in a wearing a boxing gloves in a ring was that a commercial you shot or something uh i've done i've done a number of like fight scenes where you know you right you play a you play a uh a combat person you know um on screen but i mean in truth i'm a lover not a fighter you know that oh my gosh all right yes let's go to the next one romkowski 90. how much creatine how much creatine do you consume per day roughly i mean in supplement form so how much creatine i guess powder you take a day um none today but i will and uh certainly none yesterday um i'll be better started after answering that question um when i'm actually doing that uh as of right now i'm not doing anything no crazy oh wow okay okay okay interesting people assume that uh uh everybody in fitness take a lot of crazy interesting yeah but i mean that's also something that you may need to cycle as well you know what i mean to get the max you know so um if someone were to ask me and i would be honest right at this moment none gotcha gotcha all right in reverse eight nine zero one yes yes in reverse six nine eight zero one let's go do you truly feel like working out every day do you ever have days when you just don't want to go to the gym if so what do you do absolutely uh that comes along with everyone for everyone even the best of the best and the best of our business even the most devout you know uh spiritually connected to this game when it comes to training um fact is there are times when yeah even the most devout champions do not want to train and will find it with find themselves with enough reason not to um and this is why like the idea of like passion someone say i need to be motivated oh there are times of motivation will uh like your feelings betray you you know what i mean um that can happen um but for situations like that it's so important to be able to rely on your discipline you know um i believe that being a champion is not you know afforded you because of your genetics you know um it's one of those things that are that define you by the choices that you make you know so champions are produced by your you know your decision to be one you know and this is why i like everybody out there that ever gets a chance to hear um what it takes to be a champion i really want to put this in your mind you know if you will allow me that champion the race is not given to the swift but to the strong so if you woke up this morning thinking like oh man i don't i don't i don't know i don't know if i have the genetics i don't know if i have what it takes all the time to be the best that i may need to be in order to do what is necessary for me to become the champion that i aspire to be but you know what i'm going to remember what's important to me and i'm willing enough to do the work even when it's not convenient and even when it's not the most comfortable thing you know uh for that there is discipline and because of your discipline that's how i believe you tap into being a champion so go no matter what got it and not go no matter what but go because because you have to it's identified as being a part of your plan and your process you know um there are times when yeah you know i'm supposed to eat but yeah i didn't really i didn't really feel like eating my feelings may betray me you know because you can you can be you can you can you can be teeter tottering back and forth between dehydration without necessarily feeling thirsty in fact some will say that by the time you feel thirsty chances are you know you're already you may have already gone to a place where you are dehydrated you get what i'm saying yeah for sure all right last question this is a patreon special for those who don't have patreon please subscribe and this is uh well i i can't wait to see what you're gonna say for this one because we we covered this in other episodes to degree that's it for the day kyle i mean we uh you've answered all the questions man that was good hey well thanks blad i appreciate the opportunity man this is uh certainly cool all day man we have we have we have we have a lot of history man we've been doing some growing and we still are i'm glad to still have the opportunity to do it with you brother absolutely man great to see you as always likewise hey man you have a great day my man derek my man edwin generation iron crew massive much respect to you thank you vlad as always later brother until next time peace

=== FILE: MHP Strong AF - Strongest Pre-Workout Supplement？ ｜ Review [rsKBl_oAqGE].txt ===

 and alfagipine. What's up, guys? This is Dylan with Generation Iron here and today we are breaking down Muscle-Med's new pre-workout, Strong AF. This is a clinically-dosed pre-workout built for serious strength, power, and performance and combines high research-backed ingredients like creatine, citrulline, beta-alionine, shilligit, alpha-GPC, caffeine, and electrolytes to really prime your body and mind for those explosive workouts and faster recovery. Muscle-Med's Strong AF pre-workout has 5 grams of creatine, 6 grams of citrulline malate for pumps, and 3.2 grams of beta-alionine. Strong AF helps boost power output, muscle pumps, endurance, and training intensity so you can really push through those workouts and see results. Each scoop of this pre-workout is loaded with clinically-backed ingredients that have been tested by athletes of various sports. And on top of the creatine, the beta-alionine, and the citrulline malate, which you see in mostly every pre-workout that's a stimulant-based pre-workout, you have ingredients such as shilligit, which helps support your testosterone levels, ATP reduction in recovery, and really reduce that muscle soreness and help you get to the next workout. And then you also have alpha-GPC, which enhances acetylcholine levels for stronger mind-muscle connections, sharper focus, and improved strength output, again, really helping you get through those workouts and see some serious results. So overall, Muscle-Med's new pre-workout, Strong AF, is great for people who have been lifting for a while and are looking for something that can really take them to the next level. It's great for your pre-workout. It helps you push through your workouts. And then, of course, it helps you recover after your workouts with all of the ingredients such as shilligit and creatine. And then you don't have to buy them separately and get it all in one. All in all, when it comes to pre-workouts, dosing and ingredient quality make all of the difference in muscle-med strong AF delivers on both of those points. It has clinically effective ingredients such as creatine, citrulline malate, beta-alionine, and of course, the shilligit, alpha-GPC, and caffeine and electrolytes to really help you focus during your workouts and push through those, get better pumps, and then recover afterwards. So if your goal is to lift heavier and longer with better focus and faster recovery, then Strong AF is going to be the pre-workout for you. So feel your body lock in focus and training your peak. This is Dylan signing off.

=== FILE: Seeing Double： Kai Reacts To ＂Indian Kai Greene＂ ｜ Kai Greene Effect [4dDepRfC6uA].txt ===

QuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQu I'm just kidding. I just heard the news that, uh, are you familiar with an actor, James Venderbeek? He passed away. James Venderbeek. He was in, uh, Dawson's Creek. Have you seen that as a show, a TV show? That was a, that was a hit TV show back in the 90s. Yep, yep. He passed away from colon cancer, allegedly. Um, he was only 48 years old, man. When you're talking to somebody in the office, people, people get colon cancer a lot younger these days. Man, you know, very unfortunate. There's like, well, a lot of these, um, there's a lot of new, new, um, markers, you know, uh, biomarkers that, um, are being talked about, um, in an effort to, uh, I guess, pay attention and maybe even, um, try to promote awareness. Um, I'd like to think that things like this could be prevented with early screening. Early screening is key, man. Yeah, I think it's, it's really unfortunate. Really unfortunate. It's sometimes very scary, I think, you know, um, um, I guess getting the testing done and trying to stay away. I think a lot of times what happens is it's usually a moment like this when it, uh, you know, um, comes kind of sobering and, uh, encouraging to kind of think about, hey, well, do I have all my tests done and any more labs that I probably would need? Sometimes we have like these lurking questions in the back of our minds, you know? Um, and it's the moment of, uh, being faced with the, um, just, uh, mortality. Um, um, one of our fallen members, um, can, uh, maybe serve as a cautionary tale to, you know, scare us into doing some things that we know we probably should do a little bit better. Um, my condolences to his family though. Yeah, man. Sad, sad news, man. So we've got a, we've got a few things to talk about today. We have a lot of, we have a few questions from the listeners, but I want to get your take on the Hari Chupan, um, I guess, controversy. Um, Hari. Dan! Yeah, Hari's. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Is something else? Yeah, Hari Chupan, man. You know, the, the Mr. Olympia, the, the, the, you know, the guy. You know, Hari, right? You know him. Yeah, from Iran. I mean. Of course. Yeah, yeah. There's been some controversy with him. I want to get your opinion on him, man. You, you, you know what happened or no? No, what happened? So he's, uh, supposed to be competing at the Arnold Classic just in a couple of, in a couple of weeks. And, uh, there's a petition started by, I guess, people that don't like him very much for, for Arnold to, um, prevent him from competing. And it's because, you know, it's a controversial subject. It's, it's dealing with the Iran, Iran politics of Iran, basically, that people are saying that he is supporting the government of Iran. So obviously the, you know, the society in Iran is broken into, into, into obviously, right? The people that support the government and those who don't, right? And that's, that's whole, the whole political uprising that was in Iran is still happening in Iran right now. So people are saying that he's in the support of the government. The, there was a picture of him with his phone. And I don't know if it was a real picture, if it was altered, where there was like a Supreme leader of Iran is in that, in that, in that, in the phone or whatever. So Hadi came out and said that, uh, he's in no way affiliated with the government. So he's kind of neutral in the situation, you know, with what's happening, but a lot of people were trying to get him banned from competing because they saying he's in a, he's a, he's supporting the regime that's, you know, involved in suppressing the people or whatever. So I want to get your take on the situation and you haven't heard about that at all. It was, it was, uh, it was. I think, I think, man, you almost want to leave that alone. I mean, he's an athlete, he's, he's earned his right to be, um, to, to participate in this sport. Um, I think, man, it's, uh, yeah, I think it's, so you have a situation where, you know, if, if Colin Kaepernick were to turn around and take a knee, you know, there are people that would say, Hey, you shouldn't, you shouldn't, you shouldn't become active, you know, um, somehow in some way, you know, his activity, you know, um, wasn't welcomed, you know, um, and here you have a situation where, you know, how to show panels, he's trying to stay neutral. He needs to, he wants to be allowed to compete and participate. Right. Um, and I think he should be allowed to do that. Um, you know, uh, a lot of times I think it's very difficult to even understand, you know, who's authentically, you know, in support of what, when you're talking about a government that can be oppressive and with, in their demonstration of what it means to be an oppressive government, you know, there may be pressures and stresses on him that, you know, um, don't allow him to really even, um, I guess be as free as a lot of us take for granted. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Yeah. Um, so, um, if, if he is willing to, you know, not allow his political engagements to, to be, uh, to lead in the forefront of, of his mission, if he's, he wants to focus on being the athlete and get in there and, and, and be allowed to be the athlete, I think he should be allowed to do that. Um, yeah. Yeah. My, my, also like, it's, it's one of those things where, you know, he lives in Iran, right? He's, he's a citizen of Iran. And the question is, even if he disagrees with the government, can, can he then freely express it? Right. Can he then say whatever he wants? Cause he still needs to travel. He needs to come and come back. That's right. And his family's there. You know what I mean? So it becomes, it becomes a whole complex situation. I've, I've seen people in my room. We may not, we may not get a chance to really get the authentic view of what his, his beliefs are. Right. And at the end of the day, you know, he's an athlete and he's been working, he's put his life invested into doing, uh, the work of being an athlete at the top of his game, at the top of his sport. This is an Olympia that, I mean, this is an Arnold classic that will not come back again. You know what I mean? This is, this is now, you know, um, and he's ready now and he's, he's, you know, he's already made the sacrifice to be what he is now, ready now. Um, and I would hope that, you know, in a perfect world, he'd be allowed to do that. Um, and, and, and, and I really, I really would wish that the powers within Arnold or, um, people that have the ability to decide if there needs to be a decision made that they do the right thing on this one. Yeah. Some people say his life might be a danger actually when he travels over here. I guess some people might want to sabotage or do something to him. You know what I mean? I don't know. Yeah, man. It's amazing. You know, where we are in the climate politically today. Oh man. Oh, just absolutely amazing. I think no one is going to be allowed to be totally unscathed, you know? Yeah. Um, yeah, for sure. We have choices to make. Um, wow. I really do. I really would love for the athlete to be allowed to, to be the athlete, you know, unfortunately, you know, sometimes that's not the case and the pressures and stresses from these, uh, outside influences that are very real and, you know, very pressing. Um, sometimes they have a way of, of forcing the hand of something to happen. Um, I, I, I would really hope that they do the right thing. And I think the athlete, there's nobody that, that works harder than Hadi Chopin all year round. Oh yeah. No, he's amazing. Kai, you brought up, you brought, you brought up Kaepernick, right? He, was he, um, I'm trying to remember the story. It was like dating back like a few years ago, right? Was he actually. He was a football player. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He took the knee, right? During, during the anthem. And was he actually let go of the team because of that? Or was it like a coincidence that they, they, they take him off the team? Nah, I think, I think that, uh, you know, you talk about a situation where we're supposedly not, um, dealing with the kind of, uh, realities of what it means to live under an oppressive government, you know? Right. Um, and he lived in the United States of America where he should have the right to protest, you know, um, without violence and to be able to do it freely. Um, but yeah, there was definitely a lot of controversy and backlash, negative backlash, uh, or being an athlete, taking the position that he took, you know, he, he, uh, chose to be active and he chose to, you know, make his stand. And by doing that, he took a knee. Um, yeah. Um, and with that, there was a lot of negative backlash. Um, um, and this is many, many, many, many years ago. There was a lot of people that did not, um, respond very well to him taking any, um, and he was, as I understood it, deliberately trying to, you know, make his position known, you know, he was, you know, um, which in this case, you know, Adi Chopin is not trying to do that. He just wants to be allowed to compete. You said he's trying to maintain a position anyway. And I think for the most part, the best that could be done in effort to support his right as an athlete in our sport, um, you know, uh, looking for the opportunity to be able to do what he's built his whole life for at this time to do, you know? Um, yeah, I just, I would, I would definitely not want to see anything, uh, derail his train as he's been preparing for the Arnold Classic this year. Yeah, no, I agree with you. Kyle, let's take a quick break and give a special thank you to our title sponsor, G Fuel. Guys, if you're out there looking for a supplement for focus, endurance, energy, this is for you. Now, G Fuel, as some of you may know, they are originally started a company to focus on the gaming industry, but since then they've expanded into the fitness industry and improved their formula. So now you can enjoy G Fuel with the same great taste, but no aftertaste and no chalky, uh, texture. Now they've added more antioxidants. They made it more glycine for muscle strength and recovery. And they kept the 140 milligrams of caffeine per serving. Always zero sugar and way more amino acids. So guys, if you don't want to go to the store, you can go to gfuel.com and put in the code GI20 for a discount. Shout out to G Fuel. So guys, give it a try. You will love it. Kyle, I want to ask you, um, before we go into the lightning round, I want to ask you, you've shot a movie in India, right? A few years back. Pogaroo, I think it was called, right? Talk about that experience. I don't know. A lot of people in the States might not know about this, right? Because it was a big hit in India, actually. It was on top of the box office. And you were, it was an action film that you were part of, right? What was that like for you to do that? Ah, well, um, you know, I, I, I think a moment like the opportunity that came along was one of those things that allow you to appreciate some of the behind the scenes of why you were inspired to want to train in the first place. You know, everyone hears of the stories of the earlier champions before you, you know, the Steve Reeves and the, you know, the Dave Drapers and, um, the Surgeon of Brays. I mean, uh, even Franco Colombo, you know, actually, uh, went on, um, once achieving success in the sport, winning the Mr. Universe and some of the most coveted titles in the sport. Um, were also able to, um, go on and, uh, experience, you know, acting opportunities and, and doing film, you know, um, all of the light that, that I mentioned, um, were able to do that. And with that, they let their impression and, you know, certainly inspired others. I am definitely one of those people. Um, you know, Arnold is, is probably the most, um, notable, um, that, you know, gone on to become one of the best, the highest growing, uh, the highest growing, grossing box office actors, um, in Hollywood, um, after, you know, gracing the biggest pro stages in our sport. Um, but yeah, I think, um, when I got the opportunity to, to get, to get cast in a production that was abroad like that, and certainly a big budget as it were, you know, I guess one of the things that was, um, awesome to discover was that there are, a lot of big budget industry films that happen all over the world. Oh yeah. And certainly in the other parts. Oh yeah. Were you doing your own stunts? Were you doing your own stunts on that, on that, um, cause it was like, it was like a crazy, like a fight scene. You would throw in a car and it was a fire, right? Were you, you were doing your own stunt, right? Well, technically I don't think anyone does their own stunts by themselves. You actually had, I got a chance to kind of see behind the scenes. There was like more than a 40 man, uh, crew, um, responsible for, you know, you had a fight crew that was like, you know, very deep. Um, and they had, you know, their organizers and leaders and they, you know, would, you know, pre-organize these fight scenes that were elaborate, you know? And, uh, crazy. Yeah. They, they, they, you walk into the set, you know, one of the things I thought was interesting that, that would happen in the, in the situation where you're filming abroad was, um, when you would take direction, you kind of, I only spoke English. Right. And surprisingly enough, most people, um, working on a set like that spoke multiple languages on average, you know, a minimum of, of two or three, you know? Um, some people spoke like five and seven, you know, and your ability to do that meant not only that you'd have more options when it came to communicating. Um, but also like even just your opportunity of being able to, um, uh, understand what's going on, uh, when the directions are being given. Um, I think a lot of, cause also too, in a, on a big set and a big budget zone like that, your time is money, you know? Oh yeah. Yeah, for sure. There was a thousand people, you know, on the set, um, at different areas, you know, required to work in a, in a single workday and the workdays happened at night. They didn't happen, you know, on the daytime, like you would imagine, like you, you regular nine to five. Nope. You know, um, and I didn't understand exactly why, but we would actually go to work, uh, on the set. You know, at the top of the evening and we would work through the night. We'd be getting off, uh, calling it a wrap, you know, at like four and 6 AM. Yeah. So that was very interesting, but the directions would be given in possibly five and seven different languages before they spoke in one that you understood. Wow. So you had to, you had to, um, listen, not just with your, with your, with your ears, but also with your eyes. You know, you watched a lot of mouths and also, you know, paid very close attention to even the most subtle gestures, um, between the, the, the fight coordinators, um, and the stunt crew. Cause the stunt crew was, you know, it was, uh, you had a bunch of people that would be pulling these cranes from the other side, you know, pulling ropes that were attached to the cranes from the other side. So yes, it may have looked like, you know, I got a chance to play a character that threw a car or, you know, uh, blue fire or, or did something interesting, um, on, on the screen. But behind the scenes, man, there was, there was, there was a minimum of 40 other people that, uh, were carefully working with you and, uh, helping and helping you pull that through. So yeah, it was cool. It was really, really interesting. Have you, have you met that looked awesome? Have you met this guy? Um, he's a character on social media. His name is Indian Kai green. That's his actual tag, Indian Kai green. Do you know what I'm talking about? Yes, I do. Yes, I do. What do you think about that guy, man? I think that guy is amazing. He wears the hairstyle better than I do. Have you ever met him? Have you met him at any, at any point? Uh, yes. Uh, some, some years ago now, many years ago. Um, yeah, man, you know, you, you, again, you know, it's, it's like you, you start your, your own fitness journey. You start your own, you know, bodybuilding career. Um, and you know, you have these, these big dreams and, you know, these, these, um, very hopeful, um, ideas of what you would like to happen. You know, I don't know anyone that is, you know, seeing themselves do their first set of a, of a great rep where they experienced the pump. And, you know, for a moment while experiencing that pump, you know, just imagined what if, you know, there was a, a larger possibility, you know, beyond, you know, where you were at this time, at the moment that you were experiencing. And then somehow you could kind of see yourself, you know, assuming the role, you know, this, um, larger than life situation, um, that was captured on the silver screen, doing something interesting and being able to, um, uh, encourage a lot of other people to think very highly of what you were experiencing at the time. Have you heard a rumor? Have you heard a rumor? You talk about Arnold Schwarzenegger being, uh, one of the biggest stars coming from bodybuilding. Have you heard a rumor that, uh, when they were shooting predator, I think Sergio Oliva was offered one of the parts, one of the soldiers, you know, on a predator team. And, um, they couldn't agree on a price. He wanted like the same salary as Arnold or something like that. And I guess that they wouldn't give it to him, but he was, have you heard that rumor before? No, no, I didn't. I, this, this is definitely news to me. Uh, Sergio Oliva, you know, senior. I heard a rumor like that. Yeah. I think his son, his son might've told me that story. Somebody told me that story. Yeah. That's very possible. You know, Sergio Oliva Jr. Yeah. Yeah. He certainly looked like he needed to be in some, some film. Um, uh, yeah, yeah. Really cool guy to give a chance to talk to. He actually, Sergio Oliva Jr. Wasn't, wasn't a movie called bigger. Um, he was playing his father. There was a movie. It was three years ago. I think it came out about Joe Weider. Colin was in it. He played, uh, Arnold Schwarzenegger. And then, yeah, that was, uh, they shot it somewhere. I forgot where they shot it, but yeah, that, that was a movie came out maybe three years ago. Yeah. And he was in it. He played his father. Shout out to Sergio Oliva Jr. Yeah, man. I mean, you know, he is the actual, and I always say that to him when I, when I, whenever our paths cross, um, in the process of, of, of doing things in the sport. Um, he's the, he's the original Simba. He is the actual living Simba. There is nobody, nobody that could claim the right to have experienced the Lion King moment at the Olympia being held, passed over and picked up, held in the hands of the Mr. Olympia as the father, almost like the great Mustafa holding up. Yeah. But they had a, but they had a very complex relationship, very complex relationship. I mean, that's a, that's a documentary in itself. Just that whole. It is. Yeah, man. It is. Is Generation Iron going to do anything about that? I haven't seen it. We definitely, we definitely should. We definitely should. It's a, I was thinking about that idea actually. Uh, cause his father is a, you know, like people know about him, but it was before, like, it was not a lot of videos, right? Like, uh, Sergio liver is kind of a mysterious guy. You know what I mean? Yeah. Well, I mean, that is the myth and the legend. Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. All right, Kyle, let's, let's get into this lightning round of, of questions and comments. Yes. Uh, we have three, we have four questions. One is a Patreon special and we're starting with a, so the, obviously for those who know, uh, this is where I ask you a question from a listener and you give a, uh, an answer at a lightning speed, right? You know, you're talking to your boy. I know. Or at least, or at least try to, or at least try to, all right, let's go to this one. Yeah, we're going to try. We're going to make it do what it do. Let's go, B. All right. Mark Harris, nine, nine, one, five, four. Did Kai ever get to, did Kai ever get to make up with his mother after being removed from her care as a child? Listen to K.I. Afro King. It comes back around. Very touching lyrics. So he's a fan of your music. Wow. Yeah. That's interesting. Man. And a very personal question, Kai. You look a little stunned right now. Wow. Definitely not, not expecting that. That's like, wow. No. That's a very, very interesting, man. Very interesting. Um, wow. So, uh, good question. Good question. Yeah. Yeah. So the lyric of the song, it comes back around. That was something that I wrote as a K.I. Afro King. So technically, K.I. Afro King is, uh, is, uh, my alter ego music persona. Alter ego, yeah. He's like the difference between Shaq G and, uh, and Humpty. That's a throwback right now. But that said, yeah, the, um. The mother question, yeah. The story, it comes back around was, um, was a song written, uh, uh, I wrote with, uh, K.I. Afro King, um, as K.I. Afro King, but talking about, um, the funny thing about how, you know, what you send out, you know, comes back around. It's actually a, a song. Some music is available on Spotify under K.I. Afro King. Um, and basically the, the, the narrative is, is just, hey man, you know, um, uh, a little boy, a young man, you know, has an experience where he talks a little too much about his, uh, the things that happened in his home. His biological parent, um, his mama, you know, um, and it kind of allowed her to be seen in a, in an interesting light that wasn't too favorable, you know? And, uh, interestingly enough, it, it kind of set some, some wheels turning that were, you know, very, very problematic for biological parent. Fast forward, little boy, you know, kind of goes on his own journey and development and ends up bumping into a similar situation, but, you know, in the reverse. And now he found himself in the same position as biological parent, but the talking that was done wasn't from him. It was actually from another party in the household that he, uh, he resided in. And yeah, man, the interesting thing apart that about that was when he came back around, he wasn't ready for it. It was a surprise. What you send out certainly does come back. And then we talked about that a little bit in the song, the lyric of the song. I appreciate the, uh, the question. Um, yeah. Um, I would like to think that, you know, um, you're able to make peace, um, with the people that you need to, um, while you still can before they pass away. Um, but I, in the effort to answer that question, I, I'm, I'm comforted in discovering that, um, your ability to make peace a lot of times, you know, may not come to you in the same way that you may have expected it to, or even look for it. Sometimes it's really up to you to find a way to identify and arrive on what will become peace for you. So yeah, we're still sorting that out, but I appreciate the question. Okay. Okay. So still, still, uh, in progress. Let's put it that way. Yes. Yes. Guys, I want to talk about something very important. Um, a lot of you may be going to the gym, uh, working hard, of course, following, following your diet, but, uh, you might not be getting the same results as you used to, especially in your thirties or your forties. Um, and that's why there's a product called Mars men. Uh, now this is a natural testosterone booster, and I will tell you a little bit about it. So Mars men basically helps your body unlock usable testosterone. So you feel like yourself again. This is what I've learned. Your body makes testosterone, but a lot of it gets locked up and can be used. There's a protein called SHBG is basically handcuffs your testosterone. So even if your body is producing testosterone, that protein locks it up. You can't access it. It's like having the money in the bank, but your debit card is just not working. So Mars men is designed to help free lock testosterone. So your body can actually use it. No synthetics and no needles, just real ingredients to help optimize energy, focus, and strength. When you start taking Mars men, you'll feel stronger. You perform better in the gym and a recovery gets better as well. You'll be more consistent and your natural energy will go up. So it's not the same thing as drinking coffee and over and over again. This is much different. It comes from the inside. It's real energy you can feel and use, and you feel much better after going to the gym. Mars men supports healthy T levels, energy, and stamina. And now Mars men offers 90 day money back guarantee. So there's absolutely no risk. Worst case scenario. You don't absolutely love it and you get your money back. But over 90% of the users report higher energy levels. Thousands of guys are feeling incredible results. Just check out the reviews on the website and you see for yourself. So for limited time only, our listeners get 50% off for life plus free shipping and three free gifts. Just go to mangotomars.com. That's mangotomars.com. It's a perfect way to start off your new year strong. That's mangotomars.com for 50% off and three free gifts at checkout. And after you purchase, they will ask you where you heard about them. Please support our show and tell them who sent you. Guys, like I said, check out Mars men. Give it a try. And I really think you guys will appreciate it and like it. All right. Next, next is for from forever flexing. We actually answered some of his questions before in the show. Now, this is a very, I like for a flexing. Yeah. Now this is a very broad question, Kai. So try to like, try your best to, I guess, pinpoint here. So he's asking, can you give a life lesson or training tip you took away from each one of your coaches? Now this can go on for a very long answer. So anything you can mention, because you had a couple of coaches, right? A life lesson that you learned from each one of your coaches. Or, or, or training or training tip. Training tip. I'm sure you took a lot. Oddly enough, I can keep that simple. Here's the, so technically I think publicly on the record, I've, you know, my brother, you know, the guru, AKA George Farah is, has, has been. A very, very positive influence and the most effective coach that I can, you know, you know, give credit to for a lot of the good quality work that I think we were able to do together. During my career. And I'm very, very, very thankful for having had the opportunity to experience, you know, working with him as closely as I did. Um, um, and, uh, um, and, and, and, you know, with saying that there was a time before that where I worked with, uh, uh, a friend of mine, his name was Oscar Arden. And, uh, he was a little older than me, um, when I was a, a, a really young competitive bodybuilder. And, um, I, I think a very, very positive influence, um, at the time. And, um, very, very, very helpful, I think in. Helping me set up some things that, um, would. Allow me to just be responsible, um, in recognizing my role and right thinking responsibility in determining. What I would do with my career. And, you know, some of the things that I'd be willing to do. And, you know, it made me also pay attention to some of the things, identifying some of the things that I wasn't willing to do. So I think. In total, I really had, you know, uh, two great influences in my experience in, um, with, with dealing with coaches. Um, I did at another time, get a chance to, to, you know, go train with like, uh, the great Charles Glass out California. Um, and that was an eye opening experience. I think all in all, I think, uh, what I would want to say to like the younger bodybuilders that are coming up. Um, you know, um, there's a, you know, a very, very, very, very positive influence. I think a coach can be in your life. And I think that, um, in the life of a developing champion, um, you know, a coach has a very, very big influence. And they can be very, they can do a lot of good. Um, but I think for, for the, the young athletes that are coming up, I think. One of the things that is very important to me is to impress upon you the responsibility that belongs to you. Um, when you think about who the biggest and most influential, um, person is going to be in the decision-making of your life and the choices that you make, you know, when your coach was around and when they're not around, you know, when your parents are there and when they're not there, when the supports are. You know, present in your life and when they're not, you know, you, you are your coach. You are the, the, the, the hungry athlete that you are, you're the developing man. You're the developing woman. You're the, you're the spirit, you know, in the body that, you know, has to also consider what life would be like for you, you know, and, and how you will experience the quality of that life. You know, after your competitive bodybuilding experience, you know, um, win, lose or draw. So I think, I think, I think having a great coach is a really good thing, particularly when they're knowledgeable enough to help you make, you know, really good decisions. Um, but ultimately you, the decision to do is up to you and within that right to make those choices. Those choices, you are your coach, you know, your coach doesn't take the responsibility away from you. That is yours to determine what's going to happen with your life. You get what I'm saying? So, um, I'm very thankful for the opportunities that I've, I've had when working with the people that I was fortunate to work with George Farah. Um, did any, when you made a, when you made a name for yourself already, right. When you were in Olympia stage, did other coaches try to steal you away or convince you to, to switch over to work with them? You know, does that happen in a, in that space? You know, people try to like, you know, get the, get the, I don't know. I don't, I honestly, I don't, I don't, I don't really see it. Like other coaches tried to steal you away. I think you're, you're always your own developing athlete. You're, you know, your ability to, to identify with yourself as an enterprising person that's looking to succeed and grow, you know, whether it's in this sport or others, other endeavors outside of it. Um, your right to thrive, your, your, your, your attempt to do that. Um, your, your willingness to, to, to decide that it's, it's really, it's yours. You know, and I think that every influence, every, every relationship, you know, that, um, will choose to be a willing support to you in an effort to help you do that. Um, they're, they're a support, but they're not, they're not the replacement of, of your right thinking responsibility to order your own destiny. You get what I mean? Um, sure. Sure. Uh, but did they try, did they try to convince you? Did they try to make it all for us? Hey, you know, join our team, you know, we'll get you to, we'll get you to the win. You know, we'll get you to win the Olympia or something like that. No. You, you, you make it sound like they're almost a used car salesman or a drug dealer. Maybe they were. Yeah. All right. We got it. We got two more questions. We got to get two more questions. All right. This one is from, uh, in reverse, uh, eight, nine zero one. If you could only train one body part for six months, what would it be? I don't know where for six months, but I guess they asking what's your favorite body part to train? If you can only pick one. Well, I don't, I don't, if you're, if you're a bodybuilder, you're not, you're probably not working in like a, working in line to imagine that there's only one body part that you would train. Like you, in the traditional sense of chest or back or legs, you know, I think, I think this game is a mental one. I think that, uh, that there's a body part that you are always working on developing. It's your mind. You know what I mean? Cause the body and mind are not separate here. This is, um, the reason why you're able to do anything with your, your bicep, your tricep, your quad, your back, your lats or anything is by, you know, the use of your mind, you know? So, um, everything that you do, um, where you're able to recognize that, um, and use that to your advantage, puts you in the advantage position to see this thing, um, develop a lot easier. Wait, so you're saying your mind, that's what you would pick. That's what you would pick. That's the muscle part. Well, that's, that is, that is the body part. You said the body part, the body part, your brain, your mind. Yeah. That's a good one. All right. Last one. It's a Patreon special. Uh, this one is a bit, uh, I guess it's a bit provocative or something. I don't know, but let's, let's see how you answer this one. Uh oh, here we go. It says for those who are not on Patreon, please subscribe. All right, Kyle. Well, there we go. That was our lightning round. That's what's up. Wasn't so lightning, but I appreciate it. But it was a round. All right, brother. Till next time. Hey, thanks so much. I appreciate you, man. Shout out to everybody. Generation Iron, Derek, Edwin. It's all good. I appreciate you guys. Till next time, brother. Peace. Peace.

=== FILE: Victor Martinez Defends Hadi Choopan From Cancel Culture ｜ Generation Iron Podcast [7Fcft7649iI].txt ===

 sndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndnd Where'd you go there now? Absolutely man, why not? You know, it's okay. Ice already had me, man. They can't get me twice. Look at all that ice everywhere. Crazy, right? Chunks of ice, man. These things, they don't know how to, they forgot how to plow. That's how long it's been a while. Since we had an actual snowstorm. Totally forgot how to plow. All right. Welcome to this week's Generation Iron Podcast. Your host, me, Victor Martinez, along with Edwin Mejia, and Vlad Yudin. What's up, man? Welcome. How's your week going so far, man? It's going good, man. I got no complaints, you know. We did the first seminar of the year at Beth Francis Gym. How was it? It's always good, man. Always good to be there at the Mecca. Is it an annual seminar? Is that what it is? Annual seminar. It starts off with Jay Cutler. Yep. Mr. Olympia opening it up. And, man, have you been to the gym lately? I haven't been to the Sayasi lately. It is. It's expanded. Last year, yeah. So a lot of. Yeah. They expanded the gym? They expanded the gym. Wow. And they have the official leg room. It's just insane. I mean, the size of the leg room is bigger than most gyms in New York City. Wow. Well, you know, I just got reminded that Steve was a big power lifter, back in the day. So I could see him dedicating a lot to Doug's. And obviously to the power lifting. Every corner of Beth Francis is a power lifting room. What's going on with Jake Paul, man? Jake Paul, man. I don't know what the hell is going on with Jake Paul, man. I mean, allegedly, his Twitter got hacked and spoke some nonsense about Puerto Rico, calling them, what is it? He called Bad Bunny. Fake American. Yeah. Who says that about Americans? Yeah. That was pretty messed up. Fallacy. Look, I don't know, Jake. Yeah. Do you believe it was hacked? Do you believe that his Twitter was hacked? I don't know if it was hacked. I don't know any of that. To tell you the truth, I don't even know what's going on anymore, man. Because everything seems fake. Everything is so divisive. Divisive. It's just, you know, what you see is not right. It's wrong. What you're hearing is wrong. It's not right. I don't know, man. But at the end of the day, I think he has to walk, you know, walk back on that. I mean, I think he really messed up, regardless if it was a joke and he was trying to get limelight for his new fights or whatever the case is. But when you live in Puerto Rico and you talk like that, you deserve to get your jaw broken again. You cannot live in Puerto Rico. Yeah, again. Again. But you cannot live in Puerto Rico. I mean, you know, guys ever, you know, you ever seen those Puerto Ricans in the Bronx? You know, they're freaking nuts. But in Puerto Rico, where they actually come from, they're even crazier. So Jake, take that back. At the end of the day, Puerto Ricans. It would be nice if he ended up in La Pela one day, just hanging out, walking in one of those neighborhoods, see what would happen to him. I doubt he'll do that, though. Yeah. That would be like a safari in Puerto Rico. In La Pela. Come on, man. Jake, I know he's going to take that back and you cannot live there and talk that freaking nonsense. So we've got two questions of the day today, submitted by the loyal listeners. But first, Vic, you got called out by a listener. Not that called out, but he had a comment about what you said. So in last episode, previous episode, we talked about night pissing. The guy asked you a question, how to eliminate it. You said that the PEDs don't really cause night pissing. And then the guy, his name is Brilliance Autospa. Interesting name. He said, Masteron increases urination at night. How does Vic not know that? Do you know what he's talking about? I know. And again, it varies. You know, PEDs, different kind of steroids, testosterone, they all vary from person to person. Does it cause, you know, night urination? I mean, maybe. It didn't happen to me. Obviously, it's happening to him. But I don't think the guy disclosed exactly what he was taking, right? He never did. He just said. He never did. No, he didn't. He said he's on juice. He said he was on juice. He didn't specify Masteron. I think I would remember that because Masteron does make you go to the bathroom, but he just said juice. So that being said, testosterone, you know, anything else, primo bowling, anything like that, or what have you, whatever from the list. I know he did not mention, you know, Masteron. And again, from person to person, it does make it, you know, where your prostate gets enlarged. And either make you piss or make you not piss. So again, one or the other. It's going to vary from person to person. And that goes with everything else, you know, from gyno to pimples, acne, anything. So again, did I know that it causes urination at night? Yes, but that wasn't a specific question to that particular drug. What's Masteron for anyway? Masteron tightening, and again, dries you out really good. Pre-contest, if most people that usually are getting any injury, torn bicep, torn pec, I usually, you know, Masteron is usually the cause. Yeah. You know, because it dries out the muscle just a little bit more. All right. Well, that was the response. Guys, we have two questions of the day today brought to us by Transparent Labs, our sponsor. We thank them, of course. So, Eddie, you want to take those questions for Vic? Yeah, so we want to thank our sponsor again, Transparent Labs, for being with us and, you know, supporting the podcast. You guys should try them out. Why? Because they have some of the best ingredients, products in the market, no funny stuff, 100% grass-fed beef protein. They have 100% grass-fed collagen as well. They also have a line of products that include stem-free pre-workouts and the best product that we love here that we enjoy everybody, Vic. It's the Magnesium PM. Unbelievable. You will start having amazing dreams and highly recommend that product. So, Generation Iron, check it out. Generation Iron Code and make sure you guys get your discount there too. the next question comes to us, the new question that is, comes to us from Francois Calvo, 2891. That's a funny question. So, the question is, does Victor like red pandas? Like red panda? Like extinct red pandas? I don't know if it's a code for something. I thought maybe you knew. I thought it would be a code. I was trying to see what is red panda. It's like a new thing going on right now. Is that like a new outfit? I don't know. But if it's red panda, the extinct, almost extinct red pandas, I mean, do I like them from a distance? Of course. I'm not going to approach it for a selfie and get my eyes scratched out. No way. Are you sure it's not something specific? Like some sort of code word for something else? I don't know, man. Is that a new lingo for different kind of tests? Is that a new test name? Is that a new brand? Red panda pharmaceutical? I don't know. I'm not too sure. Because again, red pandas, who doesn't know red pandas? I mean, they're all the way Southeast Asia. I'm doing like an AI search. What does it stand for? It doesn't come off from it. It says for strength, resilience, ability to navigate, doesn't make any sense. They're talking about the actual animal. I mean, again, you know, we just kind of took it for face value. Red panda. We'll get back to you on that question. If we find out that there's something else specific that we'd like to answer, Vic will answer that question. Coldwood red panda, pharmaceutical. people are going to get absolutely jacked. No, just looking for clean protein. Clean. You need to take your muscles to the max. Whoa there, Turbo. Do you even know what's in that stuff? Oh, yeah. See, most protein powders are filled with artificial sweeteners, food dyes, and filler. Really? I wouldn't put that stuff in my body. Neither would I. Transparent Labs is made with just a handful of all-natural ingredients without any of the weird stuff. Every scoop delivers 28 grams of protein sourced from grass-fed cows raised without any hormones or antibiotics. And you can choose from 14 delicious flavors. Is that mint chocolate chip? Give me that! Transparent Labs. Protein without the weird stuff. Let's go to the real question. This question was confusing. Let's go to the real one. So the real question of the day comes to us from Daniel Ventura 2538. Alright, Vic, I kind of know the answer to this, but I'll let you answer this. Would you consider 35 years old to start juicing? And what about stretch marks after fat loss? Will this fade and loose skin? Can it tighten up? I mean, I would have to say 35 is better than 21 if you're going to start juicing, you know, because too many kids are juicing way too early without actually training and creating their foundation, you know, so 35 is not that bad, but especially more so if your testosterone levels are low, you're having, you know, rectile issues, you're not motivated, your hormone imbalance, again, did you check your blood? We always go to that. We always wind up going right back to that, you know, are you checking your blood work? Did it come back as low testosterone? You check your GH levels? I mean, there's a whole lot of factors, so I'm not going to say dive in, go at it, because everybody's different. I've seen some 35-year-olds with testosterone levels of a 21-year-old, so. Like a heart. Yeah, so it varies from person to person, but 35 is better than being super young, and again, I hope you did blood work first before you jumped in and started having, you know, a syringe party there. Like, yeah, I'm free now. And then stretch marks, will they go away? Stretch marks, eventually in time, will they go away? No, they will not. They will fade slightly, because obviously the muscle, again, you're replacing instead of the fat cells, but totally, no. Stretch marks are just part of, you know, everyday growing up, they do happen. It's, you know, I know women always have some weird lotions and all this stuff, and again, it fades slightly, but they never go away. So just embrace them, man. If anything, just tan, you know, just best way to avoid them or just kind of mask them, but, no, they do not go away completely, 100%. So again, it's not a medical advice, and maybe he should not juice at all, if, you know, maybe he'll Yeah, you always go back to that, you know, if you're feeling good, you're building enough muscle, you're athletic, you're playing sports, avoid the juicing, man. After a while, it becomes a whole crazy spiral, man. Yeah, yeah. Then it goes one drug, then another drug, then another one. Mastron. Yeah. Then you can't piss at night. Mastron, I'm pissing all night. All right, guys, please submit your questions in the comments below, or email us at info at generation r.com, and hopefully Victor will provide that. I'm still going to look forward to that red panda thing. I don't know what that is. Red panda, code word, red panda. Maybe sneakers, no? I don't know, maybe that's a red panda, you heard of that? I've never heard of it. Right. You know what, could it be? Could it be Jordan? Actually, I did hear about that, yes. Is there what it is? There are panda sneakers. I don't know which ones, but I think it sounds like it could be a sneaker name, right? Yes, looking for the sneakers, because it sounds familiar. Could be the sneakers, red panda kicks, but I don't know. Some Jordans, not all Jordans are created equal, you know, so. Looks like it's a Nike shit. Oh. Nike Dunker Lowe. We'll talk about the animal. Okay. I don't know how new or old it is, though. It looks like it's from years ago. Yeah, they are. They are. They're red panda sneakers. Yeah. Yep. Dunks. Okay, are you a fan of these? We're going to put up a, we're going to put up a. No, I've actually never been. I'm an Air Force One, and again, they look like Air Force One red panda. Well, at least we know what he's talking about. No, it's a dunk. It's a good thing we addressed it, because. Yeah, I know. So red pandas, now we know, New York. No, I mean, they're cool, they're funky, but I always wind up going back. When there's no Jordans, always fall back on Air Force One. The dunks made a comeback last year, a big comeback for some reason. Air Force One is always the classic, man. They always wind up going back, and it never gets old, regardless how long they've been out. Well, now we know. Red pandas, they're okay. Again, not the animal, but the sneaker. Hey, what are we after that? What are we talking about? So, this is a topic that's circulated a few times in the last couple years. In fact, we've actually covered this at Generation Iron, and the topic has a lot to do with masturbating. So, one of the things that came up in a recent article that we covered here at Generation Iron is, does masturbating before working out give a strength boost? So, do you have any evidence of that, Vic? Have you masturbated before working out? I mean, actually, masturbate before working out? No, but sex before working out? Yes. Did it help you? Not at all. I mean, actually, I actually did it once before power lifting meet. Oh, my God. And I think I had an eight to ten pound loss on my bench just because of that. It's just, I mean, I don't know about performance. It varies from person to person, but definitely, as I listed on my, I commented on that post, I think I said, you know, if you think you're going to be strong, whatever you do, just don't do it before leg day, you know, because you're going to have weak legs. But it varies person to person. If you're the kind of person that feels relaxed, I recommend you not doing it because you're going to need your strength, your aggression, and the power and the weight room. Some people like doing it because I feel like, you know, they just processing sex too much. So by unloading one before you get to the gym, you're focused on the workout instead of the, you know, the wedgie pants and the camel toes in the gym. You know, they're all over the place. You can't avoid them. They're there. So if you're going into the gym fully loaded, your focus is off, you know, unless you're wearing blinders, you know, which you're not. And the distraction is going to happen. So I think unloading so you can focus, understandable. Unloading to train hard. I don't think so. Yeah, makes sense. Good point. Makes sense. Makes a lot of sense to me. So the next topic that we have comes to us. I mean, obviously, you know, something that we've been covering here at Generation Iron is, obviously, everybody knows Coach Milos. Yes. We've covered him here at Generation Iron. Vlad has interviewed him several times. Yeah. And he recently shared, I believe, bodybuilder Tabani. But who's Tabani? Yeah. So he did Olympia for the first time ever last year. And he provided an update about five months after the Olympia debut. I think he finished 11th at the Olympia. He easily could have placed higher. He got sick of something, right? Like before. Yeah. I mean, the long travel when you're coming from the Middle East. That's one of the things. Shout out to Hassan, who mentioned him a couple times to us. Hassan's a big fan of his. He came in 11th. However, I don't know if you've seen a physique. What do you think his chances are coming back stronger and looking better and looking like he can be a threat? I mean, I can't count him out. He's one of these guys coming in, you know, prepared right off the Olympia. He's only going to place higher. It's one of the things. And now, also, you know, you have 12 athletes at the Arnold compared to the Olympia. So, he's definitely going to come in higher. I see him being compared to the likes of Akeem Williams, the other Fole. What is it? Fole. It's in there. Hassan. Oh, okay. Yeah, I see him being compared to him. These guys are coming in huge. But remember, Hadi is coming. So, that's going to be a very, very tough Arnold classic. So, today, I want to give a personal story here at Generation Iron. Here, you know, as you know, we've been working on many different films over the years. And very early on, during the inception of Generation Iron, we spent many late days, nights, working on set, making sure our films were completed and producing these films. And we quickly realized that even with the proper meals, diets, nutrition, you know, the end of the day has always resulted in plunging energy levels. And the first thing you tend to look into is going to the web and go down to Ribohol to figure out what you can do to improve your energy levels. And the first thing the doctor mentions is testosterone. You know, check your testosterone levels. TRT often comes up. And you often go and you get the blood work done and sometimes, you know, you don't get the right solutions. Today I'm here to tell you that we have personally tried and tested Marsmen, which has become one of the best viable natural testosterone solutions in the market. Instead of TRT, which can often run you sometimes over $3,000 a year for a cycle, one of the things that we always tend to look for is a natural solution. One of the things that came up was Marsmen testosterone support. Really five capsules with all the ingredients you can imagine in those five capsules. It's a GMP facility here in the U.S., tested, proven, and they've been proven to be a huge support to our energy levels here at Generation Iron. Going into the new year, we always look for new natural ways to keep our energy levels high, to keep our vitality high, and more importantly, to support and aid our workout regimens, and just our daily routines. Marsmen gives you the same benefits of optimized testosterone, energy, strength, focus, without shutting your body down. For a limited time, our listeners get 50% off for life plus free shipping and three free gifts at mensgotomars.com. It's a perfect way to kick off the new year strong. That's mensgotomars.com for 50% off and three free gifts when you check out. After you purchase, they will ask you where you heard about them. Please support our show and tell them that Generation Iron sent you. We should talk about Arnold Classic. You have two Iranians competing at the Arnold Classic. Yes, two Iranians. Did you see somebody started a petition, sorry to interrupt you, a petition to get Hadi out of the Arnold Classic because they say he supports the government of Iran and the whole... That's not going to happen. I mean, at the end of the day, I think with the way U.S. politics are right now, it doesn't matter if you support Maduro and Venezuela and I don't know, Ortega and Nicaragua and Vladimir Putin in Russia, you're still going to compete. Keep it separated. Just keep it separated because at the end of the day, when I look at an athlete and whatever he believes in political, you usually don't want to intertwine both of them. Now, I know what they're trying to say because he's being quiet about not... He spoke hard about it actually. Okay. And I believe he spoke out at the Olympia. He was about women's rights in Iran. I remember he mentioned that at the Olympia. So to say let's cancel Hadi before the Arnold, I think is wrong. I think there's a love-hate is a thin line when it involves a regime that's actually killing thousands of people. So I understand what they're trying to say, but I have to go on Hadi's side. As a fellow bodybuilder, and again, you can't just love him today and not tomorrow. He hasn't really spoken in support of the government. Him staying silent does not mean he's in cahoots. And I mentioned this before in conversation. He has a family. He has a family and his number one support and protect is his family. And I would assume that if he had issues leaving the country, I mean, that would stem from the government and not allowing him to leave. He is supporting Iran as the nation. And when people usually have a problem with governments, they have to realize and know that the people in government are not the same. You got to remember that. Just because you're visiting a country, you're visiting the country. You're visiting the people that are there. And you have to follow government rules because, again, they're the ones that are allowing you in. But keep them separated because Hadi right now, he's in a tough position because I know he wants to speak against the government, but he also has to remember first and foremost to protect his family, man. You guys are being too brutal, man. You know what? And again, it's mentioned stand up, say something, but you're saying it from Dubai, you're saying it from U.S., you're saying it from a nice warm place in Florida. You guys are safe, but if Hadi speaks up, you don't know what's going to happen. You don't know what's going to happen. He might lose his chance to travel. Do you have an extraction team to take him out of the country? No, most likely no. So just chill with that and again, wait for him to do the Arnold, get him when he's full of carbs, not when he's preparing for the biggest show of his life after the Olympia. So just chill with him, guys. I understand what you're saying. I know they did kill a lot of bodybuilders. They killed a lot of people, men, women, and children, and it's just crazy. I think if they really wanted to make a move, they should arm themselves underground network of people that can actually fight back. But right now, it's a sensitive topic, but attacking hottie off the bat without getting full information is crazy. Let's talk about the Arnold in general. We were looking at some people that have been competing, some big names, right? We have Nick Walker looking for redemption. We have Andrew Jack, obviously Hottie, Chupon, Akeem Williams coming back, a few other big names, but what do you think realistically? It's going to be a stack class. I mean, username, one of my top fours going up there. And right now, I think with the lineup, it's going to be very close, but Hottie is and could have gotten the Mr. Olympia last year. You got to remember the Mr. Olympia. You know, Derek didn't look up to par. Derek, if anything, was I don't care what pictures, whether you were there, whether you were not, what picture angle, anything. It wasn't, I didn't see any pictures at a good light other than his back shots, you know, and going into this Arnold, I know Derek is not there, but Hottie going in, he's the one to beat, but then moving up is Andrew Jack. You know, he's been moving up on the ranks and the Olympia, so right there alone, I would have to say those are my top two. We're doing predictions. Top two right there? So Nick Walker is out of your top? No, no, Nick Walker can sneak in again, but Nick Walker, as I always keep saying, I'm not going to, you know, double down on what I say. Fitchwater's a big name too. He has to come in huge. He can't try to come in peeled and try to come in with the shape of Martin Fitchwater. It's just, he can't do that. It's Martin, again, he's shape dominant. He's got the mass, you know, the mutant, but these guys are, again, you name me in my top five, top six, you know, Fitchwater. If Nick Walker is not going to win this Arnold Classic, right? If he doesn't come, let's say he's not in the top three, what does that mean for the Olympia? You think he lost his opportunity? I mean, not yet because he's still young. He can still turn it around. Again, his condition is superior when he comes in dialed in, so you can't really count him out. And again, this is one of these competitions where you can look good a month out if you don't nail it the weekend of the show. That's your chance of bypassing a lot of the guys that are ahead of you. So, again, top six, you have Andrew, you have my dark horse is foe. How about for Classic? What are your expectations with Sam Sulik? He looks amazing four weeks out. Sam Sulik, he's huge. We just posted him on Generation Iron, I mean, not before, progress photos, and the Arnold Classic is really pushing his promotion heavily to get people in. Yes, they are pushing him, but I do have a favorite, and it's Mike. Mike just looks good, man. Summerfield. Mike Summerfield, he's actually my favorite, not just in his physique, but the way he flows, like he brings the actual classic look, not just the look, but also the posing. It's like a complete package. I have a question. Since Sam Sulik is not a big fan, if Sam Sulik comes top three at his debut at the Arnold, top three, would you respect him as a bodybuilder, as a real bodybuilder? I mean, it's not like I don't respect him, he just started out like yesterday, you know? As a bodybuilder, would you respect him as a bodybuilder? Listen, you know what, at the end of the day, I'm not saying he's going to lose, but there are guys that have been paying their dues there already for the past few years. You know, if he beats them, more power to him, but it's not going to be a walk in the park, you know? So if he tops three, would you respect him? There is no loss of respect. He's doing his thing, man. But I just do have favorites and in bodybuilding it's just one of those things that if you beat somebody off the gate on your first show, it's like you only do respect, you know? I mean, for you to hate somebody, now if he beats these guys based on followers, if they do the social media shuffle and they put you up there just because you have a lot of followers, then that would be just crazy, you know? But if he does it fair and square, just by pictures, I don't care what the judges say or what the judges put someone, if the pictures don't lie, man, pictures don't lie, video don't lie, and people there, what they see, they're not going to lie, man. So as long as if he does it, you know, where he deserves, and he gets those plays and he beats a lot of the guys that have been up there for a while, more power to him and well deserved. And you know what? I'll praise him, man. I'll do something crazy, man. I can't say I'll shave my hair. I got no hair. Well, you know what? I'll give him the props. That's it. All right. Next we have, so we have a Patreon special, guys. For those who are not subscribed to Patreon, please switch, subscribe right now, switch over it. This is where we cover all of the, I would say extra controversial questions, right? Extra topics that are controversial. Taboo topics. Taboo. Censored topics. Exactly. Something that we can't talk about on YouTube freely, and of course you can stream all the films there as well. So we have a Patreon special today, right? And this is something that wrapped up. Until next time, guys, thank you for watching this week's Generation 9 podcast. Remember, follow us, like, comment, and if you want to see any prior podcasts, please tune in to iHeartRadio, Apple Podcasts, or wherever you tune in for podcasts. Hormone replacement therapy, HRT, TRT, testosterone replacement therapy, they all kind of go into the same bucket of hormones. Men and females, they all have the same exact hormones. For males, they need more testosterone than females. And for females, we need a little bit more estrogen than males. Basically what that means is if you get your blood work done, your testosterone's low, we try to get it to an optimal level. We walk into where our medical assistants would be. They're contacting patients all throughout the day, making sure patients are feeling good, looking good, and performing their best, making sure they're hitting their goals, making sure they're tolerating the medication properly, and everything is going well. Patient care and patient service is number one to us. And if they have any questions, concerns, issues, then we're taking care of them too as well. A TRT company or Titan Medical, what they do is they make people healthy, and they get people to really live the dream of life. It's one of those things I always say, do you want to live a long life or a quality of life? and that's what Titan Medical does.

=== FILE: Victor Martinez Reveals Cause Of His Spinal Infection ｜ Generation Iron Podcast [y-ybHVyH6mw].txt ===

 But obviously, as you guys know, we don't know, that's how I got f***ed up, you know? That's a reveal, you never said it before. I know, I never said it before, because, but I'm getting tired of being asked the f***ing question. Hello, welcome to this week's Generation 9 Podcast. Your hosts, me, Victor Martinez, along with Edwin Mejia, and Vlad Yudin, at the office, home base. You're back at HQ, another week, thanks, a big thanks to Transparent Labs, and thank you guys for tuning in, for tuning in., and a lot of, and, and a lot of!, of, of the!, of, of the Hale!..!.... of the!.., as well, as well.! H. H! H.E.D.D.O.S. H.E.D.O.S. H.E.D.O.S. H.E.D.O.S. H.E.D.O.S. H.E.L.S. H.E.L.S. H.E.D.O.S. H.E.D.O.S. Exclusively for you, we're going to start highlighting those as well in the pod here. So the question comes to us from Hale11208. Victor, I'm confused. So I'm 50, and I want to lose body fat and get lean. So I want to know from you is if I do cardio before weights, do I still get the same result? Because I hear from people that do weights first, and then others said, so I know you're number one person to give me the right answer. All right, thank you. Thank you for having such faith in me, first of all. No, I appreciate that. But you say you wanted to lose weight, but what do you say on muscle? He wants to gain muscle and lose weight. Gain muscle. So, again, can you do cardio in the beginning or at the end? Why not both? He wants to lose body fat and get lean. Yeah, so lose body fat while you're building muscle. Usually, most of the time, like 90% of the time, I will almost always choose cardio after weight training for the reason being that you don't want to deplete yourself before you actually go into a strength training, which is what's going to happen with cardio if you do it from the beginning. All that sweat, the running, cardio, steps, whatever it is you're doing, or boxing, you're going to deplete your muscles. Are you going to have a worse workout? Not necessarily, but you do want to build muscles. So I consider this to be a depletion phase. So you can warm up with about 10 minutes of cardio, but leave your primary cardio at the end. That way you're not negating, you know, your pumps. You're not actually depleting yourself from having a great pump, a great workout, a strength workout, a powerful workout. So doing cardio at the end, you're already warmed up, and every minute that you do on that cardio will go into a fat-burning phase, which is, you know, again, thermogenic phase. Being that you're already worked out, now you can just do the cardio in peace and focus on that fat, you know. So that's what I always choose. Now, somebody's heavier, doesn't have too much muscle, I would say do at least 15, 20 minutes in the beginning. Do your, however way you choose to do your workout, whether it's, you know, circuit, whatever it is, then you could do cardio at the end. Double cardio. Yeah, you could do a double cardio. But again, you want to put on muscle, leave it at the end. And you're going to have that nice, perfect balance, you know. And at the same time, your nutrition, remember, you're only at the gym one to two hours. But choosing the right food throughout the day ultimately will be the best way that you can actually burn fat and build muscle. So choose that routine. And again, if you like, send your diet, man. Maybe we could play around with it and change it up for you. That's what I do. Email it to us at 4Generation9.com. Just say your name. Hale-11-208. All right? Yes, thanks for your question. And obviously, Vic, for answering. Again, thanks again to Transparent Labs. Make sure you guys tune in to some of their quality products. They have an incredible 100% grass-fed whey protein along with plant-based and 100% grass-fed collagen along with a line of products that includes our favorite here, which is our magnesium PM. Check them out. We're going to get absolutely jacked. No. Just looking for clean protein. Clean. You need to take your muscles to the max. Whoa there, Turbo. Do you even know what's in that stuff? Oh, yeah. See, most protein powders are filled with artificial sweeteners, food dyes, and filler. Really? I wouldn't put that stuff in my body. Neither would I. Transparent Labs is made with just a handful of all-natural ingredients without any of the weird stuff. Every scoop delivers 28 grams of protein sourced from grass-fed cows raised without any hormones or antibiotics. And you can choose from 14 delicious flavors. Is that mint chocolate chip? Give me that! Transparent Labs. Transparent Labs. Protein without the weird stuff. Our next question comes to us from BenAndy1. We've actually answered BenAndy's questions before. He's a loyal listener. Yeah. So, shout out to BenAndy. BenAndy. What's up, man? So, the question, Vic. Do you have any experience with testosterone pellets? The ones that they insert under the skin? Or do you only use injectable oil? From BenAndy. Andy's my dog. Look at that. Yeah. Shout out to Andy. Come on, bro. Gotta send some love to your dog, man. I appreciate you. Have I used pellets? The answer is no. I'm not gonna bullshit just to make myself feel included. But no. I didn't choose it because I kind of... You know, you have the pellets and then you have the testosterone. Okay. I want to put it into Liam's terms. So, I consider the pellets like a long-term relationship, you know? Are you ready for that long-term relationship? The same old kind of sex and just dictate it, you know, for you? Or do you like, you know, spontaneous, you know? Some days you go high. Some days you go low. Whenever you want. On demand. That's basically injections, you know? So, that's what it is. When you once put the pellet in, they're basically on their own. That's it. You're committed. So, you have to wait till it breaks down. Whatever it is. Milligrams you're gonna use. I think they run for about three to four months at a time. You know? Never been a big fan of it. I know I heard about it. And I think on the last episode, we even brought up Rich Piana, you know? He actually was the one that spoke to me about the pellets. They didn't really talk to you about that? Yeah, yeah. He used the pellets? Damn, bro. Am I throwing him under the bus? He passed away. He talked about it. No? He talked about everything. Did he? But that was the first time, and it was a long time that he kind of spoke about it, you know, when I met him over in California, you know? But you know how he is. He was transparent. He was straight up. So when he explained to me about the pellets, I wasn't a big fan of it. One, because I think one of the things they mentioned was blood clots. Really? Once they mentioned blood clots, I was like, I'm good. Wow. You know? But, you know, they're pellets. I heard terrible things about it as well. We're shooting this documentary about testosterone right now, actually. Yeah. So look at that. You're gonna get more information on this film. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm learning a lot about it myself. And so a female subject in the film, she said that pellets were given to her by a doctor. And she's saying the doctors push it a lot because it's very expensive. It's expensive. Very expensive. And again, I think somebody else was doing it in Jersey. They came up to me. They said, Vic, what do you think about pellets? And I said, well, I never used it. Not a fan because of what they told me, how it worked. And not. How much are you paying? And he threw it, freaking $3,000. I'm like, man. Exactly, yeah. You know? So I told them, give me $3,000. I'll juice you up myself. Fuck off. Speaking of juicing up, I guess, you know, I know one of the questions that always comes up is biohacking as well, Vic. Biohacking. We're done with the question, Rachel. No pellets? Yeah, no. With the pellets, I just gave, you know, the explanation. I gave you both sides, you know? The freedom of choosing how many milligrams you choose to do weekly, biweekly, or being stuck with the same process for months to go without worrying about a single injection. And so these are the pros and the cons on both. And that's it. I can just give you both, you know? So I appreciate Vic answering those questions. Keep answering or sending your questions because you get a chance to have them featured by Vic. And if it's a special question, we also provide exclusive Patreon questions answered by Vic to our Patreon members where you get exclusive access to over 40 films, over thousands of content for Generation Iron that is streaming across Prime, Netflix, Hulu, Apple TV, all for one low price of $6.99 a month. And you have all access to our podcast and Vic's exclusive questions and answers here. Okay. So biohacking. Hold on. Yeah, but I got to add to the pellets or the juice, they both still **** you up. All right? They thicken your blood. The side effects, they both are there on both of them. So I'm not trying to praise one or the other. All right. Be mindful of that, guys. Yes. So biohacking, Vic. What's biohacking and do you have a biohack? I mean, it's biohacking. There's so many different ways you can go about it. You know, supplementations. I think now, you know, you guys know I do the polar bear. That's a form of biohacking. Is it really? You know. To go on cold water? Yeah. To go on cold water with like some tequila? Yeah, man. I know with the tequila, but, you know, it does make it a little bit more fun. But, yeah, it's a form because you can recover, you know, at a cold plunge, basically. Cold plunge, yes. That's why so many gyms. So cold plunge is biohacking? Yeah. That's why so many gyms have it now. Is biohacking, I mean, is IV therapy also a form of biohacking? It is because, again, you're recovering faster. You're having a different delivery system and vitamins instead of ingesting them, which would take longer. Most of it, you just piss out. So, yes, IV therapy is a form. Stem cells biohacking, too? Stem cells. Man, what the f*** are you trying to do here? You know? I'm like, look, guys. Look, I'm not trying to disrupt an entire f***ing million-dollar industry, but stem cells. Not a f***ing believer in stem cells. Why is that, Vic? There's a lot of big stem cells. We never spoke about it. That's why people are confused about it. There's a lot of stem cells clinics out there. Look, guys, I wasn't f***ing on it before, but obviously, as you guys know, we don't know. That's how I got f***ed up, you know? That's a reveal. You never said it before. I know. I never said it before, but I'm getting tired of being asked a f***ing question on stem cells. Like, if it's the holy grail of, I'm going to be f***ing gray. I'm going to be the best physical human being. Can you explain how that stem cell screwed you over and how? That's right here, Vic. That happened, Vic? Maybe you can get a f***ing. Look, man, maybe it was just my luck, you know, because my luck is not like everybody else's luck. You know, it's just me, man. I was born to suffer in this life, but you know what? Regardless of what it is, I will rise up and be on it. But f***ing stem cells, you know what? Save your f***ing money. All I know is everyone that I've known that have used stem cells that didn't turn out like me, obviously, you know, getting f***ing bacteria. Everyone I know that's done the stem cell that's going to find a way to get out of these injuries or not getting operated, not getting knee surgery, not getting shoulder surgery, they still wind up getting the surgeries. It's so funny that you said it because Ronnie Coleman made an announcement that he's going to start doing stem cells, going to start walking after that. And that was two years ago. Listen, and that's why I refuse. You guys heard about that, right? Allegedly. No, no. Allegedly. I know about it. It's just, and I was really, I had high hopes for Ronnie, and I do, I always still have high hopes because Ronnie's heart and mental mindset is just ridiculously so beyond anybody else's. But the point is stem cells did not, right? No, but he mentioned stem cells. I didn't want to touch it, you know, because it's just. Joe Rogan has spoke a lot about stem cells. Joe Rogan, too. He praised it or not praised it? He did praise it on a commercial, you know. When he promoted it, right? On a commercial, on a weekend visit. What happened? Stop talking about it. Why? Because it's not the one-time fix. It is a Band-Aid. That's all it is. It's a tequila before you do Polar Bear. That's all it is, man. It's a masquerade. And I'll speak about it because if you ask me about it, I would tell somebody, you know what? You got 20 grand to spend on stem cells? Give it to me and I'll make you feel better for a weekend, all right? I'll give you something else. So I think he's not a fan of regenerative health and stem cells. This seems to be a good episode because you finally revealed what the situation is. Because I'm getting tired of being asked the question because somebody dissed stem cells. They went out to Beirut or wherever it is they go. Mexico. Again, I'm not trying to mess up anybody's monies or whatever. It's expensive, actually. It's just super expensive. And it's not a one-time fix. It's a weekend getaway. It's like a vacation, you know? You feel good for that one week while you're away. And guess what? The stress comes right back after two weeks back at work, you know? Wow. It's not a fix. It's just a reboot. And unless you're going to keep rebooting it at 20 to 30 grand a pop, it's just not going to make you feel good forever. Is it true that overseas they take, I guess, placenta from babies or something? They do it here. They do it everywhere. It's just, again. It's illegal in the States. That's why they do it overseas. I know. But you have to find out. You know, you have to know your source, man. At the end of the day, don't go to a bootleg doctor like I did, you know? Listen. Did you reveal who that bootleg doctor was? No, no. Because I'm going to try. You know what? It's just, listen, man. Did you pay 20 grand? Did you pay 20 grand? I didn't pay shit. And I think that's why, on top of it, you know, when you take shit that's free, it's going to cost you a whole lot more later, you know? Let me say I'm not going to contain myself, man. But you know what? Just stay away from me. Avoid me. I don't want to catch a case. I don't have lawyer funds these days, man. I would crack your head open. Matter of fact, yo, ask me for step-self, man. I'm going to knock you out just for you asking me that question, bro. Like, don't ask me step-self questions, man. All right? All right. All right. We won't ask you any more questions. No more step-self questions. I don't throw a punk on you. All right. What else we got today? Well, that was a good episode so far. I like that, man. It was very revealing, like, very, really. So, yeah, no, we went through biohacking. So, the next topic that came up, obviously, Sahari Chupan is going to be competing at the Arnold Classic. Man, bro, I diverted from that whole question. But biohacking, you know, infrared, great. Try it, you know? Helps your cells at a cellular level. You feel good for recovery. I even used it on my scar, on my spine, you know? So, there's so many ways to go about it. Different meditation, underground, get the earth biohacking just from the earth's freaking, you know, electrical magnet. You know, biohacking. You know, I spin it south, bro. We went south. We know a guy that, when he eats tomatoes, he takes the seeds out. He said it's a biohacking tool. Biohacking, that's avocado. Avocado seed. Another form of biohacking, you know. Loweres our inflammation. Yeah. Underneath, and, you know, whatever you have. You might have some joint issues, you know. But there's so many different forms. And if you're going to do it, I say, I'd rather you go with the avocado instead of the stems. Go with the seed, man. It has a little, you know, I think is, what is it? You take the seed, you peel it, cut it up, put it in a cup, add some other to it. I don't know. Is it? Biohacking by Victor. Biohack. Yeah, yeah. The bootleg version. Biohack. Ever realize that after the age of 30, you wake up the next day after a few rounds of alcohol and you feel very dehydrated? You feel a bit of brain fog. You feel very sluggish. And that's why here at Generation Iron, we're obsessed with Cheers Restore. Cheers Restore is a dual action after alcohol aid. Its ingredients support both your brain and your liver after consuming alcohol. Cheers was originally invented by a student at Princeton. Based on research into a novel compound called DHM. DHM demonstrated powerful alcohol-related properties in the brain and liver. So Cheers was designed for how alcohol actually affects your body, not just dehydration. Cheers promise is simple. You'll feel about 50% better the next day or your money back. Basically, two drinks feel like one the next morning. And all you do is take three capsules after your last drink before bed. Don't just take my word for it. Cheers has appeared on Shark Tank. And today, Cheers is sold in over 30,000 stores, including Walgreens, CVS, 7-Eleven, and Circle K. They've also sold over 50 million doses. Same night out, way better morning with Cheers. For a limited time only, our listeners get 20% off at checkout by using code GENERATIONIRON at cheershealth.com. Head to cheershealth.com. Use code GENERATIONIRON for 20% off. After you purchase, you will be asked where you heard about them. Make sure you support our show and mention GENERATIONIRON. All right, so Chris Aceto said that Andrew Jack is still growing ahead of the Arnold Classic. He's saying he's getting bigger and bigger before the thing. What do you think about that? Do you think he's going to win? Chris Aceto's son? No, no. I'm sorry, Andrew Jack. He said Andrew Jack is getting bigger and bigger. No, Chris Aceto's son. You brought him up. He just became a natural pro, which is great. Really? Yeah, yeah, yeah. But it's, you know, he said Chris Aceto. Yeah, we've actually featured him on Generation Iron, Fareed, I think, Aceto. He's actually a muscle meds athlete. Yeah. You know, and he's someone. Oh, yes, yes. He's someone that, you know, we see, natural bodybuilder. Yeah. He's Aceto's son. I forgot his name. He's got the best dietician in the fucking business right there. But Andrew Jack is. I told him I'm Andrew Jack. But Andrew Jack, he's looking large. He's staying big. He's going to step in there. I mean, he's going to be the tallest guy up there, the most muscular. And just, again, as I mentioned, a favorite after Hottie. So it's going to be a crazy lineup. And I wish I was going, you know. What else? Well, where we at? What was the question, bro? I'm still thinking about the steps. Well, I mean, there is now some rumors that came out about Hottie Coupon's visa being denied. What are you? I mean, have you heard of any of those comments? Yeah, he'll get the visa, man. Because it's Mr. Olympia. He's been here already. I know the first time was denied when he was doing the Olympia. But Hottie is here. He's going to stay. And I know right now the controversy is going on. It's a political controversy. Yeah, we spoke about it on the last one. And it's just rough, man. Yeah. It's just rough. He will get the visa. He will be at the Arnold, but I don't know if he's going to need a security detail. I just hope people have a better approach, you know, to Hottie than just his political silence because he's protecting his family. So just he will get the visa. We'll see him there. And it's going to be a stacked class, you know. Yeah. Let's go to the Patreon special. So the Patreon special is the questions that Victor's going to talk about, even though we already covered a lot of them. Yeah, so the Patreon special comes to us this week. There's a specific question. That's a good finale right here, Vic. All right. Thank you guys for listening to this week's Generation 9 podcast. Remember, follow us, like, comment. And if you ever want to see him in a prior podcast, tune in to iHeartRadio or wherever you stream your podcast. Until next time, guys. Thank you. Hormone replacement therapy, HRT, TRT, testosterone replacement therapy, they all kind of go into the same bucket of hormones. Men and females, they all have the same exact hormones. For males, they need more testosterone than females. And for females, we need a little bit more estrogen than males. Basically what that means is if you get your blood work done, your testosterone's low, we try to get it to an optimal level. We walk into where our medical assistants would be. They're contacting patients all throughout the day, making sure patients are feeling good, looking good, and performing their best, making sure they're hitting their goals, making sure they're tolerating the medication properly, and everything is going well. Patient care and patient service is number one to us. And if you have any questions, concerns, issues, then we're taking care of them too as well. A TRT company or Titan Medical, what they do is they make people healthy, and they get people to really live the dream of life. It's one of those things I always say, do you want to live a long life or a quality of life? And that's what Titan Medical does. that's what that is that? that's what that is that? that is that that that that that that

=== FILE: Victor Martinez Sends A Message to Kali Muscle After His Heart Attack ｜ GI Podcast [HzHvWsoymjk].txt ===

 Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res I haven't done Florida since early 2000 when it used to be good. I miss Miami. Club 11. Is that in the Mount Rushmore of clubs? Yeah. One-stop shop. Music, girls, and food. Yes. And then the finest, the Wilippa. She got a banion too? Yeah. Oh, she's pretty hot. Yeah, bro. She's too fine. Well, it's like, she's so fine, she almost looks fake. Yeah. Like, I can't even generate her. Hello, and welcome to this week's Generation 9 podcast. Your host, me, Victor Martinez, along with Edwin Mejia and Vlad Yudin. What's up, man? What's up, guys? Hope you guys stay warm out there. Snow is crazy, huh? Yeah. Back at HQ here in New York City after this massive snowstorm, which wasn't too bad, I guess, but... It was nice, man. It was nice, too. I enjoyed it. Shout out to all Albanians. Vic is repping. Albania, that's right. Repping. You know, my son's Albanian. So, just in case you guys are like, why does he have that shirt on? And it's because that makes me somewhat a fraction Albanian. You have a diverse family, bro. You have Jewish kids. You have Albanian kids. Hey, man. United Colors of Benetton. Yeah, man. United Colors of Victor Martinez. Victor's not discriminating. I don't discriminate. That's all, man. I level the field here. You celebrate the bar mitzvahs. You celebrate everything. Everything. I don't know any, you know, Dominican... I mean, sorry, Albanian bodybuilders, but... There's got to be some. There's a few. There's a few. Starting, you know, my son is a bodybuilder, you know. Is he? He's athletic, you know, in a way. Stay international, people. Come on. Nice. Don't hate because you don't understand. Understand it first. Exactly. Shout out to Transparent Labs. They sent you a recovery package. Yes. Thank you for the recovery package. This is great. You know, appreciate it. What did they put in there? So, this amazing Mag-AM-PM. That PM magnesium, guys, is probably my favorite product. Unless for my sleep. In this HQ office that we have here. You guys have to try that product. It is unbelievable. You will sleep like a king. Or queen. And I highly recommend it. They make protein cookies, too? So, they have protein bars. They have some of the best protein bars, as well. They've been supporting the podcast here. Shout out to Transparent Labs and, obviously, the support for the recovery of Vic, who's now looking stronger and bigger than everything. Every day. Every day. Every time we record, man, you're looking bigger. You're looking better and better each time, man. But remember, there's three things you don't mess with me. My sleep, my pizza, and my family. In that order? In that order. In that order. So, yeah. So, shout out to Vic. And I know, Vlad, we have some comments and questions that came in for Vic. And, obviously, maybe you could start there on your side with some comments. Before we talk about this. So, on the way here, we're talking about the Mount Rushmore of bodybuilding. Mount Rushmore. Somebody online posted, I think on Instagram. Let me see. Somebody posted their version of Mount Rushmore. Muscle Inside HQ. A debatable. Debatable Mount Rushmore. And they put Arnold Schwarzenegger, Ronnie Coleman, Phil Heath, and Dorian Yates. And I guess they put it in the order of Olympia wins. Although, they forgot about the game. Yeah. It's not the order of Olympia wins. It's just they favor it. But, again, if it was up to me, there will be six heads up there. But you can't do that. You got to do only four. Only four. Only four. Again, you know, with Arnold. Can't leave out Sergio Oliva, man. I just can't. I can't. As much as I try, it just comes to my head. Sergio Oliva. And he's got to be up there. Followed by, you know, Lee Haney, of course. And Ronnie Coleman. You know. That's four. That's four. And, again, no disrespect to, you know. Dorian Yates. Dorian Yates at all. Jake Cutler or Phil Heath. You can't leave him out. But it's four. You want to go with four. Why? There's no rule to it. So, let's put it up there with six heads. Come on. You wouldn't put Eugene Sandow on that list? Eugene Sandow. You know. Let's keep him in the circus. You know. Who are you talking about? No. Let's keep him in the circus. Was he a bodybuilder? Was he a circus performer? He was strong. He was strong. He was a sideshow. He was one of the main events. And I understand, you know, Joe Weider loved him for what he did. Entertainment and muscle. But, you know, we had a go with founding fathers within bodybuilding that contributed to bodybuilding. I would stick with my first four choices. I feel like Joe Weider might have found out about Eugene Sandow later because the original Olympias, they didn't even award a Sandow trophy. No. I don't know. They got 500 bucks or something, right? A thousand bucks. So, let's talk about the Joe Weider situation. So, on the last episode, you said specifically, I'm quoting, you said that Arnold made Joe Weider, not the other way around. So, we have a comment from a listener who is disagreeing with you. His name is JustSomeDude. He said, wrong. Weider made Arnold, not the other way around. Joe Finaness. Well, you hit me the wrong button. Wrong. That's what he said, bro. And then he said, Joe Finaness Arnold and propped him up everywhere as the face of IFBB. So, he's disagreeing with you. Anything you want to say to JustSomeDude? All right. All right. Look, look. I understand. I know Joe Weider, you know, was Arnold's sugar daddy. But I know Joe Weider gave Arnold the platform. Sugar daddy. I understand that. But remember, with that platform, Arnold made Joe Weider. You know, he needed Joe Weider. I mean, because Joe Weider was already here. It was established. Everything was said and done. But come on, man. It's Hulk Hogan to the WWF. You know? Same difference. You know? That's what it is. That's what it is. But at the end, Arnold ran away with it. Arnold pretty much started giving the, you know, the visuals. Started bringing the foot traffic. And that's what happened. But, you know, I mean, again, you can argue it. Yeah, of course. Whatever. But it was a platform. The Arnold pretty much, you know, just made them famous. And that's it. Well, JustSomeDude, you know, that's what Victor thinks. So, right there. I'm not going to break from it, you know. But thanks for your opinion. And, again, anybody can argue it. Joe Weider did his thing. But Arnold pretty much just delivered, you know. Top of that, he is Conan. You know, remember that. The more conversation we have with our audience, I think, is best. So, please, if you disagree with Victor here, let him know. Next, we've got the question of the day brought to us by Transparent Labs. Guys, if you want Victor to answer some of your questions, please type him in the comment below. Ed, what do we have? So, the question of the day comes to us from Cameron Hussain 578. And I thank you again, Cameron Hussain 578. Thank you for submitting your questions. Guys, make sure you continue to submit your questions for your chance of not only having the answer by Vic, but also having a chance to win a product and merch CI Generation Iron. Question for Vic. Vic, do you think Steve Weinberger has too much influence as a head judge of Mr. Olympia and Arnold Classic, seeing that he carries out private pre-competition assessments with some of the high-level competitors like Ryan Terry, for example? I don't think that's fair on lesser-known competitors at the Olympia or Classic. Interesting question. Vic, what do you think about that? Obviously, most people know the judging from East Coast Mecca. East Coast Mecca in many ways really brought that to the forefront. And audiences around the world were able to see how Steve Weinberger, the head judge of the Olympia and IFBB, was able to critique and judge people personally at his gym, at the Powerhouse gym in Sayacet. I know, Cameron Hussain, I know what you're trying to say. Today, Steve Weinberger might be biased because he's seen the most famous guys before the actual show. But you have to remember, he is an assessment. It doesn't mean he's going to give you a guaranteed win because his judgment at the end of the day is going to go by a panel, seven judges, he's one of them, and he's going to actually give his assessment to anyone. If he doesn't know you at all and you just take the trip and actually go see him, he'll assess you the same way. But at the end of the day, if that was the case, I mean, I'm from New York. You used to see him every weekend. He used to give me an assessment, and that didn't give me the 07 Olympia. So it's one of those things that you can argue, but if anybody, which if he don't know you from a hole in the wall, you can go in, he's going to give you a fair assessment. Guys just want, again, the critique from Steve. They want the breakdown. They want to hear something from the judge who's going to actually judge them. And in some cases, he doesn't even judge them, but he's going to give you a full breakdown. I mean, man, I wanted to compete once, and he broke it down to me that I sucked. And he didn't sugarcoat it. He didn't do any of that. And it's a breakdown. So unless, you know. Which we saw that on Generation Iron, actually. Yeah, it's not for the faint of heart, you know. If you're going to go in and think it's going to be a good assessment, and he's just going to blow smoke up your ass, you're in for a big surprise. I'm going to say, this guy brought up Ryan Terry, but anybody can, if Steve is in the gym, which he's usually is, right, he's there a lot. Like, if you go to the gym, if you talk to him nicely, he'll give you his opinion, from what I've seen. Anyone pro or not. Amateur, pro, up-and-coming, thinking about bodybuilding, dreaming about bodybuilding. And just go in. Go in and see him. Like, you know, like Vlad said, ask him nicely. You know. If you don't ask him nicely, you probably get that. Yeah, you can forget about it, you know. But he's saying here, do you think Steve Weinberger has too much influence as the head judge? I mean, he has influence as the head judge. No, he's too much. Of course he has influence, but too much? What is too much? You know, saying that because you have him first, three judges have him first, change him, you know, change that placing? No. I mean, I don't think so because, again, you know, I've never been a fan of the scorecards. I never looked at scorecards ever in my life. Right, right, right. I just remember first and second. That's it. Well, there you go. That's the answer. That's the answer. And thanks again, Vic, for answering those questions. And Transparent Last for supporting here the community of questions as well. So, I know. I don't know they're going to be happy with that answer, but I'll keep them coming. I don't know. Yeah. I don't know. Yeah, deal with it. No. Again, everybody can argue. Anybody's going to say Steve this, Steve that. And it's opinion, you know, social media now. Everybody's going to have their opinion. Right. You know, not always good, you know, but we're listening. You need to take your muscles to the max. Whoa there, Turbo. Do you even know what's in that stuff? Oh, yeah. See, most protein powders are filled with artificial sweeteners, food dyes, and filler. Really? I wouldn't put that stuff in my body. Neither would I. Transparent Labs is made with just a handful of all-natural ingredients without any of the weird stuff. Transparent Labs. Protein without the weird stuff. So, Kelly Muscle, the guy that you went back and forth with on this podcast, actually, he, very strange, very strange happens. According to reports, he was rushed into the hospital. He fainted during the workout. And then there was no update. Was there any update since that happened? Because I was looking for it. There was no update on this. Do you know anything by any chance? No, don't know anything. But, you know, we had our riffs before, disagreements before. And it's nothing crazy. It's just had to do with bodybuilding. Had to do with his opinion on certain things. Water, toilet paper, all that, whatever it was. But you know what? There's one thing about me I would never do. I would never, ever kick a man down while he's down. You know, and I don't think anybody should do that because right now he's going to need our good thoughts. You know, and people definitely pray for him. Yes, I agree. And, you know, we're not going to do that over here at Generation Iron. Kali Muscle, you know, we wish you a fast, quick, healthy recovery. And we want to see you up and about so we can argue some more and disagree some more or agree to disagree. But we're not going to do this here. And it's sad to hear that this happened to him. And we want him up and about and healthy, man. So our hearts to you, Kali Muscle. Hope he makes it through and he's very entertaining. Yeah, he will. He will. He's going to pull through whatever it is. And it's just those setbacks that happen in life, man. He's going to pull through, though. Come on. Isn't it crazy that you went through a situation as well? Yeah. Now he's going through a hell of a scare. Yeah, we all go through it, man. Don't be surprised that it could be anything, you know. Not just a heart issue. It could be anything. So let's just, you know, not wish bad on those because you could be next. You never know. Absolutely. So what do you think about Stallone's? He made a post. What is he? He's 78 years old. He's 79 now, I think. 79 years old. He's still training every day. The quote from him is every day gets harder and harder. But that's when you've got to push harder and harder, basically. Blood, sweat, and tears. What do you think about that at the 79? Do you think he's putting himself at risk of training hard? The 79? You've got to remember, you know, he's Sylvester Stallone. He's built differently, man. This guy was being shut down everywhere. And look, he financed his own movie and wound up being one of the best movies of all time. You cannot forget about him. You cannot leave him out. He's training hard. But when people remember, when you hear training hard from Sylvester Stallone, training hard at his level, his age, is he knows how to train. He knows how to push himself. Yes, I know some people can, you know, push themselves too hard to get injured. But Sylvester Stallone, he's just mentally strong at so many levels that, I mean, 79, he's still training. This is impressive. So knowing him, he's just, he's saying basically it's getting harder. He's 79. Age factor, you know, wear and tear. You know, there's a lot of factors to it, but he evolves. He finds a way to get it done, keep pushing forward. And, I mean, you've got to look up to him. I mean, if I'm training as hard as him at that age, I'll be happy. It's crazy. 79 is up there. I didn't realize Stallone was 79 years old. Me neither, man. We did not know. And, you know, bless him. Yeah, shout out to Stallone. Stallone, I mean, we had a chance to meet him at the Olympia several years ago. And I had a chance to actually shake his hand. He's a pretty amazing dude, stand-up dude from what I noticed and what I was able to learn of when I met him there. And he's still training. I mean, look, at the end of the day is we want to be able to feel like that and do the same thing and be able to come back and recover and get stronger. And as we age, there's always going to be challenges and limitations. But the key is to keep pushing through. And having people like that as an example is always great for the fitness, bodybuilding, strength space. What's your favorite Stallone movie? I think we spoke about that before. Stallone movie, man. What's a Mount Rushmore of Stallone movies? Rambo. Oh, man, Rambo. Rambo the first. Rambo, Rocky and Rambo. Yeah, Rocky and Rambo, but I think Rambo is like. Rocky and Rambo, but Rambo. Have you seen Cobra? Cobra was great, man. Cobra was great. I don't deal with cycles. I put them away. That's definitely one of his quotes on Cobra. Quick question. Outside of bodybuilding, Arnold or Sly? Oh, man. I will never back down on Arnold, man. I can't. I just can't. I admit. You know, she's one of the guys that, you know, I'm definitely part of the Arnold cult. I mean, I would ask our audience if you could leave a comment, Arnold or Sly. Please let us know in your comment sections because we're looking at you. Arnold, man, he's just, you know, when you're part of a cult, the person can be wrong at all levels and you still say or find out, you know, give them the benefit of the doubt. And a lot of us are doing it right now. So don't say you're not part of a cult. Arnold Classic or Olympian? Arnold Classic. Like all day, you know. That's why you don't like Joe Weider because. Nah, I mean, Joe Weider, I don't know. I mean, I met him once. You said, how do you get those arms? He was all right. Well, yeah, and to that effect, I mean, obviously, there's a lot of bodybuilders that have their opinions and people out there love the Olympia, love the Arnold. There's, at the end of the day, there's a lot of history in bodybuilding, on that bodybuilding stage at the Olympia as well. So, you know, one of the folks that just came out, champion bodybuilders, William Bonack. Yes. Yeah, what do you think about that? He recently came out. He said there's no brotherhood in bodybuilding anymore. Interesting, right? He said his enthusiasm for bodybuilding has pretty much faded. And today, he just doesn't see that body. Kind of like that brotherhood that you see in bodybuilding that you saw back in the day. What is your thoughts on that, Vic? Well, back in the days, we used to compete. We actually hung out after. Now, people compete and they go right to their rooms and stay on social media, probably. That's what's going on. People are just social media. That's their world. That's their whole, you know, again. What does that mean you can't compete anymore? I did notice there's a big difference. Back in the day, when we would go to the Olympia in like 2013. We would notice how people were always kind of more united, I feel like. We were kind of like it was a different. Not feeling Ky Green. They hated each other back then. Yeah, well, you know, you always had your rivalries. But you kind of felt a little bit more of a unity. Not to say that there isn't a unity today. I think that you have different individualism. There's more individualism today, I think, in bodybuilding. I see where William Bonack is coming from. Obviously, I'm not a bodybuilder. But we see that, you know, documenting a lot of our projects backstage. And we see that. But that's a question for you, Vic. It is a question for you. What's happening? See, when I started competing, I always had a hangout crew. You know, I was just going to dinner with, you know, Dexter Jackson, Flex Wheeler, Ronnie Coleman. Well, we competed. After we competed, we used to hang out, snap at each other. I still remember Ronnie Coleman making fun of Dexter, calling him one time. You one time. You one time. You know, it's like regardless of whatever we argued about or debated about, disagreed about, we would eat, hang out, talk back and forth. Flex, especially, snapping on everyone and, you know, talking about his accolades and telling you you only won. You only did two shows. Or you did 20 shows. You got only one top five placement. And it was just fun. It was fun. We hung out. We snapped at each other. And now it's just gone. Like I said, people just disappear into their own little caves. Well, what about Doreen Yates? He would disappear after the competition, before the competition. He would show up once a year to do the show. What about that? That's before he came out with the black and white pictures. Again, that was different. He's from England. He was living in England. Different. Yeah, it was just different. But Doreen Yates, after he stopped competing, he's one of the guys you want to hang out with. You know, Doreen Yates was, you know, once I personally met him, aside from getting his autograph in 94 at a show, it was when I met him in 2001. And I just started, you know, competing in the pro ranks ever since then. And, I mean, we see, you know, Doreen Yates always hung out with him. And it was, you have that, you know, relationship where you guys could hang out, ask him a question. He's from Birmingham, right? I get it. Birmingham, yeah. Yeah, which we spent a lot of time with Doreen and Doreen Yates, the original Masked Monster, for those people that want to check out that movie. They told me this is Birmingham. Yeah, so that movie, he's on Prime. I mean, for people who don't want to check it out, I think he's on Prime. And Patreon also. And Patreon, so make sure you guys tune in to that. It's an incredible movie. We go through Birmingham. We go to actually his home in Spain as well, south of Spain. Malabella, yeah. Malabella, which is beautiful. Beautiful. And really, we see him now with Huberman doing, you know, podcasts, training, workouts. And people kind of will go behind the scenes now to see his work. And you see all that in the Doreen Yates original Masked Monster movie. But people have this affinity with Doreen because Doreen really is a personal person, really likable, really easy to talk to, but incredible charisma. But he has a lot of insight. But what's up with him? I mean, first of all, I'm a fan of Doreen Yates. Obviously, we've had a movie on him. But he's saying some interesting things. He wanted some podcasts and he said that a Brennan Curry is the worst Olympian. Why say stuff like that? It's Doreen Yates. Remember, he's going to gauge everything based on his ability and what he did to change the sport. You know, the graininess, the striations, the hard training. And it was just that the black and white pictures that he evolved from, you know, when he won his first Olympia to when he showed up on his second. It's quite offensive to say things that he says. It's not. Did he say that for real? Yeah. I think I missed that. I mean, listen. Brandon Curry is a friend of mine, again, that's Doreen Yates' opinion. Yeah. It's an opinion. I mean, look. Brandon Curry is like the nicest guy. Yeah. I mean, literally the nicest guy. That's what I'm saying. Why do you say this about him? Come on, Vic. He literally is like the nicest guy. He could have said that about any Mr. Olympia competitor at that day. Why say that at all? Who's the worst Mr. Olympia? I know, but he also said that the top five has the worst condition ever than any Olympians in history. You know? It's a lot of things Doreen Yates says. Well, it's his opinion. But he is, you know, six-time Mr. Olympia. He's credible, of course. And he's credible. Come on. You know? I mean, his opinions matter. I know it's not going to land well with the people that are receiving the opinion. And it's never good. But you got to remember, that's the world now. And that's what you get. You know? Somebody's going to get different opinions. And all you can do is answer back if you like. You know? If you don't like it, answer back and debate him on it. But, you know, we can agree to disagree with him and put it on paper or put it on text online. Fellas, you already know what time it is. It's time to level up. Blue Chew Gold is the newest innovation from the number one chewable ED brand. This ain't your grandpa's little blue pill. This is the 4-in-1 beast that's setting the gold standard. We're talking two ingredients for blood flow and to keep that rocket pumping. Mixed with apomorphine and oxytocin to turn up arousal and connection in your brain and body. Blue Chew Gold dissolves under your tongue and works in as little as 15 minutes. That means you can get in the game quicker and stay in the game longer. And we've got a special deal for our listeners. Get up to 10% off your first month of Blue Chew with code GENERATIONIRON. Again, that's code GENERATIONIRON. Visit BlueChew.com for more details and for safety information. And we thank Blue Chew for sponsoring our podcast today. So back to Bonak. He's saying he lost passion. That means he's probably not going to compete anymore, I'm assuming, right? Or he's going to stop competing. I mean, it looks like he doesn't want to continue competing. I feel like he's done everything he could competing. And plus now, I mean, he's done great in the bodybuilding circuit. Why not pull back a little and enjoy your family? Enjoy your time and just get a little healthy and get out of it. But I know that feeling where you kind of like doing it. You don't feel like showing up anymore. Like all the sacrifices you make to compete. And then your placement is not coming out. And I think he did pretty good in the last few placings, you know? I think you hit the nail on the head. Placings are not as good. Yeah, but I still think he did pretty good. But the passion, you know, dies out with age. That's how it starts happening, you know? You kind of start reevaluating your priorities. It's bodybuilding my priorities. And you start focusing on the time you spend away from your family, which was like, man, you know? I can't picture myself competing now at this age, obviously. But because my kids are older and now that time I spend with them, taking that away from them, it's going to be a little hard. I always liked Bonak. I thought he was so close. Yes. So close to winning the Olympics. Especially, remember there was like a period of like when Phil Heath was on the way out. He stopped competing in Phil Heath right after 2020. I thought it was like Bonak's time, you know? Yeah, I mean, he's also an Arnold Classic winner, of course, right? So we've documented it. We've interviewed him backstage. And he's an incredible spokesperson. He's a really good person. So shout out to William Bonak. And I'm sure he's glad. William, man, you did it, man. It's not everybody's cup of tea. He could be a straight-up guy, frank guy, and he'll tell you like it is. And you can't handle it, you know, just pull away, man. Because you'll get a William Bonak slap, which I still haven't seen. What's that? What? Well, again, I haven't seen. No, I'm saying it's like you don't like him. You step to him, you're going to get a Bonak slap, which I haven't seen again. A lot of people that step to him, they know it's coming. That's why they have second thoughts. Yeah, yeah, he doesn't look at the type of guy that's afraid to speak his mind. So that's for sure. Oh, yeah, he's always speaking his mind. For sure. So next, guys, we have a Patreon special. If you're watching this on YouTube, please subscribe to our Patreon. Because the next question is a bit controversial, right? Yeah, Patreon now. So, Vic, question for our Patreon members. And that question is, have you ever taken BPC-157? And is it being sold and promoted as a... But it's banned by anti-doping agency because I guess if you can use it. Yes. I mean, anti-doping, freaking, I mean, they banned Tylenol, I think, too. That's crazy. So they banned everything. But, again, if you're not doing any Olympics, obviously, if you are a teen, I wouldn't recommend it either, you know? Why take a risk on something that's going to hurt your career, hurt your sport, or give you that stigma of you use something that was banned, you know? Stay away from it. And why risk it, you know? Yeah, I mean, look, these things are going to continue to propel people to want to use them, especially the feedback from other athletes, you know, peptides are in many ways what people describe as amino acids, right? Yes. That are... It's a chain of amino acids that help with a variety of, you know... Yeah, it's banned, but it's not illegal. Right. It's a gray area, so it's still evolving. Yeah. And there's a lot of coaches. If you're a worker with a trunk of 1,000 BPC-157, and you're not going to get charged, you know, just in case you're a pusher out there. Sounds like cannabis. Or dealer. Yes. Well, that being said, again, guys, education is all of it. You know, ask your doctor before you move on forward. We're not recommending to use it, but that's our opinion. And, again, choose your doctor for any advice or recommendation towards it, and rejuvenation clinics. If you guys really want to know more, your doctor will know the best advice. All right? There you go. Well, that was a Patreon special, guys. If you don't unsubscribe yet, please give it a try. It's only $6.99. $6.99. You get exclusive access to unreleased footage from many of our films, like Rich Piana. You have a lot of movies like Generation Iron Series, Ronnie Coleman the King, many other titles that are on there that are available on Prime and Netflix that are available to stream exclusively on Patreon at any time. I binge watch anywhere at any moment. All right, guys. Thank you for listening to this week's Generation Iron episode. Remember, if you want to see in our prior episodes, tune in to iHeartRadio, Apple Podcasts, or wherever you stream. Thank you. Follow us, like, and remember, join Patreon. Get that exclusive. Till next time. Peace. Hormone replacement therapy, HRT, TRT, testosterone replacement therapy. They all kind of go into the same bucket of hormones. Men and females, they all have the same exact hormones. For males, they need more testosterone than females. And for females, we need a little bit more estrogen than males. Basically, what that means is if you get your blood work done, your testosterone's low, we try to get it to an optimal level. We walk into where our medical assistants would be. They're contacting patients all throughout the day, making sure patients are feeling good, looking good, and performing their best, making sure they're hitting their goals, making sure they're tolerating the medication properly, and everything is going well. Patient care and patient service is number one to us. And if they have any questions, concerns, issues, then we're taking care of them, too, as well. A TRT company or Titan Medical, what they do is they make people healthy, and they get people to really live the dream of life. It's one of those things I always say, do you want to live a long life or a quality of life? And that's what Titan Medical does. Titan Medical Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res

=== FILE: Victor Martinez’s Doubts For Sam Sulek At 2026 Arnold Classic ｜ Generation Iron Podcast [CEei6tkN9oM].txt ===

sehensehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehenersehener,sehenersehener,sehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehener All right, guys. Welcome to this week's Generation 9 podcast. Your hosts, me, Victor Martinez, with Edwin Mejia and Vlad Yudin. We at it again at home base. Yes, back at HQ here, guys. Thank you guys for joining us. Vic has been recovering, as you can see. We've been very fortunate to have the support of Transparent Labs. Thank you guys for tuning in. Transparent Labs has been not only supporting us and Vic and his recovery, but they have some of the most amazing products on the market, 100% grass-fed protein, no funny stuff, quality line of Transparent Lab products that include creatine, pre-workout, but more importantly, the Magnesium PM has been incredible here, and we are a big fan of that specific product as well. And we have a couple of questions that come from our fans and from our viewers, and I guess we could start off right away because, Vic, I know some of these questions have been very detailed. It's getting hard on me. Come on. So the first question to us comes from CRNICRNI4539, and that question is, Hi Vic and GI, how to minimize the night pissing? Of course, I'm on juice and lots of health supplements. Greetings from Norway. So shout out to CRNICR from Norway. Great question. How do we minimize night pissing? CRNICR piss a lot. Is Norway where they do the Nobel Prize? Norway, yes, it is. See where you're trying to get to, but let's not touch it. Let's not miss it. Love Norway, by the way, man. I was there on the tour with 50 Cent and Busta Rhymes. How was it, man? I've never been. Yeah, Final Lab. I like it, man. I like Norway. It's different. It's so clean. You know, they do have crackers in Norway. You know, crackers are everywhere. I don't know. They just... They get everywhere. They're everywhere. They get around, man, but Norway is super nice, very clean, and loved it. It was a chill moment, and it's fun, man. You guys should visit, man. One day, one day. Plus, come on, man. Back to Mr. Piss a Lot. Yes. I just gave him the nickname, and I guess it caught up with you, but listen, Nick, it's a normal thing. You sound like you're over 40. It's normal, but one thing I do do, because it's a normal thing. It does happen to me. I usually stop drinking at least two to three hours before. Before bed? Before bed, yes. That's a lot. I know. Two to three hours. You can handle it. You can sip on the water. It's just... It's going to push, man. It's going to push. It's just... We start getting that weak bladder, man. As long as you're not pissing on yourself, you're good. But... Does juice have to do with it? Juice? It could. It could. I don't know. Maybe it could do something to your bladder, inside your bladder. Let's go have a check-off list also on your supplementation. Yeah, because at the end of the day, there's a lot of factors here, right? Number one, I think if you're over 40, you should get your prostate checked. Number two, like Vic said, you probably should consult with a doctor or your coach in figuring out what supplements you're taking. Certain supplements, like water. There's water retention products out there. There's also fat loss diuretics. I'm not saying he's taking a diuretic or anything like that. Remember Dandelion, Parsley. Don't make you go to the bathroom. Wait, but he's on juice. He's saying specifically he wants you to know that he's on juice. Yeah, but usually juice does not make you go to the bathroom again, unless you're taking some over-the-counter supplementation. Because again, you should be taking at the ready. You should be taking a natural diuretic. There's actual water pills out there that people take, like boxers take water pills to cut weight. There's a lot of those things that make you go to the bathroom often. So not the juice does sometimes. Yeah, but let's backtrack. Let's start first with two to three hours. Cut your water off. Let's assess that for at least a few days. Let's have the checkoff list on supplementation. Anything that has parsley in it, dandelion, unless you're doing a lot of asparagus. Again, these are all natural diuretics. Do a checkoff list. Let's start somewhere before you start blaming the juice. Now I'm saying that juice is good for you, but let's not just blame it on the juice, man. You know? No, I'm here talking bias. Let's do the checkoff list and let the juice be the last thing you can stop and kind of go with it. But definitely the water ingestion before bed. I like to drink so much water, at least a gallon a day. But now by nine o'clock, I'm pulling back. There's no water with my food. Do you think if he wakes up pissing on himself, he should go see a doctor? Yes. Absolutely. Do it. You're pissing on yourself. That's rough, man. That's rough, man. I feel for you. And let's not piss on ourselves until you're like maybe 90 or something, you know? Start wearing pampers to bed. That's a good idea. You know? Hey, people do it. That's what I'm saying. It's a good idea. Yeah. Be like an astronaut. That's what they wear in space? They wear that? Yeah. You don't want poop or piss flying zero gravity, you know? How do we get to that? Yeah. That's what I'm saying. Happens, man. Remember, guys, this is not medical advice. Victor just gives you his experience. Yes. You know. Invest on a pamper company because it's going to be a stock that's going to be rising. All right. So there you go. I don't know how to pronounce the tag, but let's go to the next one. You need to take your muscles to the max. Whoa there, Turbo. Do you even know what's in that stuff? Oh, yeah. See, most protein powders are filled with artificial sweeteners, food dyes, and filler. Really? I wouldn't put that stuff in my body. Neither would I. Transparent Labs is made with just a handful of all-natural ingredients without any of the weird stuff. Transparent Labs. Protein without the weird stuff. Yeah, so thanks again, Vic, for answering those questions. Very helpful. And just for a reminder, we'll continue to answer your questions. We have a Patreon exclusive that we also offer. This particular question is typically reserved for Patreon, but we're going to actually have it answered here for Vic. And that comes to us from Primo098267MAD. Vic, about a week ago, I tried PEDs for the first time. It was an oral. And I had a terrible stomachache for a full day. Do you think I should stop and never do it again? Maybe it's a sign. Primo, NAD, oral. Where are we getting at here? Maybe he's a Primo. You know, Primo098267. You're either Dominican or you really love Primo. But seriously, again, if you're going on the PED and what was it? Stomachache. The stomachache. Orals. If anything, the only one that I always hear problems with PED and its oral is usually the Winstrel one. That's one I really tell people. If you can, stay away from it. My opinion, injectable being better. But there's very low quality injectable Winstrel right now. I know if you're going to be doing any other ones, Primo oral or Anabar oral, those two are a little bit better, a little bit safer. But let's watch out for that Winstrel one. If anything, you're having a stomachache, let's pull back from it. Let's get that blood work. Let's find out what's going on. You can do the blood work while you're on it. Obviously, it's going to show elevated levels. The only thing I can recommend is stop it, see if you're still having a stomachache. Then it will be either two things, Winstrel or your source is horrible, you know. I say your source, man. Dealers. Yeah, go back to the dealers, man. There's some bad dealers out there, man. I mean, it's from everything, from legal drugs, horrible drugs, and bad drugs, bad quality drugs. Pull back, get blood work, let's get the source. He's saying maybe it's a sign to stop these. You think maybe it's a teachable moment here? Tell them to stop. I mean, if you're going to do the orals, again, orals does not mean safer. It does not equate to safer, you know. So, I'm only giving you this advice to stop it, just to see if that's the problem, you know, the kind you're taking and also the quality. So, I'm not going to tell you go to injectable, but usually that's why people choose the injectable, because less side effects and a little bit better. But also, your source. Your source is a big problem. And if you're trying to save money and you're buying cheaper juices, it's also a problem. A lot of factors to it. So, let's just get that blood work, see what's going on with your physique or your body, everything that's going on. And let's just backtrack. Let's backtrack. Take stuff out. And start adding it one a week to see what's the problem. And most likely, it's going to be your oral juice that you're taking. And if it's bad, if it's, you know, when in doubt, throw it out. That's it. I like that. That's it. When in doubt, throw it out. All right, Primo. That was the answer directly from Victor Martinez. This is not a medical advice. So, you know, take it with a caution. Yeah, one step at a time, man. One step at a time. And, again, you haven't used and you started using and automatically your name is Primo. I know you find a new love for it, but let's do it safe. Yeah. It's good advice from Vic knowing that he's a veteran and obviously not only an IFBB pro, but he's been coaching and helping a lot of people over the years. All right, guys. Please submit your questions in the comments below. And hopefully Victor will choose them to answer. Hopefully. So, Sam Sulik is competing at Arnold Classic coming up very soon. He announced that he has no coach. He's doing it on his own. Nick Walker basically made a similar announcement. He said he's also not using a coach after parting ways with Kyle Wilkes earlier last year. I mean, later last year, they parted after Olympia. He separated from him. So, what do you think about that? Top athletes are doing prep with no coach. I mean, in Nick's side, I would have to say Nick has done it. He's seen his best. He's seen his worst. I think him making that choice could be a good choice because I think he knows his physique, you know, up to this point. You know, so he experienced the coach way and now he's trusting himself, which I think there's a beauty to that because a lot of guys have competed and they've done great doing it themselves. You know, I mean, I started out doing it myself, then started working with Victor Munoz, and then again started doing my own diet. Then I knew I wasn't, you know, the confidence just starts slipping. Really? And then I had the coach, and it does help, but nobody knows your physique better than you. So, by Nick saying he's going to try himself, you know, that confidence level is great, you know. Look, Samson, he started out with a coach. Now his wife pretty much is helping him. She's the coach. Yeah, she is the coach. So, doing it with somebody that you trust is beautiful. Believing yourself and following your assessment yourself, I think is great. But Sam Sulek's case, he just started, you know. I mean, he's worked. Did he work with a coach before? I don't know. I don't think so. I think Fuad was probably. Yeah, I think he did. Yeah, he worked. I think initially he was, but, I mean, as of right now, it looks like he's not. Yeah, so, I don't know. Sam Sulek is still trying to get to know his body, and two things are going to happen. He's either going to work out great or be horrible as hell. What are the pros and cons to having no coach or having a coach? I mean, what is your assessment of that? Well, the pros are you don't have to think about what to eat, what to do, and you basically just get the program and you just follow it. Got it. You know, the cons is if it's the first time working with a coach, it's the first time he's going to have to get to know you. Yeah. So, it doesn't mean it's going to work, but, again, once they do figure out, you know, your diet and everything else, I think it's great because all you have to do is just show up to the gym and follow the regimen. So, there's pros and cons, but, obviously, once it works, man, you're only going to do great. I mean, Phil Heath did his entire career with, you know, with Honey, you know, Jay Cutler as well. I mean, to the end, I think Jay Cutler then started doing it himself. Chris Oceto was his coach, huh? Honey first or maybe the other way around? Yeah, yeah. I think, you know, Jay Cutler switched up a little, but he did start with Chris Oceto, then eventually stayed with Honey. Honey, right. And so, again, it could be a toss-up, but you having the confidence and saying, man, I got this, I think, what was it? 2011. And he's competing, yeah. I did my own prep. 2011. You did your own prep? Yeah, 2011, I did my own prep fully. Why did you go to that rally? Again, it's just after a while, you're going to have these coaches again. They're great. They're doing a fantastic job with you. But it gets to a point that they get super busy and you get lost in the shuffle. And I felt that happen to me. You know, I was always working with Chris. No criticism towards him. Worked with Chad. No criticism. Again, but I also worked with them when my own ability of knowing what I knew worked with me. So they can give me something. I will follow it to the T. They will give me something else and I'll be like, well, that's not going to work for me. You questioned it. You know, and the question usually became the hour cardio. I said, I don't work well with an hour cardio. You know, so I did 2011 by myself. I got fourth in the Olympia and I got, you know, first at the Arnold Spain. So it does work. So I like that, you know, that Nick is trusting himself. He's believing himself. He has that confidence in himself. So that's something big. You know, Sam Sulek, he's doing it off the bat. You know, he'll probably save some money too. He doesn't have to give anybody a fair share of his money, hard-earned money. And it could work, you know. Yeah, it could work. I mean, look, it's going to be a very impressive showing for Sam, I think. I think Sam is going to be one of those first bodybuilders coming off social media, trying to prove the world wrong on IFBB Pro Stage. So it will be interesting to see how that comes across, especially now that he's, in many ways, fitting that bodybuilder kind of influencer. He's classic, right? Classic physique. Classic physique, yeah. So, you know, shout out to Sam and we're big fans of his here. Yeah. Except Vic. Stay tuned, but I think... Vic, he's not a fan of you. He didn't win you over yet, right? Listen, I'm not against the guy. Again, these are just small opinions I have. And again, what is his opinion? He's a professional IFBB pro. Yeah. Again, he's professional. He's doing it. But I got to say this. He's doing his prep on his own. He's doing his first pro show, the Arnold Classic. Let's just say he comes in and he represents and he comes in better than what he did when he turned pro. I think he's going to catapult him to one of those levels of coaches are not needed anymore. And then do you think... Yeah. Yeah. Snake as well. Yeah. And do you think that Sam Sula can be that next C-bum on the Classic physique stage going forward? Because now that C-bum has retired from bodybuilding. Now there is that void in the bodybuilding, on the bodybuilding stage at the Olympia and Arnold. Can Sam Sula be that void? And that's what a lot of people are banking on, actually. Yeah. I think stay tuned because if he's going to be the next C-bum, he has to deliver at the Arnold Classic. I think he will. So if he delivers at the Arnold Classic, do you think there's a good chance that he could be the next C-bum? Possibly. I don't know if the actual next, I don't know about all that. Again, C-bum is different. You know, he's so kind-hearted. The stuff he does, the way he speaks, everything, it's just different. So you have your doubts, basically. Yeah. I mean, to say the next C-bum is to say the next Arnold. And everybody comes up as their own individual athlete. So there was no next Arnold. Well, you know how sports are. Sports and entertainment, there's always a comparison. Yeah. Yeah. Comparison, you can't have. You know, again, the level of love that C-bum gets cannot be the same level of love that Sam Sulek is going to get. You know? Again. And plus, you know, they're both Canadian? No. No. I think Sam is, I forget where Sam is from, but he's not Canadian. I don't think he's Canadian. He's from America. So therefore, he's not going to be the next C-bum because C-bum is Canadian. Now living in the States. By this point in the year, routines are real, not aspirational. But choosing the right supplements can be confusing because not only are there so many brands out there, the supplement industry itself is a low-trust category. It's lightly regulated, products are easy to make, and companies don't even have to list everything on their label. That's exactly why we've partnered with Momentus and what makes them stand out. They weren't satisfied with the industry standard, so they built the Momentus standard. Their commitment to doing things the right way, not the easy way. Momentus sources only the highest quality ingredients on the planet. Their whey protein comes from grass-fed European dairy cows. Their creatine uses the purest form of creatine monohydrate. And every formula is made with clinically backed, highly bioavailable nutrients with no fillers and no artificial sweeteners. But what truly sets Momentus apart is their testing and transparency. Every product independently certified by NSF for sport or informed sport, meaning it's tested for contaminants, heavy metals, banned substances, and verified for label accuracy. So you always know exactly what you're putting in your body. And if a product doesn't meet their standard, it never hits the shelves. In a space where trust is rare, Momentus is redefining what trust looks like. If you want to start the new year with supplements you can truly rely on, we can't recommend them enough. And if you have a favorite like their protein, creatine, or omega-3, you'll feel the difference when everything is sourced and tested this rigorously. Head over to livemomentus.com and use promo code GENERATIONIRON for 35% off your first order. That's livemomentus.com, promo code GENERATIONIRON. If it's the end of it, because you know bodybuilding is about gurus, right? Everybody talks about gurus. So you think if they both succeed, this can be the end of the guru era. Remember, gurus started mostly in the 90s. So if you're going to, you know, I think they had their peaks in the mid-2000s, and now you're going into a different era. That's it, you know? That could have been the high peak of gurus, and they could be dying out. Sam is actually from Ohio. I just noticed he's from Delaware. Yes, from Ohio. I think I knew that. I just had a brain fart. But again, good luck to Sam Sulek at the Arnold, inaugural pro level. And good luck to Nick, man. Because Nick, if you nail this, man, this could be the beginning of the next few years of you staying on top, man, and not getting off. All right, what else we got, Adam? Well, we have Joey Swal in the news. He's been really active and calling out a lot of people online, just like Goop, of course. But Joey Swal recently called out a shirtless man for humping gym equipment, which we'll put on the screen here. The gym is not a strip club, he says. And what is your comment on that, Vic? Do you agree with Joey Swal? I mean, the gym is not a strip club, but for some reason, women are still stripping at gyms, and it keeps happening. It's not happening at my gym, I can tell you that much. It's happening. I don't know. I mean, it depends what gym you go to. That was a man, though. He called out. A man was humping the machine, or whatever he was called. A man was humping. Oh, chill, man. Chill with that. It's a man humping the machine. If you see that in your gym, would you tell us men to stop humping? I'll ban him, and I'll make sure I send the name to all my surrounding gyms so it can be banned elsewhere, because that's just nasty. Nobody wants to see that. You got to remember, most gyms, people go to gyms, they're either following a girl, following an influencer, following something great or beautiful. That's the only reason why they go and follow to these gyms. Nobody will go to your gym because some dude is humping on a machine. He should be banned. He should be canceled. I think I was on my way here, and I saw in Planet Fitness, some guy was masturbating in a store in a woman's bathroom. You saw that? I mean, you'll see it, man. You'll see it. It's going out there. Some guy who claims to be trans, which does not give him an excuse to start masturbating in a woman's bathroom, and they show the shadow of him doing it. You can't, you know, the shadow does not lie, man. Like, what if he can't say he was doing anything else but that, but that's just nasty, and it should not be going on in any gym or whatever gender you are. You should not be doing this. You're sharing a gym with a lot of people. I hate big gyms, man. I hate gyms where there's like thousands of people. That's the problem, man. But people watching, man, you're sharing a gym, man. Let's be copacetic here. You're sharing a gym, sharing the equipment, sharing the bathrooms. You're doing anything nasty, man. You can't really contain yourself until you get home. Yeah, it's a little weird. You should be ostracized, man. Canceled. I mean, banned. I mean, man, you are the real alien. Not in a good way. I was right about that, then. Yeah, yeah. But you shouldn't be doing that crap, man. All right, guys. Next, we have a Patreon special. So if you guys not subscribe to us on Patreon, if you're watching this on YouTube, please check out our Patreon. You can see all the movies there and all the uncensored content. Yeah, so shout out to you guys. Subscribe to Patreon. Vic always answers very exclusive comments and questions on Patreon. And obviously, we have a list of over 50 titles on Patreon with unlimited behind-the-scenes footage on many of the films that you have not seen and many of the Rich Piana content as well. That question comes to us from, I'm not too sure, a member sent this over, but basically, both corticosteroids and anabolic... Being informed, being educated is the key to all this and you're making the right choice. I mean, what's the better choice? Just say no to the steroid. And that's why I say, ask the questions to your doctor. Is it a steroid? Just say no, guys. Remember that. Just say no. Say sometimes. Keep submitting your questions and your comments, guys, to get featured on Patreon and obviously exclusively answered by Vic. Every time you send a question, we have a chance of winning a Transparent Lab products or a merch here from Generation Iron and continue to tune in for all of our episodes and podcasts. Guys, thank you for joining us in this week's Generation Iron Podcast. Remember, follow us, like, and comment. And if you want to see any of our prior podcast episode, remember, tune in to iHeartRadio, Apple Podcasts, or wherever you stream your podcasts. And thank you for joining Patreon. We appreciate you, love you, and love the support. Thank you, guys. Hormone Replacement Therapy, HRT, TRT, Testosterone Replacement Therapy. They all kind of go into the same bucket of hormones. Men and females, they all have the same exact hormones. For males, they need more testosterone than females. And for females, we need a little bit more estrogen than males. Basically, what that means is if you get your blood work done, your testosterone's low, we try to get it to an optimal level. We walk into where our medical assistants would be. They're contacting patients all throughout the day, making sure patients are feeling good, looking good, and performing their best, making sure they're hitting their goals, making sure they're tolerating the medication properly, and everything is going well. Patient care and patient service is number one to us. And if they have any questions, concerns, issues, then we're taking care of them too as well. A TRT company or Titan Medical, what they do is they make people healthy, and they get people to really live the dream of life. It's one of those things I always say, do you want to live a long life or a quality of life? And that's what Titan Medical does. Titan Medical is a largesehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen for
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.368756Z ===
