 and alfagipine. What's up, guys? This is Dylan with Generation Iron here and today we are breaking down Muscle-Med's new pre-workout, Strong AF. This is a clinically-dosed pre-workout built for serious strength, power, and performance and combines high research-backed ingredients like creatine, citrulline, beta-alionine, shilligit, alpha-GPC, caffeine, and electrolytes to really prime your body and mind for those explosive workouts and faster recovery. Muscle-Med's Strong AF pre-workout has 5 grams of creatine, 6 grams of citrulline malate for pumps, and 3.2 grams of beta-alionine. Strong AF helps boost power output, muscle pumps, endurance, and training intensity so you can really push through those workouts and see results. Each scoop of this pre-workout is loaded with clinically-backed ingredients that have been tested by athletes of various sports. And on top of the creatine, the beta-alionine, and the citrulline malate, which you see in mostly every pre-workout that's a stimulant-based pre-workout, you have ingredients such as shilligit, which helps support your testosterone levels, ATP reduction in recovery, and really reduce that muscle soreness and help you get to the next workout. And then you also have alpha-GPC, which enhances acetylcholine levels for stronger mind-muscle connections, sharper focus, and improved strength output, again, really helping you get through those workouts and see some serious results. So overall, Muscle-Med's new pre-workout, Strong AF, is great for people who have been lifting for a while and are looking for something that can really take them to the next level. It's great for your pre-workout. It helps you push through your workouts. And then, of course, it helps you recover after your workouts with all of the ingredients such as shilligit and creatine. And then you don't have to buy them separately and get it all in one. All in all, when it comes to pre-workouts, dosing and ingredient quality make all of the difference in muscle-med strong AF delivers on both of those points. It has clinically effective ingredients such as creatine, citrulline malate, beta-alionine, and of course, the shilligit, alpha-GPC, and caffeine and electrolytes to really help you focus during your workouts and push through those, get better pumps, and then recover afterwards. So if your goal is to lift heavier and longer with better focus and faster recovery, then Strong AF is going to be the pre-workout for you. So feel your body lock in focus and training your peak. This is Dylan signing off.