 pairesh, strawberriesh, strawberriesh ¿ckckckaberg strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries strawberries Harambe system. Rest in peace, Harambe. 2016. Let's get to it. Let's see what's going on. So first off, you guys know CJ, Cynthia James, CJ's Elite Suits. Didn't know her personally, but heard of her, of course. Yeah, we met her, I think, backstage one time, I think in 2013, 2014, during our first initial introduction to the Olympia. Over the last probably 25, 30 years, if you've been backstage at a bodybuilding show, if you don't think that you've met Cynthia James, you've probably met her. She was a fixture in the bodybuilding world. Dozens of my clients that never even paid her a dime would be backstage. Their suit malfunctions. They have a problem, a fitment issue. She would spring in and make it happen. She was a good person. I really respected her. I didn't speak to her very often, but anytime I'd see her at an expo, hello, that type of stuff. And I just saw this last week that she had passed away. She specialized in custom-made posing trunks, bikinis. Victor told me she made his posing trunks. Yeah, she made everybody's posing trunks. She was just a fixture in the industry. And I mean, the cool thing about her is, you know, if you needed help backstage, she would just help you out. Like, even if you didn't pay her. Like, I saw tons of my clients, this woman, CJ, helped me. I'm like, okay, that makes sense. You know, some suit makers would say, you know, go f***, but not CJ. She was a good person. Funny, hilarious, absolutely nuts. I loved her very much. Rest in peace to CJ. Rest in peace. Yeah, rest in peace. Magazine dreams. So, so, so, so. So, we've all seen the movie by now. And obviously, recently, people have been resurfacing the interview that we had with Jonathan Majors on a Generate Shrine podcast here about a week ago. And a lot of controversy, a lot of information, but the movie itself, I thought it was an incredible film. Well, well done performance by Jonathan. What did you think overall? Well, I mean, first, yeah, like super sad to have, I thought it was a great film to have like a really great film. And then at the same time, you have a personal controversy, a domestic violence incident, correct? Where it just overshadows everything you did. And I saw your interview where he's like, yeah, I know I won't win. And, you know, these, these awards. Which is sad. To me, it's very sad because the performance was amazing. Yeah, yeah. And if you guys haven't seen it yet, Magazine Dreams, Jonathan Majors, it has Mike O'Hearn, it has Brandon Hendrickson, it has Breon Ansley. It has tons of bodybuilding superstars in it. And I don't know, like I've been in, I've been in the world on the coaching side in bodybuilding, the coaching bodybuilders for a really long time. And I think they like nailed the like crazy obsessed bodybuilder that just doesn't care about anything other than. Right, right, right. There's a, there's a scene where he's like on a date with the girl. He's like super excited. He's super excited to be on this date. And they go out to this restaurant and he just like, he's like three weeks out from a show and he's just ordering everything. Yeah, he's like, I need like eight chicken breasts, like 14 pounds of broccoli. And she's just like, the fuck is wrong with this guy? And he's like, you don't know who this guy is. He's like obsessed with Michael Hearn's character in this movie, Brett Venderhorn or something like this. Yeah, so Michael Hearn plays this. Brett Venderhorn, great name. And he's talking to this girl who works at a grocery store and he's like, you don't know Brett Venderhorn? He's a classic champion. And she's like, what? And she's like, what the hell are you talking about? Which is how probably most of us sound when we speak about like, you know, I mean, there's some bodybuilding people that transcend into like the general public. But for the most part, it's like, well, you know, do you really know? Do you not know who Derek Lunsford is? I'd say he's probably becoming a household name. But, you know, if it's like, you know, the guy who won the Toronto Pro, like you don't know 2014? You don't know? I feel like it's like two worlds. The world that we understand because we're in the space and there's a other world. I have no idea. Yeah. They're like Arnold Sebum. Maybe that's right. Yeah. They're like Sebum. Even Sebum. They're only. Yeah. And he's huge. And you can ask certain people in New York about Chris Bumps and nobody knows who he is. Yeah. Yeah. I'm sure tons do. Tons do, but not. If they're wearing a Gymshark something or other. Right. That's what I'm saying. Yeah. Unless they understand. Yeah. It's crazy. I mean, what did you guys think of it? We can't give spoilers. Although, guys, it's been out for two weeks. Let's talk about it. I mean, it's a spoiler. So, the movie was in a theatrical run. Yeah. Now, it's available actually on home. Not home video. Home video. On demand. You know what I mean? People can watch it on Amazon and stuff like this. So, there's a scene in there. There is a scene. Before we get to the scene, I have to say that, look, the reason why people should watch the film is because you should support bodybuilders in movies like this. Right? Yeah. To make a point. Are people going to like it? Well, because the thing is, the chances of another film like this coming around again with having bodybuilders in it again like this at a high level, very slim to know. And you know what? I feel like there was, to be critical of the film, there was a huge miss. Now, me, you guys understand bodybuilding. I just want to describe a scene in the beginning to kind of illustrate my point. There's a scene in the beginning. I'm not ruining anything for anybody where Jonathan Majors is on stage with Breon and Brandon Hendrickson and some other bodybuilders. And they're being compared. Now, in the bodybuilding world, we all understand that the farther you move from the center, the worse placement you're getting. So, Jonathan Majors sort of starts somewhere on the middle to the left, moves to the center, and then slowly gets switched out to the side. And what you're supposed to understand as a viewer is, oh, he's like losing. And that sort of triggers this like internal rage in him. At least that's what I interpreted it to be in the film. Right. Me too. But if you're a dude or a woman that just walked in there and you're watching the thing and you don't know and you've never been to a bodybuilding show, you have no idea what you're looking at. You don't know that he just got waxed and that he's upset about it. And then it sort of triggers this thing inside of him. You're just like, oh, these oily guys, we're all getting compared. And I mean, Brandon Hendrickson has amazing legs. Okay. Like, what's going on here? And then the scene's over. And that's just sort of like the impetus for later things. That's how I understand it. Yeah. That's what you're saying. The impetus for later things in the film. Yeah. I feel like there were small insider things that could have been explained more that we get and the person that was writing it got. But they just sort of took for granted. So, one of the criticisms I'm seeing already in comments, right? People are saying, why are they portraying bodybuilding in a bad light? And that's essentially the old say about pretty much every project that comes up about bodybuilding or that has to do with bodybuilding, right? And it's like, it's not a movie. It's not about bodybuilding. It's about a disturbed young man. It was like a horror film. Yeah. It's kind of like a horror film. Like, it's real scary. Like, it's scary. It's like, it's the movie The Wrestler. It's not about wrestling. It's about The Wrestler. Yeah. That played by Mickey Rourke. You know what I'm saying? I don't think it's like, so I understand that type of person exists. And the person. It does. Yeah. I agree. That character is a real person that I guarantee you goes to these shows and exists. But it's not the average. And it does sort of suck that that's the feature, but it's also the average isn't interesting. And the average doesn't make a movie. Exactly. So, yeah. We should love if there's film and coverage in bodybuilding in some way, shape, and form, even talking about the bad parts of it, which I think they did. Yeah. They covered mental illness plus steroids equals bad. You know, nobody. I don't think anybody's watching that. And they're like, well, you know, what's his name? Killian Maddox. Killian Maddox is just a well-to-do normal guy. And then all of a sudden, he just rages. Like, no, he's messed up from the beginning. He has a variety of issues, basically. A ton of issues, I think. But he's very vulnerable at the same time. So, you kind of root for him to a certain degree. You know what I mean? Yeah. You want him to win. And then you're like, man, please don't. What do you think about Michael Hearn's role? Michael Hearn was so very brave. Oh, my God. It was so funny. I'm just, you know, you're watching. I'm like, is that Michael? First, I saw in the poster. Because there's a poster in Killian Maddox's room. And I was like, that's Michael Hearn? And I won't spoil it for you guys, but there's a couple uncomfortable scenes. And Mike's just a G for just being like, yeah, let's do it. So, without giving it up, they show his ass at one point. A couple points. Yeah, for sure. Yeah, definitely. For sure. Yeah. Yeah, certainly. But Mike is very brave, don't you think, to take a role like that? Yeah, he don't care. He's like, movie role, let's go, baby. Sure. Are you still blocked by him? Unfortunately, yeah. Damn. Mike, please unblock me. Mike, you need to unblock him so he can actually comment on your photos. Yeah, come on, Mike. Jesus. Listen, overall, I strongly recommend for our audience to watch the film. I think if you like anything about bodybuilding, you should watch it. It shows an absolutely obsessive human being that probably has some anger management and mental health issues. And it's a very dramatic, interesting, almost like, I thought it was like a thriller. Like, it's scary. Yeah. It gets real scary. Did you ever watch that movie called Foxcatcher? No, never seen it. It was about an obsessed wrestler and sort of like him and the coach, what they go through. So, it's kind of like in a similar genre, you know what I mean? But I agree with you. Average is not interesting. You got to find crazy stories. That was because I posted like my little mini review on my Instagram. People were like, oh, put bodybuilding in a bad line. Well, the average, you know, what are we going to do? Follow you around and watch you eat meals all day. Like, they did that with Kai Green and it was only interesting because it's Kai Green. And he's like, here's my tiny little apartment. We don't have heat. I turned the stove on. Also, she wasn't. She was very interesting. Exactly. Yeah. It's like, yes, that's the level of interesting that we could get without being wild and like people getting beat up. But otherwise, like, you know, it's... Yeah. You don't keep watching people eating broccoli and rice and... Unless they're doing it in a restaurant after ordering dozens of stuff and, you know, fighting with a girl that he met at the grocery store. Spoiler. But definitely recommend from us. Yeah. Definitely recommend. So BBL trainers. BBL trainers. For just $4,000, you can go to Tijuana and get a BBL. And we've seen so many trainers come into the fitness space that go to Tijuana, get their BBL, delete every single photo from before they got it. And guess what? Now they're a glute trainer that's going to show you to build your butt. So how do you find these BBL trainers? Let me guess. I mean, I know you get sent a lot of them. But my question to you is, you know, is your goal to find these BBL trainers and then make... In other words, come after them. Make fun of them? Like, in other words, find BBL trainers that do not admit that they've done BBLs. No. So it all starts where... So it'll happen in a variety of ways. And by the way, we're talking about BBL trainers, guys. I will do videos from time to time and trainers that have a BBL and tell you that they're going to show you how to grow your ass without ever mentioning that they have a BBL. And they'll do tons of crazy creative lies. Like, I only got a tummy tuck. Or I just got lipo and nothing back there. Like, you're lying. You're full of sh**. So anyway... Oh, full of ass. Full of ass. Full of stomach fat in your butt. Or whatever it is. That's what they do, right? They like moving around. Or injections of some sort. Yeah. Moving around. Different levels to it. Yeah. Fix a flat. All that stuff. But anyway, so a number of ways. One, sometimes there's the snitch. You know, there's a girl that knows you that whatever. And you had a falling out. And she messages me. And she's like, hey, scroll back to blah, blah, blah, blah, blah on this page. And you'll see. She's posted. I've had that happen. Or the fun way is somebody sends the page. You watch. And it's like this girl with a giant butt. And she's squatting like 95 pounds. This is a video of wellness Olympian Marissa Andrews putting down 275 for reps that are relatively easy for her. She's real. Ah, 65 pounds. For a 4x10. Poor depth and poor control. Very nice. It doesn't make sense, right? We're in the fitness world. Like, you know what hamstring development is supposed to be if your ass is this big, right? It's just normal stuff. And so you just scroll and scroll and scroll until the butt wasn't big. And then you look for that like two to three month period where posts weren't made. Or look at the origin of the account. You know, whenever she... Because sometimes they're just like, I'm a trainer now. I went to Tijuana. I spent my three grand. I'll show you how to grow a butt. And they just forget that they didn't... They just forget that whole period of time. Yeah. The anesthesia did something to them. But so you scroll back to them. And then you go to their following and see who's following them. Mutual followers that has like MD, surgical, plastic, something like that. And sometimes you got to type it in like Spanish, you know, plastic or whatever it is. Tijuana. Plastico. And you look and match the timelines up. And you can find that three month period they didn't post. And then maybe two weeks within that three month period after the surgeon will post their whatever. And just match them up. Look at those tattoos or something. And then you got them. Wow. Got them. Is the BBO woman trainer same as a man trainer who would have central arms or central injections with big muscles that are fake? I think so. But you know what? I don't often see... Like, imagine this specific account. A man, a male trainer's account only focused on growing your arms. And he says he's an arm trainer. I'm the best arm trainer in the world. And he jacks his arms up with synthol. And he sells arm training programs and arm gummies. Can arm whatever. And arm workout programs. Like, that just doesn't exist. Because that's stupid. And it seems... Imagine it does exist. Imagine it does exist. I would like to... Now that I've said it... So somebody came out, in other words, and created BBL gummies. BBL gummies. Yeah. Wow. So before it was gummies with creatine in it. And now it's BBL gummies. Yeah. Yeah. Somebody sent me... $400. $4.99. $4.99. But it's a discount because it's $1,000. Wow. So basically, guys, we've reached a new low in the world. They're selling gummies that they call BBL gummies. And it's in this giant kit. I first came across HemoCare's page because Princess Love. A popular celebrity and high stakes poker player. Made a post advertising for it. Here's the before and afters with BBL gummies. Let's scroll through them, shall we? Wow. Look at this before and after. That girl actually made a ton of progress. I'm extremely impressed. But there's a problem. These photos belong to Marissa Remy. This photo was posted in 2017. And nowhere in this eight-year-old photograph does she mention your gummies. In fact, based on the articles of incorporation of your company, it didn't even exist until 2023. So somebody that I follow, Princess Love, posted this ad for this company called HemoCare. And it's BBL gummies. It's supposed to grow your ass. Yeah. The ad was like three women shaking ass on a yacht. And it's like, she got her butt with... I can't even remember what it said. But it was like an ad for this HemoCare thing. And I click and I was just like, how old is this company? What's going on? Brand new company. Yeah. Maybe within the last two years. And they're posting all these transformation photos that if you reverse image search them... By the way, guys, tineye.com. You put any photo into it. You click search. It'll show you the first time it was posted, the last time it was posted, and every time in between. So you just go to the HemoCare website. They have all these transformation photos. You grab one of them. And you just put it in tineye. And it's like, wow, 2017. This transformation happened to this woman who doesn't live anywhere near... The product was made in 2023. Transformations from the product were made in 2017. Something doesn't compute. Yeah. This doesn't make sense. So I did a video on it just being like, you guys are assholes. Like... Can we see anything back or no? Or they just blocked me? Blocked me. They just blocked you. Well, actually, they liked the video. And then they blocked me, which was weird. They liked it. And I was like, oh, cool. They're coming to talk. Let's see what's up. And they just blocked me. Do you think if a bodybuilder, a pro bodybuilder, just enhances his arms just a little bit with synthol? Wow. I don't think that's a problem. I think synthol is... It's only if you just pure synthol arms. It's for muscle balancing. I mean, why was it created? It was for tiny little inconsistencies or uneven parts in a muscle. Do you think any wellness athletes are BBL enhanced, in your opinion? Oh, it's a good question. It could be, right? They have to diet down, though. I don't think they're BBL enhanced. But I think that there's... I don't know. Do they still do PMAA? Is that a thing? I remember Rich Payana talked about how he had PMAA in his arms. Those are like implants. Yeah. Yeah. Something like that. Yeah. He did have that. I don't know what PMAA stands for. People have done injections for butt implants. Yeah. But like, do you think there have been athletes? For sure. I mean, they probably do like synth... You know, some amount of synthol. Like, you can get away with some amount before it looks ridiculous. Yeah. But it's like the people that go crazy or when it looks wild. I guarantee you, at any Olympian stage, there's half of the guys have tiny amounts of synthol bringing up certain portions of their muscle because it's balance. You're there for size, shape, symmetry. Like, you can't... You know, if you have one arm that's slightly smaller than the other, like, bring it up. If you have a chest that, you know, connects to here and this one's a little farther away, like, bring it up. It just makes sense. You know, I remember actually speaking to Rich Payana. I did an interview with him like years ago. Yeah. He was very outspoken about like the issues with the competitive industry, with competitions, basically. He was saying that the women, the bikini competitors, they absolutely have to get breast implants because after dieting down, getting weight, you basically lose your breasts. I don't know if you heard about that. Yeah. I mean, that used to be a thing, but now it's like, look, if you look at the top 10 Olympians, like, there's a couple, like, I'd say there's a very even distribution of girls that don't have it done. Yeah. And I think there would be even... Yeah. And that used to be a thing. So, a lot of them did get it done, but I guarantee there would be an even higher distribution if a lot of those girls just said, you know what? You know, I don't want to do that. The girl Jacqueline. Why can't I remember her? She's in fitness. No, no, no. Jacqueline. She's a bikini girl. Like, she doesn't have them done. Okay. She looks awesome. There's tons. I mean, there's tons of girls. It's just... I think it's a thing that they've, like, it used to be. Or like, oh, that girl's winning. She has this, this, and that done. Let me go get that done. Like, I don't think... If you're a bikini competitor, I don't think you need to have that done. As long as you have balance. But I haven't seen any of the top five girls ever not have implants, I think, in a bikini Olympia. For sure. Third place this year? Fourth place? Oh, really? Yeah. Wow. Yeah. I mean, it's interesting. Well, kudos to them. Yeah. It happens, I suppose. Not that I'm opposed to... Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. No, I just didn't... I never... Yeah, yeah, yeah. I just think that, yeah, you shouldn't have to have that. And I don't think you do have to have that. It should not be a requirement. Yeah. Yeah. There's tons of, you know, tons of people have won and done really well without it. I don't think you should have to. It's like an invasive surgery. Like, an invasive surgery should not be connected to your bodybuilding career. Well, a lot of bodybuilders get gyno surgery, and that's not 100% required, right? But it happens a lot. Oh, that just makes your life easier. So you don't have, you know, tits. Nobody wants tits, you know? Makes sense. All right. Let's talk about the Harambe home gym equipment. The Harambe system. First off, 2016 in Ohio. Something happened, guys. We lost a significant person, portion of the world. Harambe was killed. You remember? Yeah, yeah. I do remember. I don't remember. Tragic. You don't remember? No. Wow. I think we found the only person who doesn't know that. You know who Harambe was? No. We should lie to him. No, no. Don't. So Harambe was a gorilla. And there was a mother that wasn't watching her child at the Cleveland or Cincinnati Zoo. Yeah, it was at a zoo. Yeah. I forgot which zoo it was, but... I should really know this. And the child somehow jumps down into the enclosure and the gorilla gets a hold of him. But not in a death grip way. In a playing with the kid way. And ends up grabbing the kid by the whatever. And there's some water. And he's just running with the kid. It's like a 5-year-old, 6-year-old, like a young kid. And the zookeeper is just absolutely open fire on the gorilla. Okay. I think I've heard about it. But I just didn't know his name was Harambe. His name was Harambe. But also the word Harambe means to pull together. So a friend of mine created... He's a friend of mine now. I didn't know him at the time. But I bought this product 2 years ago. It's a band system called Harambe. And he just launched what's called the Cyber Plate. Which is like... How do I describe this? So you stand on a plate. With band systems, you're always standing on a plate. But friction really kind of ruins your workout. It doesn't ruin your workout, but it makes it harder. The force curve is different based off of something rubbing or whatever. The new one that he came out with, it has rollers on the side. And it's super night and day. If you've used any of the other band systems or if you've ever used bands, you understand the snagging feel. During the pandemic. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, the creator made this during the pandemic. He made it at home. And then revolution and made it better, made it better, went to manufacturing. And now he sells it. But it's an interesting product if you've never used it before. I mean, resistance is resistance. I use it all the time. We're going to a cabin this weekend. And there's no gym. And we're packing the Harambe. Because it's a plate, a couple bands, and a barbell. And it's going to be... Just throw it in the car. And we're... You know what a tiny home is? No. Yeah. We're like running a tiny home in the middle of nowhere. And I was like, oh, I guess we could still work out. That's pretty cool. I live in Manhattan. So we're technically always in a tiny home. And so just do the same thing. But no, the Harambe is cool. The guy came to an event of mine two years ago in New York City. He lived a little closer. And he messaged me. And he's like, hey, man, I follow your stuff. I saw you doing an outdoor lifting event. We called it the street meet, where we would have weights and stuff outside. He's like, I have this product. It's called the Harambe system. I'd love to demo it at you or whatever. And I was like, yeah, sure, man. And he brings in all this stuff. Were you skeptical at first? Yeah. He's like, yeah, this can go up to like 600 pounds. At the time, we had a 620 pound deadlift that we had set up outside. Because we were like, it would always start where the weight would be small. And then it would just like animals would get to like 590s and 6. There's a band this strong that it gives you that type of resistance. Well, so he's like, hey, man, we can set this up to be comparable to that. And we have like 615 or 620 on a barbell there. And he's like, you could make this comparable to that. And I'm like, this guy's talking to his dad. I don't believe this. And he sets it up to like what he would estimate would be around like 615. And I pull the one and take a little break. And I pull the other. And I was like, wow. Like, yeah, it's not the same. Like, it's not 100% identical. Because the force curves are different, right? Like, it's a little easier at the bottom and way, way, way, way, way harder at lock out at the top. If you think about how a band is. But I was... The negative is different, right? When you lower it. Yeah, exactly. And I was like, wow. And also, you can't drop it. You're forced to do a negative, which is kind of nice. Like, if you... I mean, you can drop it. But you're going to shatter your metatarsals or something. You know what I mean? Like, you just have to let it down slowly. But... And after that, I was like, wow, I should buy one of these. And I ended up getting one and have it in my apartment. And I've used it for 2 years now. It's cool. And it's very effective. Obviously, people use it. I've seen people using it all the time as well now. You could literally use it to train for a show. The owner... Because I'm a coach. I coach bodybuilders. And he hired me after that. He's like, let me... I want to train for a show. I want to do this natural bodybuilding show. And I only want to use my Harambe. It'll work. Yeah. Well, at first, I was like, man, that's... No, let's not do that. And then I was like, you know what? We could try it. Let's see what happens. And it was fine. Yeah, he did really well at a show. And he's set to compete again really soon here. Me and Colin's relationship started because he hired me as his bodybuilding coach years ago. And he said, hey, I want to train for a show. But I only train on this. Can we do it? And initially, I was like, you guys. I was like, no, absolutely no way. So I bought one. I got it in my house. I tried it out. And I realized that, yes, you certainly could. Now, Khaled is a 40-year-old natural father of two that started his bodybuilding journey late into his life and only trained on the Harambe system for his bodybuilding career. I understand the concerns. I understand the skepticism. But resistance is resistance. And the Harambe is an adequate replacement for the gym if you don't want to leave the house. You can pretty much hit any body part of this? You can squat with it. You can lunge with it. You can deadlift. You can bench press. You can overhead press. You can do pretty much everything. Arms, obviously. Arms. I think arms are the funnest part on it because you just get on, like, spam some curls. They have single arm handles and stuff. And just get it in. I'm going to get one, too, for my apartment. It's so cool, man. It's so cool. I'll get you hooked up. Code Goop. Code Goop. Guys, try it out. Obviously, Goop gives you code. Code Goop. I know people are probably going to be skeptical about it. Can it really replace the gym? You know? Yeah. And you know what? My answer to that is great. It didn't replace the gym for me. It just makes my life way easier because sometimes I don't want to go to the gym. It'd be cool if you could have a compact version so you could travel with it or something. Well, they have one. It's called the T-plate. The travel plate. Oh, there you go. So, the regular Harambe is maybe this big. And then there's a travel plate and travel bar that are about this big. And the cool thing... I have both. And so, you can put the travel plate on top of the big plate and it creates a deficit. So, it takes out some of the slack at the bottom. Awesome. Like if you're deadlifting or something and you want it to be harder throughout the whole way, you can create a deficit deadlift, which is cool. That's awesome. And then the travel one, it's really light. It's made of high-tensile plastic, UMHW, I think it's called. Yeah. And it's like... Just take it with you. It's fine. Awesome. Yeah, it's cool. That's really cool. Guys, go watch Madison Dreams. Let us know what you think about it. Tell us your favorite micro-harness scene in the comments. Pause. Don't. Don't. That's great. We saw us. Guys, catch you around later next week. And once again, rest in peace. CJ. The pause was good, boys. The pause was good. The pause was good. ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿ ¿Qué ¿Qué ¿ ¿Qué ¿ ¿Qué ¿ ¿Qué ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿ ¿