QuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQuQu I'm just kidding. I just heard the news that, uh, are you familiar with an actor, James Venderbeek? He passed away. James Venderbeek. He was in, uh, Dawson's Creek. Have you seen that as a show, a TV show? That was a, that was a hit TV show back in the 90s. Yep, yep. He passed away from colon cancer, allegedly. Um, he was only 48 years old, man. When you're talking to somebody in the office, people, people get colon cancer a lot younger these days. Man, you know, very unfortunate. There's like, well, a lot of these, um, there's a lot of new, new, um, markers, you know, uh, biomarkers that, um, are being talked about, um, in an effort to, uh, I guess, pay attention and maybe even, um, try to promote awareness. Um, I'd like to think that things like this could be prevented with early screening. Early screening is key, man. Yeah, I think it's, it's really unfortunate. Really unfortunate. It's sometimes very scary, I think, you know, um, um, I guess getting the testing done and trying to stay away. I think a lot of times what happens is it's usually a moment like this when it, uh, you know, um, comes kind of sobering and, uh, encouraging to kind of think about, hey, well, do I have all my tests done and any more labs that I probably would need? Sometimes we have like these lurking questions in the back of our minds, you know? Um, and it's the moment of, uh, being faced with the, um, just, uh, mortality. Um, um, one of our fallen members, um, can, uh, maybe serve as a cautionary tale to, you know, scare us into doing some things that we know we probably should do a little bit better. Um, my condolences to his family though. Yeah, man. Sad, sad news, man. So we've got a, we've got a few things to talk about today. We have a lot of, we have a few questions from the listeners, but I want to get your take on the Hari Chupan, um, I guess, controversy. Um, Hari. Dan! Yeah, Hari's. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Is something else? Yeah, Hari Chupan, man. You know, the, the Mr. Olympia, the, the, the, you know, the guy. You know, Hari, right? You know him. Yeah, from Iran. I mean. Of course. Yeah, yeah. There's been some controversy with him. I want to get your opinion on him, man. You, you, you know what happened or no? No, what happened? So he's, uh, supposed to be competing at the Arnold Classic just in a couple of, in a couple of weeks. And, uh, there's a petition started by, I guess, people that don't like him very much for, for Arnold to, um, prevent him from competing. And it's because, you know, it's a controversial subject. It's, it's dealing with the Iran, Iran politics of Iran, basically, that people are saying that he is supporting the government of Iran. So obviously the, you know, the society in Iran is broken into, into, into obviously, right? The people that support the government and those who don't, right? And that's, that's whole, the whole political uprising that was in Iran is still happening in Iran right now. So people are saying that he's in the support of the government. The, there was a picture of him with his phone. And I don't know if it was a real picture, if it was altered, where there was like a Supreme leader of Iran is in that, in that, in that, in the phone or whatever. So Hadi came out and said that, uh, he's in no way affiliated with the government. So he's kind of neutral in the situation, you know, with what's happening, but a lot of people were trying to get him banned from competing because they saying he's in a, he's a, he's supporting the regime that's, you know, involved in suppressing the people or whatever. So I want to get your take on the situation and you haven't heard about that at all. It was, it was, uh, it was. I think, I think, man, you almost want to leave that alone. I mean, he's an athlete, he's, he's earned his right to be, um, to, to participate in this sport. Um, I think, man, it's, uh, yeah, I think it's, so you have a situation where, you know, if, if Colin Kaepernick were to turn around and take a knee, you know, there are people that would say, Hey, you shouldn't, you shouldn't, you shouldn't become active, you know, um, somehow in some way, you know, his activity, you know, um, wasn't welcomed, you know, um, and here you have a situation where, you know, how to show panels, he's trying to stay neutral. He needs to, he wants to be allowed to compete and participate. Right. Um, and I think he should be allowed to do that. Um, you know, uh, a lot of times I think it's very difficult to even understand, you know, who's authentically, you know, in support of what, when you're talking about a government that can be oppressive and with, in their demonstration of what it means to be an oppressive government, you know, there may be pressures and stresses on him that, you know, um, don't allow him to really even, um, I guess be as free as a lot of us take for granted. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Yeah. Um, so, um, if, if he is willing to, you know, not allow his political engagements to, to be, uh, to lead in the forefront of, of his mission, if he's, he wants to focus on being the athlete and get in there and, and, and be allowed to be the athlete, I think he should be allowed to do that. Um, yeah. Yeah. My, my, also like, it's, it's one of those things where, you know, he lives in Iran, right? He's, he's a citizen of Iran. And the question is, even if he disagrees with the government, can, can he then freely express it? Right. Can he then say whatever he wants? Cause he still needs to travel. He needs to come and come back. That's right. And his family's there. You know what I mean? So it becomes, it becomes a whole complex situation. I've, I've seen people in my room. We may not, we may not get a chance to really get the authentic view of what his, his beliefs are. Right. And at the end of the day, you know, he's an athlete and he's been working, he's put his life invested into doing, uh, the work of being an athlete at the top of his game, at the top of his sport. This is an Olympia that, I mean, this is an Arnold classic that will not come back again. You know what I mean? This is, this is now, you know, um, and he's ready now and he's, he's, you know, he's already made the sacrifice to be what he is now, ready now. Um, and I would hope that, you know, in a perfect world, he'd be allowed to do that. Um, and, and, and, and I really, I really would wish that the powers within Arnold or, um, people that have the ability to decide if there needs to be a decision made that they do the right thing on this one. Yeah. Some people say his life might be a danger actually when he travels over here. I guess some people might want to sabotage or do something to him. You know what I mean? I don't know. Yeah, man. It's amazing. You know, where we are in the climate politically today. Oh man. Oh, just absolutely amazing. I think no one is going to be allowed to be totally unscathed, you know? Yeah. Um, yeah, for sure. We have choices to make. Um, wow. I really do. I really would love for the athlete to be allowed to, to be the athlete, you know, unfortunately, you know, sometimes that's not the case and the pressures and stresses from these, uh, outside influences that are very real and, you know, very pressing. Um, sometimes they have a way of, of forcing the hand of something to happen. Um, I, I, I would really hope that they do the right thing. And I think the athlete, there's nobody that, that works harder than Hadi Chopin all year round. Oh yeah. No, he's amazing. Kai, you brought up, you brought, you brought up Kaepernick, right? He, was he, um, I'm trying to remember the story. It was like dating back like a few years ago, right? Was he actually. He was a football player. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He took the knee, right? During, during the anthem. And was he actually let go of the team because of that? Or was it like a coincidence that they, they, they take him off the team? Nah, I think, I think that, uh, you know, you talk about a situation where we're supposedly not, um, dealing with the kind of, uh, realities of what it means to live under an oppressive government, you know? Right. Um, and he lived in the United States of America where he should have the right to protest, you know, um, without violence and to be able to do it freely. Um, but yeah, there was definitely a lot of controversy and backlash, negative backlash, uh, or being an athlete, taking the position that he took, you know, he, he, uh, chose to be active and he chose to, you know, make his stand. And by doing that, he took a knee. Um, yeah. Um, and with that, there was a lot of negative backlash. Um, um, and this is many, many, many, many years ago. There was a lot of people that did not, um, respond very well to him taking any, um, and he was, as I understood it, deliberately trying to, you know, make his position known, you know, he was, you know, um, which in this case, you know, Adi Chopin is not trying to do that. He just wants to be allowed to compete. You said he's trying to maintain a position anyway. And I think for the most part, the best that could be done in effort to support his right as an athlete in our sport, um, you know, uh, looking for the opportunity to be able to do what he's built his whole life for at this time to do, you know? Um, yeah, I just, I would, I would definitely not want to see anything, uh, derail his train as he's been preparing for the Arnold Classic this year. Yeah, no, I agree with you. Kyle, let's take a quick break and give a special thank you to our title sponsor, G Fuel. Guys, if you're out there looking for a supplement for focus, endurance, energy, this is for you. Now, G Fuel, as some of you may know, they are originally started a company to focus on the gaming industry, but since then they've expanded into the fitness industry and improved their formula. So now you can enjoy G Fuel with the same great taste, but no aftertaste and no chalky, uh, texture. Now they've added more antioxidants. They made it more glycine for muscle strength and recovery. And they kept the 140 milligrams of caffeine per serving. Always zero sugar and way more amino acids. So guys, if you don't want to go to the store, you can go to gfuel.com and put in the code GI20 for a discount. Shout out to G Fuel. So guys, give it a try. You will love it. Kyle, I want to ask you, um, before we go into the lightning round, I want to ask you, you've shot a movie in India, right? A few years back. Pogaroo, I think it was called, right? Talk about that experience. I don't know. A lot of people in the States might not know about this, right? Because it was a big hit in India, actually. It was on top of the box office. And you were, it was an action film that you were part of, right? What was that like for you to do that? Ah, well, um, you know, I, I, I think a moment like the opportunity that came along was one of those things that allow you to appreciate some of the behind the scenes of why you were inspired to want to train in the first place. You know, everyone hears of the stories of the earlier champions before you, you know, the Steve Reeves and the, you know, the Dave Drapers and, um, the Surgeon of Brays. I mean, uh, even Franco Colombo, you know, actually, uh, went on, um, once achieving success in the sport, winning the Mr. Universe and some of the most coveted titles in the sport. Um, were also able to, um, go on and, uh, experience, you know, acting opportunities and, and doing film, you know, um, all of the light that, that I mentioned, um, were able to do that. And with that, they let their impression and, you know, certainly inspired others. I am definitely one of those people. Um, you know, Arnold is, is probably the most, um, notable, um, that, you know, gone on to become one of the best, the highest growing, uh, the highest growing, grossing box office actors, um, in Hollywood, um, after, you know, gracing the biggest pro stages in our sport. Um, but yeah, I think, um, when I got the opportunity to, to get, to get cast in a production that was abroad like that, and certainly a big budget as it were, you know, I guess one of the things that was, um, awesome to discover was that there are, a lot of big budget industry films that happen all over the world. Oh yeah. And certainly in the other parts. Oh yeah. Were you doing your own stunts? Were you doing your own stunts on that, on that, um, cause it was like, it was like a crazy, like a fight scene. You would throw in a car and it was a fire, right? Were you, you were doing your own stunt, right? Well, technically I don't think anyone does their own stunts by themselves. You actually had, I got a chance to kind of see behind the scenes. There was like more than a 40 man, uh, crew, um, responsible for, you know, you had a fight crew that was like, you know, very deep. Um, and they had, you know, their organizers and leaders and they, you know, would, you know, pre-organize these fight scenes that were elaborate, you know? And, uh, crazy. Yeah. They, they, they, you walk into the set, you know, one of the things I thought was interesting that, that would happen in the, in the situation where you're filming abroad was, um, when you would take direction, you kind of, I only spoke English. Right. And surprisingly enough, most people, um, working on a set like that spoke multiple languages on average, you know, a minimum of, of two or three, you know? Um, some people spoke like five and seven, you know, and your ability to do that meant not only that you'd have more options when it came to communicating. Um, but also like even just your opportunity of being able to, um, uh, understand what's going on, uh, when the directions are being given. Um, I think a lot of, cause also too, in a, on a big set and a big budget zone like that, your time is money, you know? Oh yeah. Yeah, for sure. There was a thousand people, you know, on the set, um, at different areas, you know, required to work in a, in a single workday and the workdays happened at night. They didn't happen, you know, on the daytime, like you would imagine, like you, you regular nine to five. Nope. You know, um, and I didn't understand exactly why, but we would actually go to work, uh, on the set. You know, at the top of the evening and we would work through the night. We'd be getting off, uh, calling it a wrap, you know, at like four and 6 AM. Yeah. So that was very interesting, but the directions would be given in possibly five and seven different languages before they spoke in one that you understood. Wow. So you had to, you had to, um, listen, not just with your, with your, with your ears, but also with your eyes. You know, you watched a lot of mouths and also, you know, paid very close attention to even the most subtle gestures, um, between the, the, the fight coordinators, um, and the stunt crew. Cause the stunt crew was, you know, it was, uh, you had a bunch of people that would be pulling these cranes from the other side, you know, pulling ropes that were attached to the cranes from the other side. So yes, it may have looked like, you know, I got a chance to play a character that threw a car or, you know, uh, blue fire or, or did something interesting, um, on, on the screen. But behind the scenes, man, there was, there was, there was a minimum of 40 other people that, uh, were carefully working with you and, uh, helping and helping you pull that through. So yeah, it was cool. It was really, really interesting. Have you, have you met that looked awesome? Have you met this guy? Um, he's a character on social media. His name is Indian Kai green. That's his actual tag, Indian Kai green. Do you know what I'm talking about? Yes, I do. Yes, I do. What do you think about that guy, man? I think that guy is amazing. He wears the hairstyle better than I do. Have you ever met him? Have you met him at any, at any point? Uh, yes. Uh, some, some years ago now, many years ago. Um, yeah, man, you know, you, you, again, you know, it's, it's like you, you start your, your own fitness journey. You start your own, you know, bodybuilding career. Um, and you know, you have these, these big dreams and, you know, these, these, um, very hopeful, um, ideas of what you would like to happen. You know, I don't know anyone that is, you know, seeing themselves do their first set of a, of a great rep where they experienced the pump. And, you know, for a moment while experiencing that pump, you know, just imagined what if, you know, there was a, a larger possibility, you know, beyond, you know, where you were at this time, at the moment that you were experiencing. And then somehow you could kind of see yourself, you know, assuming the role, you know, this, um, larger than life situation, um, that was captured on the silver screen, doing something interesting and being able to, um, uh, encourage a lot of other people to think very highly of what you were experiencing at the time. Have you heard a rumor? Have you heard a rumor? You talk about Arnold Schwarzenegger being, uh, one of the biggest stars coming from bodybuilding. Have you heard a rumor that, uh, when they were shooting predator, I think Sergio Oliva was offered one of the parts, one of the soldiers, you know, on a predator team. And, um, they couldn't agree on a price. He wanted like the same salary as Arnold or something like that. And I guess that they wouldn't give it to him, but he was, have you heard that rumor before? No, no, I didn't. I, this, this is definitely news to me. Uh, Sergio Oliva, you know, senior. I heard a rumor like that. Yeah. I think his son, his son might've told me that story. Somebody told me that story. Yeah. That's very possible. You know, Sergio Oliva Jr. Yeah. Yeah. He certainly looked like he needed to be in some, some film. Um, uh, yeah, yeah. Really cool guy to give a chance to talk to. He actually, Sergio Oliva Jr. Wasn't, wasn't a movie called bigger. Um, he was playing his father. There was a movie. It was three years ago. I think it came out about Joe Weider. Colin was in it. He played, uh, Arnold Schwarzenegger. And then, yeah, that was, uh, they shot it somewhere. I forgot where they shot it, but yeah, that, that was a movie came out maybe three years ago. Yeah. And he was in it. He played his father. Shout out to Sergio Oliva Jr. Yeah, man. I mean, you know, he is the actual, and I always say that to him when I, when I, whenever our paths cross, um, in the process of, of, of doing things in the sport. Um, he's the, he's the original Simba. He is the actual living Simba. There is nobody, nobody that could claim the right to have experienced the Lion King moment at the Olympia being held, passed over and picked up, held in the hands of the Mr. Olympia as the father, almost like the great Mustafa holding up. Yeah. But they had a, but they had a very complex relationship, very complex relationship. I mean, that's a, that's a documentary in itself. Just that whole. It is. Yeah, man. It is. Is Generation Iron going to do anything about that? I haven't seen it. We definitely, we definitely should. We definitely should. It's a, I was thinking about that idea actually. Uh, cause his father is a, you know, like people know about him, but it was before, like, it was not a lot of videos, right? Like, uh, Sergio liver is kind of a mysterious guy. You know what I mean? Yeah. Well, I mean, that is the myth and the legend. Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. All right, Kyle, let's, let's get into this lightning round of, of questions and comments. Yes. Uh, we have three, we have four questions. One is a Patreon special and we're starting with a, so the, obviously for those who know, uh, this is where I ask you a question from a listener and you give a, uh, an answer at a lightning speed, right? You know, you're talking to your boy. I know. Or at least, or at least try to, or at least try to, all right, let's go to this one. Yeah, we're going to try. We're going to make it do what it do. Let's go, B. All right. Mark Harris, nine, nine, one, five, four. Did Kai ever get to, did Kai ever get to make up with his mother after being removed from her care as a child? Listen to K.I. Afro King. It comes back around. Very touching lyrics. So he's a fan of your music. Wow. Yeah. That's interesting. Man. And a very personal question, Kai. You look a little stunned right now. Wow. Definitely not, not expecting that. That's like, wow. No. That's a very, very interesting, man. Very interesting. Um, wow. So, uh, good question. Good question. Yeah. Yeah. So the lyric of the song, it comes back around. That was something that I wrote as a K.I. Afro King. So technically, K.I. Afro King is, uh, is, uh, my alter ego music persona. Alter ego, yeah. He's like the difference between Shaq G and, uh, and Humpty. That's a throwback right now. But that said, yeah, the, um. The mother question, yeah. The story, it comes back around was, um, was a song written, uh, uh, I wrote with, uh, K.I. Afro King, um, as K.I. Afro King, but talking about, um, the funny thing about how, you know, what you send out, you know, comes back around. It's actually a, a song. Some music is available on Spotify under K.I. Afro King. Um, and basically the, the, the narrative is, is just, hey man, you know, um, uh, a little boy, a young man, you know, has an experience where he talks a little too much about his, uh, the things that happened in his home. His biological parent, um, his mama, you know, um, and it kind of allowed her to be seen in a, in an interesting light that wasn't too favorable, you know? And, uh, interestingly enough, it, it kind of set some, some wheels turning that were, you know, very, very problematic for biological parent. Fast forward, little boy, you know, kind of goes on his own journey and development and ends up bumping into a similar situation, but, you know, in the reverse. And now he found himself in the same position as biological parent, but the talking that was done wasn't from him. It was actually from another party in the household that he, uh, he resided in. And yeah, man, the interesting thing apart that about that was when he came back around, he wasn't ready for it. It was a surprise. What you send out certainly does come back. And then we talked about that a little bit in the song, the lyric of the song. I appreciate the, uh, the question. Um, yeah. Um, I would like to think that, you know, um, you're able to make peace, um, with the people that you need to, um, while you still can before they pass away. Um, but I, in the effort to answer that question, I, I'm, I'm comforted in discovering that, um, your ability to make peace a lot of times, you know, may not come to you in the same way that you may have expected it to, or even look for it. Sometimes it's really up to you to find a way to identify and arrive on what will become peace for you. So yeah, we're still sorting that out, but I appreciate the question. Okay. Okay. So still, still, uh, in progress. Let's put it that way. Yes. Yes. Guys, I want to talk about something very important. Um, a lot of you may be going to the gym, uh, working hard, of course, following, following your diet, but, uh, you might not be getting the same results as you used to, especially in your thirties or your forties. Um, and that's why there's a product called Mars men. Uh, now this is a natural testosterone booster, and I will tell you a little bit about it. So Mars men basically helps your body unlock usable testosterone. So you feel like yourself again. This is what I've learned. Your body makes testosterone, but a lot of it gets locked up and can be used. There's a protein called SHBG is basically handcuffs your testosterone. So even if your body is producing testosterone, that protein locks it up. You can't access it. It's like having the money in the bank, but your debit card is just not working. So Mars men is designed to help free lock testosterone. So your body can actually use it. No synthetics and no needles, just real ingredients to help optimize energy, focus, and strength. When you start taking Mars men, you'll feel stronger. You perform better in the gym and a recovery gets better as well. You'll be more consistent and your natural energy will go up. So it's not the same thing as drinking coffee and over and over again. This is much different. It comes from the inside. It's real energy you can feel and use, and you feel much better after going to the gym. Mars men supports healthy T levels, energy, and stamina. And now Mars men offers 90 day money back guarantee. So there's absolutely no risk. Worst case scenario. You don't absolutely love it and you get your money back. But over 90% of the users report higher energy levels. Thousands of guys are feeling incredible results. Just check out the reviews on the website and you see for yourself. So for limited time only, our listeners get 50% off for life plus free shipping and three free gifts. Just go to mangotomars.com. That's mangotomars.com. It's a perfect way to start off your new year strong. That's mangotomars.com for 50% off and three free gifts at checkout. And after you purchase, they will ask you where you heard about them. Please support our show and tell them who sent you. Guys, like I said, check out Mars men. Give it a try. And I really think you guys will appreciate it and like it. All right. Next, next is for from forever flexing. We actually answered some of his questions before in the show. Now, this is a very, I like for a flexing. Yeah. Now this is a very broad question, Kai. So try to like, try your best to, I guess, pinpoint here. So he's asking, can you give a life lesson or training tip you took away from each one of your coaches? Now this can go on for a very long answer. So anything you can mention, because you had a couple of coaches, right? A life lesson that you learned from each one of your coaches. Or, or, or training or training tip. Training tip. I'm sure you took a lot. Oddly enough, I can keep that simple. Here's the, so technically I think publicly on the record, I've, you know, my brother, you know, the guru, AKA George Farah is, has, has been. A very, very positive influence and the most effective coach that I can, you know, you know, give credit to for a lot of the good quality work that I think we were able to do together. During my career. And I'm very, very, very thankful for having had the opportunity to experience, you know, working with him as closely as I did. Um, um, and, uh, um, and, and, and, you know, with saying that there was a time before that where I worked with, uh, uh, a friend of mine, his name was Oscar Arden. And, uh, he was a little older than me, um, when I was a, a, a really young competitive bodybuilder. And, um, I, I think a very, very positive influence, um, at the time. And, um, very, very, very helpful, I think in. Helping me set up some things that, um, would. Allow me to just be responsible, um, in recognizing my role and right thinking responsibility in determining. What I would do with my career. And, you know, some of the things that I'd be willing to do. And, you know, it made me also pay attention to some of the things, identifying some of the things that I wasn't willing to do. So I think. In total, I really had, you know, uh, two great influences in my experience in, um, with, with dealing with coaches. Um, I did at another time, get a chance to, to, you know, go train with like, uh, the great Charles Glass out California. Um, and that was an eye opening experience. I think all in all, I think, uh, what I would want to say to like the younger bodybuilders that are coming up. Um, you know, um, there's a, you know, a very, very, very, very positive influence. I think a coach can be in your life. And I think that, um, in the life of a developing champion, um, you know, a coach has a very, very big influence. And they can be very, they can do a lot of good. Um, but I think for, for the, the young athletes that are coming up, I think. One of the things that is very important to me is to impress upon you the responsibility that belongs to you. Um, when you think about who the biggest and most influential, um, person is going to be in the decision-making of your life and the choices that you make, you know, when your coach was around and when they're not around, you know, when your parents are there and when they're not there, when the supports are. You know, present in your life and when they're not, you know, you, you are your coach. You are the, the, the, the hungry athlete that you are, you're the developing man. You're the developing woman. You're the, you're the spirit, you know, in the body that, you know, has to also consider what life would be like for you, you know, and, and how you will experience the quality of that life. You know, after your competitive bodybuilding experience, you know, um, win, lose or draw. So I think, I think, I think having a great coach is a really good thing, particularly when they're knowledgeable enough to help you make, you know, really good decisions. Um, but ultimately you, the decision to do is up to you and within that right to make those choices. Those choices, you are your coach, you know, your coach doesn't take the responsibility away from you. That is yours to determine what's going to happen with your life. You get what I'm saying? So, um, I'm very thankful for the opportunities that I've, I've had when working with the people that I was fortunate to work with George Farah. Um, did any, when you made a, when you made a name for yourself already, right. When you were in Olympia stage, did other coaches try to steal you away or convince you to, to switch over to work with them? You know, does that happen in a, in that space? You know, people try to like, you know, get the, get the, I don't know. I don't, I honestly, I don't, I don't, I don't really see it. Like other coaches tried to steal you away. I think you're, you're always your own developing athlete. You're, you know, your ability to, to identify with yourself as an enterprising person that's looking to succeed and grow, you know, whether it's in this sport or others, other endeavors outside of it. Um, your right to thrive, your, your, your, your attempt to do that. Um, your, your willingness to, to, to decide that it's, it's really, it's yours. You know, and I think that every influence, every, every relationship, you know, that, um, will choose to be a willing support to you in an effort to help you do that. Um, they're, they're a support, but they're not, they're not the replacement of, of your right thinking responsibility to order your own destiny. You get what I mean? Um, sure. Sure. Uh, but did they try, did they try to convince you? Did they try to make it all for us? Hey, you know, join our team, you know, we'll get you to, we'll get you to the win. You know, we'll get you to win the Olympia or something like that. No. You, you, you make it sound like they're almost a used car salesman or a drug dealer. Maybe they were. Yeah. All right. We got it. We got two more questions. We got to get two more questions. All right. This one is from, uh, in reverse, uh, eight, nine zero one. If you could only train one body part for six months, what would it be? I don't know where for six months, but I guess they asking what's your favorite body part to train? If you can only pick one. Well, I don't, I don't, if you're, if you're a bodybuilder, you're not, you're probably not working in like a, working in line to imagine that there's only one body part that you would train. Like you, in the traditional sense of chest or back or legs, you know, I think, I think this game is a mental one. I think that, uh, that there's a body part that you are always working on developing. It's your mind. You know what I mean? Cause the body and mind are not separate here. This is, um, the reason why you're able to do anything with your, your bicep, your tricep, your quad, your back, your lats or anything is by, you know, the use of your mind, you know? So, um, everything that you do, um, where you're able to recognize that, um, and use that to your advantage, puts you in the advantage position to see this thing, um, develop a lot easier. Wait, so you're saying your mind, that's what you would pick. That's what you would pick. That's the muscle part. Well, that's, that is, that is the body part. You said the body part, the body part, your brain, your mind. Yeah. That's a good one. All right. Last one. It's a Patreon special. Uh, this one is a bit, uh, I guess it's a bit provocative or something. I don't know, but let's, let's see how you answer this one. Uh oh, here we go. It says for those who are not on Patreon, please subscribe. All right, Kyle. Well, there we go. That was our lightning round. That's what's up. Wasn't so lightning, but I appreciate it. But it was a round. All right, brother. Till next time. Hey, thanks so much. I appreciate you, man. Shout out to everybody. Generation Iron, Derek, Edwin. It's all good. I appreciate you guys. Till next time, brother. Peace. Peace.