 B quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar quedar you're better uh uh maybe a couple songs i could say i'm a little too a little too uh too mature for a soldier boy kind of even though i think he's probably 30 30 now maybe 40 maybe 50 soldier boy i'm excited about today's episode man we got we got some fun topics to cover today man you know what i mean so as always as always sometimes you know there's better topics sometimes worse but today i think we'll have some fun with these topics man and some great questions from the loyal listeners what's up everybody it's your boy k with the AI and guess what it is this is the kai green effect and we're in a great place right now your boy vlad and uh kai are gonna bring something to you if you just listen and wait hopefully you hear something that'll make you feel really good or really eager to talk about hey vlad how you doing today brother we're doing it man this is oh next episode is gonna be 20 episodes that you know you can believe that 20 episodes next one this is 19 number 19 but next one's gonna be it's gonna be a mile we've got to come up with something good for that one man yeah we will we will we will thank you to our sponsor thank you to our sponsor g fuel and uh let's get into it man g fuel now real talk g fuel just for the people that don't know what exactly can they expect by rocking with g fuel a great supplement you know they've been in a in the market for many years they were actually involved heavily and still are in a gaming industry so a lot of the gamers they do these long competitions they make a lot of money actually on these competitions but but that product gives you focus energy and it's basically you can take it out throughout the day you know they added some new stuff to the formula to make it actually taste better and added glycine for recovery and uh muscle endurance i sound like a robot right now well no i mean you know well i mean i see i tell you tell you a little bit about like i never thought it would be that challenging to stay up and play a video game i remember when i was a kid the old folks used to tell us you can't play video games you shouldn't play video games you want to do something with your life but uh apparently that's become a very lucrative thing to do you know and a very very very um interesting thing in fact because with that there's just so much money to be made my goodness could you imagine could you imagine if i could play a video game really really well like fortnite or have you played video games ever you know what i actually really got into um playing this uh interesting game lord of the rings for a little while lord of the rings yeah i did a little bit of grand theft auto but i i'm not good at all i'm not good and it almost seems like you need to have like you need to have some skills just to even be able to you know become like to talk about it on your social media platform you know what's funny it's like you get a lot of kids and i criticize like the parents all you do is play video games all day but if you're really good at those video games you can actually make a career by playing video games yeah yeah i kind of i kind of miss that generation i think that's uh it's a a good and a bad thing speaking of good and the bad let's talk about charlie sheen uh by the way charlie sheen had been popping up on all these different podcasts he he did the documentary on netflix also he he got a book out and he's been doing like the rounds of um press so to speak you know and he's he's been revealing interesting things about his uh his career and he said that i don't know if you've seen this movie we played a baseball player called major league it's kind of like a major league yeah i remember that that was actually like maybe more than 30 years ago that's a pretty old bill like that yeah yeah and in that movie he admitted that he was taking steroids so he can throw the ball faster to make him more and he said that he took steroids i don't know what steroids but he said that he he took the steroids so he he was able to throw the ball 85 miles per hour really really is that interesting uh well i think that's very interesting i mean you know what's funny i think i think um i think there's a lot of people out there that would need to take steroids you know pretty fast but um you know i'm surprisingly enough i might be one of those people that you know even if you gave me steroids i wouldn't be able to throw a ball nearly as fast as you know 85 miles an hour that's pretty that's pretty fast um speaking of charlie sheen didn't you meet charlie sheen did you guys do a planters commercial together back in for super ball right was that a long time ago yeah but not nearly as long as 30 years ago um that was like 26 17 something like that super ball right it was around the time in the arnold classic running around the time i think i competed in like my fifth arnold classic yeah planters commercial i was fortunate enough i met i actually got a chance to meet um a bunch of a really really cool and interesting celebrities while um uh filming for you know a planters commercial planters peanuts shout out to planters peanuts for hooking up a brother with new opportunity yeah um yeah it was pretty cool um you know what we didn't talk about anything um anything that i can probably add to this conversation with um i do spoke to me like a um like a gentleman you know acknowledged my space i mean he was technically the the star um you know on on on the set in that in that filming experience in fact i think um now that i remember it um i was i was like an influencer i had a little influencer role there so technically you were like um one of the one of the people that kind of was in the background to the background um while people like charlie sheen and um uh at that time i think j-lo's husband um the uh the baseball star um man oh man i forget his name oh yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah so it was a part of that book nice it was a cool experience with charlaine sheen uh was he was he sober at that time i would like to think so i wouldn't know what he would be like um otherwise in fact i'm still waiting for my diddy my diddy party uh but um yeah yeah yeah isn't that crazy that charlaine sheen you know he admitted he did like drugs and alcohol for many many he's clean now he says but uh he did so much drugs and and cigarettes and and uh he survived this and then you have some people that never smoke a cigarette day in their life and they die from from cancer yeah i'm not saying charlie shin should should not be here what i'm saying is it's not crazy do you think there is a such thing as um how do you say like fair is the universe not fair at all to people you know i mean is it not fair i think i think i think the dude was just not a not a not an overachiever he just didn't work hard enough anybody you ever meet that says hey they had thought about attempting but they just they just man and they're still here to talk about it i don't think they just tried as hard as they could because we got a lot of potential brother we got a lot of potential and i just think they didn't reach their full and their full uh their full potential but i think there are reasons for that honestly that go beyond i think a lot of times in hindsight you know we got to watch what we what we market and promote i think you know um on one end of that there's a grind there's a hustle and i think there's a there's a sensational story to be told that kind of always sounds a little better with a little added color you know when you are on the other side or that experience you know um i think it becomes that much more dramatic that much more um a spectacle um when you are you know on the other side of it i think people that if like in a situation like that if somebody really wants to kill themselves i think one of the things you can't do you really can't stop that person you know because there's a power that belongs to us individually so i think you know when a person doesn't even though it looks like they tried i believe that there's a there's a potential in the moment where you know maybe they didn't want to certainly their best effort there's a calling there's a calling on our lives i really do believe that and when we meet someone that can tell you that they've been really far but they didn't go quite over the edge there's reasons for that and that is i think that we celebrate that's the thing we need to celebrate because that means there's more work to be done you know and and and i think we're saying that you know even the person that looks like they were so lost and so gone you know on some level the fact that they're still here it means that they understood it too that there's still something left for them to do there's still some purpose that is that is that is satisfied you know by them being here with the story to tell it yeah wow that's that's deep so charlie sheen anything so back to the to him taking steroids uh um i don't know man it seems like people take steroids and just throw balls 85 miles per hour that's no i don't you know that that's that's yeah it's crazy why because there's i mean there are people that that they don't have to do that to to learn how to throw a ball faster and i would definitely want to encourage you know people out there that are younger or you know just you know in the process of finding their own way you know you don't need to take steroids i want to you know to learn if you can throw a ball faster you know there's something to be said for working hard and practicing and practicing and you know with enough practice you can learn to you know move mountains and do better and perform at a higher level yeah well anyway it sounds good it sounds good to be able to say hey i was getting ready for this role i was on the grind i was hustling i did everything to be a better actor and i was so committed that i i even i even took steroids you know great great charlie scene that's that's cool keep it on keep on acting i appreciate the role yeah actually i like charlie sheen's movies actually he's a good actor he is he well he he is he was god let's take a quick break and talk about g fuel now this is an amazing amazing formula here for everyday functionality it gives you focus it gives you endurance it gives you cognitive function of course and a lot of energy now g fuel of course been on the market for many years but they improved their taste and the formula so basically no more chalky taste you can take it every single day it has zero sugar it has 140 milligrams of caffeine and has glycine in it of course for muscle recovery and endurance g fuel has been on the market for many years but they've been improving and improved this formula specifically for the fitness industry if you guys don't want to get this at your local store you can go to gfuel.com and type in the code gi20 for a discount but anyway let's talk about sam sulik for a second so sam sulik um are you a fan first of all am i a fan i i i have not i have not i have not i have not well he's very popular obviously right he's yeah yeah absolutely i would say he's up there he's in a top like top 10 or maybe top five of the most popular people right now in the fitness industry i don't know but you know he's being talked about a lot and he got his pro card last year i believe right i should have some art and now he's announced that he's doing arnold classic uh-huh he did both us and uk back to that now this is first gonna be i think his first pro show as a pro he does classic physique i believe yeah um so what have you seen the the pictures of him on the stage at the when he got his pro card um yes i believe i have yeah i i have so look at those pictures how do you think he will do it as pro debut i think i think it you know this is a very interesting interesting time in the sport you know um i like a lot of people you know had to work really really really really hard to kind of get to a place where i could uh create enough uh influence and momentum underneath me to to to to grow and to develop myself high enough to even think about shaking arnold's horse and his hand i remember i remember living in the projects and doing push-ups and institutional facilities you know talking about you know one day in the future i would love to be able to but we all were we all knew that the the magazines ain't gonna come to the projects the the magazines don't come to institutional facilities you know where thousands of young men like me were doing push-ups talking about you know i have a dream you know um so with that said i think this there's something to be appreciated when you consider you know the way things were at another time you know you had to do a hell of a lot and travel a hell of a long way you know um before you know you can have such an interesting opportunity opened and available to you um so with saying that i think that my hat is off to this young man you know for being able to travel the distance he's traveled and accomplish what he has in such a very short amount of time and i know though some people could possibly feel you know like hey that's not fair um i think you can't hate the the player you can you can hate the game or you can just recognize that there's there's a lot of change there's a lot of change where we're you know in a new and interesting time you know i think the challenges for a younger athlete like um mr sulik is is amazingly difficult huh mr sulik i like that yeah i say that i'm going to be AI say this because i don't know him personally and i and i um and i there's a part of me that really respects the amount of travel and distance that he's been able to cover in a short amount of time you know like again i told you in order for me to go to the arnold classic my first time You know, I had to be, you know, aspiring to be one of the best in the world and had to prove it over and over and over again, each time, you know, being forced to learn new things about myself, new things about how to grow in the industry. And the way the system was set up at that time was just very different than it is right now, you know. So I think it's very interesting. It's a very interesting thing. You know, the things that I would tell a young athlete like Mr. Sulik coming from where I come from wouldn't even apply now because, you know, it's a very different time. The things you would have to do and prepare yourself for emotionally, physically, psychologically to be at the top of your game and to be prepared for such a challenge. None of that stuff that I would have told myself 30 years ago, 15 years ago would apply now, you know. So it's an interesting, very, very interesting thing. I mean, the truth is, I don't think you can judge, you know, hey, what would I could I'm not a judge. I can't even judge. I cannot. I'm not even I'm not qualified to judge. I am in awe, you know, and I would say, like, to Mr. Sulik, go burn, baby, burn. This is a this is a learning experience for for us all, you know, and I'm not immune from it. You know, I'm very curious to see what he'll do. All right, let's take a quick break. I want to talk about something very important, which is chips, tortilla chips, potato chips. We all love them. The problem is, if you go to your local store and you try it back and you look in the back, you'll see literally over 20 ingredients. And a lot of them are made with seed oils. That's why we have masa chips. It's an amazing tortilla chips that I made with only three ingredients. If you look in the back of this packaging, for example, you see three ingredients. It's organic corn, beef tallow and sea salt. Literally three ingredients. And if you guys like potato chips, then any potato chips. They have a lot of flavors as well and only three ingredients. Ready to give masa or Vandy a try? Use code IRON for 25% off your first order at masachips.com or vendicrisps.com. Or simply click the link in the video description or scan the QR code to claim this delicious offer. Don't feel like ordering online. Masa and Vandy are now available nationwide at your local Sprout supermarket. Stop by and pick up a couple of bags before they're gone. Well, we've got to go to the lightning round. Got it. Got it. Let's do it. The lightning round, very simple. We have three questions from the loyal listeners and you have to answer them at a lightning speed. Okay. Let's do it. You know, we're going to try to make it do what it do. Oh, I know. You're going to love these questions. They're very interesting, especially the first one. Wow. All right. Wow. Comes from Tank Davis OPP. Tank Davis OPP. Other people's property. Let's go. So this is wow. I don't know. This is interesting. He says, Kai, there's a video of you online wearing women's clothes and a wig. What's that about, man? Why? Question mark. Did you lose a bet or something? Or was it a ritual of some sort? A ritual? A ritual. See, I told you I was still waiting for my Pete Diddy. I know. You know. I know the video you're talking about. Yeah. That's famous. That went viral like a lot. You got a lot of views out of that, man. A lot of views. You know, a lot of people got a lot of money from that, too. You know? Well, let me just say this. I'll say this very honestly. A lot of people may not know this. But there was a time I actually wrote a TV show. And we actually put together this whole skit that I thought was really cool. We reverse engineered the telling of our joke through sketch comedy. And I wrote a response or an enactment to the lyrics of Michael Jackson's Billie Jean. So, imagine, if you know the lyrics, you know, Billie Jean's not my lover. The kid is not my son. He says it over and over and over again. And he's like, imagine, you know, going into a world where we get a chance to see, you know, this black man in court. His name is Kai Green, right? And he's being held in contempt or he's being held accountable for a kid that is obviously not even human. It's a plush doll named Minikai. You know, and there's a there's a there's like Judge Maybelline from from the you know, there's a there was a awesome hit TV judge show named Judge Maybelline. Just like, you know, the one that everyone knows that was like Judge Judy. Anyway, he had a judge that was like totally against this guy from the beginning. You know, almost as if he was just he was just guilty when he walked in the courtroom. He was so guilty, in fact, that even if the plush doll was the supposed kid, that obviously could not be his child, you know, and if he were held in court and held accountable by a woman that obviously to look at her. She was not only ugly, but she definitely positively could not possibly be able to give birth, you know, obviously. But, you know, as fate would have it in this courtroom. Kai would find himself guilty, found guilty, you know, on all counts. So, yeah, it was like it was supposed to be a joke. It was a joke, you know, and with that joke, I got a chance to with myself and a bunch of friends put together our own little cast. The lawyer, my ex-training partner, friend, she played the judge. We had we had a whole bunch of things going on. And it was great. I was not a ritual. Not a ritual, huh? Yeah, definitely not that. Definitely not. I remember that that that video of you. I think it was like a clip behind the scenes. I think you're walking around and this woman's appearance. And that went super viral, man. It was on like every blog and like it went crazy. People made memes out of it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I knew then that I could be an actor, brother. I knew there was something very special about it. Yeah. All right, there you go. That was a good explanation. All right, so let's go to the next one. Oates. Oates. Art Proveen 90. Art Proveen 90. All right. So this is a very odd question. I don't know what to you, but your thoughts on Liver King. Liver King. You're familiar, right? Liver King. Do you think he's toxic? So that's the question. Your thoughts on Liver King and do you think he's toxic? So Liver King, do I think he's toxic? I think there's a lot of things with our modern culture, pop culture right now that may, you know, be identified as borderline toxic. Do I think Liver King would be that as much? I don't know. I don't know. I, um... Do you find him entertaining? You know, um... I'm sure there are people that do. I know, but I'm asking you. You know, honestly, I, uh... The stuff that I've been trying to read lately and try to, like, uh, in an effort to develop some of my skills a little bit better with some of the other things that I want to do with my life and career would lead me to probably not, um, uh, like, I'm trying not to scroll as much, trying to really, uh, elevate my, um, uh, my reading for a bunch of other things that I want to do with my, with my life and my personal development. And it's my responsibility to do that. So, um, where I'm at right now, uh, I, I don't, I don't watch things like that as often as another time in my life when I, when I might have, um, I think, you know, your concentration is everything, you know? I think it's, it's the one thing that I think the martial arts practitioner, the, the, uh, the, the Buddhist monk, uh, the, you know, the person that's looking to, you know, uh, accomplish things in their life. And even, you know, people that are looking to do things on an elite level, I think, um, the ability to gain access and full command of your concentration is really the key, you know? Um, so with that. Um, so with that, um, it's really easy to discover how many things are attacking your attention, your concentration at all times, all day, you know, pay attention, pay attention, pay attention, come, come, come, come. Hey, look at me, look at me, look at me. And I think, um, sometimes like in order to become just active with like deciding what I'm going to do with my life and move forward with the things that I say that I want to do, I actively have to become present and take back my attention, you know, from allowing it to be just pulled in all the directions, you know? So I have to, um, in an effort to do that. Yeah. I have to be more mindful of what I get my attention to and stuff. All right. Last question. This was a Patreon special because it might be kind of controversial. So, uh, oh, we've got a drum roll for this one. Yeah, man. So if you guys want to hear this question here, especially guys answer, you guys got to log into Patreon. So this is comes from killing the game 9873. I'm not an authority on that, you know? Um, in fact, um, I'm even less of an authority after I identify that it's not something that I wouldn't want to want to do. Well, Vlad, I truly honor and appreciate this time that I get a chance to spend with you and our ability to bring some of this really cool stuff and information to our audience. Uh, I want to thank each and every one of you people at the sound of my voice that take the time to listen to each of our episodes. We are now at the 20th episode. Well, we're coming up on the 20th episode. Yep. Next one. And, uh, I want to thank you guys for supporting us even with just your listening ear and want to encourage you to come on back as we continue to get this thing together. Um, on behalf of myself, Vlad and our friends at Generation Iron, I just wanted to be able to say this is the Kai Green Effect and we are encouraging you to be positive and keep encouraging each other until next time. Peace. Peace. Thank you.