 I fought somebody in front of my gym for saying my gym sucked. Those were fighting words though. Damn. Hey, hello, welcome to this week's episode of Generation Iron. Hey, hello, welcome to this week's episode of Generation Iron. Your host, me, Victor Martinez, along with Edwin Mejia and Vlad Uden, at the office. At the office again. We're here back at HQ in New York, it's freezing. Brick as they say here in New York, it's brick outside. I don't know, only non-polar bear guys are saying this. Vlad said it earlier, you're saying. Are you doing a polar bear plunge this year? Are you gonna do it for New Year's? Man, to tell you the truth, I really wasn't planning on it, but as I walked in the gym, as I walked in the gym the other day, I had some guy step up to me and he's like, Yo, I'm doing polar bear for you. What do you mean he's doing it for me? He goes, Yeah, you know, I heard you're in the hospital, so I'm gonna do it for you, which is good. I inspired somebody to kind of do it, but he's making me take the plunge. I can't bow out now. Wow. Yes. I cannot bow out now. Well, have you ever drank alcohol and then worked out on the gym? Um, who hasn't? What? Who hasn't? I'm sure many of us are guilty of that, especially when you've done that. No, he's just guilty, guilty. And again, it wasn't planned. It wasn't like, I think I left the club. Oh, like that. Oh, wow. Sound fact. Yes. Yes. And, uh, I was at a gym and, and I think a client, this one client is like, basically, I couldn't cancel on him no matter what. Oh, wow. So, uh, I worked out with him. Did he notice that you were? Wasn't smiling too good. Did he say anything? Did the client say anything? What's up? He just said you smell like an ashtray because at that time smoking was a lot in clubs, you know? Right, right, right, right. Wasn't much of a cigarette smoker, but, uh, you know, sticks to you. I remember there was a video, like, I think, Rich Bion and I think it was Big J. They were taking shots of tequila working out. I mean, it was a viral moment, but. Did you see a lot of bodybuilders at Sound Factory? I heard they always went in there. Yeah, there was a lot of bodybuilders. But listen, if you didn't work out and went to Sound Factory, it just wasn't your fit. And I think, uh, the lady at the door, well, you know, most would debate me. Paris, if you weren't good looking, they would not let you in. Wow, that's mean. It was one of those things. It was the time, you know, prime club time. The face control, they call it, right? Something like that? Yeah, yeah. But it was, uh, everybody worked out. Everybody did it. It was you and King Kamali used to party together, right? King Kamali was there, right? King Kamali came later, man. He came later. Any other bodybuilders you partied with at Sound Factory from back in the day? Oh, yes. Greg Galantino, right? Greg Galantino. Unfortunately, I forget his name, but his nickname was Disco Bodybuilder. Disco Bodybuilder. Because he never missed the weekend in Sound Factory. Wow. Yeah, but it was a few, you know. And, uh, basically the prime guy I used to go out with was Rob Lopez. Rob Lopez. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And Greg Galantino. I'm sure you've seen him there a few times. Greg Galantino as well. Um, he was definitely at the first spot that were at the, uh, the diner, which was a block away. Yo, have you heard his story, how he fought Mark Wahlberg, I think at Sound Factory a long time ago? Did you hear that story? Oh, no. That was probably before I even started going back out. That was a wild story. Yeah. It's on a story. It's on a story. He fought Mark Wahlberg at the Sound Factory. Wow. Yeah. He was going out way before me. At that time, I was just a hermit before that. Yeah. Greg Galantino's got the stories, boy. There's a lot of famous people. Like, he's like stomped at the right place. He was always there in the mix. Right. By the way, what? There's a couple of clubs left in the whole city. Like, it's no longer like a thing right now, right? No. A club is not a thing. I think pandemic killed the entire club. But before that, it was kind of going downhill already. You still have the club scene out there. I mean, shout out to Was Stevens. He used to run the door at, uh, what are those two big places? Avenue. Marquee and Avenue. Yeah. Marquee and Avenue. He's at, uh, Little Sisters or 12 Sisters, whatever that place. Little Daughter or some shit, yeah. Little Swiss, yeah, whatever that's called. But it's a big club now here in New York City. But I think the big transition now in New York, at least, is that it's a lot of member clubs. Yes. A lot of supper clubs, member clubs now. A lot of lounges too. That's like the big thing here in New York now. Um, but yeah, no, we're, we're happy to be back. Happy to have transparent labs supporting the podcast. If you guys haven't checked out transparent labs, we highly recommend them. We have a special code and discount for you guys and our generation. I'm subscribers in our description. You can have your choice of their 100% grass fed beef, their performance line of products and crew including creatine. We highly, highly recommend them for really high quality ingredients. No funny stuff. And really the best in the market. Yes, sir. Before we talk about the, the, uh, the next subject, uh, when you were to go out on some factory, how much you would, you guys would pay for a table back then? Were there tables back then? People just party like on the dance floor. If there was table, I think I must've missed that because you know, yeah, you know what? That was like right before. There was no table service back then. No, it was like the cool time to go out. You can actually go out with a hundred dollars. That was like the, before the, the, the big boom of table service back in New York where people would just go out. You had Webster hall. Yes. That's the, the place. That's the hall. You can just pay, go to any floor, just chill. It was like six, five, something like that. It was three or four floors. It was about three or four floors. I remember. You're going to a club these days and paying like five, six G's for a table. Of course not. You know, people still do. Of course not. Because again, it's usually rappers and you know, when the tables started coming out, you were, you were drug dealer. But it's like a flex, you know, I got a, I got a, I got a, you know, bottles and you know, now it's on the decline. In fact, Miami has a lot of, a lot of promoters are saying that they just, they can't put the numbers together anymore. They don't tie out. They can't get the big DJs out. Uh, people in that book on the tables anymore. Uh, you have, you have a younger generation like Gen Z that they just don't care about table bottle service. They did the most annoying thing. It was basically, if you got a table, you got chairs. If you didn't get a table, you're standing up. It's crazy. You know? I mean, we sat on the speaker. That was the biggest change. You're right. That was like the big change. It's like, you know, you're cool. If you get a table and you get chairs, you're basically, if you go back to Copacabana days, they had tables, but it was more like a stage. But that was like an elegant night out. That was elegant. That was like, you know, Copacabana back in the days for people who don't know. I know we sound old, but back in the day you would go to a Copacabana where you get, you kind of have, it's kind of like a supper club. You hang out, you sit down with your friends. You might get a table. I mean, you might get a, uh, you know, a bottle dressed up, like really dressed up and you had performers on stage. Very different experience. Yeah. Like you went with a tank top and your freaking sweats and that's it. It wasn't none of that, you know, but, uh, yeah, it changed in the pain 3000 for a night out and just popping a bottle is not worth it. Yeah. So typically we do a question or questions of the day. Today we have two critics. Uh, and I think we should address the criticism because we want to be in tune with our audience. We want to be into our listeners. We want to listen. So one of the previous episodes, we were talking about the most dangerous exercise. You said, uh, flat that you agree with Bob Chicarillo. He said, uh, flat bench is the most dangerous exercise to do. Now this gentleman by the name of XTX at large saying the following, you can rebuttal that if you want. This is what he's saying. According to what you said about the flat bench press, he's saying only snowflakes quit something they love to do. My dad is 70 and still wrapping 225 on a flat with a max 275. It's all in the form and listening to your body. I'm 40 years old, six, five, 195 pounds. I can still wrap three 15 on occasion. Bring the bar to use tantrum lower chest with a controlled motion, no bouncing and you'll be fine. And I've seen a lot of peg tears on a deadlift and a deadlift from the guys using mixed grip. Get those gains fellas. So again, I'm not saying, you know, and he explained it correctly. His father is doing it the correct form. Why did I say is the most dangerous? Because most guys are too crazy trying to do their PR. You know, what's your PR and they're going heavy. They're not warming up and they're bringing the bar not on the sternum like you just said. So he's explaining it that they're doing it correct form him and his father. They usually bring it down to the neck because they think that training chess is a stretch. They think the lower you go, the better the stretch, the bigger the chess. And therefore, but remember, Tom Platz tore his back, his bicep by overextending on the dumbbell fly. So, yeah, I mean, that's how you tear it, you know. And so, no, I did not say avoid at all costs. You can get injured that most people get injured because they execute the exercise wrong. They go too low by the clavicle and it tears, you know, their pack. But it is number one exercise where most people do get injured. As a matter of fact, I think just the other day, some guy in Brazil just died. I heard about that. That was a sad story. And that's because he was using, you know, they call it suicide grip. Yeah. People make fun of that because they don't take it seriously. They don't get seriously. They don't realize that you can get seriously hurt at the gym. I mean, that's why partially for me, like when I go to the gym, I'm like, if I'm on a spotter, I'm very careful with the weights I'm using. I'm carrying them. We've seen people, even Ahsan, you know, he dropped the 45, put the plate on his foot. Oh, yeah. I mean, you see that happen a lot more often than you think. So those are the things that can put you out for months. And I'm not trying to get injured. You said the story how some guy was trying to get you to spot. He was doing four plates on each side. He said no. And then he tore us back. Yeah. I refused to because he actually says spot me. I'm going to do one rep. I'm like, no, I'm good. It's like you're going to do one rep. Anybody ever get mad at you at the gym for like not spotting them? Well, I usually never turned down a spot, but I just knew he wasn't in shape. I knew I was going to do half the weight for him. And so usually, no, I never turned down the spot, especially because they ask me and something happens. If I say no, then I feel worse. Got it. Got it. Right, right, right. This is a rebuttal for this gentleman right here. Yeah. So we have a next one. Again, don't avoid it. Just approach it the right way with correct form. That's it, you know. But it is the number one injury. It is the flat bench. And I'm going to stick to that statement. And that's, you can probably go and check on our statistics and see if it is or it isn't. So people can have to listen to take your work. Well, now with CrossFit, I'm sure there's a few other ones that kind of took over. All right, right, right. So another thing is on one of the previous episodes, somebody asked you, hey, are shrugs still the best exercise for traps? And you said, yeah, do the shrugs. So some guy says here, he's disagreeing with you. He actually called you out by your name. His name is Lee Lunk 8-2-3-5. Wrong, Victor. I have been lifting for 35 years. I'm 50 years old now. In 2015, I was doing shrugs at the gym with dumbbells. Not even heavy. 45 pounds on each side with a strict form. I ended up herniating my C6, C7. It just popped during the reps. So shrugs compress neck like accordion when you contract the muscle upward. Very dangerous and risky to do them. The safer way is to lean forward and remove the neck from the equation by sticking the muscle upward. So you're still doing shrugs, isn't it? Exactly. So you're still doing shrugs. You're still doing shrugs. You just change your form. So basically, when you were first doing it and you hurt your C4, C7, which I usually think is a C3, C2 you're injured because... And also, one of my friends had his nerve removed. Because you have your... The shrugs too? Yeah, you have your... What is it? What's that nerve? It's the freaking accessory nerve. It goes up your trap. It goes up your trap. Yeah, yeah. It goes up your trap. So you can actually... Yeah, accessory nerve. You can squeeze too tight and actually pinch that nerve to a point that actually has to be removed. He's the only one... That's crazy. Yes, that I've heard that happen. But on shrugs, yes, there's still... You're still shrugging because you said it yourself. Form is very important in how much you're loading in the warm-up. You can actually squeeze too hard and pinch that nerve. And in your case, you injure your C4, C7. But start slow, man. Start slow. Don't try to squeeze too much and pop your freaking traps on your neck. But you're still doing it. So I still recommend shrugs for that. And they still work. Without doing shrugs... What other access to grow traps? What else can you do besides shrugging? You need shrugs. I mean, what are you going to do when it's just that muscle? You still got to do... Okay, he said move your neck forward, which I said, you know, I do two positions. I do chin down and chin up. And I still do it to this day. And, you know, in the beginning when I was younger, I did feel that pinched nerve. And usually it does and it will happen to most people if they squeeze too hard or contract the muscle too hard. Well, there you go, guys. So if you disagree with Victor, if you agree with Victor, if you have some questions, please comment, write your questions or your rebuttals in the comments below. And hopefully Victor will drink them. Just to address them. Come on, man. You need to take your muscles to the max! Do you even know what's in that stuff? Oh, yeah. See, most protein powders are filled with artificial sweeteners, food dyes and filler. Really? I wouldn't put that stuff in my body. Neither would I. Transparent Labs is made with just a handful of all natural ingredients without any of the weird stuff. Transparent Labs. Protein without the weird stuff. So how's your recovery been going, man? Recovery is good. I mean, I'm doing, you know, Jane Fonda workouts. Jane Fonda. Jane Fonda. Not moving real weights. Again, this is all about recovering and physical therapy just to get back. My back is not stable yet and it's a long process, you know. I mean, I had two surgeries and I have, you know, metal plates and doing my best, you know. But again, I'm out. Are you still in a lot of pain? No, no. The pain was... Good. And you've been improving. You know how to improve the pain and how to avoid pain. You know, pain points, delivering pain points still ends. There's a pill for that. Recovering pain points too, right? There's a pill for that. There's a pill for that. But I think that was the vicious cycle because it's just annoying when you're running out of pills. And so my goal was to not rely on them and to actually get past that, which I did. And I'm happy just for that alone because it's crazy, man. It's crazy. It's crazy. You don't feel the pain. You're fine. But it's that false sense of you feel good because you're not feeling good. It becomes another issue. So now that you are essentially on your road to recovery, I was told, and I was talking to the team here, that you're looking to do a recovery series, right? And this recovery series will focus on you getting stronger, you essentially removing those pain points, becoming more yourself. Yes. And I think you'll be highlighting that on a special series for people to check into. And I think that the most important thing for people, I think, is also how to eliminate pain points, not just through pills and not just through supplements, but you'll be showing that as well. Yeah. I want people to see what it's like. You know, obviously, I'm not the same anymore. I'm not where I was. I want people to know a lot of exercises I can't do, certain things I can't do. And it's frustrating, you know, especially if you've been working out, you know, over 30 years like I have. So to have this recorded, to bring it to you and to show you guys what I'm dealing with is something I really want to share. Because again, just because I'm limited does not mean I'm going to stop. So we're going to keep going. So we're going to change it. I'm still a bodybuilder. I'm going to just flip it to just working out healthier, more functioning. And you'll see, you know, you'll join me and I'm not going to be shy about it. You know, I'm going to show what I can move, what I can't. And it's just a different version of me, but it's still me. Yeah. I mean, there's people out there in the 30s, millennials out there that even have a hard time tying their shoes, you know, to be quite honest. I think this could be a really great program for people that are looking to eliminate pain in a drug free way. Yes. And also showing how you can get stronger, mobile and becoming, you know, just basically more, you know, more agile. Staying active, moving. That's why I always tell people when you visit grandma, just don't sit on the sofa talking to her. Take her for a walk. And they can follow you and get motivated in their journeys as well, I think, you know. Yes. I'm not motivated. Avoiding injuries. And again, the only thing that will keep you younger, keep you healthy is other than eating healthy and living a healthy lifestyle is working out. There's no secret. Just work out. No matter what kind of workout, work out. Just do it. Just do it. You know, putting the right exercises together and getting it in day after day. So this will be kind of like a day in life, but also behind the scenes and focusing on movement, posture, creating more, more. How do you create more strength and ability? Right. Yeah. So I'm very excited for that. And I think people will be very surprised by this. And a lot of people outside the strength world will also be surprised by it. It's like starting all over, but it's all good. Again, this is a different version, a different approach to exercising, to feel better, get healthier and come back. Hormone replacement therapy, HRT, TRT, testosterone replacement therapy. They all kind of go into the same bucket of hormones. Men and females, they all have the same exact hormones. For males, they need more testosterone than females. And for females, we need a little bit more estrogen than males. Basically what that means is if you get your blood work done, your testosterone is low, we try to get it to an optimal level. We walk into where our medical assistants would be. They're contacting patients all throughout the day, making sure patients are feeling good, looking good and performing their best. Making sure they're hitting their goals, making sure they're tolerating the medication properly and everything is going well. Patient care and patient service is number one to us. And if you have any questions, concerns, issues, then we're taking care of them too as well. A TRT company or Titan Medical, what they do is they make people healthy and they get people to really live the dream of life. It's one of those things I always say, do you want to live a long life or a quality of life? And that's what Titan Medical does. Now, Vic, one of the things that came up recently is, you know, people always ask, what kind of stories does Vic have? You know, people always ask, has Vic ever been thrown out of a gym? Can you explain to the audience? I mean, has there ever been a moment in your time that you've been kicked out of a gym or, you know, reprimanded or something in a gym? No, I've never been kicked out of, no. Oh, hold on, hold on. It's actually one gym that I've ever been kicked out of. Steve Warberger's gym? No, no, no, not Steve's, not Steele, not Johnny Ladd's, never a gym because when I'm in a gym, there's one thing I do is when I'm there, I'm the guy who's making sure that everybody's, you know, keeping it copacetic, kind of getting along, sharing the equipment, putting the weights back. And again, I just take that, you know, serious. But this one gym in particular, I don't know, shall I say the name? It doesn't exist anymore. It doesn't matter, so say it. It was Dumbbells. Dumbbells was the only gym in Jersey gym. Yeah. And got kicked out for no real reason at all. Wow. And then I worked out at another gym about maybe 10 miles away or something, 15 miles, like 15, 20 miles away. Like this gym wasn't even the vicinity. As a matter of fact, not even in the same state. And the owner just calls me up and just says, man, you just filmed in my gym. And I said, yeah, it came out good, right? She goes, yeah, but what are you doing filming in another gym? She got jealous of you filming somewhere else. I'm going to put out a video. I didn't understand that, but, you know, I don't remember us ever signing an exclusive. And I actually was the one that asked to film in her gym because there was nothing, nobody was really filming anything. So I wanted to get her gym out there, you know. And I just, I don't know, I was shocked. But I remember the only question I asked her when she asked me why am I training in another gym was, have we ever banged? You know, that was a common question because, you know, the audacity to ask me why am I training in another gym that has nothing to do with yours and a different state and all that. And she reminded me that, no, we didn't. But, you know, I was still denied access to the gym and that was the last time I trained there. And it was a good gym. It was actually a very good gym. I remember that gym, man. She got jealous basically. I don't know. I was jealous. I don't know. Maybe. Have you ever kicked anybody out of your gym? Kicked anybody out of my gym? No, not at all. I mean, I fought somebody in front of my gym for saying my gym sucked. Those were fighting words though. Do not say that to Vic. Yeah, those were fighting words. So I had to fight him, you know. And, you know, it was a little show I put on for everybody in the gym. But everybody knew from that day forward, you know, you never say Vic, this gym sucked. But, you know, he was a friend of mine too. Oh, wow. Did he come back to the gym? No, he was just, I don't know, man. I don't know. He was trying to pick up girls from my gym and because the girls didn't pay attention to him, he just started cursing off the gym or whatever. But, yeah, so no crazy stories of me being kicked out of gyms. I always go in there. I show them love. I set the tone, set the vibe. I help, you know, athletes. I help their members. And I make sure there's always a good hangout. When you typically go to the gym, right, as a pro bodybuilder, do you expect them to give you a free day pass? Or, like, is that something that you expect or no? Never. Never expect it. You shouldn't expect it. Especially most guys out there that earn the pro cards and they're like, yeah, I'm a pro. It's just tacky. It's just a little so upsetting. Because I remember a few years ago there was a story. Actually, I'm trying to interrupt you. But it was a story of Lee Priest going to Goals Gym in Venice and they made him pay for a day. And he was, like, complaining about it. I mean, yeah, again, it depends on the person. But I've gone to gyms. I have paid. And I seen the owner after somebody kind of told them who I was and they just came over. Why did you pay? And I'm like, well, I wasn't assuming I was going to get him free just because. And plus, I'm here to support your gym. So it's one of those things. If they do it, they acknowledge it. Cool. But I remember they made me pay out of golds. You know, $20. No, no, no, no, no. Not that golds. Out of golds in LA somewhere. I paid $20. Then the manager was like, oh, cool, man. You're Victor Martinez. Can I take a picture? And I was like, cool, $20. Nice. That's a good one. But, no, don't go in and, you know, don't approach the gym on a high. Approach the gym on a high horse. Yeah. Um, again, it's a little tacky. It's going to make you self-centered. You know, do you know who I am? Let me in. Yeah, that's stupid. Do you know who I am? Yeah, it shouldn't be a thing. You know, just appreciate it when they do so. All right. What else we got? Well, we had a, I mean, a new IPB pro. Um, and very, I mean, a lot of people are impressed by this pro because he seems to be really one of the, one of the big, big, big futures in the classic division. But expected future IPB pro champions in the IPB pro for classic physique division. And his name is Yokokawa Naotaka, which is, he's from Japan. Um, you've seen his physique. Yes. You're impressed. Obviously, very impressed by his physique. A lot of people here are impressed by him. What is your, what are your thoughts and what do you think his prospects are in the IPB pro world? No, it's just, uh, at first look, it's just his well-balanced physique. You know, uh, his torso is not too long. His lats are not high. His insertions, uh, the flow of his body and, uh, just keep doing what you're doing. Don't try to go too heavy where you get any injuries. And if he keeps going this way, he's only going to move up the ranks. But yeah, man, he looks incredible. We're going to put his videos and pictures on the screen here. But I mean, if you look at this guy compared to other, you know, other classic physique guys that are coming into the division, I mean, this guy looks legit. No, I think he's going to do very well in the ranks. Uh, I think he became pro as a classic, but, uh, the way he keep, you know, if he keeps going at that rate, he's going to be in open very soon. Um, you, you, you, you foresee him going into open. I can, you know, again, he's, he's got the right tie-ins, you know, from lats, you know, great arms, his legs calves. I mean, he's right now he's the least flawless guy. You know, he's, he's flawless, you know, he's has nothing really. He's definitely missing. And, uh, if he keeps continuing to grow and not, you know, have one body part overpower the other, the same way he looks, it's just going to look even better. You know, he's got a good height. Well, he looks like about what? Five, seven or something. He looks about five, nine, five, eight. I'm not sure. Maybe a little. So he's got, he's got a good height, you know, obviously we would have been, you know, five, 10, five, 11, even better. But at this rate, again, he's going, he could be one of the, uh, the future of body bullying. All right, guys. So we have one more topic left. And this one is a Patreon special. It's a controversial topic that, uh, they will talk about right now. And for those of you who are not subscribed to our Patreon, please do, because YouTube usually censors us a lot and we can't really push the video. So this topic is very controversial and, uh, it's available on Patreon guys. Nah, let's see. We've got to stop that nonsense. All right, guys. Well, for those of you who are not subscribed yet, please subscribe to our Patreon. And, uh, this was a Patreon special. Yeah. Shout out to Patreon. Make sure you guys check in. We're going to have this special on there for all the movies. You have over 35 films. Um, uncensored content, uncensored programs, you name it. And also giveaways. Make sure you guys tune in and continue to subscribe to Patreon. Yes, please. Follow us on Patreon guys. We appreciate your support. And remember, thank you for joining us this week's podcast. If you want to see any of our prior podcast episodes, tune into our heart radio, Apple podcasts, or whatever you stream your podcast. Until next time. Thank you guys. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Blow Blow You