 Hello guys and welcome to this week's Generation 9 podcast. Your host, me, Victor Martinez, along with Ed Sanferarii, Ed Sanferarii, welcome back, Vlad Yudin and Edwin Mejia. Cheers to Sun being back finally. Yeah, cheers. Where have you been, bro? A long time. I grew up, no? Ah, you look great, man. Keto's working for you, man. Looking younger, too. Carnival, carnival, carnival. Wait, you still doing a carnival thing? I stopped like two weeks ago. I did 78 days. From 260, I dropped to 230. Damn, bro. We got a lot to get through today. Vic, you want to talk about our sponsor? All right, guys. Well, definitely want to give Transparent Labs a shout out here. Remember, guys, you want to follow Transparent Labs because they will start you off with a protein starter kit. Remember, you buy any grass-fed protein, you go down on the website, you can actually go on Generation Iron, go down to the box, make sure you check it off. You're going to get a starter kit, you're going to get the shaker cup, and also a blend of different packages of your favorite different kinds of protein. They have at least five of them, so that way you can choose which one. You subscribe, you're going to get the starter kit, and again, you're going to get some of the best products, you know, no fillers, nothing artificial, no sugar, no dyes, no sugars, none of that stuff. The cleanest protein on the market. Literally, no. I was, I was, I switched to the keto diet, and then I was searching about which protein I can take. So this company is the number one as the cleanest and no sugar. Make sure you also use the Generation Iron Code for a good 10% off on all the products you order from Transparent Labs. All right, so we've got a couple of questions today, but first, Vic, some, not all, but some people in the comments were criticizing you, just a little bit over the... I've been criticizing my entire life, I know, I know. Since I was five. What are you doing again? He, he, okay, so... I wasn't here for two weeks and then you did trouble. I know, I know. Andrew Tate, uh, we, we, we showed a video of Andrew Tate benching. See? Well, now they're gonna talk about you. They didn't like your comments about Andrew Tate's, uh, You saw the video of him bench pressing, right? 15 pounds. Okay, what will your comment be on that? Let's just keep it copacetic. I don't like this person. It doesn't matter what you're gonna get critics to. Victor has Andrew Tate posters all over his I don't, I don't like this person. Victor said he didn't like the lift or he didn't like his allegations and people said to Victor, why are you judging him? I'm not judging, do I look like a freaking judge? I'm the last person to judge. The question judging should not come from your mouth describing me. I don't judge. It wasn't judging, all right? It was more ethical, you know, comment. That's all it is, you know? I mean, to me, when I saw that video, it doesn't matter how much you lift. His personality was ugly. I don't, I can't see it. Personality is ugly? Yeah, definitely. 100%. Really? You know, I have four daughters and that's, I just go by that, you know? When you have a daughter, you can't, you can't, it's impossible you like this person. Yeah, you know, I mean, he, I mean, he's the opposite. He's, he don't like the woman. He don't like the girls first, second, and then come on. He has a file, a lot of files. Listen, at the end of the day, they asked me to criticize his lift. I said it was choppy, you know, you're sending, you're asking me the question, you know, it's choppy. It was shaky. It's all over the place. If you're going to start asking me for my opinion, you're going to get the hard facts. That's it. All right. And that's what you got. You know, if you don't like it, I mean, I don't know, sue me or try to. Because anybody tries to sue me, I'll be knocking at your door. At least we address the situation as we always do on this podcast. So we have two questions of the day. Ed, you want to take, you want to read them through? Yeah. So the first question comes to us from Nicholas Moe Force QR. And the question is, hey, Victor, how was it like posing for the Bodies of Work series in 2017? And did some people get offended by it? This is in reference to nude photography by bodybuilding.com. Those who don't know, in 2017, right, Vic, bodybuilding.com ran this series of photography, beautifully shot of different fitness personalities, including yourself, and they were nude in it. Yes. That's what they asked. I was naked. I'm comfortable being naked. You know, I look good naked. They said, let's do it. I was looking like anyways, for the Olympia. I wasn't confident. I said, might as well just be naked and do more and not give a damn. And, you know, it is uncomfortable, but I'm comfortable being uncomfortable. And I did it. It's art. It was artistic action, whatever. And don't Google it. They will. Of course they will. Come on. It's men and women, actually. It's a bunch of... Michelle Lewin was a part of it, I believe. It was a bunch of... What was the point of it, like to campaign for what? I think it was just like something they did, right? Bodybuilding.com. And I usually get asked that question, what is the point of it? Usually, I can never know what the point of anything is. It's from the art things. It was the artists, you know? I mean, big up to them. MHP asked me, and I'm like, hey, you know what? I'd do anything for MHP. But, you know, it's funny. I'm there. I'm freaking naked. I'm posing hot freaking flames everywhere. And guess who showed up? Flavor Flav. Oh, he posed too? He just rolled up for something else. And I was just like, hey, Flav, sorry, I got to meet you all freaking naked and all that. But that's hilarious. You know, he showed me love. You know, I did have a towel on it. I didn't greet him naked. So thank God. Did some people get offended by it? That's another question you asked. Offended? Usually when people get offended, that's the part where I say, I don't give a f***. Because I didn't roll up in your house naked. You found my pictures and that's it, whatever it is. And I don't know. Just don't send it to anybody I know. What are you searching for the pictures? What are you doing? No, no. It was actually a great campaign that ran for a while. I didn't see that picture, actually. I want to see it. Nah, bro. It's not anything to see, bro. It's just this. It was men and women part of this campaign, actually. And it was very artistic. I agree with you. Yeah. All right. What's the second question at? So the second question comes to us from CWP Anabolic. And it's, Hey Vic, I'm a big fan. What's your favorite look of your career? Man, I had a few, man. I think United Champions was one of them. 06, Olympia, the 7th Olympia. Yeah, I mean, if I have to pick and choose, I would have to say those are definitely my favorites. You know? I mean, anything else? I mean, and obviously, I mean, the first one that started it all was the 2000 Nationals. I was comfortable with that look. Because I didn't carry around too much weight. What's your weight? I was 222. Wow. 222. Yeah, 222 right at the, what was that? Heavyweight. I think so. Yeah, because that's before, right before super heavyweight. Super heavyweight, yeah. So top of the heavyweight class and felt comfortable. Move around lighter, swiftly, you know, gracefully. Now Bobby all over the place looking all big like a freaking man. How much he was in 2007? 2007, 252. 252. Yeah. To 2007, he was more round and bigger. Yeah, I was just bigger. Yeah. You know, again, at the show, comfortable. At the rebound, horrible. You know, speaking of 2007, not that we want to talk about it again, but Kai Green on a record on his podcast, shouted you out and said that he wasn't off watching you at 07. And of course, he, in his own words, he said that, you know, he had to do as a winner. Do you think Jay Cutler hear that? Do you think Jay Cutler knows? I think Jay Cutler would probably ignore all this stuff. I mean, Jay Cutler, I'm like, come on, he doesn't have to say anything. He's got the check. He's got the sand out. He's good. You know, three times Mr. Olympia. But pretty much everybody, I don't want to say everybody, but pretty much all the bodybuilders that I talked to. He's going back to that. They say Victor won 2007. You know, Jay Cutler's bridesmaid. I mean, we forever will be connected, Jay. He has to be sending one other sandal to you, man. Come on, Jay, send the sandal back, man. No, all I want is a t-shirt, Jay. That's all I want. Just a t-shirt, bro. I haven't even gotten a t-shirt from him. All right, guys, please submit your questions in the comments below, brought to us by Transparent Labs, and hopefully Victor will answer some of them, right? That's right. It's a little question. That will get answered. Maybe not comfortable all the time. Maybe not, but that will be answered. You need to take your muscles to the max! Whoa there, Turbo. Do you even know what's in that stuff? Oh, yeah. See, most protein powders are filled with artificial sweeteners, food dyes, and filler. Really? I wouldn't put that stuff in my body. Neither would I. Transparent Labs is made with just a handful of all-natural ingredients without any of the weird stuff. Transparent Labs. Protein without the weird stuff. So, there's been a weird situation at Saratoga Water, Sparkling Water, or Still Water. You know the blue bottles, right? This fitness influencer made a video. Ashton Hall. Super viral, Ashton Hall. And he made a video of how he drinks it in the morning, and then he basically dips his face into it with ice. And suddenly, everybody started buying and going crazy over the Saratoga. Springwater, man. Man, it was just a little bit dumb. I would fucking fall for it, too, you know? You see it all over Northern Jersey Supermarket, especially where you guys live. He only caught wind of it when Matt Walsh, you know, who is the woman guy, put it on his Instagram. And I'm looking because he tracks the guy's, you know, early morning, you know, debacle of just getting ready and getting fit. And he goes, you're going to tell me this guy does all this for six hours just to stay fit? He wakes up at 4.30 in the morning, right? And then he does all these things. I mean, yeah. The only thing I'm really surprised and shocked is that all that time, you know, it's like, you know, none of it was spent in the toilet. You know? Oh, you didn't want to show up. You didn't want to show up that hard, bro. You know what's the problem? These those people that are not drinking enough water, they just pretend we are drinking water, you know? Yeah. You have to drink at least a gallon of water a day. Right. You, I mean, come on, man. Drink a fucking water. No, I don't mind that. And Matt Walsh was tearing him up because, you know, six hours getting ready. And I'm like, listen. And he goes, oh, this is not real. I'm like, I mean, whatever. You know, the guy's doing, he's doing social media. He's promoting, I guess, the water, you know? And don't hate on him. You know, even if it's all fake, you know, he's not hurting anybody. No, don't hate on the guy. But if you actually go and buy Saratoga water after seeing this, then something is not right with you, right? I mean. They say, I'll buy Saratoga before I buy that freaking, you know, death. What is that? Liquid death. Liquid death. Like, who the f*** buys a water in a canning? Anybody know idea? You can't even close it back up. No one doesn't know what is inside. I think it's like a marketing style. No, it's just water, man. It's just regular water. No, it's regular water. It's water, but once you open it, you can't even close it back. Like, that's my thing. Really? Yeah. Is it in a can? It's in a can, right? You have to finish it. I mean, a beer, I get it. You're going to finish the beer, you know? The water, you sip on it. Do you remember like 25, 30 years ago? No, maybe 20, 20, 25 years ago. We don't have a bottle of water. Everyone drinking in the sink. Right now, no one drinking in the sink. We're drinking from the freaking parks. The business water goes to the next level. I know. Different perspective, different design, different model. Right. But it's the same thing. It's the water. It comes from the same place. Drink the water, man. It's water. It's water. It's water. Water, Bueller. Bueller. It's just water. Well, remember, I think the fancy water used to be Evian. Evian, yeah. Nobody drinks Evian anymore, right? Because it tastes like shit. It always has. It always has. It always has. I never liked that water. It always tasted like shit. I'm like, I couldn't have been less fashionable not drinking Evian. Just one water, the taste is really good and different. It still is good. In Fiji. Fiji? Yeah. That's also a way of a price. They put sugar in that. They put sugar in that or something. I don't know. They put sugar in that? No, I don't think so. It's too tasty, man. It's really good. It's tasty. That's what I'm saying. There's something in the Fiji water. They say they're coming from Fiji. Is there a volcano in Fiji? I don't think there is, right? Not yet. I mean, it's got bio-volcano. It's not any water. No. You guys like vitamin? I think it's called vitamin water. Yeah. Oh, who drinks vitamin water these days? 50 Cent. I don't know. If it said 50 Cent sold his steak, it was like, it went down. I don't like it. It's like a waste of drinking. So during that- Especially the zeros. During that diet I follow, I love drinking salt and water. Because I need the energy. You put salt in the water and drinking the water. I'm going to tell Kali Muscle, man. He's going to get pissed. He's going to show up with his purple eyes and say, how dare you, S-R? Salt water. Purple eyes. Purple eyes. I don't know. The color he did on this. So in a tragic news, you guys heard about Vitor Parabasi died while jogging on a treadmill. He was an actor and a bodybuilder in a Netflix series from Germany. Anybody know anything about that story? Do you know him, Vic? Did you know of him at all? No, no. I see him in the circuit. Parabasi, I'm sorry. Yeah, it's just sad because we lost a lot of good people this year. I mean, this month alone. And it's, I mean, one of them was Jerry Montaneri. You know, and just this past weekend, CJ, CJ Suits, man. Did you know her? Yeah. He knew her personally. Of course. CJ, everyone knows her. She's making suit for everyone forever. Yeah. Again, I mean, with the German guy, I don't know him personally. But with Jerry, always a light. Always good to be around. I mean, he runs one of the best gyms on the East Coast. And when I saw the post, him blowing the candles, I thought it was his birthday. Little did I know he just passed. And do you know why? Do you know what happened? No, again, I mean, once the person is gone, I guess the way he does really matter. You know, the sad thing is, I know it was three Montaneri brothers and there's only one left now. And, you know, condolences to the family. And I don't know. We're losing so many people. I think all this hate, all this anger needs to be simmered down in the industry. Because everybody's too busy being angry about bullsh**. And also CJ, you know, I remember her being blocked from shows for whatever reason. Bureaucracy, f*****, political crap. And I think we should just f***** kind of be a little bit more attentive to one another. More united, maybe. More united, man. You know, follow Generation 9 for anything. All right. CJ made posing trunks and suits, right? Yeah, she made just about everything. CJ was like a big sister to most of us. And I think the only time I was a little angry at her was because she gave one of the trunks I wanted to use to Dexter. But she's known him longer. And it was just that, you know, you love CJ. CJ was a sis. She attended to you. She was always there, ready to hands-on, oil or something. Backstage, always. She was like a sister for all pro athletes. Yes, yes. And, you know. Men's and girls. Bikini, a lot of bikini girls. I mean, she turned it up, man. I mean, for everything. I mean, just suits, the figure suits, bikini suits. I mean, all of it. Everything. How old did that German guy die? How old he was? I don't know. I think he was in his 40s. I believe. I'm not sure. Young. Young, man. I have a problem for the dead news. The writer on the treadmill, he died. You know? That's why I don't know too much about that. I know. On the treadmill, obviously, something physical. But, again, you know, he passed away. And one of these things is, you know, just get blood work. I mean, is that going to save you? I mean, probably you might know something a bit sooner than later. Like, clearly he had a condition. The treadmill would not kill anybody, right? Yeah. Some kind of condition. Some condition. And the thing is, when you have a blood clot or whatever it is. Exactly. It can release. I need to get home. I was, today morning, I was searching on FIFA. It's a soccer organization. How many people die on the soccer, on the field? Since 2014, 2018, which is four years, 617 people died. Soccer players? Soccer players, look at that. Soccer players die. That's a good stat to know. From what? I mean, from gyration, from condition, anything. I mean. You're saying it to compare to the bodybuilding industry. Yes. I mean, come on, man. The person in the treadmill die. Okay. Why are you not talking about the person? Soccer player in the field. No, I know why you're saying it. Because people get in the news. Somebody dies. A bodybuilder died. A bodybuilder died. Again, blaming bodybuilding. Again. So you're saying it. Look at this sport now. Yeah. I mean, one of my clients say, oh my God, treadmill is not good. Look, one person died on the treadmill. If you do too much. It's not the treadmill. You're able to die. It's not the treadmill. It's the person had the condition and treadmill affecting that condition to die. That's it. That's my problem. Yeah. Yeah. 600 a year playing soccer. I mean, same thing goes in football. I think there's a teenager dying every year on the field just from dehydration as well. Right. Yes. So most of the time it's not even heart condition. It's dehydration. Mostly it's dehydration. Yeah. Mostly it's dehydration. So people know it's, you know, it doesn't discriminate. Death is going to come and it's going to happen. So I don't know. Can we avoid it? I don't think so. Can we delay it a little bit by checking ourselves? Probably. You know? What do you guys think about completely unrelated? But Lee Priest made a statement that Kian Pearson, obviously, Kian is a 212 champion. He's great. He won 212 Olympia twice already at this point. He's saying he will win Mr. Olympia men's open one day. He's saying maybe 20, 28 or 29, but it's going to happen. I said 20, 27. So yeah, Vic, what's your opinion on that? Because Lee Priest, I mean, he has, in my opinion, he reminds me, I mean, Kian reminds me a lot of Lee Priest. I mean, obviously, one is black, one is white, but like they look, they have very similar physiques in terms of like. Kian is much bigger. If you look at Lee Priest's figure back in the day and his stage presence was incredible. I mean, and Kian. No, Lee Priest was a genetic freak, man. He just, his arms, I swear he was born with those freaking big ass arms. He reminds me, Kian reminds me of like very, like those, you know, very defined muscle features, you know, very round. Right? Because he's obviously not a tall guy, but like he reminds me a lot of, that's why he reminds me a lot of Lee Priest. I mean, we did a whole movie on Lee. He's round, he's got good aesthetics. I mean, well balanced. Right. Right. Right. He already won the 2-12. If he crosses over, I think he's definitely destined to win over as well. Is he doing a crossover? Is he going to the end of the game? I mean, he should. Why not? I was wondering if he already announced it. I mean, he should. I mean, the way he looks, he's basically. How did you find Cross the Web, Drake Lonsworth? Yeah. I mean, why not him? He should. He has every. And you can make more money. Everything that's needed. Yeah. He has to actually, you know, compete with these guys. You know? So for him will be just, when will be the right time? Obviously right now you have Sansom and, you know, Derek aiming it out. And you have, you know, Adi coming back. I think that Keon can compete open next year. He's ready for it. I think it comes down to how much mass he can put on because he has a small frame. He's putting it on right. He's got great frame. And with him, you got to remember, him just with enough size and condition, he's going to look just as big as any other guy. Because Dexter knocked out a lot of these guys for many years. And when you stand up next to each other, you'll see almost. I don't think he need more size right now. He need a little bit of polish, more conditioning. Yeah, refining. Harder, common stage. As long as he doesn't get injured, try to do something crazy, you know, hernia, knee, anything, joints. I think he's on the right track to be an open muscle. And don't try to bring size and weight up. Yes. He don't need it. No, because he's growing accordingly. Yeah. He's growing accordingly. I mean, you've seen him over the years, especially that time when he said, you know, he needed to take a break. And, you know, for his mental health and people are criticizing him. And imagine he would not have done that. And would he subject to the pressure of competing? He wouldn't have been where he is now. Yeah. But the question is, he can definitely have a great career in men's open. But can he win the Olympia within the next two years? Well, that's really what Lee Priest is saying. I think so. I agree with Lee Priest. You think so? Lee has a good eye. You know, at the same time, he's outspoken when it comes to who looks good. And he will just not just yap for no reason unless there's something behind it. And I agree with him because I've seen Keon come up. I think if Keon bring the conditioning like a hardy Choupon, he's in the rank, in the top for years. Years. No one can beat him. He has a beautiful shape. He's got probably one of the best shapes, you know. Yes. More than anyone. Yes. More balance. Yep. More balance. Upper body, lower body, the symmetry. Wow. It's very amazing. That's incredible. Yeah. Keon. And he's in 20s right now. He's very young. He's still in 20s? Yes. I think he's 27 or 28 maybe. That's crazy. You know? I had no idea. He's very young. He's still. He's going to reach his prime. Just getting into his prime right now. Yes. This is the time. No, he's going to be dangerous. He already is dangerous. He already has the 212, the open. Yeah. I'm not surprised if this year he jumped into open. Look, how much he priced for the 212 for the first place? Not much. Not much. 40,000? Not much. 40,000, actually. Yeah. Or 40 or 60,000. It's not much. Well, I ask me for money. I'm always like, not enough. Not enough. Give more. But if we get third place in open, he'll receive 150,000. Yeah. But I think he's going to do way better than that. Again. Definitely. Because he just carries well-balanced muscle. That's when you put him next to somebody else, you're going to see everybody else's flaws. You know, highlighted. Wow. I like Kian. I can't wait to see him. I really like Kian. He has a beautiful shape. Speaking of beautiful shape, Rich Gaspari revealed, he's 61 years old, Rich Gaspari. A friend of ours, of course. Yes. He revealed a picture of his legs at 61 years old. What do you guys think? Oh, he's got freaking legs. Jags, you know. I won't be putting my pants down any time. This is this. Rich, Rich. Rich has very strong legs. Yeah. He don't need to prove something. Why he put pants down? I don't know. He's a good businessman. He finished his career. He loves social media. He's always on it. He loves social media. Every time I look, he's on it. He's doing, you know. I mean, I'll have to say I'm not a big fan of his form. You know. Why he's working out, you mean? I mean, working out, I mean, come on. Now. Where else would I like his form, you know? Yeah, go to the grocery store. I like your form shopping there. No, no. It's. I mean, to be honest with you, I some fuse older than 61 in social media better than this. That's my point. He don't need to be. He don't need to prove himself. No, it's not proving himself. It's just basically, you know, he was there since the freaking 80s, 90s. Yes. You know. 80s. Dance with the big boys. And he's still going at it at 61. I mean, to move the way he does. I mean, man. He's got some good joints, man. Because I'm like, man. I mean, I don't think I could train with Rich unless I'm a, I want to tear a tendon or ligament or something. You know? He's training very heavy. He's training. No, he trains way heavy. Crazy. I think he comes from that same era. It's like kind of like those guys that still train like that, like Johnny Jackson, you know, and you have other guys like. Rich Gaspari. Gaspari. But you also from Branch Warren. No. They have that kind of. If you train with Branch, Johnny or freaking Rich Gaspari, you got to have a paramedic outside. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, 100%. I mean, that's why we shot it. When we shot Generation Iron, we saw that too. I had to put duct tape and elbow sleeves on my freaking head. Who is most worse? The real Rudy Coleman or Branch Warren? I don't know. It's got to be a Texas thing, man. That has to be. That has to be a Metroflex Texas gym routine. Have you ever been there in Metroflex? No, I train with Branch once, man. I try to just get into his zone, get into the same kind of, you know, feel. I think we were in, I think we were in Pittsburgh or something. I don't remember. Was it Texas? No, it wasn't Texas. Because had we been in Texas, I would have been like, nah, nah, I'm good, bro. Yeah, we're definitely out somewhere. And I try to just kind of, let me see if I could get into the freaking training technique, like Branch, you know, because I try everything, you know. And man, I just couldn't. I try to bring the weight down and kind of use momentum. And I say, no, my shoes would have came out the socket, bro. Wow. So, you know what, Branch? I'm just going to go with my official, original, bring down slow, explode up, bring down slow, explode up with my little, you know, burn at the top. But, man, he's just, he's intense. He built crazy muscle. And I can see exactly why, man. That's some intense training they do. And, no, I cannot do that kind of training. You know, we have so many people in social media that are teaching, oh, this form is wrong, this form is right. When you look at that style of workout like Branch Warren, you see so many things wrong. But he's a champion. No, it's just, it works differently for everybody. Can you explain how to work for someone like that? If building muscle, in reality, is just basically based on what you can do and able to do and execute. That's the way it is. So, when I tell somebody, hey, let me show you the way to do this. They go, oh, am I doing it wrong? I say, no. I never say it's wrong. I always say, oh, well, you're doing it different. Yeah. But let me show you this way, you know. So, I never say it's wrong because, just like you said, I've seen people do crazy stuff and they still have great muscle. The only thing I can tell them is, you know, let me see you do this at 70. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. On the last episode, we actually discussed great bodybuilders with the word genetics. And both of those guys were in that list. Ted and Vic. They are. But they've trained to be champions. That's the point. And again, they're champions. So, again, you might not like their style. I mean, most people always think, you know, working out, they think, oh, I've seen, you know, Arnold, Chris, you know, Kai. I think Kai has some of the, you know, best forms I've seen working out. Yeah. But not everybody could do somebody else's workout method. I mean, look at Tom Platt's leg workout. Oh, my God. Nobody's doing that these days. No way. I don't care how much pre-workout you take on anadros. Nobody's going to do that. Yeah. And that's why. And we have the best, yeah, and we have the best Tom Platt's workout on Generation 9. People need to check that out. Oh, yes. Check it out. Check out Tom Platt. Just don't do it. No, so when somebody says, hey, I'm doing, you know, five plates for two reps, I'm like, why are you bothering? You know? Oh, what will you do? I'm like, take that 315. How do you lift heavy, too? How do you lift heavy, too? How do you lift heavy, you know? But, you know, let's see the aftermath. The aftermath is usually, and I speak about it because I am in the after effect, and there's a lot of things that would have changed in my training because nobody thinks at the moment, it's later that you're going to feel those glitches. And those glitches come hard, boy. Yep. You know? They catch you later. Yeah, man. They catch you. Tom. I don't know, man. Just be able to lift right, save those joints, and be able to wipe your own ass at 80. All right? That is the goal. And that's the message of today's episode. Yes. All right, guys. Thank you for joining us in this week's podcast. Remember, follow us, like, and if you want to see any of our prior podcasts, tune in to our radio, Apple Podcasts, or wherever you stream. Until next time, welcome back, guys. I'm good to see you, bro. Stay with us. Peace. Peace. Peace. You're welcome.