 I don't like it, I don't like it, I don't even hate curling, I don't even hate curling, I love watching curling, and all that, so it's no sports for me, it's a hey, I appreciate any sport, and that's why I do hate, because they sh** all the time. Hello, and welcome to this week's Generation 9 podcast, your host, me, Victor Martinez, along with Edwin Mejia and Vlad Juden. Welcome. We're back together, man. We're back, we're back. First time since the Arnold, we didn't talk about the Arnold. I know, a lot of things going on at the Arnold. What the hell was that? I don't know, I guess the spillover with Hadi and everything that's going on there, and it's incredible, you know, that we went through that Arnold, and I guess I was expecting Hadi to win, number one. I know. Didn't pull it off. Samson came through as well. I'm sorry, Andrew Jack came through. Andrew Jack, and that's my pick. That's who I had to win. That was your pick. Obviously, Hadi was my pick, I think. But either way, what are your thoughts on the Arnold 2026 this year? Yeah, the results, again, I think Hadi, why he didn't, you know, come up to par, at least to where he was at the Olympia, was because I think it's that stress, man. I think it's that stress with the whole Iranian thing going on. His fans, people attacking him, losing a million followers. I think that stress did not help him at all. Yeah. Do you think that affected his performance? I think so. I think so. Because here you are, you're getting to the Arnold, one of the biggest shows. Prize money went up. $750,000. That's crazy. It's insane, man. Yeah. But who's to do it if not Arnold? Shout out to Andrew Jack for that big prize winning. Big win for him, man. Huge win. Now he's in the favorite for the top at the Arnold. I mean, at the Olympia, right? Yes. No, he's been climbing up. Right. He looked great. His posing, best posing up there. And I know people were pulling for Nick, but once you put Nick next to Andrew, you kind of start seeing, highlighted his flaws. Wow. So now that the Arnold is over, Vic, do you think it was a success, the Arnold itself? I mean, I know. I believe so. Yeah. I believe it was. Again, a lot going on that weekend. It's just, it's the Arnold. I heard that Brian Pauwers, the Patriots, the Patriots, the Patriots, the Patriots, the promoter of the Arnold said that next year they're going to have four days of the Expo because it was such a big success. I don't know if you heard about that. I mean, it's going to be four days. It's basically Expo money. You're going to get more Expo money and less clutter on a Saturday. So was it a success? Did you hear that it was a success from, I mean, obviously Brian Pauwers said that the Arnold weekend got billions of views and all that stuff. But the Arnold, from what I saw, was like 90% young LA. The biggest move. And then the rest was like everybody else. I don't know. I mean, what's your opinion? I don't know if you saw the Expo. Young LA does well. Again, they got shut down by the fire marshal, by the way. That's crazy. Yeah. Yeah. They got shut down by the fire marshal, apparently. For the convention center? In the convention center. Yeah. Wow. Their booth. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, they took over that entire Expo. Yeah. And that's why a lot of other companies didn't go back because they don't see themselves. Why? You know, it doesn't balance out the Arnold. You could promote your product, but you're not going to make any real sales. A lot of people just go with a lot of shopping bags and just get ready to leave with a lot of goodies. That's it. A lot of goodies. Like the sample, right? Yes. It's great for the Arnold. But one day of the Expo, remember, Arnold can do great at any shows, but the Expo is what puts them in the black. That's where they really gave most of the money. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. One of the best Expo. I think we should talk more about the Arnold, but we have a question of the day. And also, we have a critic, I guess a semi-critic of the day as well. This one is interesting, Vic, because, by the way, this is brought to us by Transparent Labs, our sponsor, of course. Big shout out to them. But before we do the question of the day, so this guy named LeeLunk8235, he's responding. So two episodes ago, you finally revealed to the audience what caused the spinal infection that caused two operations, of course, and put you through a very tough situation last year. You revealed that stem cell allegedly might have had something to do with it, right? Yes. So this gentleman, he wants to question this, which is interesting. And also, I guess, when you said Miami is American, he's also addressing that as well. So I'm going to read the response from him. Okay. LeeLunk8235. You tell me what you think about it, all right? So he starts off by saying, Miami is garbage. Took me 26 years to read it. Glad you addressed the infection. The infection he got on his spine was from a secondary infection. I don't think that was main reason he landed in the surgery for the spine. He's still holding back on truly addressing why he landed in surgery. I'm 50 years old and natural, but I have a background in bodybuilding and a few degrees in cardiology. I love you, Victor. That was interesting. Thanks, man. Thanks for loving me and doubting me, but at the same time. But I don't think I would really lie about this because I clearly know my body, know my physique. Yes, I've been training for over 30 years. And I had a few back injuries, more like pulled muscle, anything like that, but usually no spinal anything. So the reason why I have to say, you know, you are wrong or, you know, your opinion of it is wrong. Again, I know you're a doctor. Maybe you want to back up the doctor that did this to me, but that's the only treatment I receive. It's the only time I took an IV and it's the only time I really left my house to do anything. Again, I did the IV, went in, and within 12 hours, I started rejecting the stem cell. So it was because I really haven't done anything else. So that's why you can choose to believe me or not, but I wouldn't lie about that because again, it took me a while to kind of say, you know, because I don't know, it's one of those things you keep on the wraps. You don't want to really discuss it. And just to let you know, the doctor is being investigated by the state of New Jersey because right now he did infect the second person with the same issue and he got operated at the same exact hospital in New York City. So is that a coincidence? Probably not. Allegedly, it's not a coincidence. Oh no. Yeah. You know, it's only, uh, and remember, just like you actually doubted me, the doctors at the hospital doubted me as well. They swore it was the steroids. They swore it was something, but I told them I haven't been using anything. And, uh, they actually called me and they asked me, so where did you get this stem cell? And I'm like, why are you asking me? You don't believe me. And that's when they dropped the dime and just told me all because we just had another patient come in with the same exact thing with the same procedure that you just had. So it's connected to the same doc. Is it? Yes. Wow. That is dangerous, man. If that's the case, then this guy should not be doing this. No, he's just a chop shop doctor. He cuts corners and, uh, you know, all I could do is basically just speak about it here. And hopefully if you listen to me and choose to believe me, I could be saving another life and not go through the situation I went through because, uh, it was horrible. It sucked. I wouldn't wish that anybody. And, uh, I made it. I'm walking and one more week I would have dealt with it. I think I would have been in a wheelchair as the doctor said. So thank God that's not the case, Vic. And, um, you know, I hope you guys appreciate the feedback here. Obviously. Yeah. What was the step-by question he asked? He's going to, he's been on it. He's been on, he's been, he's natural. He's natural. This guy's natural. Oh, God. Yeah. He had a few degrees in cardiology and he loves you. And he thinks Miami is garbage. Okay. Miami. Again, Miami is, you know, it's like spicy food. You know, some can handle it. Some can't. They get burned. So that's Miami for you. You know, you can call Miami a lot of different things, but garbage is just not one. Yeah. Garbage is a bit too much. It's crazy. You know, the beach is different. I know there's more crackheads on the beach. You know, that's one of those things. That's why a lot of the people shifted from the beach to kind of Brickell. Right. It's a shift. But Miami is still the place to party. It's a place to hang out. Choose where you choose to stay wisely. And, uh, try not to eat too much at the hotels. I think that's probably the worst food is at the hotel. So, so go out and eat. All right. Listen up. I've got to share information about our new nighttime ritual. We've kept hearing a ton about magnesium breakthroughs from bioptimizers. And everyone kept saying the same thing. This one is different. Most magnesium supplements only use one or two forms. Magnesium breakthrough from bioptimizers currently uses seven forms of magnesium. And we finally decided here at Generation 9 to see what the hype was all about. People can't stop talking about the benefits. Deeper sleep. Feeling calmer. Better workout recovery. Even improved digestion. But we don't like to recommend anything unless we've tried it here personally at Generation Iron. So we started Magnesium Breakthrough. And we want to invite you to do this with us. So here's our challenge to you. Try it. Track your sleep. And pay attention to how you feel. See if you wake up more rested and refreshed. You truly have nothing to lose. A whole lot to gain. And this part really matters. Bioptimizers offers a 365 day no questions asked money back guarantee. That's a full year. Zero risk. So join us here at Generation 9 over the next month. We will be documenting our experience. And we can't wait to share how it goes. So we spent some time here at Generation 9 testing and trying Bioptimizers Magnesium Breakthrough. And you know the results are what we expected. I mean these guys have been around for a while. We've had them here in our office for some time. And we wanted to give them a shot. And I can tell you my sleep quality has gone through the roof. I feel sharper in the morning. I feel more well rested. Better recovery from a lot of the day's work and training. And I can wholeheartedly say here at Generation 9 we strongly recommend Bioptimizers Magnesium Breakthrough. Go to Bioptimizers.com backslash Generation Iron and use our exclusive code Generation Iron to get 15% off any order. May 2026, the year you finally start to sleep great again. All right. Now we've got the question of the day. You want to take over that one? Yeah. So this question of the day, again, it's brought to us by Transparent Labs. Thank you guys for supporting the podcast. Continue to tune in and check out Transparent Labs for all their products. They have an incredible line of products including 100% grass-fed yeast protein, pre-workouts, grass-fed collagen, bulk mass gainers as well. Check them out. And the question comes to us from Robert Foster, 9662. Hey, Vic, I have a question. First and foremost, I love all your guys' content on the show. Keep up the good work. You guys are. I am 44 and I'm thinking about getting on a cycle. I grow muscle easy, pretty fairly easy, but wonder if it's too late to start. I haven't got my blood work done yet. Should I start from there first? Question. Oh, I don't know. Is it a thing you always wanted to do was juice? I mean, you still don't have to do it. You know? You still don't have to. And also, if you build muscle easily, so why do you actually want to do it? That is the question. But if you choose to, you're a grown man, you're 44, I would say first things first, blood work, blood work, blood work. You got to check your cholesterol, just your liver enzymes, and basically make sure all your labs are up to par, and that's it. I mean, from there, you can go on, but I recommend you start off with a TRT clinic, and let's do it right. Let's not order it from some, you know, black market website and start getting messed up now this late in life. Like, let's do it right. I'm sure you have a, you know, great job or career going, so choose a TRT doctor. Do it wisely. Don't get on internet and do what the 25-year-olds are doing now. So have a better pursuit. And like I said, if you are building muscle wisely, I don't know. Your test levels are good. You really don't need to. It's 44 years old. But again, check the blood. Your levels are down. That could be a main reason for you to go on it, not just because. On TRT. It's not fashionable. Yeah, you're not making it fashionable. It's not like, man, I'm missing out on this, you know, the flat top, so the Afros and the waves. And, you know, it's like it's not a fashion. People do feel like that, though, I think. People in the industry, outside the industry, they feel like if, you know, if they're not on TRT or PEDs of some sort, they feel like they're missing out on something special, Vic. It's not. But if you have some deficiencies, again, some fat you're not being able to lose, let's go through the right approach, all right? We're going to start a TRT company, hopefully, and that way everybody can be good. Come on, everybody. You know? That's it. Go to the one TRT place. We should be supplying you guys. Come on. Push it out. Everybody's moving peptides now. Oh, yeah, that's true. That's true. So shout out to Robert Foster, 96262, for the comment. Guys, continue to put your comments and sending your questions, your comments on the comment section here at General Shrine. And we will continue to answer your questions with Vic and continue to, you know, appreciate the support. And remember, this is not a medical advice, just an opinion, guys. Guys, let's take a quick break. I want to talk about something very important. It's important on the show, of course, and I'm sure it's very important in your personal life. And that is energy and mental focus. That's why we have SPARK, energy and focus. SPARK energy is not just about keeping up. It's really going to take your strength and you focus to the next level. Whether you're hanging out with your family, going to work, or going to the gym, the SPARK energy gives you focus and energy that you need. SPARK energy and focus is your go-to pre-workout ritual when you need reliable energy and power to get through a lift, ride, run, or class. Mix it up, sip it, and get dialed in and ready to go. Make it your go-to pick-me-up for a 2 p.m. slump or swap coffee for SPARK to start a day strong. It has 120 milligrams of caffeine for alertness and concentration, delivering sustainable energy. But it's not about just energy. It has amino acids and taurine to help balance caffeine without jitters or crashes. It has vitamins like B vitamins, B6, B12, vitamin C, A, and E to support your immune health for everyday wellness. And of course, the taste is amazing. And like I said, for me, it gets me through the day, through the week, on all the shoots and all the travel that I'm doing. So I love this product. SPARK Energy and Focus is offering 30% off and free shipping. Go to drinkspark.com and use code GENERATIONIRON at checkout. That's code GENERATIONIRON at drinkspark.com. And there's a lot of flavors of this product, of course. I love Fruit Punch. There's many, many more. Check it out at drinkspark.com. All right, so let's talk about the Arnold again, because what's interesting about, what do you think about this whole debacle between Nick Walker and Martin Fitzwater? So two things happened at the show, right? I guess Martin did not shake Nick's hand on the stage, and everybody saw that. But then supposedly backstage, it was a push. Martin allegedly pushed Nick, and Nick supposedly acknowledged it in the comments. And then a lot of crazy stuff. Wow, you hear that? It's like a censorship. And then a lot of crazy stuff started happening when Nick got, I mean, Martin got dropped by all of his sponsors. Yeah. Allegedly he was. Fortunately. Allegedly it was not because of that, but because he was saying some crazy stuff. Unsportsmanlike contact, yeah. What do you think about this whole thing? I think, I mean, quarrels, beef, issues, disagreements have always been a thing. Right. There's always been a thing in bodybuilding. But remember, it's always either been at the gym or backstage. Now, I like both guys, so I'm not choosing any size here. I don't know what the beef is about, as a matter of fact. You know, I don't want to know. But when you display it on the stage, you're displaying it on the world stage. That's where you have to hold your decorum. That's where you have to hold and be a little stoic about your approach in, you know, addressing your grievances towards another person. It's you have to hold back because now you're displaying it. And you got millions of people watching the Arnold and they see this. I think it's fun, though, Vic. No, it is fun. I would have to say it is fun. And again, on the stage, I mean, Kai did it with Phil on the stage, but it was a little bit more passive. It was just different, you know. He didn't get dropped by muscle. It was more like a standoff, you know. Yeah, it was a standoff and that's it. But it wasn't that bad for him to lose his sponsors. I think people went on, you know, they shined in on him, on Martin. They went on him, like, just too deep, too deep. I mean, my biggest surprise was when other bodybuilders just went on to attack him. I was like, these guys swear they're, like, freaking, you know, all your most upstanding citizens of the world to go ahead and just start judging a fellow bodybuilder right away. Like, you guys don't know what went on. We all have beef. The fans loved it, I think. Yeah, fans love it to a point. But to kind of just press him, oh, he was wrong. Oh, what was this? You don't know what went on, you know. But for him to lose a sponsor that hard, maybe the sponsors weren't that good to begin with. I mean, he's a better sponsor that's going to stand by him in, you know, situations like that. Because it's happened. A lot of guys just don't display it as much. They usually like to avoid who they have beef with, so they won't be in this situation. And on that stage, it just kind of took away from the show itself, from his placement. I believe he got fourth. Fourth, yeah. Which is, you know, pretty good. Do you know what the issue is between them two ever? I never. I didn't ask. I just, you know. Do you think unsportsmanlike conduct does affect your placements in bodybuilding? I mean, I think it could. But, I mean, is there even a code of conduct in this whole thing? I think there is in the IFBB. IFBB. I mean, there was no swinging up there. It was just basically he didn't shake his hand. And the way they treated Phil and Kai, I mean, Kai specifically on stage with Phil, they were very, like Steve Weinberger was yelling at Kai at one point. So, I mean, this situation I think is worse. I mean, just facing off, looking at each other, they're not swinging on stage. I mean, it's not like, you know, Middle East where I've seen guys throw the trophies at the judges and everything else. It's not, I mean, we've seen bigger things, right, go on. You know, hitting judges, you know, attacking the judges from the stage. What's the craziest thing you've ever seen a person do on stage, Vic, in a bodybuilding show? Have you seen someone's sportsmanship like before? On stage or behind the stage? I mean. No, I've never really seen anything crazy. It's more like, oh, you know, whose elbow is in front of the other guys, you know, while they're doing a back double bicep. You know, that's it. It's pushing here and there, which has always been a norm. You know, you saw it during the postdown. It's been happening. I mean. You seen any butt slaps in the past? Like, playful butt slaps like you see in the NBA? No, stare down, stare in the way. I mean, even I have beef with a few guys and it's always been backstage. Like, yo, just stay the fuck out of my way, you know, and I see that a lot of yours. Yeah, that's it. You know, but it's like, you're going to make a move. That usually does the job. Yeah, but we're ready to make a move. I remember Gustavo back there was angry one year, 2005. Are you? No, no, not at me, just at the judges. And he's like, man, they didn't call us. You know, rest in peace, Gustavo. They didn't call us. You think they're trying to, you know, diminish the Latino bodybuilders? And I'm like, whoa, whoa. I said, Gustavo, you know, I don't want to start a riot, bro. I'm just trying to get over this Arnold and looking like crap, you know. I'm trying to come back a little bit better next time around. But it's one of those things that it's happened. I've seen it. There's been gym fights, obviously. What about Craig Titus, man? He almost fought somebody, right? Yeah, Craig Titus almost fought somebody. He had the rivalry with King Kamali. Yeah, King Kamali. Yeah, and they never made it a big thing. It was a thing in the magazines. Right, right, right. It was a back and forth on getbig.com and all that back then. You and Flex Wheeler had a problem, too, in a magazine. Flex Wheeler with Sean. Sean, everybody had beef with Sean, and Sean, you know, Sean's never fought anybody. Chris Cormier allegedly the story you never want to share with us. Yeah, yeah. We had love taps, me and Chris. That's all it was. It was. There was a video somewhere online circulating about that. The beef does happen. It's up there. Martin's beef with Nick Walker was not that big of a deal, but when you have so many people looking at millions of people, they're going to make it a thing. Yeah. For him to lose a sponsor, I think that was far-fetched. I don't know. The sponsors are a bit sensitive. Maybe they were going to do it anyways because of whatever reason. Maybe. But maybe it was a buildup. So, supposedly, Martin apologized to the judge. I guess, Germanion. He spoke to Germanion and Steve Wamburger, and then supposedly, like, he made a public apology as well, and I guess. Well, it's a little too late now, buddy. I mean, it's bad enough. People hate. They love to hate bodybuilders, you know. People that play sports. Crossfitters hate us, you know, for whatever reason, you know. Well, people make mistakes. We have enough hate, like, let's not hate on our own. If you're watching bodybuilding, you support bodybuilding. Well, you can hate on CrossFit. That's acceptable. I don't like on anything. I don't even hate curling. I love watching curling and all that. So, it's no sports for me. It's a hate. I appreciate any sport. And that's why I do hate Planet Fitness because they shit on bodybuilding all the time. Planet Fitness, actually. Do they? Yeah, Planet Fitness. That's why. Yes. They make the advertisements basically hating on us. So, that's the only, you know, thing or facility I do not like. A thoughtfully built wardrobe comes down to pieces that mix well and last. That's where Quinn's shines. Premium fabrics, considered design, and everyday essentials that feel effortless to wear and dependable. Even as seasons change. Quinn's has the everyday essentials that we love here at Generation Iron and that lasts. Lightweight cashmere sweaters. Lightweight cashmere sweaters. Short sleeve Mongolian cashmere polos. Linen bottoms and tops. Tees in 100% Pima cotton and European jersey linen. These are the versatile pieces that make a wardrobe actually work season to season. Quince works directly with top factories and cuts out the middlemen. You're not paying for brand markups or fancy retail stores. Just quality clothing. The cashmere is 100% Mongolian. The same stuff luxury brands use. The Pima cotton is a long staple, which means it stays soft and doesn't pill. Their clothing is rated between 4.5 and 5 stars by thousands of people wearing it every day. And they only partner with factories that meet rigorous standards for craftsmanship and ethical production. Everything is built to hold up to regular wear and still look good. For example, this cardigan that I wear from Quinn's has become my go-to. I wear it with my Generation Iron Tees. I wear it with anything I actually have during the day here at the office. Or if I want to go on a night out, it's a perfect complement to anything I wear for dinner. And it didn't cost a fortune either. Right now, go to quince.com slash Generation Iron for free shipping and 365 day returns. That's a full year to build your wardrobe and love it. And you will. Now available in Canada as well. Don't keep settling for clothes that don't last. Go to quince.com slash Generation Iron for free shipping and 365 day returns. Stop overcomplicating your wardrobe. You don't need a closet full of options. You need a few pieces that can complement you well. Quince.com slash Generation Iron. Speaking of hating us, I'm so like me to... I'm so like, no, he got eighth. And I said, didn't I say once, all you had to do was practice his posing. His posing was... I did say that. Yeah, it was blocky. It was stiff. Man, I think a Nazi could pose better than him. So perhaps Chris Bumstead really didn't help him out too much with the posing. I don't know. I think, you know... And to say he came and shredded. They've been getting training. They were training together a lot. They were training, but he needed to... So he needed posing training from Chris as opposed to just... I think the posing would have displayed his physique a little bit better. It was a little too stiff to stop and pose. He had no flow. Did he exceed your expectations or the other way around? Because eighth out of 10th place... It's not bad. I would have to say it's not bad. He came in. He was peeled. I would have to say also he did have the best tan. A lot of guys' tan was off. You know, he did have the best tan, but Wesley... You know, unfortunately, Mike Summerfeld didn't make it. Oh, that was another... I was calling for him, but he... Man, he created so much and issues up there. First, it was the Olympia. Some issue with the height. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That was one. So he didn't make the weight, basically. Didn't make weight. But now he goes to the Arnold. He doesn't make weight. That's the other issue. And now he's going to do Detroit. He didn't sign the contract, I think, a few minutes before it was due. So he didn't do it either? So he didn't do that either. I'm like, Mike, just, you know, huddle back with your team. Find out what's what. Mike, he's a very good bodybuilder, too. He's a very good bodybuilder. I had him winning the Arnold. You know, Wesley, again, congratulations. He did look great. You know, and he won Detroit, too. Wesley, a week later. That's crazy. So Wesley, he's out there with a freaking broom. He's sweeping across. But Mike, I was pulling for him. And unfortunately, this small thing that could have easily been avoided. And I think my biggest surprise of them all is his coach. I mean, you had to weigh him before he left. But you had to ask him, where's your weight? I know, right? Yeah. And it was. It seems like a silly mistake. Yeah, yeah. It was this silly putty mistake. It should have never happened. And you're a professional. Let's just hope this is not the you're doing up there. You know? It's like, I don't know if you expected something or you wanted them to let you slide. It's like, you got to come on point. You got to make that weight. You got to make that height. And you have to sign contracts at any given time. I don't think I've ever been laying on a contract. You know, we Dominicans. We're famous for that. I heard that Rafael Brandao dropped his coach, Neil Yoder Hill, after. I guess he didn't do as well as you hoped that he would have done, right? Yeah, Rafael. I didn't hear anything from him. I expected him to do well. You know, he had quite a long break. And, yes, that's what you have to do. It is a business. When you win, they'll take the money quick. When you lose, they like to, you know, not take responsibility. So that's the best thing you can do is just switch up. You have to drop him quick. It's not, you know, this is all a business. So, yes. His choice, you drop him. It's got to make sense so he can make those dollars. And then Hadi Chupan, there was a rumor, I guess, that he's retiring after he got third at the Arnold. Then they said that the rumor is false. He's going to be doing Arnold Classic UK, which is coming up very soon. But now he's saying he's not doing the show. So I'm not sure what that means. Do you think he actually retired or no? I don't think he should. He's still right. He's still looking great. I mean, it's not the Hadi we expected to see on that stage. But, again, you're coming, you know, we have, what, like two months or a month of the whole Iran war. Well, first it was before that. It was just because the whole regime killing their people out there. People say that he was supporting it. Yeah. They just pulled something out of a hat. They say it supported them because, and it's one of these things right now with the politics that's going on in this world, not just here in this country, but also in Iran and many other places, that if you don't say anything, you're basically, you think you're staying neutral, but it means you're complicit. Exactly. Because you're not saying anything. Right. You know, that's why, you know, I don't like Ventura anymore, you know, because of that crap. You know, he's trying to be neutral and everything. It's like, dude, you make your money out of freaking bachata and all that. What's his name? Romeo Santos. Romeo Santos. Yeah. Like, what is that, man? He just stays quiet. You know, he doesn't want to mess with his money, but he's got enough money to kind of say something. He just doesn't want to mess with it. He doesn't say whatever he wants. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So. But how do you also, do you know, is he, did he go back to Iran after the, like, or Dubai? I heard he might be living in Dubai. Like, do you know anything about what's going on? I don't know if he went to Dubai. They're dropping bombs there too, but I don't know where he went. I think he should just kind of, you know, let the dust settle. Yeah. Yeah. I think, and honey, Rombard has no involvement anymore. Not anymore. No. He was, he was allegedly dropped from Evagen Nutrition. Yeah. I don't know. Yeah. But man, he's, he had a good run. You know, he won the Olympia. Andrew Jack has always been behind him. So for Andrew Jack to surpass him at the Arnold, it has to be devastating, but it's bodybuilding, man. It's win and lose. Anything can happen, right? Anything can happen. I think he just needs to also regroup, just like Martin and just fall back. Right. But not yet, man. Not yet. You could still be making some good money, but I think the pressure that he's having for his mates, his Iranian mates or whatever, because now they're not so much of mates because they're attacking him. Right. So you guys should give him a benefit of the doubt. I don't know. Was he marching? Was he, is he getting gifts from the government? Does he work for the actual government? Maybe he's just being quiet because his family does live there. You guys, you got to be careful. Your family's there. Remember, they could hold them for ransom. They could make your life a living hell. Right. It's their country. But remember, for you not to like Iran is to, you not to like the government. The people in the government are two different things. Don't try to. 100%. Make it as a whole. All right. So I think we pretty much covered the Arnold. We have one more topic, which is a Patreon special. This was submitted to us by a listener, and it's a controversial topic, Vic. So, you know, it's got to be on Patreon. So guys, if you're not subscribed to Patreon, please check us out. All the films are available there for streaming. And of course, you can see uncensored episodes of the podcast and more. Yeah. Everything and all for one low price of $6.99. Exclusive movie shows, TV shows, all our series, all available to everybody for one exclusive low price. Now, the Patreon special question is... All right, guys. Thank you for joining us in this week's podcast. Remember, follow us, like, comment. If you want to see any of our prior podcasts, tune in to iHeartRadio, Apple Podcasts, or wherever you stream your podcast. Until next time, guys. And follow us on Patreon, all right? Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Thank you.