 Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res I haven't done Florida since early 2000 when it used to be good. I miss Miami. Club 11. Is that in the Mount Rushmore of clubs? Yeah. One-stop shop. Music, girls, and food. Yes. And then the finest, the Wilippa. She got a banion too? Yeah. Oh, she's pretty hot. Yeah, bro. She's too fine. Well, it's like, she's so fine, she almost looks fake. Yeah. Like, I can't even generate her. Hello, and welcome to this week's Generation 9 podcast. Your host, me, Victor Martinez, along with Edwin Mejia and Vlad Yudin. What's up, man? What's up, guys? Hope you guys stay warm out there. Snow is crazy, huh? Yeah. Back at HQ here in New York City after this massive snowstorm, which wasn't too bad, I guess, but... It was nice, man. It was nice, too. I enjoyed it. Shout out to all Albanians. Vic is repping. Albania, that's right. Repping. You know, my son's Albanian. So, just in case you guys are like, why does he have that shirt on? And it's because that makes me somewhat a fraction Albanian. You have a diverse family, bro. You have Jewish kids. You have Albanian kids. Hey, man. United Colors of Benetton. Yeah, man. United Colors of Victor Martinez. Victor's not discriminating. I don't discriminate. That's all, man. I level the field here. You celebrate the bar mitzvahs. You celebrate everything. Everything. I don't know any, you know, Dominican... I mean, sorry, Albanian bodybuilders, but... There's got to be some. There's a few. There's a few. Starting, you know, my son is a bodybuilder, you know. Is he? He's athletic, you know, in a way. Stay international, people. Come on. Nice. Don't hate because you don't understand. Understand it first. Exactly. Shout out to Transparent Labs. They sent you a recovery package. Yes. Thank you for the recovery package. This is great. You know, appreciate it. What did they put in there? So, this amazing Mag-AM-PM. That PM magnesium, guys, is probably my favorite product. Unless for my sleep. In this HQ office that we have here. You guys have to try that product. It is unbelievable. You will sleep like a king. Or queen. And I highly recommend it. They make protein cookies, too? So, they have protein bars. They have some of the best protein bars, as well. They've been supporting the podcast here. Shout out to Transparent Labs and, obviously, the support for the recovery of Vic, who's now looking stronger and bigger than everything. Every day. Every day. Every time we record, man, you're looking bigger. You're looking better and better each time, man. But remember, there's three things you don't mess with me. My sleep, my pizza, and my family. In that order? In that order. In that order. So, yeah. So, shout out to Vic. And I know, Vlad, we have some comments and questions that came in for Vic. And, obviously, maybe you could start there on your side with some comments. Before we talk about this. So, on the way here, we're talking about the Mount Rushmore of bodybuilding. Mount Rushmore. Somebody online posted, I think on Instagram. Let me see. Somebody posted their version of Mount Rushmore. Muscle Inside HQ. A debatable. Debatable Mount Rushmore. And they put Arnold Schwarzenegger, Ronnie Coleman, Phil Heath, and Dorian Yates. And I guess they put it in the order of Olympia wins. Although, they forgot about the game. Yeah. It's not the order of Olympia wins. It's just they favor it. But, again, if it was up to me, there will be six heads up there. But you can't do that. You got to do only four. Only four. Only four. Again, you know, with Arnold. Can't leave out Sergio Oliva, man. I just can't. I can't. As much as I try, it just comes to my head. Sergio Oliva. And he's got to be up there. Followed by, you know, Lee Haney, of course. And Ronnie Coleman. You know. That's four. That's four. And, again, no disrespect to, you know. Dorian Yates. Dorian Yates at all. Jake Cutler or Phil Heath. You can't leave him out. But it's four. You want to go with four. Why? There's no rule to it. So, let's put it up there with six heads. Come on. You wouldn't put Eugene Sandow on that list? Eugene Sandow. You know. Let's keep him in the circus. You know. Who are you talking about? No. Let's keep him in the circus. Was he a bodybuilder? Was he a circus performer? He was strong. He was strong. He was a sideshow. He was one of the main events. And I understand, you know, Joe Weider loved him for what he did. Entertainment and muscle. But, you know, we had a go with founding fathers within bodybuilding that contributed to bodybuilding. I would stick with my first four choices. I feel like Joe Weider might have found out about Eugene Sandow later because the original Olympias, they didn't even award a Sandow trophy. No. I don't know. They got 500 bucks or something, right? A thousand bucks. So, let's talk about the Joe Weider situation. So, on the last episode, you said specifically, I'm quoting, you said that Arnold made Joe Weider, not the other way around. So, we have a comment from a listener who is disagreeing with you. His name is JustSomeDude. He said, wrong. Weider made Arnold, not the other way around. Joe Finaness. Well, you hit me the wrong button. Wrong. That's what he said, bro. And then he said, Joe Finaness Arnold and propped him up everywhere as the face of IFBB. So, he's disagreeing with you. Anything you want to say to JustSomeDude? All right. All right. Look, look. I understand. I know Joe Weider, you know, was Arnold's sugar daddy. But I know Joe Weider gave Arnold the platform. Sugar daddy. I understand that. But remember, with that platform, Arnold made Joe Weider. You know, he needed Joe Weider. I mean, because Joe Weider was already here. It was established. Everything was said and done. But come on, man. It's Hulk Hogan to the WWF. You know? Same difference. You know? That's what it is. That's what it is. But at the end, Arnold ran away with it. Arnold pretty much started giving the, you know, the visuals. Started bringing the foot traffic. And that's what happened. But, you know, I mean, again, you can argue it. Yeah, of course. Whatever. But it was a platform. The Arnold pretty much, you know, just made them famous. And that's it. Well, JustSomeDude, you know, that's what Victor thinks. So, right there. I'm not going to break from it, you know. But thanks for your opinion. And, again, anybody can argue it. Joe Weider did his thing. But Arnold pretty much just delivered, you know. Top of that, he is Conan. You know, remember that. The more conversation we have with our audience, I think, is best. So, please, if you disagree with Victor here, let him know. Next, we've got the question of the day brought to us by Transparent Labs. Guys, if you want Victor to answer some of your questions, please type him in the comment below. Ed, what do we have? So, the question of the day comes to us from Cameron Hussain 578. And I thank you again, Cameron Hussain 578. Thank you for submitting your questions. Guys, make sure you continue to submit your questions for your chance of not only having the answer by Vic, but also having a chance to win a product and merch CI Generation Iron. Question for Vic. Vic, do you think Steve Weinberger has too much influence as a head judge of Mr. Olympia and Arnold Classic, seeing that he carries out private pre-competition assessments with some of the high-level competitors like Ryan Terry, for example? I don't think that's fair on lesser-known competitors at the Olympia or Classic. Interesting question. Vic, what do you think about that? Obviously, most people know the judging from East Coast Mecca. East Coast Mecca in many ways really brought that to the forefront. And audiences around the world were able to see how Steve Weinberger, the head judge of the Olympia and IFBB, was able to critique and judge people personally at his gym, at the Powerhouse gym in Sayacet. I know, Cameron Hussain, I know what you're trying to say. Today, Steve Weinberger might be biased because he's seen the most famous guys before the actual show. But you have to remember, he is an assessment. It doesn't mean he's going to give you a guaranteed win because his judgment at the end of the day is going to go by a panel, seven judges, he's one of them, and he's going to actually give his assessment to anyone. If he doesn't know you at all and you just take the trip and actually go see him, he'll assess you the same way. But at the end of the day, if that was the case, I mean, I'm from New York. You used to see him every weekend. He used to give me an assessment, and that didn't give me the 07 Olympia. So it's one of those things that you can argue, but if anybody, which if he don't know you from a hole in the wall, you can go in, he's going to give you a fair assessment. Guys just want, again, the critique from Steve. They want the breakdown. They want to hear something from the judge who's going to actually judge them. And in some cases, he doesn't even judge them, but he's going to give you a full breakdown. I mean, man, I wanted to compete once, and he broke it down to me that I sucked. And he didn't sugarcoat it. He didn't do any of that. And it's a breakdown. So unless, you know. Which we saw that on Generation Iron, actually. Yeah, it's not for the faint of heart, you know. If you're going to go in and think it's going to be a good assessment, and he's just going to blow smoke up your ass, you're in for a big surprise. I'm going to say, this guy brought up Ryan Terry, but anybody can, if Steve is in the gym, which he's usually is, right, he's there a lot. Like, if you go to the gym, if you talk to him nicely, he'll give you his opinion, from what I've seen. Anyone pro or not. Amateur, pro, up-and-coming, thinking about bodybuilding, dreaming about bodybuilding. And just go in. Go in and see him. Like, you know, like Vlad said, ask him nicely. You know. If you don't ask him nicely, you probably get that. Yeah, you can forget about it, you know. But he's saying here, do you think Steve Weinberger has too much influence as the head judge? I mean, he has influence as the head judge. No, he's too much. Of course he has influence, but too much? What is too much? You know, saying that because you have him first, three judges have him first, change him, you know, change that placing? No. I mean, I don't think so because, again, you know, I've never been a fan of the scorecards. I never looked at scorecards ever in my life. Right, right, right. I just remember first and second. That's it. Well, there you go. That's the answer. That's the answer. And thanks again, Vic, for answering those questions. And Transparent Last for supporting here the community of questions as well. So, I know. I don't know they're going to be happy with that answer, but I'll keep them coming. I don't know. Yeah. I don't know. Yeah, deal with it. No. Again, everybody can argue. Anybody's going to say Steve this, Steve that. And it's opinion, you know, social media now. Everybody's going to have their opinion. Right. You know, not always good, you know, but we're listening. You need to take your muscles to the max. Whoa there, Turbo. Do you even know what's in that stuff? Oh, yeah. See, most protein powders are filled with artificial sweeteners, food dyes, and filler. Really? I wouldn't put that stuff in my body. Neither would I. Transparent Labs is made with just a handful of all-natural ingredients without any of the weird stuff. Transparent Labs. Protein without the weird stuff. So, Kelly Muscle, the guy that you went back and forth with on this podcast, actually, he, very strange, very strange happens. According to reports, he was rushed into the hospital. He fainted during the workout. And then there was no update. Was there any update since that happened? Because I was looking for it. There was no update on this. Do you know anything by any chance? No, don't know anything. But, you know, we had our riffs before, disagreements before. And it's nothing crazy. It's just had to do with bodybuilding. Had to do with his opinion on certain things. Water, toilet paper, all that, whatever it was. But you know what? There's one thing about me I would never do. I would never, ever kick a man down while he's down. You know, and I don't think anybody should do that because right now he's going to need our good thoughts. You know, and people definitely pray for him. Yes, I agree. And, you know, we're not going to do that over here at Generation Iron. Kali Muscle, you know, we wish you a fast, quick, healthy recovery. And we want to see you up and about so we can argue some more and disagree some more or agree to disagree. But we're not going to do this here. And it's sad to hear that this happened to him. And we want him up and about and healthy, man. So our hearts to you, Kali Muscle. Hope he makes it through and he's very entertaining. Yeah, he will. He will. He's going to pull through whatever it is. And it's just those setbacks that happen in life, man. He's going to pull through, though. Come on. Isn't it crazy that you went through a situation as well? Yeah. Now he's going through a hell of a scare. Yeah, we all go through it, man. Don't be surprised that it could be anything, you know. Not just a heart issue. It could be anything. So let's just, you know, not wish bad on those because you could be next. You never know. Absolutely. So what do you think about Stallone's? He made a post. What is he? He's 78 years old. He's 79 now, I think. 79 years old. He's still training every day. The quote from him is every day gets harder and harder. But that's when you've got to push harder and harder, basically. Blood, sweat, and tears. What do you think about that at the 79? Do you think he's putting himself at risk of training hard? The 79? You've got to remember, you know, he's Sylvester Stallone. He's built differently, man. This guy was being shut down everywhere. And look, he financed his own movie and wound up being one of the best movies of all time. You cannot forget about him. You cannot leave him out. He's training hard. But when people remember, when you hear training hard from Sylvester Stallone, training hard at his level, his age, is he knows how to train. He knows how to push himself. Yes, I know some people can, you know, push themselves too hard to get injured. But Sylvester Stallone, he's just mentally strong at so many levels that, I mean, 79, he's still training. This is impressive. So knowing him, he's just, he's saying basically it's getting harder. He's 79. Age factor, you know, wear and tear. You know, there's a lot of factors to it, but he evolves. He finds a way to get it done, keep pushing forward. And, I mean, you've got to look up to him. I mean, if I'm training as hard as him at that age, I'll be happy. It's crazy. 79 is up there. I didn't realize Stallone was 79 years old. Me neither, man. We did not know. And, you know, bless him. Yeah, shout out to Stallone. Stallone, I mean, we had a chance to meet him at the Olympia several years ago. And I had a chance to actually shake his hand. He's a pretty amazing dude, stand-up dude from what I noticed and what I was able to learn of when I met him there. And he's still training. I mean, look, at the end of the day is we want to be able to feel like that and do the same thing and be able to come back and recover and get stronger. And as we age, there's always going to be challenges and limitations. But the key is to keep pushing through. And having people like that as an example is always great for the fitness, bodybuilding, strength space. What's your favorite Stallone movie? I think we spoke about that before. Stallone movie, man. What's a Mount Rushmore of Stallone movies? Rambo. Oh, man, Rambo. Rambo the first. Rambo, Rocky and Rambo. Yeah, Rocky and Rambo, but I think Rambo is like. Rocky and Rambo, but Rambo. Have you seen Cobra? Cobra was great, man. Cobra was great. I don't deal with cycles. I put them away. That's definitely one of his quotes on Cobra. Quick question. Outside of bodybuilding, Arnold or Sly? Oh, man. I will never back down on Arnold, man. I can't. I just can't. I admit. You know, she's one of the guys that, you know, I'm definitely part of the Arnold cult. I mean, I would ask our audience if you could leave a comment, Arnold or Sly. Please let us know in your comment sections because we're looking at you. Arnold, man, he's just, you know, when you're part of a cult, the person can be wrong at all levels and you still say or find out, you know, give them the benefit of the doubt. And a lot of us are doing it right now. So don't say you're not part of a cult. Arnold Classic or Olympian? Arnold Classic. Like all day, you know. That's why you don't like Joe Weider because. Nah, I mean, Joe Weider, I don't know. I mean, I met him once. You said, how do you get those arms? He was all right. Well, yeah, and to that effect, I mean, obviously, there's a lot of bodybuilders that have their opinions and people out there love the Olympia, love the Arnold. There's, at the end of the day, there's a lot of history in bodybuilding, on that bodybuilding stage at the Olympia as well. So, you know, one of the folks that just came out, champion bodybuilders, William Bonack. Yes. Yeah, what do you think about that? He recently came out. He said there's no brotherhood in bodybuilding anymore. Interesting, right? He said his enthusiasm for bodybuilding has pretty much faded. And today, he just doesn't see that body. Kind of like that brotherhood that you see in bodybuilding that you saw back in the day. What is your thoughts on that, Vic? Well, back in the days, we used to compete. We actually hung out after. Now, people compete and they go right to their rooms and stay on social media, probably. That's what's going on. People are just social media. That's their world. That's their whole, you know, again. What does that mean you can't compete anymore? I did notice there's a big difference. Back in the day, when we would go to the Olympia in like 2013. We would notice how people were always kind of more united, I feel like. We were kind of like it was a different. Not feeling Ky Green. They hated each other back then. Yeah, well, you know, you always had your rivalries. But you kind of felt a little bit more of a unity. Not to say that there isn't a unity today. I think that you have different individualism. There's more individualism today, I think, in bodybuilding. I see where William Bonack is coming from. Obviously, I'm not a bodybuilder. But we see that, you know, documenting a lot of our projects backstage. And we see that. But that's a question for you, Vic. It is a question for you. What's happening? See, when I started competing, I always had a hangout crew. You know, I was just going to dinner with, you know, Dexter Jackson, Flex Wheeler, Ronnie Coleman. Well, we competed. After we competed, we used to hang out, snap at each other. I still remember Ronnie Coleman making fun of Dexter, calling him one time. You one time. You one time. You know, it's like regardless of whatever we argued about or debated about, disagreed about, we would eat, hang out, talk back and forth. Flex, especially, snapping on everyone and, you know, talking about his accolades and telling you you only won. You only did two shows. Or you did 20 shows. You got only one top five placement. And it was just fun. It was fun. We hung out. We snapped at each other. And now it's just gone. Like I said, people just disappear into their own little caves. Well, what about Doreen Yates? He would disappear after the competition, before the competition. He would show up once a year to do the show. What about that? That's before he came out with the black and white pictures. Again, that was different. He's from England. He was living in England. Different. Yeah, it was just different. But Doreen Yates, after he stopped competing, he's one of the guys you want to hang out with. You know, Doreen Yates was, you know, once I personally met him, aside from getting his autograph in 94 at a show, it was when I met him in 2001. And I just started, you know, competing in the pro ranks ever since then. And, I mean, we see, you know, Doreen Yates always hung out with him. And it was, you have that, you know, relationship where you guys could hang out, ask him a question. He's from Birmingham, right? I get it. Birmingham, yeah. Yeah, which we spent a lot of time with Doreen and Doreen Yates, the original Masked Monster, for those people that want to check out that movie. They told me this is Birmingham. Yeah, so that movie, he's on Prime. I mean, for people who don't want to check it out, I think he's on Prime. And Patreon also. And Patreon, so make sure you guys tune in to that. It's an incredible movie. We go through Birmingham. We go to actually his home in Spain as well, south of Spain. Malabella, yeah. Malabella, which is beautiful. Beautiful. And really, we see him now with Huberman doing, you know, podcasts, training, workouts. And people kind of will go behind the scenes now to see his work. And you see all that in the Doreen Yates original Masked Monster movie. But people have this affinity with Doreen because Doreen really is a personal person, really likable, really easy to talk to, but incredible charisma. But he has a lot of insight. But what's up with him? I mean, first of all, I'm a fan of Doreen Yates. Obviously, we've had a movie on him. But he's saying some interesting things. He wanted some podcasts and he said that a Brennan Curry is the worst Olympian. Why say stuff like that? It's Doreen Yates. Remember, he's going to gauge everything based on his ability and what he did to change the sport. You know, the graininess, the striations, the hard training. And it was just that the black and white pictures that he evolved from, you know, when he won his first Olympia to when he showed up on his second. It's quite offensive to say things that he says. It's not. Did he say that for real? Yeah. I think I missed that. I mean, listen. Brandon Curry is a friend of mine, again, that's Doreen Yates' opinion. Yeah. It's an opinion. I mean, look. Brandon Curry is like the nicest guy. Yeah. I mean, literally the nicest guy. That's what I'm saying. Why do you say this about him? Come on, Vic. He literally is like the nicest guy. He could have said that about any Mr. Olympia competitor at that day. Why say that at all? Who's the worst Mr. Olympia? I know, but he also said that the top five has the worst condition ever than any Olympians in history. You know? It's a lot of things Doreen Yates says. Well, it's his opinion. But he is, you know, six-time Mr. Olympia. He's credible, of course. And he's credible. Come on. You know? I mean, his opinions matter. I know it's not going to land well with the people that are receiving the opinion. And it's never good. But you got to remember, that's the world now. And that's what you get. You know? Somebody's going to get different opinions. And all you can do is answer back if you like. You know? If you don't like it, answer back and debate him on it. But, you know, we can agree to disagree with him and put it on paper or put it on text online. Fellas, you already know what time it is. It's time to level up. Blue Chew Gold is the newest innovation from the number one chewable ED brand. This ain't your grandpa's little blue pill. This is the 4-in-1 beast that's setting the gold standard. We're talking two ingredients for blood flow and to keep that rocket pumping. Mixed with apomorphine and oxytocin to turn up arousal and connection in your brain and body. Blue Chew Gold dissolves under your tongue and works in as little as 15 minutes. That means you can get in the game quicker and stay in the game longer. And we've got a special deal for our listeners. Get up to 10% off your first month of Blue Chew with code GENERATIONIRON. Again, that's code GENERATIONIRON. Visit BlueChew.com for more details and for safety information. And we thank Blue Chew for sponsoring our podcast today. So back to Bonak. He's saying he lost passion. That means he's probably not going to compete anymore, I'm assuming, right? Or he's going to stop competing. I mean, it looks like he doesn't want to continue competing. I feel like he's done everything he could competing. And plus now, I mean, he's done great in the bodybuilding circuit. Why not pull back a little and enjoy your family? Enjoy your time and just get a little healthy and get out of it. But I know that feeling where you kind of like doing it. You don't feel like showing up anymore. Like all the sacrifices you make to compete. And then your placement is not coming out. And I think he did pretty good in the last few placings, you know? I think you hit the nail on the head. Placings are not as good. Yeah, but I still think he did pretty good. But the passion, you know, dies out with age. That's how it starts happening, you know? You kind of start reevaluating your priorities. It's bodybuilding my priorities. And you start focusing on the time you spend away from your family, which was like, man, you know? I can't picture myself competing now at this age, obviously. But because my kids are older and now that time I spend with them, taking that away from them, it's going to be a little hard. I always liked Bonak. I thought he was so close. Yes. So close to winning the Olympics. Especially, remember there was like a period of like when Phil Heath was on the way out. He stopped competing in Phil Heath right after 2020. I thought it was like Bonak's time, you know? Yeah, I mean, he's also an Arnold Classic winner, of course, right? So we've documented it. We've interviewed him backstage. And he's an incredible spokesperson. He's a really good person. So shout out to William Bonak. And I'm sure he's glad. William, man, you did it, man. It's not everybody's cup of tea. He could be a straight-up guy, frank guy, and he'll tell you like it is. And you can't handle it, you know, just pull away, man. Because you'll get a William Bonak slap, which I still haven't seen. What's that? What? Well, again, I haven't seen. No, I'm saying it's like you don't like him. You step to him, you're going to get a Bonak slap, which I haven't seen again. A lot of people that step to him, they know it's coming. That's why they have second thoughts. Yeah, yeah, he doesn't look at the type of guy that's afraid to speak his mind. So that's for sure. Oh, yeah, he's always speaking his mind. For sure. So next, guys, we have a Patreon special. If you're watching this on YouTube, please subscribe to our Patreon. Because the next question is a bit controversial, right? Yeah, Patreon now. So, Vic, question for our Patreon members. And that question is, have you ever taken BPC-157? And is it being sold and promoted as a... But it's banned by anti-doping agency because I guess if you can use it. Yes. I mean, anti-doping, freaking, I mean, they banned Tylenol, I think, too. That's crazy. So they banned everything. But, again, if you're not doing any Olympics, obviously, if you are a teen, I wouldn't recommend it either, you know? Why take a risk on something that's going to hurt your career, hurt your sport, or give you that stigma of you use something that was banned, you know? Stay away from it. And why risk it, you know? Yeah, I mean, look, these things are going to continue to propel people to want to use them, especially the feedback from other athletes, you know, peptides are in many ways what people describe as amino acids, right? Yes. That are... It's a chain of amino acids that help with a variety of, you know... Yeah, it's banned, but it's not illegal. Right. It's a gray area, so it's still evolving. Yeah. And there's a lot of coaches. If you're a worker with a trunk of 1,000 BPC-157, and you're not going to get charged, you know, just in case you're a pusher out there. Sounds like cannabis. Or dealer. Yes. Well, that being said, again, guys, education is all of it. You know, ask your doctor before you move on forward. We're not recommending to use it, but that's our opinion. And, again, choose your doctor for any advice or recommendation towards it, and rejuvenation clinics. If you guys really want to know more, your doctor will know the best advice. All right? There you go. Well, that was a Patreon special, guys. If you don't unsubscribe yet, please give it a try. It's only $6.99. $6.99. You get exclusive access to unreleased footage from many of our films, like Rich Piana. You have a lot of movies like Generation Iron Series, Ronnie Coleman the King, many other titles that are on there that are available on Prime and Netflix that are available to stream exclusively on Patreon at any time. I binge watch anywhere at any moment. All right, guys. Thank you for listening to this week's Generation Iron episode. Remember, if you want to see in our prior episodes, tune in to iHeartRadio, Apple Podcasts, or wherever you stream. Thank you. Follow us, like, and remember, join Patreon. Get that exclusive. Till next time. Peace. Hormone replacement therapy, HRT, TRT, testosterone replacement therapy. They all kind of go into the same bucket of hormones. Men and females, they all have the same exact hormones. For males, they need more testosterone than females. And for females, we need a little bit more estrogen than males. Basically, what that means is if you get your blood work done, your testosterone's low, we try to get it to an optimal level. We walk into where our medical assistants would be. They're contacting patients all throughout the day, making sure patients are feeling good, looking good, and performing their best, making sure they're hitting their goals, making sure they're tolerating the medication properly, and everything is going well. Patient care and patient service is number one to us. And if they have any questions, concerns, issues, then we're taking care of them, too, as well. A TRT company or Titan Medical, what they do is they make people healthy, and they get people to really live the dream of life. It's one of those things I always say, do you want to live a long life or a quality of life? And that's what Titan Medical does. Titan Medical Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res Res