 Hello and welcome to this week's Generation 9 podcast. Your host, me, Victor Martinez, your host, me, Victor Martinez, along with Essan Ferrari, Vlad Yudin, and Edwin Mejia. Welcome. But first, I want to start out by saying congratulations to Essan here. Congratulations on your engagement. It's beautiful. Like, I guess I was on a rock, but well-deserved, great man. And I'm sure you're going to make a very happy as you already have. Thank you. Yeah. And also, thank you, Transparent Labs, for this amazing product you have. No binders, no fillers, all freaking great equipment. I mean, great equipment. Great supplements. Great gear. I'm selling too much equipment. Yeah. But guys, right now, we're going to start off with question of the week. Remember, you're going to get a nice goodie bag of Transparent Labs. Yeah. Shout out to Transparent Labs for the, not only supporting the podcast, but delivering on quality ingredients here. More importantly, on their grass-fed protein and pre-proteins, and obviously, the line of products. Make sure you check them out. They have a core strength series now that is doing really well. So, shout out to them. The first question of the day- Well, actually, two questions, they're both related to nutrition, Vic. So, no gear question this time. Yeah. So, Vic selected these two questions. And one of them comes to us from K-I-Y underscore bodybuilding. And what is your favorite breakfast meal? What is your favorite meal at the end of the day? And how much protein and fat do you eat in these meals? Oh, man. For my breakfast, I've been eating the same breakfast for the last, I don't know, 20 plus years, probably 25. It's simple. It's effective again. And it's just meets the purpose, which is a cup of oatmeal. I used to die with that when I competed, a cup of oatmeal. When I competed, it was about two ounces of fruit. Now I'm not. So, I eat about four ounces of fruit, strawberries, blueberries, blackberries, a little bit of brown sugar. What else? I like it lumpy, not soggy. Very particular on my oatmeal. Also, I do, instead of the 14 eggs I used to do before, now I do eight eggs. Five whites, eight whole, making eight eggs. And it's about, I don't know, give or take about five, 550 calories, maybe. I don't know, maybe about 40, 50 grams of protein. Feel good. Never feel sick. And every once in a while, add a waffle, man. It's not gonna kill your protein waffle, you know. Now I'm adding that Zen waffle. So, that jacks up my protein to almost 60 grams. And it's, yeah, as a breakfast, a champion. It's good and it's delish. And the waffles, not much carbs, you know. The carbs again will be about, maybe about 30, 40 grams, you know. It's a good, you know, breakfast to start the day. It won't jack up your stomach and you'll be energized for the first half of your day. And I'm telling you, it'll last a good four or five hours with a good amount of energy, you know. What about your dinner? Dinner, again, I flip-flop with dinners. I either go, I'm only eating steak twice a week, as opposed to back in the days, which was every day. You cut down. Yeah, yeah. I'm not gonna go crazy on the steak, you know. Again, it's for obvious reasons, health reasons. I don't wanna have all this steak and I'm not pushing the amount of weight. I'm not doing that crazy cardio I used to do. So I go from the state twice a week at night. I go to, I switch to fish or chicken. Again, about eight ounces and a serving of my Korean ready-to-cook rice because I don't cook a big pot of rice anymore. So these Korean rice, they're just as good as cooking fresh rice and you don't have to go throw some rice away because with the cooker, you do so much rice. Yeah. You wind up throwing so much your weight. So with this, it gives you about 200 grams of rice. So, and that's- How much protein is that? Man, it's probably about 50 to 60 grams too. Again, so the protein, my protein amount is, is again, I'm 235. No, I'll probably be about 200 grams. Again, not too much. Again, I'm not trying to get bigger. I'm just trying to maintain my weight now, 235. So I'm not fluctuating all over the place. And if I miss one, I think I lose a couple of pounds, but it's all right. I replace it with pizza and I gain it right back up. And the next question is exactly like directly related to that. Yeah. And that comes from, it's from Michael Evans, HB5NS. And that question is, do you prefer all solid food meals or a meal shake rotation? Question mark. Now I kind of know the answer to that, but I'll let Vic answer that. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, obviously the way to go is, is solid food meal, but, and this is a big, but because a lot of times you don't have the time to have a sit down and eat a full solid meal. So the shakes are very important. One for after the gym workout, you don't want to just wait till you eat a solid meal, digest, wait for it, you know, and to be processing your stomach. You basically want a shake. That's the most effective shake is after the workout. Also you're working for all the working guys out there, FedEx police officers, all you guys always out there on the grind. A shake is not bad. You know, I'd rather you guys have a shake out there than miss a meal. So the shakes either way, they're both good. They both each have their purpose. You have the time, eat a full meal. Don't have the time. Always have the shake ready in a dry cup. Again, all you have to do is either add water. Some of you guys are still babies. So add your milk. I recommend transparent labs. I recommend transparent labs for that. Of course. Easy to shake. Easy to mix. Easy to mix. Tastes great. And, uh, you know, stay strong guys. Come on, man. Nutrition first. Yeah. So shout out to those guys for selecting those questions. We're going to actually start giving out, uh, some nice apparel and some actual, uh, gift bags for people that submit their questions. So continue to submit questions in your comments. Um, and then we're going to be selecting, Vick is going to be selecting at least two questions every week. Yeah. And we'll be sending out what it should be in a, you know, a new, uh, gift bag. We'll, we'll, we'll reveal that gift bag next week, but for those who keep submitting the questions, please do so. You need to take your muscles to the max. Whoa there turbo. Do you even know what's in that stuff? Oh yeah. See, most protein powders are filled with artificial sweeteners, food dyes, and filler. Really? I wouldn't put that stuff in my body. Neither would I. Transparent Labs is made with just a handful of all natural ingredients without any of the weird stuff. Transparent Labs protein without the weird stuff. So important, right? Pittsburgh pro just passed. Um, and I guess it was somewhat of a controversial decision. I don't know because our Derek Lunsford obviously won it. You guys predicted it. I hear someone rough. Everybody now, not everybody, but a lot of people in the comments, I heard people saying, Nick got robbed. Nick got second place. And I don't know. I, from what I saw was very tight battles. But what's interesting is that the scorecards came out and the score is even 15, 15. Yeah. It's, but they gave, the judges gave the decision to, to Derek Lunsford. It's the first time I, I mean, I know this is common in the past, but I, this is the first time I've seen an even scorecard like this. I've never seen it. Uh, and I think the reason why they called them out again to come on stage was to kind of showcase for the judges. So the judges could make a final decision. But I think Nick Walker made a huge statement, right? Because to go up against a former Mr. Olympia, who just came out winning the, or Arnold, um, he came out basically swinging and looked really good on stage and obviously had a ability to win that show. Vic, what is your opinion on these, like, even scorecards? And what is your opinion of Derek winning the, the, I don't understand even scorecards. You know, you usually have five judges, seven. I don't think it's ever even judges. I know I'll either give them first in the morning, second at night, did the switcheroo at the end of the day. It was, uh, you know, you flip the coin. And, and one of the things I want to add to this is, uh, I think when I heard about the tie, I saw Bob go on. I was going to ask you, I was going to ask you, you think Bob came in and just like, no, no, he came in and I saw, and then he put something in the scorecard to just like influence the decision a little bit. Well, we spoke about that before. It could be. Well, what he said, not me, he said that when you do have a tie, when it does come down to a tie that they actually have to go to highlight their weaknesses. That's what's going to bring the person to the, you know, ahead of second, but, but by highlighting the weaknesses here, just, just people to clarify the people, what does that mean? Um, I don't know. I think he mentioned Nick's varicose veins, which is, you know, I didn't think that was a thing, but if the way is negative point or bad, why did they get tie? How did they get tie? Yeah. Like why is it, if, if he has a weakness, why he gets tie to the other person? Listen, man, all I know is again, I'm not going to count on scores. I'm the guy that's actually never, ever, ever to this day, really looks like scorecards. It's like, I think for me, it's kind of like, you know, uh, so if you look at this, if you look at the scorecard, pre-judging Nick Walker win and at the final, which is day after direct launch for me, but you got to combine the points and it's 15 and 15. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I have a question. I have a question. Do you agree pre-judging Nick Walker win? I mean, I saw pictures. Um, when I saw the pictures again, I wasn't there, but from the pictures alone, Nick look crazy. So I can only imagine in person, he just looked crazier. Crazier. Yeah. So when somebody wins or, or basically in the past, when I've lost, I lost because of condition, you know, somebody else had condition. So, I mean, Nick had the most superior condition up there. Did you see his back? He was just, bro. He, he built up his thing. He looked good from the back and the front. What about his legs? People say that Derek Lundsard's legs are pretty solid, but I mean, Derek's legs look good from the back, but for some reason it is a strong point, but for, it just looks weird in the front. I don't think his legs look so superior in the front. And when you put them through the front, it's like Nick just looks, you know, um, better again, you have to also remember Derek is, or was Mr. Olympia says a little higher. And also, with this play out, um, Nick missed out what two shows, the first, the Olympia, then the Arnold. Could that affect it? I don't know. Probably not. Maybe I'm just starting another freaking. What do you think about Bob's statements about his veins and all that? What do you think? He said the veins and then also, Bob, you know, I love you, man, but it's, it's, uh, well, I don't know. I don't know about this tie thing. I know, um, you know, Derek is, he does look good. I do like Derek's balance, physique balance better. You know, his aesthetic will be better, but Nick was just, uh, he came all freaking mutant like. Yeah. He looked like me. Yeah. And he was huge. I mean, I thought, you know, Chris all was going to come in and make a statement, but Chris all, you know, fell a little bit behind. What place he got? Sixth place. Yeah. Like fifth place. Yeah. And, but, but Nick was just, uh, he was there to kill man. And, and Derek, I mean, he came off a second, the Olympia, he won the Arnold. Um, I don't know why he wanted to do the, uh, Pittsburgh. That's right. I don't, I don't understand that either, actually. Yeah. Yeah. Only because, I mean, if he's going to come back to the Arnold, I mean, the Olympia and face off Samson again, I think the rest time could have done him some good, you know, but he chose to do it. He won. Maybe he wanted to show respect to, uh, to Jim Mannion and then show up and compete. I mean, I think so too. I think, I think it's the first one. Respect and the show value of show goes up. Yeah. Yeah. But like classic champion, Mr. Olympia champion is in the show. Do you guys agree that, that Derek Lungsford is having the best year of his career, even though he lost the Olympia last year, he came back, beat Samson, the guy that beat him. And now he won another show. Not, not just the best year, the last few years, but this one is like a, it's like a comeback. No, this one's great. I wish I would have gone, you know, but my daughter was performing that weekend, you know, she did Hadestown, you know, and, uh, it's just, I keep singing the tunes in my head, you know, but I keep having the, the beats, but, um, I wish I would have gone to Pittsburgh to really have unbiased opinions being there. It's a big difference when you're there and then you have selective photos circulating. Yeah, definitely. But then, uh, you start hearing the comments and I think 70% of the people are saying Nick should have won, whatever, but a lot of people are saying you should have won. They're saying that, but like Bob said, he does have a huge fan base and Nick is, uh, he's, um, you know, basically making bodybuilding fun because he's, he's going at it. He's, he's, his confident level is just crazy. It's just, I don't know if it's confident made the decision to the judges, not for him to win. And now he has to do the New York pro, which he's going to win. Which everybody's saying he's going to win. Cause I mean, you send them the trophy, give them the qualification. Let's just do the New York pro with from second to five. And that's it. I mean, yeah, you got, you got the new pro lineup lineups just came out obviously not too long ago. Um, obviously we're going to, we're going to be highlighting that we're going to have our team at the New York pro this year, but the quote, you know, you have Nick going up against now, Derek is not going to be at the New York pro, but he's going to be going up against William Bonac. He's going to be going against Reagan Grimes and also, uh, what's this guy's name? Michael Chris. Michael Chris. Yeah. I think he's also going to be in it too. I'm sure. Not sure. But yeah, no, those three names are going to be. What is Michael Michael Criszo lacking? You think after seeing him at the Pittsburgh, what's, what's preventing him from he's got to work his neck, got to do some neck movements. He needs more muscle to me. He need more size. He's the, with the surgery, he lost a little size. He individually, if you look at him, he's huge. He's big, but as a height wise, he has, he need more muscle. He's, he's hiding exactly like a big Rami, but he's not that big. Yeah. That's what it is. His condition is always one of his strongest points. Um, but now going into New York pro you have Martin also, he's coming back. Martin is good. I think Martin becomes good. Yeah. Can count Martin out. So yeah, I'm not sure if Martin, I think Martin might be in it. I'm not a hundred percent sure, but we'll push that. I hope Martin is in it because he's going to have some. He needs a qualification too. Why not a week out and not deciding to do New York pro is crazy. That's just nuts. But, um, I think he's smart enough to actually do the New York pro, you know, New York pro is one of the craziest shows. I mean, the, the fan base here is crazy, but, um, I think Martin should do it. Chris always going to move up a few spots. I don't know if he's going to get it together by then. Um, and my friend, Daniel, uh, Reyes, he's doing a physique. Oh yeah. Yeah. First show. Do you think Nick not winning at Pittsburgh pro, even though it's a tight score, right? Do you think mentally going into obviously let's say he gets qualification in your pro, but now he's going to Olympic, he knows he lost to Derek, for example, mentally. He's like, it's going to affect him. No, I think, I think he shouldn't look at it like that personally. No, yeah, I don't think so. I think he should look at it as a huge, huge, like, you know, bargaining chip or, or, or, you know, a huge benefit for him to go into the Olympia because look at the, look at the Knicks. I mean, the Knicks are in the playoffs. Nobody expected them to be fired up. He has to be looking like this right now. Someone else win the show, but everyone talk about him. No. Everyone talk about Nick Walker. No one talk about champion. Yeah. So this is, this is the champion. This is a champion for. There's a people's champion. People's champions. Exactly. Yeah. I mean, this is the win-win situation. Shout out to Nick, man. I mean, he has a lot of haters out there. Yeah. And it comes with the territory, you know, it comes with the hate. It comes with the territory. They went very quiet, very quiet this past week. But he delivers. He's not the one that shows up and not looking great. He always comes in. He was very calm on the stage, chewing the gum, very relaxed. Yeah. Squeezing. I'm happy. I'm happy painting his face though. Top two parties. Yeah. And shout out to Kyle Wilkes, his coach who's told, who's, you know, we've been working with. He's someone that is going to be, I think one of the most prominent coaches in the entire industry for a long time. In fact, he's going to, he's like the new coach in our opinion. A lot of people don't know who he is. Most people, the insiders know who he is. But Kyle Wilkes has been telling us, Vlad and I, that Nick Walker is going to really surprise. And he did. And shout out to him for, for preparing him too. So. Yeah, for sure. What about any other division? So Terrence Ruffin won, won the classic. Terrence Ruffin. Yeah. Yeah. It was his show. This guy is just right now. You think he's going to win the Olympia? I think this year, I think he has what it takes to win the Olympia. No? I don't know. I mean, I don't know. No, it was, no, actually, he got the guy who won, who got second last year, Michael. Michael. Yeah. Yeah. German guy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He's, uh, his condition is next level, man. He's coming. What did you guys think about the men's physique division? I think that was the most surprising out of all of them because you saw Brandon. Yeah. Brandon Hendrickson, who was a former Olympia champion, right? I, I was, I was looking at Brandon. Brandon become a little bit off, especially for the back, lower back. But the person won. Aaron Banks. Aaron Banks, three years ago, he was Mr. Olympia champion. No, he's great. No, he's great. So. I would be surprised if Brandon went to fourth place, not second. Yeah. I think that was the biggest surprise. Yeah. He, he, he, he could be, he could be like at second or third, not all fourth. Right. But, uh, he's, he, he going down, I don't know what happened. He doesn't have that crispy look like a four or five years ago. Really? Yeah. He's, he, he put it so much size compared to five years ago, he get bigger, but as a conditioning wise, especially for the obelux and the lower back is not that sharp like before. So bank had tall, crispy skin, great shape, big shoulder is exactly the judge wants for the physique. Interesting. So you said Kriza needs a neck muscle. Well, I mean, come on, man, work your neck, man. It's just, it's kind of a little distracting. He needs to work out with Nexilla. Yeah. Nexilla. Give him one of his fricking, one of his neck routines and stuff. I don't know what's happening with Nexilla. Yeah. What's happening with Nexilla? Is he, is he trying to qualify for this year as one period? I don't know. I mean, I don't think it's qualification is one thing, getting into a country is another. You know, I think that's the issue he had last time, you know? So right now we at the Iran, we have a one athlete, Beru Stobani. Beru's it's five years right now behind the Mr. Olympia. He get qualified for Mr. Olympia. Like how did Chupan? How did Chupan after 30 years, they're walking right now. He's, this is the five years. This is the fifth years. He's stuck in behind the door. And last year he win the Dubai pro. And this year, again, he wants to compete for Dubai pro too, but he can't come into country, unfortunately. Well, you know, he needs Hany Rombat to come and run the letter because Hany Rombat is pulling the strings over there in Iran. I don't know what he's doing, but he's doing something with the administration. So he needs to talk to Hany. Hany. I mean, I believe, I believe he talked to Hany, but I believe it's not that simple we talk to, you know? Hany Rombat worked for Hadi Chupan more than a year until he come to this country. And he was his ambassador for his company. So it's very difficult if you have a sponsorship in this country, which because these companies build up this country and they, this company taxes for this government. Of course. So if it doesn't have that sponsorship or ambassador for that, this company is not coming to show, to competition. Sure, sure, sure. It's like, it's just like baseball. If you live in Cuba and you're an all-star and you're you're trying to get signed, you just need to get on that boat. Exactly. Exactly. And be a full-time. Yeah. Well, I guess we'll see what happens and hopefully Nick will, you know, dominate. No, he's going to light up the stage at the New York Pro. And again, he just need that reset. I want to say something. If Beru Stobani this year come to Mr. Olympia, he beat Nick Walker. Please record this. Oh man. If, that's a big if, man. Yeah, because. I mean, if can. I mean, I hope, I hope Nick Walker goes to Dubai. Is the qualification still holding? Is the qualification still holding? No, he, he, he easily get qualified. Bro, you know Beru Stobani. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You're posing with him. Yeah, but what was his last show that he qualified? Dubai Pro. No, this year? Last, last year. This year is two weeks right now. Yeah. It's two weeks off right now. Can't do it. I think you have to re-qualify every year now. No, every year. He's doing it. Yeah, all right. I'm, I'm, I'm suggest. I hope he makes it. I hope Nick Walker go to Dubai. It's a hundred thousand dollar, man. That's a good prize money. A hundred thousand dollar, Nick Walker. I have to across the world. Just think about it. Go over there, proof yourself. All right. You have it, folks. Another challenge for Nick. Derek is not enough. All right. I see. Well, this is the fastest episode we ever had, but moving forward, remember, if you want to see him a prior episodes, please tune into our heart radio, Apple podcast, or wherever you stream your podcast. Remember, follow us and like, and appreciate your support. Until next time. Peace.