 I remember, I remember, I remember, I remember, I remember, I've been injured, you know, I have, you know, torn knee, broken arm, operated back twice, that didn't stop me. K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K K appreciate you guys tuning in. We want to give a special thanks to our sponsor at Transparent Labs. They keep supporting us and make sure you guys check out their products and their line of products which have incredible ingredients, very little funny stuff, 100% grass-fed protein, also a great line of magnesium products that we really, really recommend. The question that we have two questions. The first question comes to us from Blade4FA and the question is, how did Victor Martinez beat Dexter Jackson at the Arnold Classic? Full details, please. Thanks. Very easy. Very easy. I'm just kidding. Well, one thing you guys can't say is luck because I don't have any, all right? So it's not luck. So forget about that one, all right? Well, it was one of those things where I always, you know, watch Dexter compete. I always, and I keep saying it, and I'll say it again, he's the most consistent bodybuilder ever. And that year, we had done the Olympia. We have gotten top four. And then now we're going, obviously, there's a new Arnold that year. So now I'm excited. There's a new Arnold in Spain. Love Spain. Love my españoles. Hola, tío. Como están todos? It was, it's coming. It's coming near. And then I hear the only person that's doing the Arnold Spain is Dexter Jackson. So I'm like, man, if I could just beat Dexter, man, if I could just go because I was supposed to compete with him one-on-one, you know, not one-on-one, but at the show of strength in 2004, he pulled out because they, you know, lower the prize money. So now he's saying he's doing the Arnold Spain. And I said, man, I want to do it, man. If I could just beat Dexter. So I was so focused on competing with him. And also I had a few things that were going against me. One, ICE told me if I left the country, they're going to arrest me. So I wasn't going to let that deter me. And I just prepared. I kept on going after the Olympia. I kept, you know, start looking at Dexter, watching his posing. And there we are in Spain, go head to head. And one of the things Dexter said while we were, you know, doing the pose down, Dexter said, man, Vic, that's it, man. Let's stop posing. Let's walk off. And he goes, and I said, okay. So I'm walking. I see him walking off and I kept posing. Did that help? I mean, I don't know, but all I know is I had to do something more because I'm competing with one of the greats. And, uh, he was trying to get you to go off stage. Yeah. Cause Dexter got tired of posing, man. Let's walk off, bro. I think that was 2008. Yeah. No, no, that was 2011. 2011. Yeah. Yeah. 2011. And again, this is, he had won Mr. Olympia already, you know? So, I mean, I think you beat Mr. You beat the Mr. Olympia basically. Yeah. And again, it's, it's, um, I always tell people, I know a lot of people compete in these shows because one, they, they think nobody's going to compete in it. Oh, not that many people signed up. It's an easy win. But remember when you win a show that is stacked or when it has a few top competitors, it's just better. It just makes it better, you know? So challenge yourself. And, uh, me seeing that Dexter was going to be there for most people. Yeah. They probably dropped out, you know, they didn't want to do it, but for me, it was motivation. And, uh, I'm so happy I got to win and, you know, to a great opponent, I mean, Dexter, but, uh, right now he does have the most win of any IFAB, you know, competitor. And, uh, so it was an honor to compete and have been him that one time. Yeah, man. You know, it's funny. You beat him, you beat him at the peak time because he win Arnold, Ohio, and you beat him after two, three weeks later on in Spain and he win on Mr. Olympia a few months later. So he was in the peak, peak, peak, peak. And I remember I was dry and I, and I asked, I saw Flex Wheeler there and I go, Flex, what do you think? Am I dry enough? He goes, you're competing with Dexter. Not yet. So I went to some extreme to a point that I was just drying out, but obviously not thinking water, not thinking anything. I really had my eye on the prize. So, uh, as I said, it wasn't luck. It was just sheer prep and hunger to beat the best. That's it. Do you remember it was a couple of years when Arnold Classic spread on every continent? They had one in Europe, then they had one in Australia, there was one in Asia and there was one in South Africa and Brazil as well. Yeah. So, and at that point, that specific year, a lot of people did not show up to those competitions. So then some people won, became Arnold Classic champions where there was very little competition. Not like Dexter Jackson was there. Yeah. But remember also when the, uh, the two IFBB shows, you know, the better one and the not so good one broke up, you know? Oh yeah. Yeah. They had these, you know, uh, there's an Arnold Classic, Spain is always was there always right now. There's replacing to the UK. So they take off the Spain called Arnold Classic Spain or Europe Europe Europe Europe Europe Europe Europe Is it still there? It's still there under elite Federation. That's the, yeah. That's how much? That's from the Dr. Raphael. That's what we're talking about. It's called the elite pro. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It was from Dr. Raphael. Dr. Raphael. Dr. Raphael. Dr. I don't have a call. I heard anybody call him doctor. He's doctor. Dr. Reed. Dr. Reed. Dr. Reed. Dr. Reed. Dr. Reed. Dr. Reed. Dr. Reed. Dr. Reed. All right. Well, there you go, guys. This, this is how Victor defeated, uh, the champion. And again, it was just, uh, I think it was just the perfect prep for me. Um, that one time, because it was just, uh, you know, I actually had, I cooked my own meals. I didn't bring any meals, you know, it's just so like me, but I wanted to cook fresh meals and, uh, Sergio, you know, rest in peace. I cooked in his house. I remember. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. In Sergio's house. And he lived only a few blocks away. And, uh, it was just great. I remember some Spanish old lady. I think she was must have been 75. Looks at me in the supermarket. Two weeks, two weeks before that show, you was in Dubai with me. I, I saw, I saw you, I saw you close. I never saw such a human beak like, like him. I remember he was sitting down and eating. I was just watching him. Is it possible the human becomes this size? Bro, I'm not just, I'm not, I'm not joking. His arm was so big. I was just thinking that night, the first night I saw him that night, I couldn't sleep. See, how's the possible the arm of a human become that big? Oh, no, I was eating a lot too over there because of the time difference. I remember I couldn't sleep. Yeah. Yeah. Super jet lag. So I, one day I remember was up for so long. I ate like 10 meals. Yeah. Yeah. I was just eating. That's crazy. You should have seen after Ahmad sold my bill, my hotel. I'm not, I'm not talking. I'm not talking. Oh my God. Look at the bill. Look at the bill. 45,000. He gave me the choice. He said, listen, I could give you a extra, you know, 3000 and you take care of your own bills or, or, or I take care, you know, the food. And I said, take care of the food. It was easily like six grand. Yeah. Yeah. Are you going to get absolutely jacked? No, just looking for clean protein. Clean. You need to take your muscles to the max. Whoa there, Turbo. Do you even know what's in that stuff? Oh yeah. See, most protein powders are filled with artificial sweeteners, food dyes, and filler. Really? I wouldn't put that stuff in my body. Neither would I. Transparent Labs is made with just a handful of all natural ingredients without any of the weird stuff. Every scoop delivers 28 grams of protein sourced from grass-fed cows raised without any hormones or antibiotics. And you can choose from 14 delicious flavors. Is that mint chocolate chip? Give me that. Transparent Labs. Protein without the weird stuff. Okay. Let's go to, let's go to the, we have a second question actually of the day. Where are we at? Next question comes to us from sleepy deep one, one nine eight five. So the question is can a woman or your woman go overboard wanting you physically question mark, depending on the circumstances, how would you handle that type of embarrassing moment that at ET you heckled? I'm assuming that's a question regarding libido. What is your question and how's your answer? That is your, that is a question from simply deep 19, eight, 1985. What is your response? Listen, man, I don't think I will ever be embarrassed of a woman wanting me too much unless she's busted. Ugly, ragged, beaten down, you know, I mean, weathered. Wow. Oh man, you know, but her face, you know, everything is, that's the only thing you should be embarrassed about. If a woman wants you, man, and it's something, you know, where you feel embarrassed, man, you're just not into her, you know, at the end of the day, you know, it's just, uh, you want me? But it's possible. It's possible not to be into your girl. I mean, there's something going on. Maybe you do too much trend, your trend test ratio is off. I mean, man, you should be ready to go, man, at the end of the day. But, uh, they could be, you know, women that are a little bit too much on the libido and, uh, you just have to match. You have to be up to par with her and that's it, you know? I mean, the only thing that would make you not want a woman and, and, you know, she wants you is probably cause you know, you just broke. And a lot of times your libido goes down, you know, again, not enough tests. Um, or you're just not into her. But, um, again, I think that's a sign of you wanting her is, is everything. It's just you, you, you know, her presence, you being around her, her smell, everything. But if a woman is all over you, man, it's like, yo, write it out, man, take it because eventually that'll die out too, man. And then you're really going to be complaining, man, that time I should have just, I wish, I wish go back again. I mean, are you in a kid's restaurant and a kid's party? She's all over you. That could be a little awkward, you know, You know? Yeah. But, uh, there is, you know, when is the right time, you know, every time, you know, you have a car, shopping mall, restroom. I mean, come on guys, movie theater. I mean, come on, you should be ready to go off. Wow. Instantly. So no embarrassment. No embarrassment. Yeah. Hopefully that answers your questions and, uh, can keep continuing to submit your questions here for Victor to answer them and, uh, obviously support here. Jones transparent labs. We highly recommend their products guys. Tune in for more, make sure you guys continue to leave your comments and win chances to select your choice of transparent labs here from. No, just to add to that. I remember, I remember I've been injured, you know, I have, you know, torn knee, broken arm, operated back twice. Nice. That didn't stop me. It did not. Yeah. So for someone like that, I guess it's a question, right? Vic, what would you recommend if their test levels are normal? Would you say they should do something for their libido or what? Nah, you just have to get your mindset. I know a lot of times the women, if they are doing that, it's because they had a thought of you. They just kind of, you know, they're feeling you at the moment. Just, uh, you know, take a break from whatever it is you're doing and just meet her at that level. You know, don't push her away, bro. Once you push her away, you're done because she's going to start thinking some other and you don't want her to start going south when she's up north. So let's keep going, you know, you know, take a break, go to the bathroom, do whatever it is you need to do to kind of meet her at her level. But don't, don't say no, man. You're asking for trouble there, bro. That's something I could definitely say. Unless he's busted. Unless he's busted. Dude, bro. Busted by breath, by the hair, baskets, whiskers, I don't know. A thicker beard than you. I don't know, man. Oh my God. What are your non-negotiables, Vic? Let's see. Just look to what got you excited. Just think about that, though, and just go with that. Just teeth, right? Oh, man. The busted teeth. Missing tooth. What if you close your eyes and pretend like somebody else was... You could do... There's always a way, man. There's always a way. I mean, she's busted. You know what? Maybe she does have a nice body. So just look from the neck down. Focus. Turn her around. Was it her brother, you know, excited you at first? You know, so just turn her around. That's it, bro. Okay. There's always a way, man. There's always a way. Listen up. I've got to share information about our new nighttime ritual. We've kept hearing a ton about magnesium breakthroughs from bioptimizers. And everyone kept saying the same thing. This one is different. Most magnesium supplements only use one or two forms. Magnesium breakthrough from bioptimizers currently uses seven forms of magnesium. And we finally decided here at Generation Iron to see what the hype was all about. People can't stop talking about the benefits. Deeper sleep, feeling calmer, better workout recovery, even improved digestion. But we don't like to recommend anything unless we've tried it here personally at Generation Iron. So we started Magnesium Breakthrough and we want to invite you to do this with us. So here's our challenge to you. Try it, track your sleep, and pay attention to how you feel. See if you wake up more rested and refreshed. You truly have nothing to lose. A whole lot to gain. And this part really matters. Bioptimizers offers a 365 day, no questions asked money back guarantee. That's a full year, zero risk. So join us here at Generation Iron over the next month. We will be documenting our experience and we can't wait to share how it goes. So we spent some time here at Generation Iron testing and trying Bioptimizers Magnesium Breakthrough. And you know, the results are what we expected. I mean, these guys have been around for a while, but we've had them here in our office for some time and we wanted to give them a shot. And I can tell you my sleep quality has gone through the roof. I feel sharper in the morning. I feel more well rested, better recovery from a lot of the day's work and training. And I can wholeheartedly say here that Generation Iron, we strongly recommend Bioptimizers Magnesium Breakthrough. Go to buyoptimizers.com backslash generation iron and use our exclusive code generation iron to get 15% off any order. May 2026, the year you finally start to sleep great again. All right, find a way to our next topic actually about women. Yeah, holy cow, holy cow, man. So in Tampa Pro, I think there's a lot of shows, they dropped women's bodybuilding. And I guess some women, they either do a lawsuit or they just kind of like create like a... You say after Arnold dropped, a lot of shows dropped. Yeah, because first was the Arnold. I mean, two years ago, yeah. Two years ago, Arnold dropped a lot of category for the women. And then recently we see more and more. So women are fighting back basically. Women should fight back, you know, because it's one of these things where you start forgetting what used to make your shows, you know, women bodybuilding. Remember, it used to be only men and women bodybuilding. Miss Olympia and Mr. Olympia. Yeah, Mr. and Mr. that's it, man. So for anybody to just start saying, oh, we're not making enough money. You know what, make it as an addition, you know, try to look for a special sponsor, you know, get somebody else that can get the sponsor for the show. And now that you have women sports rising in, you know, you see the WNBA, they're getting paid a lot more money now. They're getting a lot more opportunities now. There's even a major, a major league baseball league for women now that is supposedly coming up. So look, I mean, I don't know. I feel like we have too much category for a woman building, bodybuilding, physique, figure, bikini, bikini, bikini, five categories. No, no bikini and this is the other one now that just added. I see it. No, no, no, no. Bikini model. Bikini model, six categories. That's a lot. Yeah, that's specifically for bodybuilding, women's bodybuilding specifically. Yeah, it's a lot. And I know more women are gearing towards those categories because they see it more attainable. And again, women's bodybuilding is not a cup of tea for a lot of people, but I support it. I have it in my show. And it's one of the things that we should kind of look out for one another. And I know they had a GoFundMe and I'm gonna put you guys in a spot here. You know, they have a GoFundMe for the category. Are you guys willing to put in and match my amount that I'm willing to put in to support the women's bodybuilding? I know there's a spot. I don't know. Let's put it in amount. And again, we're not gonna just announce or anything, but I think you show our support. Where's the money going to? It's supposed to go to them. To women? To the category. Just women? I don't know. It's category. So I want to find out who's holding this GoFundMe. Make sure it's legit. And not going to some weird schmo. We'll contribute. I'll contribute. You know, but it's gotta be legit. Which category is for the woman categories? It's all. No, no, it's for bodybuilding. It's a different question. Which categories for all the categories for the woman? From the bodybuilding woman, figure, physique, bikini, wellness, and model? Six categories. Which one is your favorite? Oh man. Damn, bro. I don't really have a favorite. I don't, I mean... See, that's not a fair question, you know, because when you ask a man, what's his favorite category is the one that goes, wow. So it sounds like wellness. It's made me feel well, though. Okay, I got it. I don't know, man. Tell you the truth. I mean, it really doesn't matter. I mean, some guys like to be handled by nice, muscular women. Some guys like, you know, women that they can handle. So it varies, you know, and it's not always sex. It's just the appeal. It's just the appeal. Something that you just watch. And remember, I watch all women's category. When I go to a show, I don't say, hey, I'm only gonna watch this one, this one, or that one. I mean, do I watch bikini? Yes. But if I want to see, you know, competitiveness, you know, it's always wellness, bodybuilding, and physique, you know, and figure, and figure too. Yeah. And fitness. So see, it's just, no, no, it's one of those things. So it depends on your mood. At the end of the day, I love competition. I watch competition. I mean, and it's just, you know, I don't watch all the men's competition, you know, actually, it's just one. It's just physique. But I do watch all of them. I watch all of them. And I support all of them. And I think we should just kind of find a way to kind of still not ostracize them and just give them a little support. And I feel like there's enough companies that women bodybuilders spend money on that should step up and support the women and just say, you know what, this category is definitely one of the biggest supporters, whether it's clothing, supplement or anything. And come on, support. Do you agree with the woman, for a woman, it's very hard than the men to build muscle? No, I think women build muscle way easier than men. Wow. Women? Yes. I think I trained some women and it's, I think it was easy for me to train some of the women. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But woman doesn't have testosterone. It's a totally opposite. They have some testosterone. Yeah, but it's very opposite. It's estrogen, testosterone. Right. They don't have. They're injected. Hey. Stranger block. TRT. Women do TRT too. You know, they have an imbalance and, you know. Who use more steroids, women or the men? Men all day. Men all day. Men all day. All right. Men all day. It's like, I mean, it's always been men. Yeah. Especially, you know, there's some women that are just, you know, they have more guts than men. And the men just, you know, they want to compensate by taking more steroids. And it's never a good thing because it's never going to replace the mindset. Ever realize that after the age of 30, you wake up the next day after a few rounds of alcohol and you feel very dehydrated. You feel a bit of brain fog. You feel very sluggish. And that's why here at Generation Iron, we're obsessed with Cheers Restore. Cheers Restore is a dual action after alcohol aid. Its ingredients support both your brain and your liver after consuming alcohol. Cheers was originally invented by a student at Princeton. Based on research into a novel compound called DHM. DHM demonstrated powerful alcohol related properties in the brain and liver. So Cheers was designed for how alcohol actually affects your body, not just dehydration. Cheers promise is simple. You'll feel about 50% better the next day or your money back. Basically two drinks feel like one the next morning. And all you do is take three capsules after your last drink before bed. Don't just take my word for it. Cheers has appeared on Shark Tank. And today, Cheers is sold in over 30,000 stores, including Walgreens, CVS, 7-Eleven, and Circle K. They've also sold over 50 million doses. Same night out, way better morning with Cheers. For a limited time only, our listeners get 20% off at checkout by using code GENERATIONIRON at cheershealth.com. Head to cheershealth.com, use code GENERATIONIRON for 20% off. After you purchase, you will be asked where you heard about them. Make sure you support our show and mention GENERATIONIRON. What else we have for today? Yeah, no, so that was good. Uh, it's by Vic and shout out to the women out there. So Lee Labrada came in the news recently. He's basically met quoted as saying that skipping protein doesn't just hurt gym progress, but it can cost you skin immune and health benefits. Uh, who the hell is skipping protein and going to the gym? Believe it or not, a lot of people do. Um, including myself, unfortunately, you don't have enough time in the day. Not only that, sometimes, you know, you just don't have the time to just sit down and eat. I mean, you can consume all the protein. I mean, the only time I would have to say, you're right. The only time I probably did not ingest enough protein was when I first started bodybuilding. It's just because I just didn't have the money for it, you know, but my love for bodybuilding was just, I'm just going to train. That's it. So protein, the whole calculating macros, that stuff was never part of it. My thing was, let's get to the gym, go through the workout, go home hungry. And hopefully my mom has some chicken at home. If not, I would just buy a slice of pizza or if not a blimpy sandwich. I remember blimpy. Well, that's a blessing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I was a blimpy head eating that frozen, breaded, that frozen, thawed out, breaded chicken, you know, but it was satisfying. I mean, it served its purpose. I mean, I was definitely under eating protein and, uh, the difference was felt when I started eating protein more and, uh, it was a big difference. It was a big jump. Um, so again, now we're food costs, everything going up. I mean, yeah, everything's going up. Um, so definitely be bodybuilding and you're not going to eat the protein. I mean, it's just, uh, no. When you ask yourself, why am I not gaining? It's because of that. Vic, I have a question. A lot of people debating online is the ramen noodles, a good choice of carb for bodybuilders. I said, a big debate. Are you a free man or you're locked up? No, free. Free. You're locked up. You eating ramen noodles, bro? You're free. You got a problem. You have a bigger problem. All right. Although I've tried ramen in Japan. It's pretty, pretty darn good. I mean, Japan ramen is official though. That's a difference. Yeah. I'm talking about from the store. We're talking about from the store, from the hack means, you're going, you're going to the cheap section. Yeah. You're processed ramen, you know? Yeah. You know what? Ramen, why don't you mix it with Campbell's soup while you're at it? You know? I've done that. Oh my God. I mean, sushi in the supermarket in Japan is good. No, you don't need to go to drostanolone. It's different, but they do high quality food in Japan, man. You can't compare. But ramen noodles to getting, what are you hoping to achieve? More carbs? Like replacing pasta or rice with ramen noodles. Nah, nah. Some of the ramen noodles, they cut so much corners and I don't know. It could be, you know, printer generated pasta. You know, it could be some, yeah, 3D, some freaking, you know, Bill Gates freaking product. Nah, nah, nah. Stick to protein. If you're going to have some noodles, Trader Joe's is cheap. You could buy some real pasta from there. There's so many ways to actually get real good food. And I think right now what's going viral is you can go actually to Whole Foods and get a family meal for $35 and get five days worth of food. $35 guys. Look it up. It's cheap. I walked by it. I didn't know it was a thing, but I saw it and I'm like, whoa. And then go home to my wife and she tells me, look, no, it is a thing. And she shows me all the TikTok. $35. You get a lot of food. Cheap food. Whole Foods. Unfortunately, it's Jeff Bezos, you know, but it's, you know, it works. Well, according to a little brother, what he said, the protein is very, very important. It's very important source of the nutrition during a day from morning to night. Not just from the athletes and working out. When you get older, so when you pass 65, 70, you cannot take most of the food in the market because your body is not handling that. So you have to prepare yourself for 70, 75. You have to eat enough protein to build enough muscle to muscle carry your skeleton after 70. That's a little bit of looking for futures like 20 years, 30 years from, yeah, it keeps you young. But when you get old because of cholesterol, blood pressure, these, all those things. You're losing a lot of muscle. Yeah, you can't, you cannot have a lot of protein. So you have to eat smart like 20 years before, like 50, 45. So you have to prepare for the future. Exactly. You have to prepare for the future because if you don't have enough muscle by the time you're in your late 60s, 70s, 70s. 70s. You're not going to put on that muscle now. No, you can't. So if you already have the muscle, you can sustain it. Exactly. You can keep a lot of that muscle, you know. What would you think, what would you say is like the age range that people kind of can't really build muscle anymore? Or like we're very limited to like building a little quality muscle. 90? I don't know. I think 80. Yeah. Maybe. Well, I mean, you could build some muscle. Some muscle, but. Let's go to the final topic today. It's a Patreon special, guys. If you're not subscribed to the Patreon, please do. This is where we cover the controversial topics, I would say, right? The topic for today is. Guys, thank you for listening this week's podcast. Remember, any of our prior podcasts you'd like to watch, iHeartRadio, Apple Podcasts, or wherever you stream your podcast. We appreciate you. Thanks for listening. And follow us on Patreon as well. Until next time. Peace. Peace.