 blitouh, American these days. Miami, an American. I don't know why. Is it because all the Latinos are there? Because of the Brazilian takeover? Is it Argentinian takeover? What is it? I don't think so, because Miami is still part of the U.S. and aside from its political standings and whoever is there, I don't know. Is it the Cubans? Is it the Riley Reads? Oh, man. If anything, I'll have to say private. Riley Reads is too busy, you know, living a blown out, you know, private part. Life out. She's a little blown out. Now she had a girl. Now she, from what I read right now. Hello and welcome to this week's Generation R podcast. Your host, me, Victor Martinez, with Edwin Mejia and Vlad Yudin. What's up, bro? Welcome. Welcome back. Welcome back. How are you feeling today, brother? I feel good, man. I feel good. My shirt's already feeling smaller. Did you get, uh, did you do any streaming around town getting slapped or anything like that? No slapping. There's no slapping on the streaming? No slapping. Yeah. Well, we've seen a lot of that recently, of course. I know. I've noticed that. And I think we're going to have to cover that. Definitely. Uh, too much slapping going around and nobody's really standing up for themselves. I don't know. It looks suspicious. But it looks, everything is, uh, you know, rehearsed these days. It looks like everything is rehearsed or not rehearsed, but basically like a skit. Everything's a skit these days. Everything's a skit until it's not. Well, today we got some really cool, interesting questions from people. No questions today. We're doing strictly, strictly. Oh, comments. Sorry. Comments from our critics. Criticism. Criticism. And, uh, the criticism is always welcome here. We welcome constructive criticism, of course. Uh, why? Because we like to get everybody to chime in, give their thoughts, but also give constructive feedback. Right? So the question, I mean, the comment comes to us from Franklin St. K4O. And the comment is not for nothing. It makes little, if any sense to run a podcast and not respond to comments at all. Shaking my head. Four days, bro. Shaking my head. Come on, Vic. This is your time to shine. Feedback in these comments is half the battle, fam, to get the numbers up. Mott Haven salute. Amen. Shout out. Shout out to, shout out to, shout out to Franklin from Mott Haven, you know. No, no, you from Mott Haven. I'll let, you know, just a little bit slide, but what do you mean not answering questions? So what question is happy we answered? We address the criticism, but people, people, they, that when they, when they disagree with you, we actually many times read the comments. I mean, have we missed a few? Do you ask them in the past and it wasn't chosen? Let's see. But we're going to keep an eye out for the, you know, your email. Right. And make sure we answer your questions. But I don't think we missed any because remember we get a lot. We start answering every single question. It would just be the generation iron Q and a show. That's it. We should probably do as well. So maybe he wants you to come out to Mott Haven. Hey man, you invite me over there. What's going on? My name is always been popping. There's a gym over there in Mott Haven that a lot of people go to, a lot of trainers, powerlifters. They have a nice posing. I forgot the name of the gym. I know one of your buddies goes there, Robin. I forget. Oh, you're talking about Iron Punisher? I think so. Yes. Is his name or his name? No, that's the name of the gym. Iron Punisher. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So, so maybe Franklin does go to Iron Punisher. I'm sure he's seen it if he's from Mott Haven. And of course I worked out there. Come on, man. But as far as the questions, come on, let us have it and we'll answer it for you. Yeah, man. Today, of course, this section is brought to us by Transparent Labs, our sponsor. We thank them and we encourage you guys to try out their products, the cleanest products on the market. Yeah, no funny stuff. No, no funny ingredients, very little ingredients. In fact, you guys should try out their magnesium PM. They have a hundred percent grass-fed collagen beef protein, plant-based protein as well in case you have some gut issues. And we highly recommend them. Why? Because we've tried them, we've tested them ourselves and we really stick by them. We're going to get absolutely jacked. No, just looking for clean protein. Clean? You need to take your muscles to the max. Whoa there, Turbo. Do you even know what's in that stuff? Oh yeah. See, most protein powders are filled with artificial sweeteners, food dyes, and filler. Really? I wouldn't put that stuff in my body. Neither would I. Transparent Labs is made with just a handful of all-natural ingredients without any of the weird stuff. Every scoop delivers 28 grams of protein sourced from grass-fed cows raised without any hormones or antibiotics. And you can choose from 14 delicious flavors. Is that mint chocolate chip? Give me that! Transparent Labs. Protein without the weird stuff. So, next comment. Next comment comes to us from Surf and Turf F904. 904. Puerto Rico is lame. There's nothing going on. Oh, wait. Chill, bro. You were talking nice about Puerto Rico. You know what? And that's not a happy laugh, okay? That's like, what the F, bro? Well, yeah. I mean, I think he's responding to the last episode where we talk about Puerto Rico. Like, talks about it. So, there's nothing going on there. There's no NFL, no college football. They don't manufacture cars. And they don't put rockets into space. They don't have a military capable of defending their own island. Weak. Well, that's the comment. All right, all right. I'm just going to break that down. I'm going to let this soak in, man. I'm going to let this soak in, man. I'm going to let this soak in. He said there is no car manufacturer. Okay. What did Detroit have? Ford? Look at Detroit. You could buy a house there for $500. I'll tell you what, right now, you cannot get a house anywhere in the worst neighborhood in Puerto Rico for $500. Okay? As far as manufacturing, why would we have, you know, I say we. Well, the reason why I say we, because when you start, you know, trying to disrespect Puerto Rico, you say Puerto Rico, I think of all the friends that I have there. So, that's the image I have. All my friends. And also, all the legends that came out of there. You know, Roberto Clemente. Do you even know who that is? This guy is just a baseball legend. Also, I mean, talk about human rights. I mean, just all kinds of, you know, I mean, he's an innovator. Roberto Clemente. Who do you have? Rita Moreno. Actress. I mean, icon. Oscar winner, I think. Oscar winner. I mean, you name it. Who you have? Without, you know, Puerto Ricans, we wouldn't have had Tito Pueblo. He wasn't born there, but he came from Puerto Rican parents, you know? And without mentioning, you know, Bad Bunny. Ha! That's right. It goes all back to Bad Bunny because Puerto Rico is an important island. And it's just got so many famous people. And to say, last but not least, that's where my friends are from, you know? We have the Serrano sister, Amanda Serrano. Only woman is a champion. Five different categories. Come on, guys. Shout out to Amanda. I can actually give you a profile, you know, just by what you just said. You're white, you're living with your mother in the basement, and you haven't got laid in a while. Really, bro? Puerto Rico's lame? You haven't been there. You know what? When you do decide to take out your passport, which I'm sure you don't have one as well, and you don't need one to go there, go to Puerto Rico, man. Let one of those Puerto Rican ladies put the drop on you, bro. Yeah. You're going to sell yourself for her. Well, shout out to Surf and Turf 904. Listen, it's all with love here. We encourage you continuing to comment because at the end of the day, we're all one big family and love above all and hate. That's the number one thing. Yes, yes. Surf for Puerto Rico and suck the turf while you're there. Yeah. And there's some great gyms out there, too. So I know a few folks out there that own some gyms. They're big supporters of the bodybuilding community. You go out there, they show you a lot of love. So make sure you guys check them out. Listen, San Juan is still a very well-known city with a lot of culture and history. And at the end of the day, people love the island. People love the culture. People love the music. And more importantly, the people. Yes. And while you're there, go to La Perla and tell them what you just said. I don't recommend that one. All right. And the last comment that comes to us from New York City Bowl. Miami is un-American. And the response. Read the response. And the response to that one by another comment from one of our followers is Abdo Hayek. For R4T is Miami gave e-birth to Riley Reid. He's a fan. Sorry. Sorry. I'm sorry. There's a little space here. So Miami gave birth to Riley Reid. So for those people that don't know, Riley Reid is a adult actress. Adult actress. We'll look her up over here. A porn star. Yeah. Yeah. She's just a burned out porn star. And if you're going to equate Miami to her, I think, I mean, fine. You want to do that. I think you're going to call it a cesspool, whatever. But at the end of the day, Miami is un-American. It is the most American state. I mean, they all are. You know, it was part of Spain first. But I don't know. Should I even sit here and defend Miami? You have a lot of friends down there. Miami is a melting pot. You got to remember, one of the famous ports is actually Miami, also a big party place. That's where half the football players, basketball players have a home, a second home, if any. Yeah, that's a crazy statement. I mean, I know people that have moved from New York, that live in Miami, that will defend Miami to the grave. You know, Angel from Elevation Fitness is one of them. Shout out to him. Shout out to Angel. And, you know, there's a lot of people down there that have transplanted to Miami, to Florida, that feel Miami is very American. And at the end of the day, everybody's entitled to their own opinion. Fellas, you already know what time it is. It's time to level up. Blue Chew Gold is the newest innovation from the number one chewable ED brand. This ain't your grandpa's little blue pill. This is the 4-in-1 beast that's setting the gold standard. We're talking two ingredients for blood flow and to keep that rocket pumping. Mixed with apomorphine and oxytocin to turn up arousal and connection in your brain and body. Blue Chew Gold dissolves under your tongue and works in as little as 15 minutes. That means you can get in the game quicker and stay in the game longer. And we've got a special deal for our listeners. Get up to 10% off your first month of Blue Chew with code GENERATIONIRON. Again, that's code GENERATIONIRON. Visit BlueChew.com for more details and for safety information. And we thank Blue Chew for sponsoring our podcast today. I want to add another comment, actually. It's pertaining to the last episode where you finally revealed the cause of the spinal infection, what you thought it was, allegedly. And somebody said, a guy named Lee Lunk, 8235, said, let's hear another lie. Implying that you said other lies before in this podcast, but he's also alluding that that was a lie. Like, I mean, do you want to address this, guys? Listen, man. At the end of the day, I benefit from nothing from lying, okay? I don't think I would want to just, you know, give an answer out of my ass without knowing 100%. So, yes, whether you believe it or not, I did get some, you know, bootleg stem cells in a place in New Jersey and wind up having a crazy infection. So, whether you want to believe it or not, maybe you're in the business. Maybe you sell stem cells. Maybe you work with stem cells or whatever. But remember, stem cells are not the holy grail. It's just something that's a treatment, and that's what it is. It's selling you a treatment. I had a bad experience. I never liked it. I know people are using it. But remember, the fad is going to die out as quick as it started because stem cells, I mean, the true 100% real stem cells, still not here for another 20, 30 years. Yeah, I mean, look, we can tell you candidly that Vic, you know, was very hesitant to reveal that on the pod for a variety of reasons. But, you know, at the end of the day, this is a truth podcast. Vic tells the truth. And as soon as Vic got sick, we kind of had an idea of where he got it from. And we let Vic share his experience. And I think that experience is ultimately going to help a lot of other people for making the wrong decisions to make the right decisions. And that's why it's important. And I think it's very valuable that Vic shared that truth here because, you know, a lot of these things can happen to anybody. Yes, it could happen. And again, I get nothing from lying, especially if I cannot fact check myself. I won't say it, you know. Big believer in just conspiracy theory. You know, they exist. But again, everything I do is either through experience, fact checking, and facts. There you go. So, guys, whether you support us or hate us or have bad things to say, submit your comments and questions in the comments below. And hopefully Victor will address all of them. Oh, no, and this last one is like, remember, if Puerto Rico and Florida was un-American, why do so many Americans move there? No income tax. Ha. Maybe it's the most American, actually. That's the most American thing to do, go to a place where there's no income tax. The most un-American thing to do. The most American. That's why most Americans don't want to pay tax. The rich corporations and all that. Remember, guys, remember. There you go. All right. So, we've got some topics to discuss today. There's a viral moment that we were talking about, Larry Wheels. Larry Wheels. They're calling this the Larry Wheels Files. So, the Larry Wheels Files have been going viral. Everybody has seen the big slap with the streamer, which I think his name is Dean DeGreet, right, on live. And I think he was saying a few things to Larry's wife right in front of Larry, or he's trying to flirt with Larry's wife. We'll put the video up on the screen here for you guys to see. So, what is your thoughts on this, Vic? Do you think this was fake to rehearse? And did he deserve to get slapped? I mean, it definitely hurt. I could see you on the picture. But 24 hours later, the same boxer podcaster got also hit in the face by some other guy. Okay. The whole thing looked super set up. What do you think? Yeah. I think it looked like another, you know, slap contest. That's what it looked like. So, I mean. Which Larry was also a part of. Yeah. He's part of that. So, is he promoting his new slap contest coming up? And isn't the guy a boxer? The guy he slapped? I'm not too sure. Is he? I'm not sure. I think he did box. I don't know what level. Okay. So, imagine being a boxer, getting bitch slapped and not coming back with a one-two. That will make you a bootleg boxer. But his wife is there. She's giggling. She's laughing. I mean, why would you put your wife in a situation where she's going to get a comment from another guy while you're there? It's either let that happen or you plan that to happen, you know, because that would be just crazy that I'm chilling with you. I don't know how many times I've seen Larry hang out with the guy. Have you met Larry? No, I know Larry. Yeah. You know Larry. Yeah. So, to let that happen is because you wanted that to happen. So, that's all I say, you know. But if you're going to have a comment about my wife at any given moment, in person, on text, or anywhere, I'm going to find you, man. And you're not going to get a slap. It's going to be something else. And it just looks it up. I mean, come on. It's just one slap. The stiffest slap I've ever seen. It's just. It looked like that Batman Robin meme. You know, and Larry actually stayed with his hand like this. But. Shout out to Larry. Look, Larry was also. A better script. A better script. Yeah. I mean, it's crazy what's happening. There's also lawsuits against Larry recently that were disclosed by an ex-partner of his. Really? Why? It's because due to. He actually apparently invested into his company, allegedly. And he was supposed to get paid back as an investor and didn't get paid back, allegedly. Okay. Well, that's more real than the slap. Am I sure? Yeah. There may be a settlement there. I'm not sure. But shout out to Johnny Bravo. I think Johnny Bravo covered this extensively. So we'll see. We'll see where that goes. But then now there's a lot of information out about this whole strap thing. They're saying it's fake because there was some sort of energy drink that is being promoted by Larry now and the slap. The slap. So we'll see. I think he actually slapped him, but it was all set up. Personally, it's how it looks. Yeah. I mean, that's as good as I think the Will Smith and Chris Rock slap, you know. That was set up too. That was real. That was not real? I don't know. We question everything now in this social media. Nothing looks real anymore. Listen up. I've got to share information about our new nighttime ritual. We've kept hearing a ton about magnesium breakthroughs from bioptimizers. And everyone kept saying the same thing. This one is different. Most magnesium supplements only use one or two forms. Magnesium breakthrough from bioptimizers currently uses seven forms of magnesium. And we finally decided here at Generation Iron to see what the hype was all about. People can't stop talking about the benefits. It's deeper sleep, feeling calmer, better workout recovery, even improved digestion. But we don't like to recommend anything unless we've tried it here personally at Generation Iron. So we started Magnesium Breakthrough, and we want to invite you to do this with us. So here's our challenge to you. Try it. Track your sleep and pay attention to how you feel. See if you wake up more rested and refreshed. You truly have nothing to lose. A whole lot to gain. And this part really matters. Bioptimizers offers a 365-day, no-questions-asked money-back guarantee. That's a full year, zero risk. So join us here at Generation Iron over the next month. We will be documenting our experience, and we can't wait to share how it goes. So we spent some time here at Generation Iron testing and trying Bioptimizers Magnesium Breakthrough. And, you know, the results are what we expected. I mean, these guys have been around for a while. We've had them here in our office for some time, and we wanted to give them a shot. And I can tell you my sleep quality has gone through the roof. I feel sharper in the morning. I feel more well-rested. Better recovery from a lot of the day's work and training. And I can wholeheartedly say here that Generation Iron, we strongly recommend Bioptimizers Magnesium Breakthrough. Go to Bioptimizers.com backslash Generation Iron and use our exclusive code Generation Iron to get 15% off any order. May 2026, the year you finally start to sleep great again. What else we got, Ed? So, yeah, so that was Larry. So the next topic comes to us, right, from a lot of viewers that keep asking, can influencers replace bodybuilders? Does the IFBB and, you know, does the IFBB prestige still matter? You're seeing a growth of a lot of influencers out there going into competitions. Obviously, there's a lot of influencers in the fitness space. You know, we know this because we know a lot of the coaches that are training a lot of these guys. Yes. And obviously, you see it now with Sam Sulik, who's competing at the Arnold, you know, and other influencers out there as well that we're aware of. Trend Twins, I think, as well. I think at one point they're going to start doing competitions, or they have done. I'm not sure. But there's a lot of influencers. And what is your thought on that? Yes. No, a lot of influencers. I mean, they're coming up. Again, they're just better, you know, with the gift of gab. They're promoting themselves. They're getting themselves out there more. But you get a real quiet, good bodybuilder and an influencer, the bodybuilder is always going to win. Obviously, the influencer is going to get more followers. They're out there more. The gift of gab, and they're just popping up everywhere. YouTube, Instagram, Facebook. But is it going to overshadow a bodybuilder? No. Not if you're a good bodybuilder. Speaking of that, Larry Wheels went to Ireland, remember? And he got a pro card there. And then we were looking at the pictures. We never saw anything. We never saw anything. We saw, like, glimpses. There was no comparisons. There was nothing. I think he got first out of one. Was he the only one in the category? We didn't see anything. So it's like the competition that actually happened but never really did. I mean, he just showed up. He showed up in a freaking – I mean, Ireland, really? Larry is going to compete in Ireland? I didn't even know they had competitions in Ireland. Yeah, muscle contest. You know? So they probably had about five guys spread out through five classes. You know, Larry found it, you know, I guess the right place to compete guaranteed pro card. But I don't know, Larry. You're going to entertain us with a nice pro show? That would be nice. Can AI, do you think, create judging, like, program to judge bodybuilding? Or any other strength sport? AI judging, they'll probably be better than the actual judges because they're actually going to do an actual real non, you know, how do you say, political placements. But AI and bodybuilding. Yeah, it's human error. But I don't know if AI – I don't think they're going to want to do that, you know. But, yeah, all these shows, people do some shows. I always like competing in hard shows. Why? Because when you win, you actually win with prestige. You're winning with good competitors, good athletes. And by the time you get that first, it's like now you're going to compete in the open ranks. Now you're worthy of it because you're beating, you know, worthy opponents. So when you compete, you get a pro card because nobody showed up and you get to the pro ranks, guess what? That's when your competition has really started. But I don't think AI will take over because it's still organizations. We still need the people. We still need the judges' breakdown of why they chose who. And the AI is going to be too precise. So not yet. They're not even using computers. They're using, like, actual paper. Yeah. And then they submit the paper, right? They're still using paper, actually using pencil that could kind of erase. Pencil and paper. Erase. Erase the placement a little. I don't know. I've never been. You got to remember. I was never one to look at scorecards. I only knew first, second, and third. That's it. Right, right. After that, it just didn't matter. It didn't matter to you anymore. It didn't matter. And if you didn't get first, that didn't matter. And what are you going to do, you know? At the end of the day, it's still going to be chosen by the judges or preference, subjectively. So still, bodybuilders are still going to do their thing. They're still going to be better. And influencers are just going to get more likes, more follow, a bigger fan base because they're out there. So a smart bodybuilder would do both, you know? Be great at competition and also take advantage of social media. I got this. Before we go to the Patreon special, there's been this news break. Not news break, but more like an announcement that Doritos announced protein chips. Have you heard about that? Who's that? Doritos chips. They announced their protein chips, which is a barbecue of sweet and tangy flavor. 10 grams of protein per serving and only one gram of sugar, I believe. Would you give it a try? I would not get my source of protein from Doritos. Really? Doritos. Doritos. They got so many chemicals in their chips. It's like all them dyes, everything. Yeah, you're going to get some protein. So you trust another third-party company over there, over Doritos? I'd rather trust somebody who actually does it, made at home, protein cookies, muffins, or anything else, but not Doritos. I'm not going to trust a big corporation. Yeah. You know, what are they, Wise? Are they Wise Corporation? Have you tried the, what do you think it was the company called? The famous company that make the protein bars, they make chips also. What's it? Quest. Quest. I have not tried Quest. Nope. Nope. If I'm going to have protein, I'm going to eat chicken, steak, and I mean, I'd rather have fried chicken before I go to chips or protein chips, you know. I'd rather get my fried chicken, get my saturated fat, enjoy, have fun, and chase it down with a beer. Yeah, I kind of heard the same thing. It's the same thing with processed foods and obviously with processed meats. A lot of people recommend just eating a rib-on-ed steak over just like, let's say, some salami or pepperoni or, you know, it's just a lot healthier for you. Yeah, to be honest. That's the way to go. And the same thing with chips, right? Yeah. So it's like you'd rather have a nice breast of chicken, fried chicken or something over some fried. I mean, how much protein is a bag of chips going to have? First of all, the volume is like- 10 grams per serving. Right, right. That's, I don't know. Not worth it. Not worth it. Well, I don't know. The shelf space is really limited to these days. It's gas stations and stores and Walmart. I mean, there's only so, so much space in those places for you to even consider buying. I mean, those companies like Doritos and Red Bull and all these, they dominate shelves, right? So- I mean, it's like, what's next? You know, gas station sushi is going to be grade A now. Gas station stem cell. Got station stem cells. Well, you get guys, get a treatment. So the next question is a Patreon special. So for those out there that don't know, tune in to our Patreon, subscribe. You get free access as well. But for a limited time, you will get exclusive streaming access to all Generation Iron titles, films, movies, shows that you see streaming on major streaming platforms like Prime, Netflix, Hulu, Tubi. And you get, for a limited time, only for $6.99, you get all of that plus uncensored Patreon specials here at Generation Iron. And that comes to us with questions for Vic. And this week's Patreon special question is... But before we wrap today, Vic, should we talk about this whole alleged hottie? Because we spoke about hottie on two episodes ago. I know. About his... It's a big thing, man. ...political thing. And now he's allegedly lost his sponsorship. I don't know if it's true or not. Maybe he lost it, maybe not. Anything you want to say about that at all? Or do we just want to talk about it? It's something that's very delicate because here you have a competitor who's coming from Iran. He had trouble getting into the country a few times, you know, trying to compete at the Olympia. Right. And now that he's at the top of the game, got millions of followers instantly, and a lot of love and respect by everybody in the sport. But now you have him involved in a country that's having a little, you know, not a little, but a huge problem with its government. And everybody's anti the government. And now hottie, because he's not saying nothing against the government, he's getting blamed by being complicit with the government, which is the first time in history that this ever happened in bodybuilding, isn't it? Probably. That I could think of. I could think of, yeah. And I don't know. I don't think it is. I think I spoke about it before. I don't think he's complicit. I think he's just being careful because, again, he lives in the country. He's there. His family's there. I mean, I don't know what the country did for him when he actually won the Olympia. I know they get gifts in these Middle Eastern countries, the gifts that you'll never get in this country here. Right. So I know where the people are coming from. I have a lot of friends, Iranian friends. And not speaking out when your government's doing something kind of like here in the U.S., like ICE and their abuse of people and immigrants. You know, yes, I'm anti-ICE. I have my own experience with ICE. And a lot of people will say that's anti-American. But in reality, no, it's not. When you speak against a government, you're anti-government, not the actual country, government. Government changes constantly in this country every four years. Right. And the government is not always everybody's cup of tea. They always do some funny stuff. They're just as corrupt as third world countries. But in Iran, they're killing a lot of people. And when you kill a lot of people here, they kill two. Probably a few more we don't know of. But in Iran, they kill a few thousand. And that's where the problem lies. When somebody's staying quiet, it's hard. But Hadi's main priority is not just the people. It's his own family. So with that, I sympathize. And you got to put yourself in his shoes, you know. So if you want Iran to stand up, start arming yourself. Buy five guns a day. Maybe be ready in a year. I don't know. But let's get ready. Let's unite. But going after the bodybuilder that's just doing his job, I don't know, man. That's tough. And, again, that's just an opinion. And it's a delicate thing going on over there. But, you know, and I think U.S. right now is also getting ready, you know, to probably go to war with Iran. Because there's a lot of ships being stationed over there. Yeah. We don't know. I don't know. We're just watching. We're standing by. But everybody in Iran that has family, you know, we wish them all the best. And I hope they're taking care of themselves over there. All right. Well, this is it, guys. That was a good episode. All right, guys. Thank you for joining us in this week's podcast. Remember, follow us, like, and comment. If you want to follow or see any of our prior podcasts, tune in to iHeartRadio, Apple Podcasts, or whatever you tune in to watch your podcast. Until next time. Hormone Replacement Therapy, HRT, TRT, testosterone replacement therapy. They all kind of go into the same bucket of hormones. Men and females, they all have the same exact hormones. For males, they need more testosterone than females. And for females, we need a little bit more estrogen than males. Basically, what that means is if you get your blood work done, your testosterone's low, we try to get it to an optimal level. We walk into where our medical assistants would be. They're contacting patients all throughout the day, making sure patients are feeling good, looking good, and performing their best. Making sure they're hitting their goals. Making sure they're tolerating the medication properly. And everything is going well. Patient care and patient service is number one to us. And if they have any questions, concerns, issues, then we're taking care of them too as well. A TRT company or Titan Medical, what they do is they make people healthy. And they get people to really live the dream of life. It's one of those things I always say, do you want to live a long life or a quality of life? And that's what Titan Medical does. Anou hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell hell