והin,והin,והin,והin,והin, You're cracking down. They're cracking down. Oh, yeah, they are cracking down. Yeah, they're not the NBA, man. Hello and welcome to this week's Generation 9 podcast. Your host, me, Victor Martinez, along with Edson Ferrari, Vlad Yudin, and Edwin Mejia. Welcome, guys. Again, much love. Thank you for the support. Keep following us. Keep commenting. To all the diehard fans out there, remember, we are also on Patreon. We'll go a little, you know, a little nuts there. So only for the, you know, not for the faint of hearts. So follow us there, too, please. We appreciate you. Yeah, so shout out to Vic. Vic, we'll have you back here. It's great to see you again. Two weeks in a row, bro. Second week. That's why I came here on supporting thyself. We love that old school. I was going to mention the t-shirt. I love this t-shirt, man. That's the classic Vic pose. Yeah, I gave these to all my athletes before, and it's the last one, believe it or not. This is the Arnold-inspired pose, right? Yeah. I think this is Arnold-inspired, right, that pose? Almost, almost. I know he did the three-quarter single bicep through the back. No, this is Victor Martin's signature. No, I know it's signature. The double biceps with the turning to twist. It's a very classic look, you know what I mean? Came up with that. The first time I saw it was in my own shadow, and I said, I got to do this at the Olympia, and you're stuck, and I'm glad it hit with the people, and appreciate you guys who try to hit it. But remember, it's that twist, that twist and that sucking. Awesome, awesome. All right, so today we have two questions of the day. One of them is a Patreon special. One is a regular question. And of course, it's sponsored by Transparent Labs, our sponsor. Guys, if you wanted to submit your questions, please comment in the comments below, and hopefully Vic will answer some of your questions. Keep them coming. Keep them coming. So a question, Vic, for you today. The question comes from us from JC Invincible, and the question is, Big Bro, is it possible to build significant muscle after 40? Good question. Significant is, I think, the emphasize here, significant muscle. Listen, 40 does not mean you're done. 40, for a lot of people, is just the beginning. I see many people who haven't even worked out their entire lives, and they start training at 40, and I'm not surprised, the look they bring in. It's, I mean, it's not surprising. As long as you're hungry, as long as you're driven, you can bring a lot of muscle to your body. A great look, never too late. As long as you're not, you know, didn't get, you know, double spine surgeries, and you can still squat. There's a lot of hope. So 40 does not mean the ending. The midlife crisis that does not start or end there. It's just the beginning. So never too late. Again, if you're going to have the approach that you never train, never play sports, hire a trainer, but approach it, you know, knowledgeable. Please ask the questions. Nutrition. Eat right. You'd be surprised what you could do at 40. But no, it's never too late, and 40 could put on a significant amount. And it's important to mention, Rick, because I mean, a lot of people will ask these questions, but it's important now that we know this, but protein intake is a massive determinant factor, right? Yes. Especially when you're over 40, because if you're breaking down muscle consistently over 40 and you have to rebuild that muscle after recovery, you know, after muscle breakdown, you have to have consumption of a lot of protein. Not your typical standard, which is like, what is it, like two grams per pound, but I think a lot more than that. Maybe one gram per pound, at the end of the day, is really, you know, where you are. Are you, did you go far off? You know, are you holding too much body fat? I mean, at 40, you'd be surprised what you can do. At the end of the day, the muscle maturity will come a little bit faster. As long as you have a clean diet, that's the only thing. If you're good with the eating, the rest will just come, but start, start with at least three days a week and build up from there. And again, you could do a lot at 40. Do you guys think, you know, he mentioned the age 40, right? Do you guys think in the future, people will actually live longer or shorter? We already are. We already are. If you compare like different, right? Yeah, 19, 10, bro. 40, you were done, man. The end. You were done, man. Come on. At 10 years old, you get married, basically. Oh, man. No, 12. But yeah, but yeah, you know. Well, I mean, I do think that's a good question, too. I mean, you have all these people like Brian Johns and all these other people coming out with longevity stacks and all these like improvements and all these ways to get to live longer. The question really is, I think people will live longer, but there's also a lot of cancer and diseases out there nowadays that are more prominent. But the question is, will people live healthier lives, longer lives, more quality lives those last 10, 15 years? Longer. As long as you don't eat the processed food that this great country of ours makes. Have you guys heard about this? The president of China and Russia, that guy caught on the hot mic. They went on a parade in China and they were talking about how if you do the organ transplants, you can advance your life until you're 150 years old. It was kind of controversial. They had a private conversation about it. Because if you change like your heart over time, all your organs basically, you swap out everything, you can live to 150. If you're not taking the steroids and working out every day, healthy living life, definitely your longevity goes up and up. So this is proof. The body needs muscle to standing up, to walking, sitting. If your muscles get weak and weak and weak every year and your metabolism goes down and down because you're not moving, obviously you get sick and your organ gets sick. But if you keep yourself healthy, if you eat healthy, not eating sugar every day, not drinking every day, you put the gym as a routine of your day. It's like eating breakfast. You drink every other day. Yeah, training every day. Look, Arnold Schwarzenegger right now, it has a two-times heart surgery. And he's 75 plus. He's almost 80. So with the two-times heart surgery, he's still walking around. He's active. He's playing the movie. He looks good. Well, Vic said on the last episode, if you didn't have the muscle definition, he might have not. Well, if you don't have the money, there's no reason why you should be healthy. Why live 250? That's the reason why. You know, it helps. It helps. You can hire the best, get the best. I mean, as far as getting organ transplant just to be healthier and longer, it depends. Do you need the organ transplant? That all depends. Well, it gets the wear out of the time, right? Yeah. At the end of the day, if you have your own, I think you have a better chance of staying alive longer. I agree. You know, but start off, just stay healthy from the beginning. You don't have to worry about it. Well, weightlifting really make you younger. Yeah. This is the proof. This is the fact proof. Yeah. I mean, at the end of the day- I'm talking bodybuilding, weightlifting. No, no, no. Weightlifting. Yeah. I mean, look, at the end of the day, it all comes down to genetic predisposition as well. Right? So if you're predisposed to diabetes and you're predisposed to certain illnesses, you're going to probably have difficulties living longer than others. But there's ways to improve your capacity for, you know, your VO2 oxygen levels and all those things. So certainly, certainly we'll improve that. All right. The next question is, it's a Patreon special, guys. You have to tune into Patreon to hear it because it's a very- It's the channel, guys. Yes. It's a very controversial- I don't know what you're going to think about this question, Vic, but you want to read that through? So, yeah. Thanks again for the questions. That's a question for Patreon members. And first and foremost, I wanted to thank our sponsor, Transparent Labs, for providing us the opportunity here to create this podcast. The best ingredients in the market. The cleanest ingredients. Cleanest ingredients. Try them out. 100% grass-fed protein. They also have an incredible line of performance products from creatine, glutamine, and your day-to-day stacks for magnesium as well. You need to take your muscles to the max! Whoa there, Turbo. Do you even know what's in that stuff? Oh, yeah. See, most protein powders are filled with artificial sweeteners, food dyes, and filler. Really? I wouldn't put that stuff in my body. Neither would I. Transparent Labs is made with just a handful of all-natural ingredients without any of the weird stuff. Transparent Labs. Protein without the weird stuff. Amazing products. So let's talk about this topic. So Chris Bumstead, he retired last year, right? He made some statements. I don't know if it was on a podcast or where, but what he said was, I guess the reason why he made a final decision to retire is because he said, I was very conscious of bodybuildings is not good for your health, and I don't want to continue to do this to me with a family. His story, actually. So many people in the comments. He storied that. He storied that? Okay. He made a comment like that. So this was on a podcast. I forget the name of the podcast. Wisdom Podcast. And this is the first time he's, like, eloquently has mentioned that directly. I mean, he's mentioned that he's very cautious of his health, so he wants to take a step back. But a lot of fans are, like, quick to protect Chris C-Bomb about, oh, he's said this before. But this is the first time that I've seen he's actually mentioned it specifically in that way on a podcast. Of course, in the past, we'll be like, hey, I'm cautious of my health. What are your thoughts on that, Vic? I mean, it's very straight up honorable of him to say that because, remember, a lot of people, a lot of kids in the new generation that's been following him always see him as the champion, Mr. Olympia, you know, and great Chris Bumstead, only at the podium and just winning. And so when he comes out and he doesn't glorify what he had to do to be Mr. Olympia and kind of says, you know what, this is what I had to do. And I don't I had to save myself and my family is a very honorable thing to say. And saving a lot of lives, man. He knows this wasn't for a lot of people to just simply, you know, use and get up there thinking that you're going to be 100 percent. He knew the risk. You know, it could happen to anybody, but he thought ahead and he saved himself. And that's why he retires. So, yes. And it's good that he said that. But people are still going to jump in. So, I mean, how many years did Chris compete? I mean, guys, we'll put up on the screen here. We'll have the guys to look at the stats with Chris's profile in General Shine. I'm not sure or quite sure of how many years he was competing. At least 10, probably. But I think it was at least probably a decade, right? A good 10 years, roughly speaking, competitively on the pro level. I mean, we use that every year, man. Yeah. So pro. He has six championship wins plus another probably three or four years before that. Yeah. So, you know, give or take another 10 years of pro level, you know, with PD. So that is a good statement. I mean, it's a very transparent statement by Chris. Do you foresee the same thing with other athletes now that, you know, that he's saying that where you have now guys like Sam Sulik that is also just coming out to, you know, mention that he's going to be competing at the Arnold. Both Arnold. At Arnold UK and Arnold, you know, classic in the U.S. in March. Do you see that these guys are going to probably limit their competitive careers to now? I don't think they're limited, you know, because at the end of the day, it's all about the mindset, how focused they are. Now, everybody's a Chris Bumstead. You know, he was built differently. His mindset was just next level. So when you see yourself and you could be at his level, but you see yourself not at his level, you know, it's like your mind could be playing tricks on you. So that all depends on the individual. I have two questions. And I have an approach. I have two questions for you, Vic. First of all, do you agree that competitive bodybuilding is unhealthy sport? Do you agree? Of course, man. I mean, I'm not going to lie about it. So then when you were getting into bodybuilding, did you think it back then as, let's say, as a young bodybuilder? Of course. Did you already know that? Okay, I got it. I knew it, but that's why I had my years of I don't want to be big anymore, which was 2000, 2001. It's all about when you pull back. Everybody knows. Everyone knows what's going on and everyone knows what's the side effect of this sport. That comment of the C-bombs is actually good for those young generation. They say, okay, f*** it. I want to go jumping and I want to go 100%. I want to be champion. I want to be one of the Chris Bombs. I want to be that. And they start to be nonstop using the steroids. They don't understand the cycle. They don't understand on and off cycle. They're just using the steroid, the steroid, the steroid. I think these, those messages good for, good for these, those people to nonsense using the steroids to be become champion or the champion future. But the all champion knows. All the bodybuilder knows. I remember one time I asked King Kamali, who's, which, which athlete to become most success. He said that that athlete knows less about the steroids. Or avoid thinking about it. No, you're not thinking about it. When you're not thinking about it, you go more and more. But what's the problem? Suddenly, they catch you. They get you one point. And that moment in time, it's late. It's exactly what Victor said. If you check yourself, you check your heart, your liver, your kidney, your blood. If you go and continue to doctor, checking yourself, you can see, oh, this is it. This is my borderline. I cannot, I cannot go more than this. I have to pull back and stay behind this line. And everyone has a limit. Some person said, fuck it, I want to pass this limit. And some person is smart, staying behind the limit and happy for six, seven plays on the show. Just because the love of bodybuilding on a stage. That's it. That's right. Well, do you remember a year ago, IABB Pro and MPC announced they're doing a, they're going to do a natural show, tested shows. Let's call them tested shows. And then there's going to be even one of the tested champions going to the Olympia. Do you know any, any update on that since that happened? Uh, no. We have, we have natural show. We have natural show in Pittsburgh, actually, every year. Part of the, part of the IABB. Yeah. Part of the MPC, natural show. Is that the one in the spring, right? Yeah. Yeah. It's spring happened. So any updates on who won it? Like who's competing in it? Like anything like that? I mean, I, I, I see, I actually had, I had two clients for that show. There's no way they're testing for that. It's not testing. It's just the, like a, a, a light detector. They ask. They look into your eyes. They ask, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Basically. They have a 10 questions. Some person sitting down, I ask a question. Fill up the form. I heard that it's very difficult to beat a light test detector or whatever it's called. I heard it's difficult. It's not easy. But no one, no one attaching anything to you. You just look at your eyes and ask a question. Did you eat breakfast today? That's not a light detector then. Wow, that's crazy. No. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Depends on how good light, how bad light you are. Blink twice or even drink water. Like I'm natural. I don't know. But Vic, you told us a story on this podcast. When you failed the diuretic test at the Arnold, they actually tested you. Yeah. Well, I was blindsided, man. And plus, I wasn't supposed to take a diuretic because I had never taken a diuretic. Didn't King Kamali mess you up or something like that? I don't know. I'm not going to. You said it already, bro. I remember you said it. Listen, at the end of the day, it was my decision. I took it on my own. It was a bad decision. Was I going to do any better in the show? Not at all. But the point is they tested you. Why can they test on that? I don't know. We were just basically getting ready for the Arnold. We're in the back. And next thing you know, these guys come in with the lab coats. And they're like, here, piss here. Great, man. And I've just taken it like five minutes before. It's also very expensive to conduct these tests. Isn't that true? Very expensive. It's expensive. You want to show face. It's kind of like, we'll get your support. But this is what's happening this year. And whatever. I mean, are you saving lives? I mean, probably. But it's just one of those things. Did it continue? No, that was probably the last time that happened. Interesting. So Sam Sulek doing an Arnold Classic. He's doing a U.S. Arnold Classic in March, right? And then he's doing a U.K. the following month, I think. Samsung Delta. We got a week or two apart, yeah. Right, right. So what do you guys think about his? He's doing his pro now, obviously, right? So he's doing Classic Physique. Everybody's looking forward to that. I mean, in many ways, people kind of want to see him. Classic, yeah. Classic Physique. They want to see him emulate Chris Bumstead. Because I think he's now part of the same raw team with Chris. And I think he's based in Columbus, Ohio, as well. So I think people want to see that trajectory and kind of like him kind of grow within the bodybuilding industry and wing shows. I know Sam has a lot of haters out there, people that don't want to see influencers cross over. Vic was one of them. I think it's great for Sam. I think it's great for bodybuilding. So it will be interesting to see him compete. I think people will be very excited to see him on stage again. Well, were you impressed with his when he got his pro card? Were you impressed with his physique? Well, I mean, again, I never saw comparisons. You saw him. You saw him. I mean, for what he brought in, he looked good. But I didn't see any other bodybuilding standing next to him. So I could never say, oh, he looked great. I mean, him standing there alone, yes, he looked great. But I didn't see who he competed against. I didn't see who he won. Any person go to the gym and walking out alone standing in front of Emilio, it's good. Yes. They have a nice body. Depends who's standing next to you. Right. Ronnie Coleman, Drake Lonsworth, Hadi Choupan, I don't know, Jay Cutler, or Samson, you know? Sam. So it depends who is standing next to you and who is in the show. Well, if he's going to Ronald Classic, he's going to be standing next to somebody like Ramon Dino, right? If he's standing in Dino, he doesn't have Charles. Doesn't have chance? No. No. No. Hey, that's a good point. Ramon Dino, a classic? Well, that's a whole other, you know. He's a champion now. I was actually surprised Dino get champion for Mr. Olympia. You look good, man. He bring a very nice package. Very nice package. It was his show to lose, you know? Yeah. What's his, that German guy, Mark, the German guy with the mustache? Mike. Mike. Summerfield? Mike. Summerfield. Mike Summerfield. He is, I mean, definitely he's coming. Yeah. He doesn't have it. So can you see Sam next to Mark? No. No. No. It's next level. These guys have been up there. They've been doing it for a while. Ours? Ours moved to. Ours moved to. Yeah, he moved up. But I would have to say he's definitely going to bring in a lot more eyes to the, you know. I think so too. It's exciting, yeah? He's going to do, but to put him ahead of Dino and Mike, I'm like, you guys are asking too much there. He need more time. Top 10. How about top 10? Is he going to make top 10? Probably. Probably top 10 again, you know? Probably because of his name. I mean, he catch the eyes for the judges. You know, it's, look, 64 people standing on Mr. Olympia stage for the classic. 64 athletes. That's a lot, man. So all the judge has to be compringed. See a recognizable face. Yes. And left to right, you know? I want to see this one to that one. But when you have a familiar face, the judge catch you faster. The unconscious, they look at you more and more. So these, those things affect because he's a famous guy on social media and he has publicity. It could be he bring up number of the ranking for yourself. But as a winning, no. We have to be realistic. How about in the UK? How about in the UK? Can he win the UK one? No. So the good thing about the audience now- These guys have been up there already for so long. These guys are- He just get the pro card. Yeah, yeah. He just got it. So Polymarket, I mean, you guys have heard of Polymarket, right? Polymarket is the betting, crypto betting site where you can pretty much bet on anything, right? I think they had Samson at 90% winning or 80% winning. He lost. It's not yet 100% legal in the States, but it will be very soon. So eventually we could probably just highlight- So right, call a friend in another country, have him bet on you and that's it. Or if you have a VPN, yeah, just use a VPN. Oh, it's a way around betting. Come on now. Yeah, you could use a VPN. Do you bet on sports? Sometimes. Really? Yeah. Why not? Would you bet on bodybuilding? No. Why not? No. I mean, unless the head judge gives me, you know- Head down. Cracking down. They're cracking down. Oh, yeah, they are cracking down. Yeah, they're not the NBA, man. Well, you can bet on bodybuilding now. So a lot of people who bet on Samson lost and whoever bet on Derek won. That's actually pretty interesting. I would probably bet on bodybuilding. If it becomes legal, I'd probably try it out. I think General Shrine probably should try it out. You know what I mean? Yeah, you could probably do. It'll be A-50-50 toss-up. I mean, bodybuilding doesn't have any actual rule on the paper. So you cannot- It's just opinion, you know? It's just your opinion, my opinion. Yeah, no, I mean, the same thing. Judges, they have scorecards. I mean- Just opinion. Interesting. Hormone replacement therapy, HRT, TRT, testosterone replacement therapy. They all kind of go into the same bucket of hormones. Men and females, they all have the same exact hormones. For males, they need more testosterone than females. And for females, we need a little bit more estrogen than males. Basically, what that means is if you get your blood work done, your testosterone's low, we try to get it to an optimal level. We walk into where our medical assistants would be. They're contacting patients all throughout the day, making sure patients are feeling good, looking good, and performing their best, making sure they're hitting their goals, making sure they're tolerating the medication properly, and everything is going well. Patient care and patient service is number one to us. And if they have any questions, concerns, issues, then we're taking care of them too as well. A TRT company or Titan Medical, what they do is they make people healthy, and they get people to really live the dream of life. It's one of those things I always say, do you want to live a long life or a quality of life? And that's what Titan Medical does. So Arnold Classic is still far away, right? His next share, obviously. But both Nick Walker and Andrew Jack said they're going to compete. And Hardy Choupon. And Hardy Choupon? And Hardy Choupon. That would be a good Arnold. So I know it's very early, but what do you guys think? Who would you bet your money on in that one? Hardy. So far, Hardy has been consistent, man. I would bet Hardy as well. I think Hardy, if Hardy's going to do the Arnold Classic. Comes in with that same consistent look, it's just Hardy is just unbeatable. I hear from rumor, I hear from rumor, Hardy said maybe just compete for Arnold. Let me ask you something. Just for Arnold? Just for Arnold. Why, because he's upset at Olympia? He don't want to come to Olympia anymore. He's upset? Yeah. He's really upset for Mr. Olympia. But bro, it's the same judges. It's not like it's different judges. It's the same judges. But the result always is different. But it's the same judges. Steve Weinberg, it's the same judges. But the result always is different. We saw it. But let's talk about this for a second. It doesn't matter if you go to, you're saying the promoters of the Arnold Classic and Olympia have influence on the judges? I think the judges respect Arnold opinion. And this opinion is, the Arnold opinion effect on the judges. That's a controversial statement, man. Yeah. That's very controversial. I mean, Vic, come on. What is he saying here? I don't know nothing, man. Come on. You have to say something. I go for the freebies, you know. You have to say something. The sanctioning bodies. You like Pinky Boy. Well, you could make an argument that, you know, Arnold has spoken very highly of Samson in the past. And Andrew Jack, I think, too. So, you know, you could say that they have a better chance of winning. But Samson lost last year at the Arnold Classic to Derek Lunsford, I think, right? Yes. Yeah. But a year before Samson won, I think, yeah? Right. So, again, it's the judges make a decision. I'm just saying. It's up to the judges at the end. And as far as how he's saying he's not competing at the Olympia anymore, that's just hearsay. Yeah. I would hate for that to be an actual statement of his. I don't think it happened. And him actually, you know, competing. Did he say that? I mean, because it could go really against him. Yeah. Because that's just not. I hear that. I hear from rumors. Like privately you heard it or publicly? No, privately. I hear from rumors. They said he had, maybe he's not going to Olympia anymore. But Hardy loves Olympia. Of course. I mean, the title after Olympia, the sandal, the name. I mean, Arnold Classic, don't get me wrong. Arnold Classic is big, big status, too. But Mr. Olympia is something else. There's more prestige, more old. Are you both discounting Nick Walker completely now out of this competition? Because he didn't. No. Nobody brought him up. No, no. I think the question was, you know, the four names that you brought up. I brought him up, too. I'm saying. But Nick, this is his time to really vindicate himself. He has a chance. I think someone told me he switched culture already. I've heard. I don't know if it's official or if it's a rumor or not. I don't know. Yeah. Again. Which is what do you think about that? How do you know what I mean? Like, OK, so you don't do well with a coach. You immediately dismiss him. I mean. I mean, again, it's a business thing. You know, if you feel like the coach didn't make the right call, you have to make the decision. You know, are you getting trained for free? He's getting a percentage of you got to make that decision. Right. And if it's didn't make the right troubleshooting at the end. And you have to dump him. So. Nick has a good potential for Arnold. If he changed training method. that's that's his problem yeah so who who let me ask you a question who trains hottie is is honey rambath still training honey even though he said he retired no one no one trained hardy how did train him alone hardy is how this is in iran i see hardy is you know no one is next to why is it so why is honey rambath in pictures training him because he's sponsoring training arnold i mean arnold was he's sponsoring oh he's a sponsor he's not his trainer no he's sponsoring him he's he doesn't have a coach anymore he's the biggest athlete he has in company so he doesn't but he doesn't have a so another okay he's not being trained at all he trained all his athletes working on evasion company all the girls all the boys i heard honey rambath is training sam sulik i don't know if it's a rumor i don't know if it's no no no he just so honey built up the gym in the evasion building yeah it's great so all the athlete goes over there as an owner one day or one session working with uh honey rambath makes sense it's not such a thing to give him the program permanent coach yeah and he's very nice to give the tip with everyone it's like a everyone goes to powerhouse bev and then ask to steve can you can you value my body and he said okay let's go i see i see let's go to see your body you know i don't think so vic how important are these coaches to these athletes to these i mean to these bodybuilders is it i mean for some people the coaches are essential because you don't want to deal with you know what you're going to eat next you know especially if he's doing your your diet program as well um a lot of times you don't want to think so much other than just let me train my ass off let me just eat what i need to eat and just worry about something else you know some people have the capacity to do it all so do you feel you did better with a coach or without a coach it depends on the individual you know because i mean i had a training coach victor muñoz for many years and they got to a point that i said you know what let me just mess around my own diet and i got to that point that i don't want to think about the diet you know so i had a dietitian i had a training coach and you know i just simplify things you know it's better to separate i think it's better to separate yeah i mean it's very hard to find a one person as a nutritionist and training together knows well actually it's very hard yeah all right so we have one more topic it's a patreon special um so you guys if you're watching us on youtube please switch over to the patreon because it's um i guess it's a controversial topic as well so dick you ready for this one all right well that's that's it guys that was a patreon special please subscribe to us on patreon and support our podcast yes thank you guys thank you for listening to this week's generation iron podcast remember follow us like and comment you want to see any of our prior podcasts tune into iheartradio wherever you stream and to our avid listeners tune into patreon thank you until next time east