 This doesn't look good, you know, you know, you know, you know, it just doesn't look good, you know, it just doesn't look good, especially when you pose, because it just kind of just looks weird. Because it doesn't flex right, right? Yeah, it doesn't flex right, it looks funny. Hello and welcome to this week's Generation 9 episode. Your hosts, me, Victor Martinez, Edwin Mejia, and Vlad Yudin. Back at home base. Back at HQ here right in front of an incredible audience and more importantly at HQ before Christmas. And Vic, what do you got planned for the holidays now that we are in this holiday season? We see you getting stronger. Yes. We see that. I know we have this amazing series that's coming up on your recovery also. Coming soon, guys. Stay tuned. What do you got planned for the holiday season? Gratitude. Gratitude since Thanksgiving, Christmas. This is – I shouldn't have been here, so nothing but gratitude. I'm getting a little bit better back in the holiday groove because I didn't – you know, Christmas used to miss us when we were younger, you know. But my approach is different. It's not about the kids. It's always about, you know – actually, it is about the kids, but mostly family. And grateful. Yeah, grateful. That's what it is. And so I'm just showing a whole lot more gratitude this time around. And shout-out to all of our listeners and subscribers. Appreciate you guys tuning in. And big thanks to Transparent Labs. Again, Transparent Labs has some of the best products on the market. 100% grass-fed beef protein is one of the best proteins. Very quality, high-quality ingredients with very little ingredients in terms of funny stuff. Nothing in that at all. You guys have to try them. We highly recommend their line of products, their performance products, their creatine, fat burners. Even their test boosters as well. So shout-out to Transparent Labs for their support. What's the best Christmas gift you've ever gotten in your whole life? It's Christmas gift. Do you have that memory of a best Christmas gift? If I did, I wouldn't remember. I have very few Christmas gifts. What about the worst? I can't really – You can't really judge a gift, right? If somebody gives you a gift. Yeah, again, I mean, just getting a gift, period, is one of those things where you're like, thank you. Yeah. I like to give a random person a gift here and there. You know, it's just one of those things. But, no, just the gift of being around my family is one of them. You know, seeing them just, you know, celebrate with one another. You know, we Dominicans do Christmas Eve hard. We go hard. We drink hard. We stay up, party all night. I know we say it's for the kids, but we keep them up until 2, 3 in the morning. We just dance the night away, and that's most important. But Christmas gift, I can't really say so. You know, you mentioned giving random people gifts, right? What do you think about this? There's a new trend happening with a lot of the influencers, right? When they go out to eat, they like to give out money. Like, they like to be like, let's say they go to drostanolone and give 100% tip, for example. I don't know if they do it for camera or if it's maybe like kind of like a karma thing. The more I give out, the more I get back. I mean, whether they're doing it for the camera, whatever, but it's definitely they want to get more followers. But if you do want to change somebody's outlook in life or somebody's day, somebody's weekend, somebody's Christmas, I think it's just this is a time for giving. In general, right? Yeah. So doing that, I would say whether, you know, if you're doing it for likes, you know, whatever. But as long as you're genuinely making somebody else happy, I think that's just beautiful. I mean, I like doing it and you should do it because nobody's watching. But if you want to do it for likes, hey, you know, as long as you're doing it to a person that's in need and appreciates it, why not? But do you feel like if you do such gestures, it will come back to you? Do you think about that? I don't think about the coming back because if you are doing it because you're expecting something to come back, that's not genuine at all. Yeah, yeah. You're kind of expecting something. Yeah. So it's a different kind of giving, you know. Do it and forget about it. But remember that smile that you put on that person's face because that's priceless. All right, Beck, well, that's deep, man. Yeah. All right, guys, so we have some questions of the day for Victor brought to us by Transparent Labs. You need to take your muscles to the max. Whoa there, Turbo. Do you even know what's in that stuff? Oh, yeah. See, most protein powders are filled with artificial sweeteners, food dyes, and filler. Really? I wouldn't put that stuff in my body. Neither would I. Transparent Labs is made with just a handful of all-natural ingredients without any of the weird stuff. Transparent Labs. Protein without the weird stuff. So, Eddie, you want to take those away? Yeah. So, the first question, guys, comes to us from AustinHS6925. For someone who works night shifts, what health supplements and any foods do I avoid add for overall well-being? Man, the night shift. That hits me hard because I remember working many night shifts. I did 7 to 7, 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. Wow. Man. I did 11 to 7, 11 p.m. to 7 a.m., and I did that for a long time. We just brought up Greg Valentino on the last episode, and he used to come visit me when I was doing the graveyard shift. And one thing I would have to mention on that behalf is you have to now change the way you eat because now your mornings are actually your nights, and your afternoons will be your mornings. So, one thing that when you're staying up one night is the sleep rhythm changes. What do you call that? Circadian rhythm. Circadian rhythm. There you go. Yeah. So, the sleep rhythm changes. So, you have to adapt. One thing I remember when I used to leave work at 7, 15 in the morning, getting on the subway, getting home, I tried to avoid the sun so I wouldn't adjust my sleep. I would definitely get a little sun at 3 p.m., 3.30. I used to adjust myself to actually have the energy to go to the gym. I would have to say definitely some B12, B6. As far as supplements, melatonin. So, you can get into that real good sleep rhythm right back. Again, you can sleep by 8. You know, don't eat too much carbs. Stop coffee after, I would have to say, after 4 in the morning. If you can, you know, pull back on the caffeine, that will help you. Also, fish oil is good. Inflammation, your heart. Because if you're doing it, I did it fairly young. So, I didn't experience, you know, a lot of the negative effects of, you know, doing the graveyard shifts. But if you are older, definitely the fish oils will help you. Try to stay away from sugar, especially as you go into later, into the night, getting into your rest period, which is, you know, you're going to bed by 8, 9 o'clock or whatever time you get home. But definitely before 10. Drink mostly water. I mean, it's a rough schedule. But for me, I loved it. I enjoyed it because I didn't have to deal with so many people at that time. It was just perfect. It's just a beautiful shift. If you have kids, again, it can vary person to person. But hopefully, this will help you. And again, just make sure you get that rhythm right. And especially when you have two days off and you're trying to go into that flow of sleeping at night and getting up in the day. Don't change it so drastically. You know, that's the only thing I can say because if you're going back to work at, you know, the following, you know, two days later, you don't want to destroy that rhythm and try to, you know, distort it. The only other time this is a problem is flying into different time zones. But again, that's not that often. If you are working, let's keep that schedule tight. Get your workouts. I used to work out before I went to work. That way I don't have to work out in the morning. And I competed even with that crazy schedule. But definitely eat healthier in the night, wee hours in the morning. Eat more vegetables. Still away from bulk eating around, you know, early hours in the morning. Cool. And that's a great answer by Vic. I mean, obviously, Transparent Labs have a great magnesium product. Vic, you recommended magnesium. Yep. Magnesium is great. Those are great, great go-to products. Highly recommend that for you guys with our Discount Comfort Generation Iron readers. And the second question for our podcast today comes to us from SoSoAngry99. It's a Patreon special. So if you guys want to switch over to the Patreon to full uncensored access, please subscribe right now. And that special question is... I mean, juicing is bad enough. Now you're going to put a foreign oil that does nothing but create sludge in your veins and arteries. I agree with you, man. Guys, as always, we say on the show, do not use anything but good diet, good supplements, and no PEDs. No sludge, no sludge. No sludge. So this was the last question. Guys, please submit your questions in the comments below, and hopefully Victor will answer some of them. Yes. Hormone replacement therapy, HRT, TRT, testosterone replacement therapy, they all kind of go into the same bucket of hormones. Men and females, they all have the same exact hormones. For males, they need more testosterone than females. And for females, we need a little bit more estrogen than males. Basically what that means is if you get your blood work done, your testosterone is low, we try to get it to an optimal level. We walk into where our medical assistants would be. They're contacting patients all throughout the day, making sure patients are feeling good, looking good, and performing their best. Making sure they're hitting their goals. Making sure they're tolerating the medication properly. And everything is going well. Patient care and patient service is number one to us. And if they have any questions, concerns, issues, then we're taking care of them too as well. A TRT company or Titan Medical, what they do is they make people healthy. And they get people to really live the dream of life. It's one of those things I always say, do you want to live a long life? Or a quality of life? And that's what Titan Medical does. So let's talk about this other sad story actually. There was a fitness coach who passed away recently. He wanted to do like a challenge. He wanted to gain 50 pounds of weight and then lose it. I guess for his followers to follow the program. So he started gaining the 50 pounds of weight using junk food, I guess. So like unhealthy foods. And died from a cardiac arrest. Obviously, very sad story. And I guess it comes from like your body was, his body was probably in shock, right? Putting all that stuff in. I mean, you're forcing 10,000 calories. I'm sure a lot of it was sugar. It was very unhealthy. It's basically doing a death bulk. That's what you're doing. I mean, it's just a death bulk because you're forcing your body to do something. And if you're not utilizing those extra calories, it's just going to create a freaking unhealthy bomb in your body of heart issues, sugar issues, sleep issues, digestive issues. I mean, just to keep going on and on and on. I mean, I feel bad that this happened to him. But what was he thinking when he first tried it? But do you remember videos from like years ago? Like Fuad used to be like 10,000 calorie day. And there was many other bodybuilders who tried that as well. Actually, I think Juan Morel did it. Yes. But again, you're looking at a day or two. This guy was doing it for weeks at a time. I guess he was trying to do it. It was longer than a day for sure. Yeah, so the longer you do it, the more unhealthy you're going to be. And it's not fun. I mean, the worst part of eating, I mean, there was a point I was eating about 8,000, 9,000 calories. But my body was using it. My body was calling. It wasn't shock. I wasn't force feeding, you know. And after a while, I couldn't do it because the most annoying part was the acid reflux. You have all that food. Your metabolism slows down. You start getting the little vomit right here. That's the worst, man. And then you just kind of, you don't want to throw it up because you don't want to lose calories. And you swallow the vomit back up. Oh, yeah. Come on. But you know what Kai Green told me? That after the show, when he was dieting, he got off the stage and literally gained 40 pounds. Yeah, 40 pounds in 24 hours. Yeah, the rebound. It's the rebound. 40 pounds is a lot, though. I mean, I think it was 7,000 calories once. And I couldn't even lie down in bed. What's the most you've gained in 24 hours, you think? How much weight? I mean, what is it, 72 hours? Probably, yeah, 50 pounds. So you did it the same as the fitness coach. I know, but that's the rebound. That's, you know, you get off the stage Saturday night. You eat well into the night. A lot of times you feel like food's going out of style, so you stay up so you can eat more. But, you know, I find a hack for that, you know. Was that dangerous, too, what you did? Yeah, it was totally dangerous. I basically acquired this heart murmur because, obviously, I couldn't breathe and edema set in. That's when it skips the beat, right? Yeah. It was just horrible. I remember my back almost felt like it was just folding on itself. Were you scared for anything? No, I wasn't scared. I just wanted to eat more. I wanted more cheesecake, more pizza. I actually ate an entire pie, an entire cheesecake, and with milk. I mean, that is just nasty, man. It was nasty, man. And let alone, I mean, forget the toilet, man. Blow it out. I mean, when people eat that much, all I think is, you know, you must take the biggest dump. Don't come to my house and do a number two. Imagine after the hot dog eating competitions, what that's like. It was crazy. I know a lot of them puke 50 afterwards. Yeah, a lot of them puke. That's prohibited. That's actually against the rules, but they still do. Yeah, I mean, they probably chill for a little bit, but then they excuse themselves. Yeah, it's like we had it well documented on J. Webby Can Eat, this movie that's on Prime right now. You know, we documented the number one Australian eater in the world. It's crazy. Competitive eater in the world. And obviously, we had Joey Chestnut in there as well. And we document behind the scenes of what these guys do to their stomachs, you know, before they compete. It's actually really incredible. It's crazy, crazy for you people to see this. I highly encourage you guys to watch the movie. But more importantly, this event is like, you know, it's risky, you know. So you can see why people go into cardiac arrest in certain situations. And, you know, it's bad, man. I think I ate one pastry too many. You get that sugar just rushes in. Your heartbeat just starts going. You start sweating profusely. And it just doesn't feel good. Right. Do it for one meal. It's just bad. Imagine doing it continuously day after day. And then, you know, rest in peace. But I hope he had a different approach. And this is not cool, man. But in a hot dog eating competition or any eating competition, if you throw up or shitting pants during a contest, they disqualify you. Oh, yeah. Can't throw up. But shitting shouldn't be it, though. That's the rules. Oh, because you're making room. Yeah. Traffic back up. Yeah. Yeah. Hey, guys. Have you ever taken a look at a nutrition label behind a bag of chips? It's a complete chemical cocktail. Seed oils, MSG, vague ingredients that sound more like a science experiment than an actual snack. So masa is part of a growing movement to bring back real food, real snacks, similar to how our grandparents used to have real food before snacks were made in a lab. Masa chips contain just three ingredients. Nixtamalized corn, sea salt, and natural grass-fed beef tallow. That's it. Snacking masa chips is unlike eating regular chips. It tastes great. You feel good. You feel satisfied. There's no bloating. And you truly have a great snack. And because these chips are made with real food, you find yourself satiating. You won't find yourself uncontrollably binging or hungry afterwards. Personally, my favorite is the masa tortilla chip original. It tastes great. It tastes amazing. It really leaves an incredible flavor. And the aftertaste is my favorite out of all the masa chips. Now, if you love masa, you're really going to love Vandy. Vandy is masa's sister company that has three ingredients. And honestly, my favorite is the original because the aftertaste really is incredible. It tastes like you're eating a burger. So I highly recommend that for anybody that's a big snacker. Ready to give masa a try? Use code IRON for 25% off for your first order on masachips.com or vandychips.com. Or simply click the link on the bio video description or scan the QR code to claim this incredible offer. Don't feel like ordering online? Masa and Vandy are now available at your nationwide local Sprouts supermarket store. Stop by and pick up a couple of bags before they're gone. Speaking of gaining weight, so Samson Dowda, I guess he made an announcement that he's up to 350 pounds now. That's insane. He said, enough season. He said, okay, let's go for broke. So he wants to obviously be bigger for the actual competition next year, I'm assuming, right? But he is bigger. So do you think it's a mistake what he's doing? Do you think it's going to? I mean, since you're asking me, I have to say yes, it is. Because one, it's like you want to stay up there a little longer. You want to keep going at it. You want to keep cracking the top prize. So 350 pounds. I mean, it's a lot of weight. Ronnie got as big, what, 330? I'm not sure. And again, it's like you don't need to go that heavy because your body's just going to get distorted. I mean, he is big. I think he did a show after the Olympia. Yes, at the Olympia, he didn't reach his peak condition. But then he did the LVS Pro. He looked great. He didn't look bigger, though. He didn't win. Yeah, but he looked bigger. Right, right. He looked bigger. So why not refine on your condition? Because he is by far the biggest bodybuilder up there and most complete, even though you see Andrew Jack, which he looks great. But Samson, you already got one Olympia. It doesn't mean you're not an Olympia top contender. So to be bigger and try to— Why is he doing this? Somebody's telling him. I mean, again, once you have that feeling and you can actually do it and hold the weight and you are hungry, I mean, how much muscle can your body carry while still looking appealing and having a nice flow from top to bottom? So there's never been a bodybuilder that was actually that big, 300 pounds, and looked appealing. If he's 350 offseason, how much is he going to be on stage? That's what everybody's going to have to wait and see because now you're 350. You're coming in bigger. But how polished is that going to be? Right. How much is it going to be that you have to lose? If you have to lose 60 pounds or 70, you should come in at 280. That's a lot. That's a lot of weight, man, and you're going to have to do a lot of cardio. And again, let's not forget the good old, you know, most important heart of your body after the—you know, it's the heart. The heart's going to go into overload. And, you know, but he is a professional. I know he's being watched by his wife who does help, you know, helps him with his prep. Yeah, man. And let's just hope you're not, you know, creating any, you know, heart issues, breathing issues, or any heart arrhythmia, you know? Interesting. Yeah, it's crazy. What's the heaviest you've been offseason? Man, I was 290, and I did not like it. Did not like it. It was— A 60-pound difference from him. Yeah. I think when I was carrying around 275, it was way more comfortable. 275, 280. If I, you know, ate one mofongo too many, it'll happen. But that was, like, my most comfortable weight. 275, 280. Compete at 250. 50, but again, you know, I was losing, you know, 25, 30 pounds, you know, which is not bad. But when you're looking at 70 pounds to lose, to compete, that's a lot. So why go so far off and make it even more of a challenge to come in? And how much are you going to lose, you know, when it comes down to cutting the fat? How much of that is going to be sacrificing muscle? Yeah. So I guess we'll see what happens, but that's—I wanted to get your opinion on this because it's a lot of weight. Yeah, again, he is Samson. He is Mr. Olympia. And, you know, we can just wait and see. But that's pretty huge. I think Akeem Williams is, like, around 320 right now too. But he's bigger frame than that. Huge. These guys—again, at the end of the day, it's coming in with that quality, crisp muscle. And, you know, if you're going to have that extra weight to sacrifice the quality, I wouldn't recommend it. What do you think about Jay Cutler basically putting all his money on Andrew Jack for next year? He said he's going to win the Olympia and the Arnold Classic. If Derek comes in the way he did last year, I think so. I mean, Andrew Jack is right there. He's on the tail. He's been moving up the ranks, moving up slowly, creeping up. He's got the nice muscle bellies. He's a complete bodybuilder. You know, the height as well. And, again, right now he's getting closer. He's getting closer. He's climbing up. So for Jay to say that, I don't think it's such a bad statement. You know, it's sort of accurate. If you look at his placings throughout the last four Olympias, they have been great. So he's moving up. Remember, Ronnie wasn't even in the top ten, and he kept creeping up. And so he's kind of following. You know, he's being consistent. He's coming up. And right now he's one of the prettiest physiques up there that you can actually, you know, enjoy watching. And so I would put my money on it as well. Really? Yeah. Wow. Interesting. Can't wait to see what happens next year. Yeah. It's going to be a great Olympia. Again, you're still going to have the top contenders. I mean, Samson coming from 350. It's going to be insane. I just want him to bring that condition with that size and not, unfortunately, some guys just bring it in for Saturday night. And it looks like, I don't think they're judging Saturday night. I mean, speaking of the Olympia, we had a special opportunity to go behind the scenes at the Olympia backstage and document for Prime. This incredible movie on Dream Big for people that haven't seen what goes into these Olympias, like Samson, Andrew Jack. All these guys are in this, along with Derek Lunsberg and other Olympians, Olympia athletes that are in the film. And we were able to document behind the scenes at the Olympia. So it was pretty cool to go behind the scenes and go to their countries as well. So for people that want to see what it really takes to win in Mr. Olympia and the 60-year tradition, check out the movie that's available right now, Dream Big on Prime. If you guys have a subscription to Prime, guys, you can watch it for free right now. All right. So we have one more topic, and it's a Patreon special. So, guys, if you don't have a Patreon, please go to Patreon, subscribe to Generation Iron, and you can watch all the content and the movies uncensored. So the question comes to us for Patreon special. And, of course, you can actually go to your own medical doctor. If they're, you know, not close-minded on the whole peptide phase, they can actually help you too as well. Awesome. That's good. All right. Well, that was a Patreon special topic. Thank you for answering it, Vic. Yes. Thank you for joining us in this week's Generation Iron podcast episode. Remember, follow us, like. If you want to see them in a prior podcast episode, tune in to iHeartRadio, Apple Podcasts, and also join us in Patreon. Thank you. Peace. Nice. Nice. Thank you.