 D fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg fourspeg Hello and welcome to this week's Generation 9 podcast. Your host, me, Victor Martinez, along with Edward Mejia and Vlad Uden. We're back. Yeah, back here at HQ. Another set of questions and comments and a lot of great feedback from our lawyer listeners. I want to give a special shout out to Transparent Labs for being a big sponsor here and supporter of Vic as well. And his recovery. They have an incredible line of products, 100% grass-fed protein, no funny stuff, 100% grass-fed collagen. And many of their products have been a big support here, including their PM magnesium, which is great. So there's a few questions. I don't know if you want to start off with one of them. Yeah, you can do both of them if you want. So one of our loyal listeners, which is BenAndy1, who we've answered his questions before. Definitely. He goes and says, hey, we had a couple of questions for you. One question for one is for me and the few guys at the gym. A few of us run higher testosterone and tend to hold water because of it. Is there anything you recommend taking or doing to help reduce water retention without doing anything stupid or unhealthy? That's the first question. I mean, high testosterone, you're going to hold water. You know, it's like you can't say I'm doing high testosterone, you know, and I don't want to get a hard on. It's just going to happen. You know, so one thing for at least, you know, I don't know how high is high. If you're doing 1,000, that's too high. Even 750, that's too high. So one thing you can do without using duretics because you definitely don't want to go that route is manage your sodium intake. That's definitely one. Also, you got to check your potassium levels. That could be another one, you know. So if you're eating a lot of fried chicken, fast food, that's definitely the wrong way to go about it. Remember, if you are going to be taking stuff, you have to now follow a healthy eating pattern. So watch your sodium intake. There's nothing else. For me to give you another pharmaceutical to take to avoid the water retention, that's the wrong way to go about it. It's just basically cardio, sauna, infrared being the best, but also how much is a lot. I don't know how much you're taking, you know. So probably taking more than what you actually need. And I don't know. He didn't mention his age, right? Yeah, but usually water retention. And now, let's say you're over 40, that's not a good thing because it starts affecting your heart. And that's usually very bad. So simmer down on the dose. I don't know what you guys are trying to do. Even if it's power lifting, it doesn't matter. Water retention can start going on the negative progress, and that is your health. What's the second part of his question? The second part of the question is, is this, okay, and this one important since we're in Louisiana. And it's crawfish season right now. Crawfish is amazing for those people that haven't tried it. Yeah. Some of the most amazing southern crawfish food in the planet. Crawfish jambalaya, that's what they call it, right? What's your opinion on crawfish, especially crawfish boils when it comes to diet and overall health? Thanks in advance, Ben and Andy. I think I've got sodium in it. Crawfish, you're going to have sodium is one. But the biggest problem is probably gout. What's that? Gout. It's like when some acid imbalance, and that happens with a lot of shellfish. People that eat too much crabs, crawfish, lobster. Some people like to eat a lot of it. And unfortunately, the gout, you get an imbalance, some acid. I don't know if it's uric acid. Don't quote me on that. But it's definitely painful. Yeah. You know, it usually happens in your limbs, your hands, where you can't, you know, flex, no circulation. Damn. So that's the only problem. So if you are going to eat crawfish, I think, rule of thumb is try to eat it once every three days. So like twice a week, max. Every day, you're going to start, you know, feeling that, you know, the gout. And my daughter's grandfather had it, and he loved eating shrimps and lobster. And that's, I mean, just remembering him and what he went through is usually not a good thing. You know, so aside from the gout, I mean, I don't know. I don't really like shellfish much. I was going to ask you, do you like shellfish? Nah, I'm not a big lobster eater, you know, ever since they try to compare it to cockroaches of the sea. I like meat. I like steak. Now that you put it like that, it doesn't sound good. See, cockroaches, because when you step on a roach, you get all that. They are bottom feeders, yeah. Yeah, they are, you know. But, you know, people want to be fancy. I want the lobster. It's a fashionable eating. You ever had Caribbean lobster? Yeah, it's probably tastier than here. Here they just do steam and put butter, that's it. Caribbean, they pull us a song on it, bro. It's good. It's fun. It's actually better. But what places, you know, the best place to have lobster is Maine, man. That's always Maine. Lobster roll, lobster bisque soup. In Boston, they eat a lot of lobster. Yes, yes. So, I do eat it up there. I love lobster, especially lobster, red Maine lobster. So, it's definitely official up there, especially in Maine. And lobster from Red Lobster is not the same lobster. No. That's like McDonald's lobster. It's like farmed lobster. Nah, you get the freaking, nah, it's not the same. All right. This guy is like eating pasta at Olive Garden. So, basically, you're telling him eat it, but only twice a week, right? Yeah, twice a week. Let's be safe about it. Again, you guys keep training hard, you know. Simmer down on the test, you know. Yeah, they have some good lobster down at, you know, Dustin, Florida, as well. Crawfish, I mean. And then they have amazing crawfish in New Orleans, of course. New Orleans. New Orleans. We're going to get absolutely jacked? No. Just looking for clean protein. Clean? You need to take your muscles to the max! Whoa there, Turbo. Do you even know what's in that stuff? Oh, yeah. See, most protein powders are filled with artificial sweeteners, food dyes, and filler. Really? I wouldn't put that stuff in my body. Neither would I. Transparent Labs is made with just a handful of all-natural ingredients without any of the weird stuff. Every scoop delivers 28 grams of protein sourced from grass-fed cows raised without any hormones or antibiotics. And you can choose from 14 delicious flavors. Is that mint chocolate chip? Give me that! Transparent Labs. Protein. Without the weird stuff. All right, we have another question, right, Ed? What do we have here? What do you got? So the next question comes from Hale11208. Hey, Vic. Big fan of you since you started bodybuilding. Remember, you showed me how to do barbell triceps the right way. So, Vic, you being in the fitness, why you haven't done your own supplements and opened a gym? I know you will be successful at opening and running a gym and supplements. Glad you're okay and keep getting stronger. Oh, thanks, man. I had a gym once, you know, with this gym uptown. I think I was ahead of my time. I should have just waited until I finished competing and done it. I could have ran it myself. But that's one thing in business I learned. If you're not going to be there yourself, don't do it. Don't open it. Unless you're just an investor. But you have to be there. It's not the same. Nobody's going to run it like you. And a few things happened with the landlord. He did some criminal stuff on me. He sold the gym from under me, the building. I was supposed to have first dibs in buying it. And he sold it to the guy next door, you know. And now the guy is a big time. I think he's a cartel now in DR. So I can't do nothing about it. Wow. That's crazy. But, yeah, as far as supplements, I do have Victor Martinez Signature Series. Check it out. You know, VM Subs on Instagram. And you can buy the supplements on GoSubs.com. Check it out. Victor Martinez Signature Series. And help me make it successful, man. There you go. Awesome. There you go. All right, guys. So please submit your questions in the comments below. Thanks to Transparent Labs. Hopefully Victor will get a chance to answer some of them, right? Yep. So, yeah. So one of the things that came up recently is that, you know, we saw that Kai and Phil made up on stage. That was interesting, right? That was nice. That was very cute and beautiful. You know, I missed everything they went through and back and forth and kind of winning the Olympia. But Phil's at a different place. And so is Kai. And that's that thing I wanted to point out. It's like, guys have beef. Look at that. And after what happened last weekend, two weekends ago at the Arnold with Nick and Martin. And now you see this in the same weekend where Kai and Phil that were rivals. That's just beautiful, man. That's how it is. You know, beef happens. But grown men deal with it after. And that's how you handle it. But it's interesting. Let's not, you know, make a big stank out of beef and feel like you're going to be a better man and not apologizing. It's going to make you soft. No, it doesn't. It makes you a bigger man. And Kai proved it right there. You know, they have the beef. They have the rivalry. It was all about the stage. It was all about competing. And when I saw that, I mean, it was just like, oh, you know, watching that because it only takes a real man to kind of step up and address it like Kai did. And like I said, Phil is in a better place, man. That's why he's doing his motivational speaking, you know, a lot. And come on. Let's compete. Let's fight. Let's brawl. But at the end of the day, respect. And that's what you got out of Kai. Speaking of old beefs or whatever, what do you think about his upcoming potential? Mayweather came out of retirement to fight Pacquiao. Do you have interest in that at all to watch this? I don't like Mayweather fights. I never liked his fights. He's a defensive fighter, which is cool, but it's just his fights are just not fun for me. Right, right, right. You know, I like watching a nice, good fight. I like watching hits. You know, he fights technical, you know, with accuracy. And all that. But his fights, they're just not my cup of tea or my beer or my liquor. What about Pacquiao? You like Pacquiao fights? Pacquiao fights. He fights. And, you know, Pacquiao could fight. But Mayweather is just faster. That's one thing. Like I say, he. I can't believe those guys are going to fight again. I mean, it's insane that. The last one wasn't that good. Pacquiao's good. But I think 50 be shouting out Mayweather a lot, you know. Like, oh, man, Mayweather needs money, you know. So he's always, I don't know. Needing money for Mayweather is like he probably has $30 million, and that's too low for him. Because he's made over $200, $300 million over the years. And who knows? You know, he came to New York, and he highlighted. He was buying buildings. And then 50 Cent highlighted that he never bought the buildings. So there's a lot of shade. You know, 50 goes at you, boy. He goes at you. You don't want to be his enemy, yeah. Yeah. So when I watch his fight, I'm not going to run home to watch it. Netflix is going to be supposedly streaming it. Yeah. If it's playing and I'm home, I watch it. But I'm not going to stop the press just to go home and watch his fights. Because every fight I watch from his, it's like I always find myself playing chess in the middle of it. Guys, let's take a quick break. I want to talk about something very important. It's important on the show, of course. And I'm sure it's very important in your personal life. And that is energy and mental focus. That's why we have Spark. Energy and focus. Spark energy is not just about keeping up. It's really going to take your strength and your focus to the next level. Whether you're hanging out with your family, going to work, or going to the gym. The Spark energy gives you focus and energy that you need. Spark energy and focus is your go-to pre-workout ritual when you need reliable energy and power to get through a lift, ride, run, or class. Mix it up. Sip it. And get dialed in. And ready to go. Make it your go-to pick-me-up for a 2 p.m. slump. Or swap coffee for Spark to start a day strong. It has 120 mg of caffeine for alertness and concentration, delivering sustainable energy. But it's not about just energy. It has amino acids and taurine to help balance caffeine without jitters or crashes. It has vitamins like B vitamins, B6, B12, vitamins C, A, and E to support your immune health for everyday wellness. And of course, the taste is amazing. And like I said, for me, it gets me through the day, through the week, on all the shoots and all the travel that I'm doing. So I love this product. Spark energy and focus is offering 30% off and free shipping. Go to drinkspark.com and use code GENERATIONIRON at checkout. That's code GENERATIONIRON at drinkspark.com. And there's a lot of flavors of this product, of course. I love Fruit Punch. There's many, many more. Check it out at drinkspark.com. Now, we were talking about the Arnold Classic a lot on the last episode, right? And what I wanted to ask you, like, there's a lot of rivalry happening between Olympia and the Arnold Classic, right? They're competing for the money, for prize money. I guess for the expo as well, right? Who has the biggest expo? Who has the biggest title? But ultimately, it's the same exact judges that control both of the events. So why is there even, like, a discrepancy or rivalry? If it's the same, IVB Pro controls both of them. Yeah, it's not the judges. It has to be with who's running the show. You know, who's running the Arnold? Who runs the Olympia? Arnold, obviously, is a big part of the Arnold Classic. You know, he's the main attraction. And no way the Olympia can ever, you know, compete with the Arnold Expo. Really? No. No, Arnold Expo is just next level. It's next level. The scale? The scale of it? Yeah, the scale of it. Everything, you can't. I mean, you can try, but it's just when people go to the Olympia, it's a longer show. It's a longer show. People are a little, you know, they've got to preserve their energy running back and forth. You know, the Arnold is actually in the same building. All they have to go is from one side to the other. It's not bad. The Olympia, everything's kind of separate. I don't know if they're going to do the Expo, the same thing. I think that's one thing that could probably make it a little bit better, but it's still not the Arnold Expo. You know, so in ticket sales. Well, I mean, when you see comparisons, sometimes you see comparisons. Yeah, you hear the comparisons of the Expos, and then you hear comparisons, of course, about the shows. Yeah. But what I, I mean, go back to Vlad Sabin, what I don't understand is people compare. I don't understand the shows because I understand that Arnold is long. I mean, the Olympia is longer. However, it's run by the same people. Same people, yeah. It's run by the same judges. So that makes absolutely no sense. You have powers. Is it powers? That's the promoter. The promoter, yeah. He's the promoter, organizes the Arnold, and then you have. Dan Solomon. Dan Solomon, the Olympia. It's just a different scale. Obviously, you're going to get more competitors, more categories at the Olympia. The Olympia is, competitively, it is the biggest show. Because Arnold's all about the invites. Arnold, yeah. They just have the curate, basically. Arnold's about invites and also the different sports and things that are going on. Arnold's just has a lot more going on. So, at the scale, it's a different kind of show. But at the end of the day, Arnold will never, I mean, I wouldn't say never, but it's obviously a second to the Olympia because you qualify for the Olympia at the Arnold. It's true. So, as long as that's the case, then Olympia, and always Olympia is the pinnacle of bodybuilding. Yes. Do you think Arnold has any influence? Agreed. Because I know he's in a crowd when he watches, takes selfies or whatever, right? Like, do you think the judges ultimately decide who wins or do you think he has any pull? Like, hey, this guy's a favorite. No. No. I mean, my feeling is I don't think he does because at the end of the day, it is an IFBB sanctioned show. Right, right, right. So, it's run by boss man Jim Mannion. Right. And he kind of has his judges. The judges has the final order. I don't think Arnold just comes in and kind of says, hey, I like this guy. Have him win or anything like that. So, he doesn't, but does he have an opinion? Of course. He decides who gets invited. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it probably helps. I don't know. I know Lloyd was doing it, but something also happened at the Arnold with Lloyd. I don't want to speak about that. It's a whole other subject. Lloyd has been running the Arnold organization, organizing the athletes over the years, something. I don't know what. Don't call me. I don't know what happened. I don't know. But, yeah, I know Dan and Ryan Powers, I know they probably speak and all that, but they always try to make the show bigger than what it is with the Olympia, not having to try as hard because the Olympia, just based on the number of athletes and categories, it's just a big show. Right. And it's in Vegas. It's way different. So, when you're in Vegas and you have, remember, you have an expo at the Arnold, it's in Ohio. There's nothing going on. That's the, that's, well, that's why it's also kind of impressive that they have a great expo there considering. Yeah. Because that is the attraction. Cumbersome it is to get to Columbus, Ohio. Let's be honest. I mean, if you're not, you know, if you're not in a main city, it's going to be hard to get there. Wasn't there a rumor that they're moving Arnold Classic to LA? That was a rumor that we've heard recently. In the last couple of years, we've heard that the Arnold Classic would eventually move to the West Coast, according to some people, insider sources that we've heard and we've spoken to. However, we don't know how accurate that is. And obviously that has not happened yet. And there's been no formal announcements by the Arnold. But if that does happen, I could see that being a bigger show, technically, because geography does matter. You think it should move? I don't think so. Because now you go to LA, you have to deal with the LA traffic. Oh, man. Get to the show. I mean, I don't know where they hold it. I don't know where the convention center in LA is. But Arnold, remember, he brought the Arnold Classic to Ohio. And I don't think he's going to back out on Jim's word that he wants to keep the Arnold there. Jim Lorimer. Yeah, Jim Lorimer. Yeah. He basically told them, you know, I want to keep it here as a gift. He did for the city. And that keeps the city rolling every year. So to take that away from Ohio to California, which has the highest GDP in the country, I believe. You ever met Jim Lorimer? Yes. Yes. Jim Lorimer was always very nice. Ed and I, we flew to Columbus to meet him. We were doing streaming for the Arnold Classic. I forgot what year it was. So we flew to Columbus, Ohio. And we had lunch with him. And then we went to his office. Him and his son were there. And then he gave us like this two-hour presentation, literally. He was like in the 70s at that time. Yeah. Of his bodybuilding career. And like he took us to like the wall of fame that he had. And it was like, I guess, how much mentally he was invested into this. Yeah. He was very invested. He was all in. He was all in. He was 100% in. Yeah. So shout out to the Lorimer family, of course. Yeah. It's a staple on the city, man. So I don't see it moving out. And again, when you have the Arnold at a city where you have other options, it's going to hurt the expo. You know? I mean, you're going to have the expo. You're going to have a nice sunny day. You're going to go to the beach, man. In between, man. I want to go to Venice Boardwalk. That's where I want to go. I'm like, it's cool. You know? I'm like, man, I'm only here this weekend, you know? I want to hit the boardwalk. Yeah. Well, you know, Arnold was the former California governor. So I could see him taking it back to California. I mean, you know. Yeah, I'll be rough. We'll see. Ever realize that after the age of 30, you wake up the next day after a few rounds of alcohol and you feel very dehydrated. You feel a bit of brain fog. You feel very sluggish. And that's why here at Generation Iron, we're obsessed with Cheers Restore. Cheers Restore is a dual action after alcohol aid. Its ingredients support both your brain and your liver after consuming alcohol. Cheers was originally invented by a student at Princeton based on research into a novel compound called DHM. DHM demonstrated powerful alcohol-related properties in the brain and liver. So Cheers was designed for how alcohol actually affects your body, not just dehydration. Cheers promise is simple. You'll feel about 50% better the next day or your money back. Basically, two drinks feel like one the next morning. And all you do is take three capsules after your last drink before bed. Don't just take my word for it. Cheers has appeared on Shark Tank. And today, Cheers is sold in over 30,000 stores, including Walgreens, CVS, 7-Eleven, and Circle K. They've also sold over 50 million doses. Same night out, way better morning with Cheers. For a limited time only, our listeners get 20% off at checkout by using code GENERATIONIRON at cheershealth.com. Head to cheershealth.com. Use code GENERATIONIRON for 20% off. After you purchase, you will be asked where you heard about them. Make sure you support our show and mention GENERATIONIRON. So let's talk about this Damond Gym. So Damond Gym is now becoming the new mecca, maybe, right, of bodybuilding or whatever. I wouldn't be so far to say the new mecca. But it's like they trend. It is definitely a pit stop, a good stop for bodybuilding. They're trending that every week with the new videos. Yes. And that is great. Ankh and Hadi, the two guys that run these crazy workouts, they're like becoming the new or became already. It's a big draw. It's making it fun. They're making it fun. That's why. Yeah. It's like an obstacle course that they created in New Jersey, right? Yeah. They're making it fun. And I think it's great for Damond Gym, you know, for Wayne, what he's done with the gym, turned it around. He hasn't done no crazy stuff to the gym. Again, his main objective there is just vibe. That's what made the gym is the vibe. Having Ankh there, pushing everybody, everybody that comes in. You're not going to have a bad workout. You're not going to just go cruise through a workout. You're going to suffer. You're going to train hard. And that's what's making it fun. Do they remind you of the Iron Attics back in the day? You remember Iron Attics workouts where you scream it? You know, it was screaming. Iron Attics. Oh, yeah, yeah. I only saw them. I was never there. Iron Attics Gym? You haven't been there? Yeah. No, no. Then they got, I was trying to go. Then they got busted. But now they like, oh, really? Oh, you're doing Miami Iron Attics. I don't know. That's the only one I knew. There's still one in California. Okay. But the thing is, they're new celebrities. They signed with Prime Drink, the protein drink. Like, Logan Paul signed them to the company. And they got a bunch of others. That's what a gym is. That's what a gym is. It's supposed to be training hard, getting busy, not being on the phone in between sets. It's about training, staying focused, being present. And right now, that's the disconnect we're having with a lot of youngins. They go to the gym with their phone and text in between sets. Right, right. They don't allow you to drink water. They don't allow you to sit down during a workout. Yeah. So that's, again, they brought back what's always been in a gym. Are they doing anything different? I was like, no. They just went back and brought back what the gym was, which is training hard. Well, there's criticism. Now they have haters. So now the haters are starting to make videos. That comes along. I want to give you two critical points you can, I guess, address. So one critical point is that their form is really bad. The form is not, like when they do 100 sets, 100 reps, I mean. So haters are saying that those reps are no good. I don't know if you want to say that. I don't know. I got to see what. But that does happen, again, when people use momentum and just kind of push the weight. It's just I got to see the workout, which one they're actually speaking about. But if they are saying it's bad form, again, they're trying to move weight. They're not focused too much on form. Well, that's what, I mean, there's been some criticism of the Diamond Gym recently by some coaches and trainers out there. One specific was really called out by the influencers and the supporters of Diamond Gym recently because they asked, someone had asked him, hey, what is your thoughts on the Diamond Gym and the workouts there? And he said they were trash. Right, right, right. There's nothing good about them. And, you know, that's his opinion, of course. But he clarified his position again. And it's interesting because at the end of the day, you know, we all go to all these gyms and people have their own, you know, their own cookie cutter workouts. But, you know, there's definitely a vibe there at Diamond Gym that we've seen and that vibe has grown. It's going to happen. Listen, right now you're getting the clicks. You're getting the views. You have, I think they're having a lot of influences too. They're famous now. They're a lot of influences. Yeah, super famous. Again, you're displaying what you're doing to the world. You're going to have millions of people looking at you. Guess what, man? You're going to have the divide. People are going to go with you or go against you. And they're going to criticize your form. But the second criticism was the fact that they yell at people when they're working out and they're saying it's a sign of insecurity. If you want another man to yell at you when they're working out. Yeah, that too, that's a big one. And the other one was that, you know. See, that's just weak. That Diamond Gym is creating this, it's creating this perception that it's okay to leave weights around on the floor. I'd say workouts. That's like the whole, that's the other criticism that they've made. I don't know. You hate that actually, Vic. You hate when people don't put their weights back on. Yeah, no, I make sure. I'm the one that tells them, yo, you're going to put that back? I ask the question kind of telling them. We know people that were actually, I think, not fined or their gym memberships were canceled because they didn't rack their weights back. Oh, fine, actually. Some gyms, they charge a $100 fee. They add it onto your monthly whatever charge. You should, man. Put your weights back. That's some laziness, crazy stuff, man. I don't know why people do that. People do that all the time. I mean, consciously, I can't leave a weight. I just can't do it. It's just always been a thing of mine. Not because of the gym. Not because of rules. Just simple, simple etiquette. That's it. So, Diamond Gym, good, bad in your opinion? No, I can't. Never, ever go against Diamond. Again, it's a great gym. Dwayne runs a great gym there. And it's something you can't handle. It's not for everybody. You know, the screaming, again, you're soft. You don't like screaming. Oh, my God, you're yelling at me. You know, be soft, bro. Come on. We still do that. We actually go to some, you know, corporate gyms. You know, I won't ever say the name of the corporate gyms. But my friends will go there and we'll do that. And people will look at us like we don't belong. And I always look at them back like we belong here more than you. You know? So, it's fun. I know people don't like that. They don't like to be pushed. Just keep having your casual workouts. Like you're walking on the beach. I'm taking a stroll through the park. Planning this workout, you know. And pay attention to the Lunk Alarm. We ignore them. All right. Well, one more topic today. It's a Patreon special. It's a bit controversial, I guess, right? So, and it's only available to those who are subscribed to us on Patreon, guys. So, the Patreon special question comes to us from a partner from a U.S., from Australia. I think we should end the episode on this note. And on that note, I'll leave it. Remember, follow us, like, comment. And if you want to see any of our prior episodes, tune in to iHeartRadio, Apple Podcasts, or whatever you stream your podcast. And I appreciate all your support, your follows, especially on Patreon. Thank you, guys. Thanks.