sehensehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehener,sehenersehener,sehenersehener,sehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehenersehener All right, guys. Welcome to this week's Generation 9 podcast. Your hosts, me, Victor Martinez, with Edwin Mejia and Vlad Yudin. We at it again at home base. Yes, back at HQ here, guys. Thank you guys for joining us. Vic has been recovering, as you can see. We've been very fortunate to have the support of Transparent Labs. Thank you guys for tuning in. Transparent Labs has been not only supporting us and Vic and his recovery, but they have some of the most amazing products on the market, 100% grass-fed protein, no funny stuff, quality line of Transparent Lab products that include creatine, pre-workout, but more importantly, the Magnesium PM has been incredible here, and we are a big fan of that specific product as well. And we have a couple of questions that come from our fans and from our viewers, and I guess we could start off right away because, Vic, I know some of these questions have been very detailed. It's getting hard on me. Come on. So the first question to us comes from CRNICRNI4539, and that question is, Hi Vic and GI, how to minimize the night pissing? Of course, I'm on juice and lots of health supplements. Greetings from Norway. So shout out to CRNICR from Norway. Great question. How do we minimize night pissing? CRNICR piss a lot. Is Norway where they do the Nobel Prize? Norway, yes, it is. See where you're trying to get to, but let's not touch it. Let's not miss it. Love Norway, by the way, man. I was there on the tour with 50 Cent and Busta Rhymes. How was it, man? I've never been. Yeah, Final Lab. I like it, man. I like Norway. It's different. It's so clean. You know, they do have crackers in Norway. You know, crackers are everywhere. I don't know. They just... They get everywhere. They're everywhere. They get around, man, but Norway is super nice, very clean, and loved it. It was a chill moment, and it's fun, man. You guys should visit, man. One day, one day. Plus, come on, man. Back to Mr. Piss a Lot. Yes. I just gave him the nickname, and I guess it caught up with you, but listen, Nick, it's a normal thing. You sound like you're over 40. It's normal, but one thing I do do, because it's a normal thing. It does happen to me. I usually stop drinking at least two to three hours before. Before bed? Before bed, yes. That's a lot. I know. Two to three hours. You can handle it. You can sip on the water. It's just... It's going to push, man. It's going to push. It's just... We start getting that weak bladder, man. As long as you're not pissing on yourself, you're good. But... Does juice have to do with it? Juice? It could. It could. I don't know. Maybe it could do something to your bladder, inside your bladder. Let's go have a check-off list also on your supplementation. Yeah, because at the end of the day, there's a lot of factors here, right? Number one, I think if you're over 40, you should get your prostate checked. Number two, like Vic said, you probably should consult with a doctor or your coach in figuring out what supplements you're taking. Certain supplements, like water. There's water retention products out there. There's also fat loss diuretics. I'm not saying he's taking a diuretic or anything like that. Remember Dandelion, Parsley. Don't make you go to the bathroom. Wait, but he's on juice. He's saying specifically he wants you to know that he's on juice. Yeah, but usually juice does not make you go to the bathroom again, unless you're taking some over-the-counter supplementation. Because again, you should be taking at the ready. You should be taking a natural diuretic. There's actual water pills out there that people take, like boxers take water pills to cut weight. There's a lot of those things that make you go to the bathroom often. So not the juice does sometimes. Yeah, but let's backtrack. Let's start first with two to three hours. Cut your water off. Let's assess that for at least a few days. Let's have the checkoff list on supplementation. Anything that has parsley in it, dandelion, unless you're doing a lot of asparagus. Again, these are all natural diuretics. Do a checkoff list. Let's start somewhere before you start blaming the juice. Now I'm saying that juice is good for you, but let's not just blame it on the juice, man. You know? No, I'm here talking bias. Let's do the checkoff list and let the juice be the last thing you can stop and kind of go with it. But definitely the water ingestion before bed. I like to drink so much water, at least a gallon a day. But now by nine o'clock, I'm pulling back. There's no water with my food. Do you think if he wakes up pissing on himself, he should go see a doctor? Yes. Absolutely. Do it. You're pissing on yourself. That's rough, man. That's rough, man. I feel for you. And let's not piss on ourselves until you're like maybe 90 or something, you know? Start wearing pampers to bed. That's a good idea. You know? Hey, people do it. That's what I'm saying. It's a good idea. Yeah. Be like an astronaut. That's what they wear in space? They wear that? Yeah. You don't want poop or piss flying zero gravity, you know? How do we get to that? Yeah. That's what I'm saying. Happens, man. Remember, guys, this is not medical advice. Victor just gives you his experience. Yes. You know. Invest on a pamper company because it's going to be a stock that's going to be rising. All right. So there you go. I don't know how to pronounce the tag, but let's go to the next one. You need to take your muscles to the max. Whoa there, Turbo. Do you even know what's in that stuff? Oh, yeah. See, most protein powders are filled with artificial sweeteners, food dyes, and filler. Really? I wouldn't put that stuff in my body. Neither would I. Transparent Labs is made with just a handful of all-natural ingredients without any of the weird stuff. Transparent Labs. Protein without the weird stuff. Yeah, so thanks again, Vic, for answering those questions. Very helpful. And just for a reminder, we'll continue to answer your questions. We have a Patreon exclusive that we also offer. This particular question is typically reserved for Patreon, but we're going to actually have it answered here for Vic. And that comes to us from Primo098267MAD. Vic, about a week ago, I tried PEDs for the first time. It was an oral. And I had a terrible stomachache for a full day. Do you think I should stop and never do it again? Maybe it's a sign. Primo, NAD, oral. Where are we getting at here? Maybe he's a Primo. You know, Primo098267. You're either Dominican or you really love Primo. But seriously, again, if you're going on the PED and what was it? Stomachache. The stomachache. Orals. If anything, the only one that I always hear problems with PED and its oral is usually the Winstrel one. That's one I really tell people. If you can, stay away from it. My opinion, injectable being better. But there's very low quality injectable Winstrel right now. I know if you're going to be doing any other ones, Primo oral or Anabar oral, those two are a little bit better, a little bit safer. But let's watch out for that Winstrel one. If anything, you're having a stomachache, let's pull back from it. Let's get that blood work. Let's find out what's going on. You can do the blood work while you're on it. Obviously, it's going to show elevated levels. The only thing I can recommend is stop it, see if you're still having a stomachache. Then it will be either two things, Winstrel or your source is horrible, you know. I say your source, man. Dealers. Yeah, go back to the dealers, man. There's some bad dealers out there, man. I mean, it's from everything, from legal drugs, horrible drugs, and bad drugs, bad quality drugs. Pull back, get blood work, let's get the source. He's saying maybe it's a sign to stop these. You think maybe it's a teachable moment here? Tell them to stop. I mean, if you're going to do the orals, again, orals does not mean safer. It does not equate to safer, you know. So, I'm only giving you this advice to stop it, just to see if that's the problem, you know, the kind you're taking and also the quality. So, I'm not going to tell you go to injectable, but usually that's why people choose the injectable, because less side effects and a little bit better. But also, your source. Your source is a big problem. And if you're trying to save money and you're buying cheaper juices, it's also a problem. A lot of factors to it. So, let's just get that blood work, see what's going on with your physique or your body, everything that's going on. And let's just backtrack. Let's backtrack. Take stuff out. And start adding it one a week to see what's the problem. And most likely, it's going to be your oral juice that you're taking. And if it's bad, if it's, you know, when in doubt, throw it out. That's it. I like that. That's it. When in doubt, throw it out. All right, Primo. That was the answer directly from Victor Martinez. This is not a medical advice. So, you know, take it with a caution. Yeah, one step at a time, man. One step at a time. And, again, you haven't used and you started using and automatically your name is Primo. I know you find a new love for it, but let's do it safe. Yeah. It's good advice from Vic knowing that he's a veteran and obviously not only an IFBB pro, but he's been coaching and helping a lot of people over the years. All right, guys. Please submit your questions in the comments below. And hopefully Victor will choose them to answer. Hopefully. So, Sam Sulik is competing at Arnold Classic coming up very soon. He announced that he has no coach. He's doing it on his own. Nick Walker basically made a similar announcement. He said he's also not using a coach after parting ways with Kyle Wilkes earlier last year. I mean, later last year, they parted after Olympia. He separated from him. So, what do you think about that? Top athletes are doing prep with no coach. I mean, in Nick's side, I would have to say Nick has done it. He's seen his best. He's seen his worst. I think him making that choice could be a good choice because I think he knows his physique, you know, up to this point. You know, so he experienced the coach way and now he's trusting himself, which I think there's a beauty to that because a lot of guys have competed and they've done great doing it themselves. You know, I mean, I started out doing it myself, then started working with Victor Munoz, and then again started doing my own diet. Then I knew I wasn't, you know, the confidence just starts slipping. Really? And then I had the coach, and it does help, but nobody knows your physique better than you. So, by Nick saying he's going to try himself, you know, that confidence level is great, you know. Look, Samson, he started out with a coach. Now his wife pretty much is helping him. She's the coach. Yeah, she is the coach. So, doing it with somebody that you trust is beautiful. Believing yourself and following your assessment yourself, I think is great. But Sam Sulek's case, he just started, you know. I mean, he's worked. Did he work with a coach before? I don't know. I don't think so. I think Fuad was probably. Yeah, I think he did. Yeah, he worked. I think initially he was, but, I mean, as of right now, it looks like he's not. Yeah, so, I don't know. Sam Sulek is still trying to get to know his body, and two things are going to happen. He's either going to work out great or be horrible as hell. What are the pros and cons to having no coach or having a coach? I mean, what is your assessment of that? Well, the pros are you don't have to think about what to eat, what to do, and you basically just get the program and you just follow it. Got it. You know, the cons is if it's the first time working with a coach, it's the first time he's going to have to get to know you. Yeah. So, it doesn't mean it's going to work, but, again, once they do figure out, you know, your diet and everything else, I think it's great because all you have to do is just show up to the gym and follow the regimen. So, there's pros and cons, but, obviously, once it works, man, you're only going to do great. I mean, Phil Heath did his entire career with, you know, with Honey, you know, Jay Cutler as well. I mean, to the end, I think Jay Cutler then started doing it himself. Chris Oceto was his coach, huh? Honey first or maybe the other way around? Yeah, yeah. I think, you know, Jay Cutler switched up a little, but he did start with Chris Oceto, then eventually stayed with Honey. Honey, right. And so, again, it could be a toss-up, but you having the confidence and saying, man, I got this, I think, what was it? 2011. And he's competing, yeah. I did my own prep. 2011. You did your own prep? Yeah, 2011, I did my own prep fully. Why did you go to that rally? Again, it's just after a while, you're going to have these coaches again. They're great. They're doing a fantastic job with you. But it gets to a point that they get super busy and you get lost in the shuffle. And I felt that happen to me. You know, I was always working with Chris. No criticism towards him. Worked with Chad. No criticism. Again, but I also worked with them when my own ability of knowing what I knew worked with me. So they can give me something. I will follow it to the T. They will give me something else and I'll be like, well, that's not going to work for me. You questioned it. You know, and the question usually became the hour cardio. I said, I don't work well with an hour cardio. You know, so I did 2011 by myself. I got fourth in the Olympia and I got, you know, first at the Arnold Spain. So it does work. So I like that, you know, that Nick is trusting himself. He's believing himself. He has that confidence in himself. So that's something big. You know, Sam Sulek, he's doing it off the bat. You know, he'll probably save some money too. He doesn't have to give anybody a fair share of his money, hard-earned money. And it could work, you know. Yeah, it could work. I mean, look, it's going to be a very impressive showing for Sam, I think. I think Sam is going to be one of those first bodybuilders coming off social media, trying to prove the world wrong on IFBB Pro Stage. So it will be interesting to see how that comes across, especially now that he's, in many ways, fitting that bodybuilder kind of influencer. He's classic, right? Classic physique. Classic physique, yeah. So, you know, shout out to Sam and we're big fans of his here. Yeah. Except Vic. Stay tuned, but I think... Vic, he's not a fan of you. He didn't win you over yet, right? Listen, I'm not against the guy. Again, these are just small opinions I have. And again, what is his opinion? He's a professional IFBB pro. Yeah. Again, he's professional. He's doing it. But I got to say this. He's doing his prep on his own. He's doing his first pro show, the Arnold Classic. Let's just say he comes in and he represents and he comes in better than what he did when he turned pro. I think he's going to catapult him to one of those levels of coaches are not needed anymore. And then do you think... Yeah. Yeah. Snake as well. Yeah. And do you think that Sam Sula can be that next C-bum on the Classic physique stage going forward? Because now that C-bum has retired from bodybuilding. Now there is that void in the bodybuilding, on the bodybuilding stage at the Olympia and Arnold. Can Sam Sula be that void? And that's what a lot of people are banking on, actually. Yeah. I think stay tuned because if he's going to be the next C-bum, he has to deliver at the Arnold Classic. I think he will. So if he delivers at the Arnold Classic, do you think there's a good chance that he could be the next C-bum? Possibly. I don't know if the actual next, I don't know about all that. Again, C-bum is different. You know, he's so kind-hearted. The stuff he does, the way he speaks, everything, it's just different. So you have your doubts, basically. Yeah. I mean, to say the next C-bum is to say the next Arnold. And everybody comes up as their own individual athlete. So there was no next Arnold. Well, you know how sports are. Sports and entertainment, there's always a comparison. Yeah. Yeah. Comparison, you can't have. You know, again, the level of love that C-bum gets cannot be the same level of love that Sam Sulek is going to get. You know? Again. And plus, you know, they're both Canadian? No. No. I think Sam is, I forget where Sam is from, but he's not Canadian. I don't think he's Canadian. He's from America. So therefore, he's not going to be the next C-bum because C-bum is Canadian. Now living in the States. By this point in the year, routines are real, not aspirational. But choosing the right supplements can be confusing because not only are there so many brands out there, the supplement industry itself is a low-trust category. It's lightly regulated, products are easy to make, and companies don't even have to list everything on their label. That's exactly why we've partnered with Momentus and what makes them stand out. They weren't satisfied with the industry standard, so they built the Momentus standard. Their commitment to doing things the right way, not the easy way. Momentus sources only the highest quality ingredients on the planet. Their whey protein comes from grass-fed European dairy cows. Their creatine uses the purest form of creatine monohydrate. And every formula is made with clinically backed, highly bioavailable nutrients with no fillers and no artificial sweeteners. But what truly sets Momentus apart is their testing and transparency. Every product independently certified by NSF for sport or informed sport, meaning it's tested for contaminants, heavy metals, banned substances, and verified for label accuracy. So you always know exactly what you're putting in your body. And if a product doesn't meet their standard, it never hits the shelves. In a space where trust is rare, Momentus is redefining what trust looks like. If you want to start the new year with supplements you can truly rely on, we can't recommend them enough. And if you have a favorite like their protein, creatine, or omega-3, you'll feel the difference when everything is sourced and tested this rigorously. Head over to livemomentus.com and use promo code GENERATIONIRON for 35% off your first order. That's livemomentus.com, promo code GENERATIONIRON. If it's the end of it, because you know bodybuilding is about gurus, right? Everybody talks about gurus. So you think if they both succeed, this can be the end of the guru era. Remember, gurus started mostly in the 90s. So if you're going to, you know, I think they had their peaks in the mid-2000s, and now you're going into a different era. That's it, you know? That could have been the high peak of gurus, and they could be dying out. Sam is actually from Ohio. I just noticed he's from Delaware. Yes, from Ohio. I think I knew that. I just had a brain fart. But again, good luck to Sam Sulek at the Arnold, inaugural pro level. And good luck to Nick, man. Because Nick, if you nail this, man, this could be the beginning of the next few years of you staying on top, man, and not getting off. All right, what else we got, Adam? Well, we have Joey Swal in the news. He's been really active and calling out a lot of people online, just like Goop, of course. But Joey Swal recently called out a shirtless man for humping gym equipment, which we'll put on the screen here. The gym is not a strip club, he says. And what is your comment on that, Vic? Do you agree with Joey Swal? I mean, the gym is not a strip club, but for some reason, women are still stripping at gyms, and it keeps happening. It's not happening at my gym, I can tell you that much. It's happening. I don't know. I mean, it depends what gym you go to. That was a man, though. He called out. A man was humping the machine, or whatever he was called. A man was humping. Oh, chill, man. Chill with that. It's a man humping the machine. If you see that in your gym, would you tell us men to stop humping? I'll ban him, and I'll make sure I send the name to all my surrounding gyms so it can be banned elsewhere, because that's just nasty. Nobody wants to see that. You got to remember, most gyms, people go to gyms, they're either following a girl, following an influencer, following something great or beautiful. That's the only reason why they go and follow to these gyms. Nobody will go to your gym because some dude is humping on a machine. He should be banned. He should be canceled. I think I was on my way here, and I saw in Planet Fitness, some guy was masturbating in a store in a woman's bathroom. You saw that? I mean, you'll see it, man. You'll see it. It's going out there. Some guy who claims to be trans, which does not give him an excuse to start masturbating in a woman's bathroom, and they show the shadow of him doing it. You can't, you know, the shadow does not lie, man. Like, what if he can't say he was doing anything else but that, but that's just nasty, and it should not be going on in any gym or whatever gender you are. You should not be doing this. You're sharing a gym with a lot of people. I hate big gyms, man. I hate gyms where there's like thousands of people. That's the problem, man. But people watching, man, you're sharing a gym, man. Let's be copacetic here. You're sharing a gym, sharing the equipment, sharing the bathrooms. You're doing anything nasty, man. You can't really contain yourself until you get home. Yeah, it's a little weird. You should be ostracized, man. Canceled. I mean, banned. I mean, man, you are the real alien. Not in a good way. I was right about that, then. Yeah, yeah. But you shouldn't be doing that crap, man. All right, guys. Next, we have a Patreon special. So if you guys not subscribe to us on Patreon, if you're watching this on YouTube, please check out our Patreon. You can see all the movies there and all the uncensored content. Yeah, so shout out to you guys. Subscribe to Patreon. Vic always answers very exclusive comments and questions on Patreon. And obviously, we have a list of over 50 titles on Patreon with unlimited behind-the-scenes footage on many of the films that you have not seen and many of the Rich Piana content as well. That question comes to us from, I'm not too sure, a member sent this over, but basically, both corticosteroids and anabolic... Being informed, being educated is the key to all this and you're making the right choice. I mean, what's the better choice? Just say no to the steroid. And that's why I say, ask the questions to your doctor. Is it a steroid? Just say no, guys. Remember that. Just say no. Say sometimes. Keep submitting your questions and your comments, guys, to get featured on Patreon and obviously exclusively answered by Vic. Every time you send a question, we have a chance of winning a Transparent Lab products or a merch here from Generation Iron and continue to tune in for all of our episodes and podcasts. Guys, thank you for joining us in this week's Generation Iron Podcast. Remember, follow us, like, and comment. And if you want to see any of our prior podcast episode, remember, tune in to iHeartRadio, Apple Podcasts, or wherever you stream your podcasts. And thank you for joining Patreon. We appreciate you, love you, and love the support. Thank you, guys. Hormone Replacement Therapy, HRT, TRT, Testosterone Replacement Therapy. They all kind of go into the same bucket of hormones. Men and females, they all have the same exact hormones. For males, they need more testosterone than females. And for females, we need a little bit more estrogen than males. Basically, what that means is if you get your blood work done, your testosterone's low, we try to get it to an optimal level. We walk into where our medical assistants would be. They're contacting patients all throughout the day, making sure patients are feeling good, looking good, and performing their best, making sure they're hitting their goals, making sure they're tolerating the medication properly, and everything is going well. Patient care and patient service is number one to us. And if they have any questions, concerns, issues, then we're taking care of them too as well. A TRT company or Titan Medical, what they do is they make people healthy, and they get people to really live the dream of life. It's one of those things I always say, do you want to live a long life or a quality of life? And that's what Titan Medical does. Titan Medical is a largesehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen forsehen for