 sierr nhưTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTT Welcome to this week's Generation 9 podcast. Your hosts, me, Victor Martinez, along with Edwin Mejia and Vlad Yudin. Back at HQ here, another podcast, another great week ahead. Vic, a lot of great questions keep coming in after all the comments from last week, and we're going to continue to answer them and bring them up. So first and foremost, we want to thank our sponsor, Transparent Labs. Thank you guys for tuning in. You guys should try them out. We certainly speak highly about them because they have some of the most incredible ingredients, products in the market, very, very quality, no funny stuff. We highly recommend you guys check them out, especially the Magnesium PM. Great sleep, quality sleep, 100% grass-fed collagen, grass-fed protein, and you name it. You guys should check them out. So the question of the day comes to us from TylerAaron5849. And the question is, hey, Vic, lifelong fan here. From your experience, do any compounds affect your sexuality or taste in who you are attracted to while on gear? That's a very interesting question, actually. Well, uh... In other words, do you change who you're attracted to? Well, I don't know about changing who you're attracted to. It's not like you're going to start taking some cheap sipping and all of a sudden you're gay. You know, you like men. It's not... It doesn't work that way. Maybe a type of a woman, you know? Listen, if you're gay, you're gay. If you're not, you're not. But whatever. But definitely, you're either going to feel like an 18-year-old again, or you're going to feel like a monk. You know? So you're going to be excited or not. Usually excited. And being, you know, excited, sometimes when you OD on the juice, you're going to like some hot girls, but you're taking too much. You might like any girl. Because you're extra horny. But remember, guys, girls do not look... They do not look better now. They're just wearing less clothing. All right? Don't get it twisted. But a lot of times, yeah, you get extra hornier and all that. It does happen with the juice and... What about a fetish? Maybe you develop a fetish if you take a certain compound. Fetish is just embedded in you, okay? Don't blame it on the juice. Let's not start this, oh, I cheated because I was on the juice. It's not the same as alcohol and drugs, guys. It's not a blame game. But you are going to be a little bit more active, sexually active. Yes. Yes, but changing who you like, I mean, or who's convenient. Two different questions. Do you think cheating should be forgiven if the person, like if a husband or a wife were intoxicated during the cheating? Listen, man. You're either going to stay being a player, try not being a cheater, okay? Two different things. A player, you tell them that you're out having a good time. But cheating and blaming it on the juice is not going to fly, man. It's just not going to go. So, I don't know, Vlad. I don't know. I'm fucking leaning on the juice. You know, saying, oh, man, I drank too much. See, I've never been that guy that said I drank too much. Why? I know what I'm doing sober. I know what I'm doing drunk. All right? It's just when you do something drunk, remember, those are sober thoughts when you do something drunk. If you had a girlfriend, that's a hypothetical. If you had a girlfriend and you found out she cheated on you when she was drunk, would you forgive her for cheating because she was drunk or not? She's for the streets. She's gone. Yow. That's it. It's just why the excuse? Just remember, guys, you know, drunk actions are sober thoughts. True. That's all there is. It's not really. That should be like a, wow, that's like a prophetic. It's just really what it is. Words of wisdom. You know what? You're thinking it when you're sober. And when you're drunk, you follow through. It's just what it is. But it's not usually an excuse. I mean, I love to say, hey, you know, you were drunk. Find that. This is not, you know, vehicular manslaughter while you're drunk and they only give you two to four years. Really, I mean, that's a court thing. But if you do something while you're high or drunk, you ask for forgiveness. It's really up to the woman. I can't really say or speak for that. But try not making that as an excuse. Well, that's a good answer by Vic here. And I appreciate you guys tuning in. Make sure you guys continue to submit your questions so Vic can answer them. You're going to get absolutely jacked? No. Just looking for clean protein. Clean? You need to take your muscles to the max. Whoa there, Turbo. Do you even know what's in that stuff? Oh, yeah. See, most protein powders are filled with artificial sweeteners, food dyes, and filler. Really? I wouldn't put that stuff in my body. Neither would I. Transparent Labs is made with just a handful of all-natural ingredients without any of the weird stuff. Every scoop delivers 28 grams of protein sourced from grass-fed cows raised without any hormones or antibiotics. And you can choose from 14 delicious flavors. Is that mint chocolate chip? Give me that! Transparent Labs. Transparent Labs. Protein without the weird stuff. And we have another question that comes from Sam 262. I'm sorry. Sam T6 T8 Q. Sounds like a Terminator. Yeah. T2. T2. T2000. So this question is an easy question that normally gets answered here, but it's never a bad question. Are protein shakes good for you or not, Vic? I mean, they are good. Remember, protein shakes are about convenient. A lot of times, you don't have time to eat. You're running late. You just finished the workout, which is the best time, I think, is to have a shake. After the workout, again, convenience. You're working. Don't have time to cook. Before missing a meal, the shakes are always it. So the shakes have always been about convenience. When to have them. You carry them into a dry shaker cup. Just add water or milk, whatever is your preference. But protein shakes are good. There's a reason why it's a $100 million, if not billion-dollar business. You know, there's a reason why China started doing their own protein shakes. It's all for a reason, a purpose, and, again, convenience. Getting the most out of your workouts. Getting the most out of protein. It's just now, when a protein shake's not good, to replace actual meals for shakes, then it's definitely not good. They're a supplement, substitute, and a great hack if you're going to miss meals. Yeah. But they are good. They are great. So choose your protein wisely. And, of course, Transparent Labs makes great protein. Yes. So, guys, thank you, Transparent Labs, for sponsoring this episode. And if you have any more questions for Victor, please submit them in the comments below. All right. So we have this Kevin Hart, obviously a big celebrity. He published his – he's 46 years old now, I think. And he published his – he was on a cover of, I think, Men's Fitness. He published his workout routine, Vic. What did you think about it? His split, as people call it, right? It's a good routine. I mean, again, remember, he's an actor. And a lot of his movies are always done with The Rock. You know The Rock is posting a lot of workouts. He's got his own private gym. So Kevin Hart is inspired. I don't think he was working out as much before he met The Rock. What do you think about his physique? Are you impressed? I mean, if you're rich and you're a superstar, you should be in shape. I always say that. You always said it. You always said it. So you have a lot in your disposal. You have the money. You have chefs, private chefs, private gyms. You should be in shape, you know. There's no excuse for that. Everyone should know that. Monday, lower body. Tuesday, rest day. Wednesday, chest. Thursday, back. Friday, full body. And then Saturday, full body. So full body, do every body part? Yeah, full body, back to back. That's the only thing I don't like about his routine. And again, he's not trying to be big. So when I think of his training schedule, I'm not looking at trying to, you know. How much do you think he weighs? Kevin Hart, he looks easily, easily, like maybe 150. Anybody knows how tall he is? He's pretty short. 5'4"? Yeah, shout out to his trainer, Just Train. I think his trainer is... He's 5'5". 5'5". There you go. I was off right in. Yeah, Rob Everlane. Yeah. How about his weight? I said 154. He said he's 150. Oh, 150? That's what you said. No, that's what you said. And Sunday's active recovery and light cardio. Again, he should stay in shape. He doesn't want to get big because he'll be typecasted. It's one of those things where he's got to look funny. And a lot of times when you're too big, you don't look funny, you know. You don't look funny at all. Did you find out how much you weigh? Well... All right, whatever. It doesn't matter. Roughly, roughly. I know he's in the 150. He's probably 160 now that he's putting on more muscle. But Kevin Hart, he's going to be okay. Again, just staying somewhat good shape to do movies. You have to be in somewhat good shape to do all these movies, be active, always showing up to places. You got to have the energy. And one of those ways to have the energy is to always be in shape, do your cardio, keep doing your workouts. You know, Danny DeVito is about 5'5 also. Are you a fan? Yeah, I like Danny DeVito. Do you think he was feeling pressured to also get in top physical shape when he was doing Twins with Arnold? Not really, because he was already, you know, he's been around for a while. So for him to be in shape, and I think there was a whole dynamic of not being in great shape to do the movie big. I mean, Twins, Twins. To do Twins is kind of like that whole, you have a crazy in shape brother and you're out of shape. He was supposed to be the black sheep, so it made sense. So for Danny DeVito to be in shape, it would have made no sense for Twins. When people talk about energy performance and recovery, what do they often overlook? They usually jump straight into training, protein, and supplementation. But one of the most overlooked pieces is always going to be gut health. That is where Momentus Fiber Plus comes in. Most people think fiber is just staying regular. But fiber plays a major role in energy, recovery, stability, and digestion. Once you understand how gut health works, Momentus Fiber Plus stops feeling like just another supplement and becomes foundational. Momentus Fiber Plus addresses one of the most overlooked foundations of long-term performance. Gut health. Fiber is not just about digestion. It is a key driver of gut health, which directly impacts nutrient absorption, energy stability, recovery, focus, mood, and overall performance. When gut health is not dialed in, other supplements and training habits don't work as well. You could be doing everything else right, but without a strong foundation, results fall short. Momentus Fiber Plus is a complete three-in-one formula with soluble fiber, insoluble fiber, and a prebiotic resistant starch. Like everything Momentus makes, Fiber Plus is built with a science-first formulation, clean and minimal ingredients, and no artificial additives or artificial flavors. Every product is independently certified by NSF for sport or informed sport, meaning it is tested for contaminants, heavy metals, banned substances, and verified for label accuracy. And if a product doesn't meet their standard, it never hits the shelves. Head to livemomentus.com for your first order and get 35% off with promo code GENERATION IRON. That's livemomentus.com, promo code GENERATION IRON. That's true, man. I want to ask you about this. So, rice cakes, right? A lot of bodybuilders, they eat rice cakes, right? Can you relate to that at all? Yes. I want to ask you, is it healthy, like regular rice? And is it true people eat it because it's a big volume food, like it fills you up? It's just the whole texture eating, the crunchiness, dry rice. We do it as, you know, one of these things that you want to actually be dedicated, be disciplined to follow your diet. So, having one little piece of rice cake. It's healthy, right? It's healthy. But when you eat the entire bag and you're putting peanut butter and jelly, then you're kind of defeating the purpose. So, it was basically pre-contest. You want to feel like you're eating something. It's embedded in part of your diet regimen. You're eating some rice cakes and it's better than eating, you know, a bowl of rice. That's what I was going to say. You're eating chips. Right. You're eating anything else. But eating the entire bag of rice cake kind of defeats the purpose. It's kind of like eating the whole box of sugar-free, fat-free cookie. You just eat the whole box. That's not good for you. Well, if you eat the whole box, it kind of negates why you're trying to eat healthy. Yeah. And rice cakes, again, you're dieting. You're following a diet regimen. And you want to just have just a couple of rice cakes just to kind of quench your hunger because, again, you're going to want to eat something bad. So, why not eat the rice cakes instead? And one of the ones I used to use, it was either rice cakes or sugar-free jello or just salad. Just have always salad ready. With the rice cake? Or you're quite soft. Yeah, no, just with – you can crumble up some of the rice cakes on top of it. And, again, it's really just to kill the craving. Is a rice cake healthier than regular cooked rice? Plain, I'm talking about. No, because you're going to eat more of the rice. And the rice cake, again, it's the volume. It's puffed. Like it's puffed. Yeah, yeah. It's just puffy. You want to have it. It's just a hack. What about popcorn? You can eat that as well, right? Popcorn, you can, but – Not really. It's really just to kind of, you know, stop the hunger. It's the hunger pangs. Right, right, right. So, we used to do the other one, it was put crystallite and drink like half a gallon instead of eating the actual meal. Crystallite. Yeah, yeah. Crystallite was a big one, you know. You load yourself up with a ton of aspartame because crystallite has so much aspartame. Are you healthy or no? No. No? Not healthy, no. So, but you still go to the store. They still sell it. Yeah, but I don't think crystallite is not as big as it used to be, you know, because of the chemicals in it. It's in the same section where they sell, like, Gatorade, I think, right? Yeah. Gatorade's definitely not healthy. So much sugar, right? Oh, man. Tons of sugar. They have sugar-free ones, but – I mean, guys, if you're going to have Gatorade, you're better off having just a carbohydrate drink, you know, Carbolin, Dark Matter. I wanted to ask you because a lot of people assume that, like, after 5 p.m. or whatever, don't eat carbs, only protein. Is that just – what do you call it? Is that just BS? Well, it depends on what time you go to bed. Yeah, it depends on the person, too. If a person is trying to lose weight, you usually don't want carbs because if you're eating too much carbs at night, you're going into, you know, hyperglycemic. Also, it won't help you to lose weight. Even clean carbs, like just pure, like, potato or pure rice with no – Well, when I usually give my clients some carbs, I usually let them have vegetable carbs, anything green. Not bread, not rice, not potatoes, anything like that of the sort. So, it's really about losing the weight. So, not having carbs after 5, you're going to bed by 9, 10. That's the reason. But me, when I started, I really had no rules as to when I had carbs. I had carbs in every single one of my meals. I was eating pizza at night, ice cream at night. So, again, it's based on your metabolism. If somebody has a slow metabolism, they're fat, they want to lose weight, usually you want to avoid carbs after 5. And that's the reason being that you don't want to have that stored energy after going to bed at night. Right, right, right. You want to avoid it. And, again, you have fast metabolism, I don't think you should be worrying about carbs after 5. You eat carbs after 5 these days? I eat carbs all the time. I've lost so much weight. I never had that, you know, issue. But pre-contest, I would try to avoid my carb intake at night because that's how you wake up every morning, tighter and tighter and tighter. Usually all my carb intake was between meal 1 and 3. After 4, it was like after meal 4, 5, 6, very low carb or just vegetables. That's it, nothing else. And you do wake up tighter. You notice you start having vegetables. You'll be eating 6 meals. You stop eating vegetables or carbs. Any potatoes, any rice. After the third meal, you're going to start noticing every morning you wake up tighter, tighter, tighter. Shrink wrap that waist. That skin starts getting thinner. Nice. That's the way to do it. All right, guys. Next, we have a Patreon special. For those of you who don't know, if you subscribe to Generation 9 on Patreon, you get a chance to see the full episode of the podcast. It's going to be fully uncensored. And, of course, you can watch all the movies there as well. So, today's Patreon special is actually a question from a fan, from a subscriber. Ed, you want to read the question? It's very interesting. Yeah, so the question is... That was our Patreon special, guys. If you're not subscribed yet, please do. And watch all the movies. And hopefully you see the full episode of the podcast there as well. Yes, sir. Thank you guys for joining us in this week's Generation 9 podcast. Remember, follow us, like, and subscribe to Patreon, guys. Until next time, remember, if you want to see any of our prior podcast episodes, tune in to iHeartRadio, Apple Podcasts, or wherever you stream your podcasts. Until next time. Thank you.