 gorgolibund, gorgolibund, gorgolibundi, Hello and welcome to this week's Generation Iron Podcast. Your hosts, me, Victor Martinez, along with Edward Mejia and Vlad Yudin. We're missing, you know who we're missing, Essan, the Persian. We're back in the city, so, you know. Yeah, we're in the city. You know, you can't get to these parts once you are up there in a nice one-on-one gym. Back in the city here at HQ with another week. Glad to see Vic back, of course. Yeah, getting back. Getting stronger, healthier. Yeah, Vic, you look good, man. Getting there, man. Yeah, amazing you can do with cables. Yeah. Resisting bands and all that stuff. Vic, has one of the benefits been that you actually lost fat as well, or would you say? I know you lost some muscle, but you'll put... It was no fat. I didn't have much fat. Yeah, no, I'm curious because sometimes, you know, there could be a silver lining in these moments, right, where you can... I say I don't mind it. Right. I feel, you know... If it wasn't for the bacteria, I would say I would feel healthier, but... Right, right, right. Okay. I lost the muscle, man. It's like, come on, man. We train so hard. We feed so much to build that muscle, then it's just gone. But the doctor said if it wasn't for the muscle, I would not have been here. Got it. Got it. So it's a small sacrifice for something better. Life. Yeah. Well, we are approaching Thanksgiving. Vic, you excited about that? Thanksgiving, who is it? We get to eat, be around annoying family members, deal with some people we don't like, and some of us get to deal with everybody that we love. But other than that, I choose to look at the good stuff, the food. You back to eating four meals a day, Vic? I'm still on three. Still on three? Still on three. So I was eating three small meals, and I'm on three big meals. Got it. Got it. Eventually, it'll be more big. We were in Vegas recently, and a good friend of ours said that he went on a trip with Michael Hearn. I don't know if I'm supposed to even say it, but I will say it anyway. He went on a trip with Michael Hearn, and Michael Hearn was fasting for like 24 hours. And then in the morning, he ate 18 eggs. 18 eggs, Vic. 18 eggs? No. If he went on a trip, was he sleeping in a bed or in a coffin? Bro, can you imagine eating? You eat five eggs, right? You said five eggs. I mean, 18. 18 eggs. I used to do 18, again, competing. But Michael Hearn has these long days, man. I mean, 18 eggs for him is nothing. You got to keep that metabolism going. Body fat. What is it, like eight or four with him? And I mean, he does it. He's doing it. He's keeping his body. I mean, how many people than most guys that are 30? What would you recommend to be the egg consumption for a normal person that's like, let's say, six feet, 210 pounds, 200 pounds, want to have some muscle, be lean, lean, lean, body fat. What would you recommend? I mean, look, for me, I personally like to have at least maybe five egg whites a day. Five. But I mean, what would you recommend? Five is not bad. I'm eating seven. You know? Okay. I mean, so it depends on the person's metabolism, appetite. You know, a lot of things vary. Also, workout regimens. Right. So a lot of those are key factors of how much am I going to eat? You know? You're not training as hard. For you to consume 14 eggs is almost out of the question. Right. Yeah. No, you have to be working out a lot and burning a lot of calories. Yeah. But you're. You sound nasty, 18 eggs. I know. But you have a happy fat kid. You could eat all those 14 eggs fried. Fried on a freaking toasted bagel. Remember that joke you used to have? What is he? Fried lettuce? Remember that? Yeah. I forgot who you were talking about. Yeah. I got sick after that. I don't know. He been selling Illuminatis after me. No, no. You got sick. No, no. You got sick after you made fun of Joe Weider that one time. No, no. It wasn't Joe Weider, man. It was Illuminati. I'm not even going to say his name. So we want to give a special thanks to Transparent Labs. They have an incredible Black Friday offer and Black Friday deal. You guys know they've been a big supporter here of the podcast with Vic and our team. And we would certainly recommend them. They have some of the best quality ingredients. No funny stuff. 100% grass-fed beef. They have an incredible performance line of products. Right now, I believe they're offering up to 25% off on all their supplements. 25% off. So you guys make sure you check them out. All their products are GMP Lab approved. Incredible products. And more importantly, they're offering a free bottle, backpack, and a bundle, water bottle. Five free samples. So when you order anything over $149, make sure you get that free sample with your order. So check them out. Make sure you guys tune in. And I appreciate the support always from Transparent Labs. Black Friday. Gotta love Black Friday. You need to take your muscles to the max. Whoa there, Turbo. Do you even know what's in that stuff? Oh, yeah. See, most protein powders are filled with artificial sweeteners, food dyes, and filler. Really? I wouldn't put that stuff in my body. Neither would I. Transparent Labs is made with just a handful of all-natural ingredients without any of the weird stuff. Transparent Labs. Protein without the weird stuff. Yeah, man. We have three questions of the day today. One is a Patreon special, of course. If you guys now subscribe to our Patreon, please do. And two of the questions are safe for YouTube, and one is a bit controversial. So let's start with the first one. We have TonyPretty89. TonyPretty? TonyPretty89. Better be pretty, Tony. So, yeah, the question from TonyPretty89. It's Vic. Big fan here. With Thanksgiving coming up, wanted to ask you what you usually eat on the holiday. Do you stick with American traditions or something else? Also, do you like seasoned food or bland? Peace. Come on, man. Eating bland on the holidays and tradition. What is tradition? If not, everything. Everything. The American tradition is immigrants. That's right. Going to eat just about everything. You know, arroz con pollo, perni, turkey, whatever you name it. There is really no eating right on the holidays. You can eat wrong. You can eat healthy. That would be wrong. That's just totally wrong. Come on, man. The reason for this Thanksgiving or any Thanksgiving and the holidays is for you not to look at your calories. Not to worry about weight gain or anything. That's the reason for you to go off the deep end. Eat whatever you want. Drink whatever you want. And then what? Work it out. That's it. We work it out. Got to work it out. That's the key. You got to get back in the gym and work it out. Give yourself a motivation. So eat something fried. So I guess for Tony, the recommendation is we eat whatever you want, but make sure you work out. Yeah, that's it. You got to make it fun, man. Because think about it. You have the whole year always worrying about it. You know, the way you're looking and all that. No bland food then, too. No, no bland food, especially when you're up here in New York. Yeah. So Vic. We winter, man. What would you go to this year? What are you looking forward to? I know you've had some, you know, dieting kind of concerns recently and have been careful. But what are you looking forward to? No, I see my family. You know, I see everybody together. I mean, this is just after this last crazy six months. I mean, right now, if anybody's more grateful than me, I mean, it's just really just me. Real Thanksgiving, right? Yeah, real Thanksgiving. And, you know, my kids, my wife, everyone just being grateful and enjoying the holidays. I wonder what Micah Hearn's going to eat for his. Oh, man. Micah Hearn, he'll probably eat what was 28 egg whites. 28 eggs. He's going to double it up. So, yeah, shout out to Micah Hearn, keeping his haters engaged here at the Generation 9 podcast. So for those, you know, keep answering, you know, asking questions for Vic. Sorry. Leave your comments in the comments section and make sure you continue to tune in and have Vic answer your question. So the next question comes to us. This is a Patreon special. So for those of you that do not know, please tune in to our Patreon. You will get exclusive uncensored content only on Patreon, and that includes over 30 films that are streaming currently now across Prime, Netflix, Hulu, Apple TV, Google Play, and many other platforms. Make sure you guys check in for that special. Unlock that special, and you get access to all of our uncensored exclusive content for just $6.99 for a limited time. So check in. That question for Patreon comes to us from, hey, guys, have you ever taken a look at a nutrition label behind a bag of chips? It's a complete chemical cocktail. Seed oils, MSG, vague ingredients that sound more like a science experiment than an actual snack. So masa is part of a growing movement to bring back real food, real snacks, similar to how our grandparents used to have real food before snacks were made in a lab. Masa chips contain just three ingredients. Nixtamalized corn, sea salt, and natural grass-fed beef tallow. That's it. Snacking masa chips is unlike eating regular chips. It tastes great. You feel good. You feel satisfied. There's no bloating. And you truly have a great snack. And because these chips are made with real food, you find yourself satiating. You won't find yourself uncontrollably binging or hungry afterwards. Personally, my favorite is the masa tortilla chip original. It tastes great. It tastes amazing. It really leaves an incredible flavor. And the aftertaste is my favorite out of all the masa chips. Now, if you love masa, you're really going to love Vandy. Vandy is masa's sister company that has three ingredients. And honestly, my favorite is the original because the aftertaste really is incredible. It tastes like you're eating a burger. So I highly recommend that for anybody that's a big snack. Ready to give masa a try? Use code IRON for 25% off for your first order on masachips.com or vandychips.com. Or simply click the link on the bio, video description, or scan the QR code to claim this incredible offer. Don't feel like ordering online? Masa and Vandy are now available at your nationwide local Sprouts supermarket store. Stop by and pick up a couple of bags before they're gone. So, Vlad, you want to take out the question? We have one more question, yeah. So this one is from JRemedyPLZ. All right. So this question from JRemedyPLZ. Oh, please. Please. Are shrugs still popular these days? Barbell followed up with dumbbell used to be my favorite heavy exercise. And yes, my shoulders are messed up now. Are shrugs still popular? Again, shrugs, I mean, I never knew they lost the popularity. Well, I guess, you know. You got messed up over them. I mean, if you messed them up, you were doing something else. You were probably doing behind-the-neck barbell presses, which, again, speaking about Michael Heron, going back to him, how's he doing three plays behind? He's not. He's not normal. He's not normal. That's why. I want to see where he sleeps. It is a coffin. But, yes, number one, injuries are behind-the-neck barbell presses. So for you to say you got injured, I most likely think it was not due to shrugs. And remember, shrugs is just an up-and-down movement. I've seen some people do shrugs and actually shrug it around, which I never understood this. You know? So shrugs are still popular, but you have to do them right because you don't want to do more shrugs than you want to do overall shoulder workouts. You build too much traps, you're going to look narrow. So I would recommend still doing overall shoulders. If your shoulders are injured, start with lateral movements first. Front laterals, side laterals, rear flies, and do dumbbell presses last. And how about headstands? Do you recommend people do headstands? He's got messed up shoulders. He's going to stay at the bottom. He's going to bang his head on the floor. But those were my first shoulder presses were actually wall handstands. And I'll just press off, and I'll just keep doing it. But remember, the range of motion is only as far as your head. Right. Unless you're doing it on crates where, you know, all that stuff. That sounds dangerous, man. It sounds pretty dangerous. But if you actually keep them nice, stable on the floor, it's actually great. Very great exercise. But stick to, you know, cable warm-ups, some dumbbell presses, and do the presses last. Pre-exhaust your shoulders with laterals. Got it. The workout we filmed yesterday at a Damond gym in New Jersey, they were doing 100 cable extensions for triceps and 100 over-the-head extensions, and then I think 30 push-ups. That's a tough. In between eight people, that took a long time. Yeah, I know. You have to wait for the rotation of nine people, I think it was, right? And they use multiple machines at the same time. You rest longer. I mean, you could do the weight. Come on. You're resting that long in between. And, again, it's fun. When you have a dynamic in a gym and you have everybody training with you. Teamwork, yeah. And to push each other. It's just... So, and speaking of exercises, I mean, I know, Vlad, Vlad, I mean, one of the things that we always see at the gym is that I think will never, ever, ever go out of style. And you see bodybuilders all the time talking about it is the bench press. The bench press. Bob Chikarula made the news again with that. I mean, it's one of those things that we know it. We know it's bad. But there's nothing more beautiful than actually getting under a bar and loading it up with, you know, two to three or four plates. Right. It's obviously a high that you get from being under that bar, getting into the gym for chest day. It's really a staple. Yeah, but you have to warm it up. It is a staple. It's definitely a mass builder. I mean, I can still remember Arnold's picture on Venice Beach, you know, doing incline with those three plates. And it's a classic photo. But it's the number one builder. It actually builds your clavicle all around. Where dumbbells won't do that. And there's no machine that can even, you know, compare to it. Sure. They have machines for this. It's not going to give you the same, you know, execution on the exercise. So Bob Chikarula made news. He said that, you know, flat bench press basically is the worst exercise. It causes pec tears all the time. It is the worst. I remember I saw a kid. He wanted to do four plates at the gym. He said, spot me. I said, how many are you going for? He said, one or two. Four plates on each side? Was it a son? Well, I didn't want to help him. Because I'm like, I'm not going to set myself up for you to fail, get injured, for you to do one or two reps. Or me having to actually. So you declined? You said, I'm not going to spot you? I declined because I said, well, you should be doing, you should be doing, you know, 315 at least six to eight times. He's probably, she's probably hating you right now. He's like, Victor Martinez. No, he can hate me. But was I right? Yeah. He actually tore his pec a couple of months later. Oh, shit. And I wasn't there. It falls on you, you know. Somebody did a nickname. Somebody did spot him. So would you say most of the pec tears that happen happen on bench presses? On flat bench, yes. For the reason people think bench pressing or anything chest is a stretch. It's not a stretch. It's a stimulation. So they think they have to go down to the clavicle when it's really going down on the lower pec. And it's the range of motion. They think, oh, I want to get a better stretch. Therefore, I'm going to get a better reaction and stimulation from the chest and build more. But it's not so, you know. So you would not bench press anymore? No, I did bench press. Will I bench press now? Not at all, you know. So it's something you can start when you're young. Obviously, I bought the 110 weir set. But, you know, the first thing you do is bench press. That's the first thing you come out to. Bench press, bar by row, shoulder press. So what would be the age limit you would recommend people to stop bench pressing by? I'd say if you start working now in your teens and your 20s, I mean, right around the time you're in your 40s, I mean, unless you're Michael Hearn. Vic, what is it called an exercise? Have you seen somebody in the gym or at home and instead of on a bench, they're on a flat on the floor? And then you do the dumbbells so the arms don't go back. Is that a good or not? Yeah, it's more of a power movement. Using that to actually get ready for a power movement. I mean, have I ever done it, never cared for it? I've done it and just never cared for it. But it's definitely a... It prevents injury, no? I mean, it does prevent injuries because it... It's the only thing you go about. It's the only thing you go about. Yeah, so that's what it's made for. You know, usually, mostly the people I have seen it doing is usually power lifting. And that's when I last did it was when I used to do power lifting. So it sets you up. It's great. I mean, there's so many ways. But I would say even if you're a freaking pro, it's just... It's going to happen on a barbell press. You're going to tear your back because it's an awkward motion. You know, that's why to continue building chest, you do dumbbells. How long does it take to recover from a torn back? Torn back? Depends what you're on. And you need to go... You need to get into surgery right away, right? Usually, you want to get the surgery right away. But most of the time, you get a partial tear like I had. And you just don't do it because you don't want to be out. You know? Yeah. But you want that nice sweep on your chest. Usually, you want to get it done right away, especially if it's a complete tear. Because then you're going to have other issues. If you're into other sports, it's going to restrict you. But you want to do it right away. The longer you wait, the more scar tissue builds. It's just not going to look aesthetically as pleasing as before. It's good to know. Good to know. Yeah. But, you know, bench responsible. Yeah. Hormone replacement therapy, HRT, TRT, testosterone replacement therapy. They all kind of go into the same bucket of hormones. Men and females, they all have the same exact hormones. For males, they need more testosterone than females. And for females, we need a little bit more estrogen than males. Basically, what that means is if you get your blood work done, your testosterone is low, we try to get it to an optimal level. We walk into where our medical assistants would be. They're contacting patients all throughout the day, making sure patients are feeling good, looking good, and performing their best. Making sure they're hitting their goals. Making sure they're tolerating the medication properly. And everything is going well. Patient care and patient service is number one to us. And if they have any questions, concerns, issues, then we're taking care of them too as well. A TRT company or Titan Medical, what they do is they make people healthy. And they get people to really live the dream of life. It's one of those things I always say, do you want to live a long life or a quality of life? And that's what Titan Medical does. So, Charlie Sheen, are you a fan? Charlie Sheen, yes I am. You know, I mean, who is it? You know, he was in some great movies. So, Charlie Sheen did confirm, I mean, this is obviously not new information, but he confirmed that he used to train at Gold's Gym. And while at Gold's Gym, he had trainers, and one of them specifically introduced him to steroids, to PEDs and steroids. Was it Michael Hurt? No, it wasn't Michael Hurt, man. No, no, definitely, but I don't know. I can take a trainer that was not employed by Gold's Gym. Maybe Denny Hester. Maybe Denny Hester. Oh, man, come on. Denny Hester follows the law like this. Bro, Denny Hester, trade like Van Damme. Denny Hester knows everybody. Denny Hester's an OG at Gold's Gym, so we wouldn't be surprised if it was Denny. But here's the thing. I mean, you know, Charlie. I went to my friend's apartment here in New York, and Denny Hester was here. Like, what's that? What? Aren't you supposed to be in California recently? No. It was a while ago, the first time I got to meet him. So, Charlie confirmed that he added 10 miles per hour to his pitch for his role in the movie. Major League. Major League. Major League. Classic. And now he got up to 85 miles per hour. That's fast, man. That's pretty fast. However, what are your things? He pitched straight. Right. What is... It was fast, but not accurate. Right, right. What is your opinion of that? And can steroids actually add to your speed? Again, when you're doing these roles in these movies, especially if you've seen Arno, Sylvester Stallone, you actually are trained by the actual professionals. Right, right, right. These guys are not going to do films. And you're not trained by somebody who actually does that in real life. So, again, if he's pitching at 60 and he's doing nothing and you take, you know, a little juice, you know, which I'm sure, you know, it was recommended by somebody at Gold's who was not employed by Gold's. But why not? He had to look the part. Right. I mean, he didn't look like he used steroids. But to pitch only, you know, to juice only to pitch 10 miles per hour is more. I don't know. I would suggest. And I mean, I would... I mean, it's possible. Yeah, I would guess. I mean, there's pretty much nothing that Charlie hasn't tried as of yet. So... I mean, you party like him, taking a little juice is really nothing. Right. But he was on juice and everything else. And everything else. Isn't that crazy? So, if he wasn't on everything else, maybe he could have pitched 95. Yeah. You know? But Charlie is a goat in the film industry. I mean, he's just... He was... He got into it, you know? So, if you're going to do it right, you know, little steroids. And I'm sure there's a lot of other movie actors that have done their share of juice because you got to make the part look real. You have to kind of feel like you're really there. And you have to do certain things, man. Yeah, yeah. No, I mean, that's a widespread, obviously. You know? I mean, my favorite who goes to the extreme is Christian Bale. He was on steroids? I don't know if he was on steroids. But remember he was on the machinist? The machinist. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh. Yeah. He goes extreme. He looked pretty extreme in Bane as well. In Bane, yeah. Huge. With the back man. Yeah, I mean, Dark Knight. I mean, look, I mean, there's obviously a lot of athletes and actors out there that are taking BEDs for these roles. So, it's no surprise. We've seen it many, many times. And, you know, a lot of actors actually have spoken out about it. I mean, we've spoken on Zac Efron's GH Belly. I mean, allegedly, allegedly. Alleged GH Belly. What did you think of, speaking of Bane, what did you think of the actor that played Bane in Tom Hardy? He played Bane in Batman, Dark Knight. Tom Hardy? No, Tom Hardy. He got huge. But he was like, he said on an interview he was just eating a lot. He wasn't even like, he was overweight. Yeah, Tom Hardy, he's just genetically gifted. I mean, what was the last thing I saw him in? Gangs of London, was it? I didn't see that. Yeah, man. Yeah, he's not that tall, actually. But I do know. Not that tall. They had to put him on a box to match the height of Batman. Yeah. But he is in shape, man. So, for him, even if he trained naturally, I think he can just do it. Remember, you have an extra 10 pounds just by being on film. But he said he was super unhealthy. He said he was eating pizza every day. Like, he was super unhealthy during that part. I mean, but he got big. Whatever it takes. Some people would turn that pizza into muscle. That's what you do in New York. But sometimes if you have some muscle, but then a layer of fat on top, you look bigger. Listen, pizza is the healthiest junk food, all right? Pizza and a burger, healthiest junk food you can eat. Just don't buy it in Florida or Nevada. Pizza in Florida? No, no. What do you think about what Jay Cutler said about Gustavo and in comparison to Martin Fitzwater? Obviously, Gustavo is a legend. You praised him on the show before a couple of times, actually. You knew him personally. Yes. He was on Jay's tail, just like everyone in a competitive way. But Gustavo is definitely, you know, I would have to say, yeah, consistent, but definitely not as aggressive. Gustavo had that Latino freaking rabia, rabies, man, where he would just really compete and really let it be known that he's there. But Martin does look great. He's coming in condition. Like Jay said, definitely good with the consistency and the condition of Gustavo. And what better athlete to compare him with, you know? Gustavo is somebody who people don't talk about a lot. They don't talk a lot about it. Enough about him, I mean. Yeah. Forget him, man. You know you knew him personally, right? Yeah. Did he run into Chris Titus ever in the competition? Oh, Craig Titus? I'm asking because Chris was a maniac, wasn't he? No, Craig Titus, right? Craig Titus was a maniac, yeah. Not Chris. Nah, no. Craig Titus, you know, he played the maniac, but he wasn't that much of a maniac. He would only bring out the maniac in front of a person he can get away with. Like a bully. Yeah, like in a bully-ish kind of way. But if you really got into somebody who had, you know, balls, some cojones, you know, he would simmer down. So did Gustavo and him ever butt heads, ever? I don't think he would really step up to Gustavo, man. Okay, okay. Craig Titus knew better. You know, usually, you know, if you're locked up, he'll talk about you, you know. If you're in another country or you got deported, he'll talk about you. Oh, so he can't touch you, basically. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But he was, you know, I don't know. We should ask him, man. You should ask him. Oh. We should ask him. We're going to get Craig Titus. Once he gets out, we'll be over. When is he getting out? He's going to make parole, you think? I think it's supposed to be really soon. In fact, we'll do some research here for the audience to make sure they tune in for that interview. Yeah, man. He's going to come out with the freaking J House potato muscle look. Hopefully. I don't know. Well, I guess with anything else, I think we're done for the day. All right, guys. Thank you for watching this week's Generation I podcast. Remember, follow us, like, and if you want to see any of our prior podcasts, tune in to iHeartRadio or wherever you stream our podcast. And remember, also, we are on Patreon. We appreciate you guys for the support. Thank you.