 13 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13. 13 13. 13 I told you, you cannot like McDonald's. Yes, it does. Remember that big loaf of that? They won that one. Yeah, of course they did. Remember to stop drinking? You always burn the tip of your tongue with McDonald's coffee. Hello and welcome to this week's Generation 9 podcast. Your hosts, me, Victor Martinez, along with Edwin Mejia and Vlad Yudin. Welcome to 2026. And also, guys, Patreon. We appreciate you guys. We love you. Back. Thank you for the support. And remember, we're also going to have a Patreon special today. Of course. We always have a Patreon. And also your series. That's why. The recovery of Victor Martinez is coming. Yes, the recovery is coming along, guys. The engine that could. We're getting there. So we've been documenting with Vic now on his recovery. As you can see, he's getting stronger. Look, not only did he get stronger, he's actually officially married. So congrats to Vic. Yeah. You just keep getting married. That's it. You know, I just keep doing it all over again. It's usually backwards. Luckily for us, we're in the fitness industry. And I've been having him back here as a professional, you know, expert, obviously, in strength, wellness. He's going to move forward with a great future and helping you guys as well. And first and foremost, we want to thank Transparent Labs. Thank you, Transparent Labs. There you go. Transparent Labs has been a big supporter of Vic and his recovery as well. And, you know, they've been a big supporter of our podcast here. Make sure you guys check them out. They have some of the best products on the market. 100% grass-fed beef. No funny stuff. No artificial flavors. They have an incredible line of products and wellness products. Creatine. Whey protein isolate. 100% plant-based protein for those that have gut issues as well. You name it. Check them out. Generation Iron Code, of course. And now we'll begin, I guess. Vic, how was your experience at the Polar Plunge this year? Vic does this amazing Polar Plunge, and we wanted to kind of hear how it went. We saw the videos. We'll put it up here on the screen as well for people to see. It's crazy. You told me you were completely sober this time around. Well, that's one of the things I've always done, the Polar Bear Plunge sober, you know. I've seen you drinking before. One year, yes, I did approach it with a, you know, box of tequila. I was gifted that for Christmas. I walked around with it. I popped it on the beach. But, again, when did the alcohol hit? After I got out. So we never experienced a, you know, drunken Polar Bear. And I got to say, this year, after the last five years, this was probably the coldest. The coldest. It was 15 degrees in Brooklyn, right? It was 15 on the beach, and it was minus 30 in the water. And I still, my fingertips to this day, this is like two weeks later, and it's still kind of, you know. That was a New Year's Day. That was a New Year's Day, right? New Year's Day. Yeah, New Year's Day. And I have to say, if I went in twice, had I gone in a third time, I would have definitely had frostbites. Damn, that's not good. For sure. I mean, there was people being pulled down in stretchers. I know they were drunk. And that's the thing. When you go in the water and you're drunk. You don't feel it. You don't feel it. So, regardless, hypothermia is still going to set in. Yeah, hypothermia. That's dangerous. Yeah, yeah. So, a few stretchers, nobody died, so we started off the year good. Well, at least you did it, man. Yeah. And then, before we go to the topics, we lost a lot of great people in 2025. Anybody that comes to mind, for me, it was shocking we lost Bill Dobbins, a legendary photographer. Bill Dobbins, yes. That happened right before, like, I think New Year's Eve he passed away. It was New Year's Eve. Okay, I got the news after. Maybe after, but it was like a lot of people passed away literally the last week of the year, which was a little crazy. Somebody died in the 20s, somebody died in, like, a legendary Mr. America passed away. Yes. A former Mr. America passed away. A former Mr. America passed away. A former Mr. America, a few bodybuilders, a few sports athletes, actors. I mean, if I could remember. Bill Dobbins is someone who will certainly, you know, rest in peace. Bill Dobbins is someone we've been a big fan of. He's someone that's helped us here at Generation 9. He's been a big fan of our work. He's also worked with us on a few projects, and, you know, we send our regards and our, you know, our prayers to his family, of course. All right. Let's just start off this year good and a good note, and let's hold tight, everybody. January is the month that we recommit to our habits in order to align for our efforts in better well-being and strength and health and wellness. But choosing the right supplements can be confusing because not only are there so many brands out there, the supplement industry itself is a low-trust category. It's lightly regulated. Products are easy to make. And companies don't even have to list everything on their label. That's exactly why we've partnered with Momentus and what makes them stand out. They weren't satisfied with the industry standard, so they built the Momentus standard, their commitment to doing things the right way, not the easy way. Momentus sources only the highest quality ingredients on the planet. Their whey protein comes from grass-fed European dairy cows. Their creatine uses the purest form of creatine monohydrate. And every formula is made with clinically backed, highly bioavailable nutrients with no fillers and no artificial sweeteners. But what truly sets Momentus apart is their testing and transparency. Every product independently certified by NSF for sport or informed sport, meaning it's tested for contaminants, heavy metals, banned substances, and verified for label accuracy. So you always know exactly what you're putting in your body. And if a product doesn't meet their standard, it never hits the shelves. In a space where trust is rare, Momentus is redefining what trust looks like. If you want to start the new year with supplements you can truly rely on, we can't recommend them enough. And if you have a favorite like their protein, creatine, or omega-3, you'll feel the difference when everything is sourced and tested this rigorously. So you can head to livemomentus.com to get your first order and get 35% off with promo code GENERATIONIRON. That's livemomentus.com with promo code GENERATIONIRON. All right, we have two questions of the day brought to us by Transparent Labs. Guys, thank you so much for submitting your questions for Victor. Please submit them in the comments below. And thank you, Transparent Labs, for allowing us to do this. Victor, we have two questions today. Eddie, you want to read them through? Does Vic remember the Russian Bear 5000 protein drink? LOL. That question comes to us from BenAndy. Sorry, BenAndy1. What's a Russian Bear 5000 protein? I remember the Russian Bear. I remember when I first got Russian Bear Aminos. I thought they were more official than the GNC ones. Is that a brand, Russian Bear? It's a brand. Obviously, Russian brand. I think. Or they just used the Russian style branding because it worked. I was in the back of the classified, and I think they advertised Russian Bear, you know, Aminos. I thought they were little jacked up Aminos. I remember buying them. They were obviously horse pills. And great product. I mean, I grew. I didn't think anything less. They were always. And definitely the weight gainer. One of the best tasting weight gainers. So what's a 5000 protein drink? 5,000 protein. It's one of the Russian Bear brands. And I guess they're coming back. You know, we're here talking about it. I guess they're coming back. I doubt they, you know, they stopped selling it. I never heard of it. Because it was, again, it was during the time when not too many supplement companies were around. Only Metrex was around. That's it. What year was it? You know. We're talking about the 90s, man. Yeah, yeah. This is the 90s. And Russian Bear and I think a few other lame products. I think that was right after Cybergenics ended. Say Cybergenics. Yeah. You bring up some good and it's a lot, man. Yeah, because I couldn't afford it. And thank goodness, because I would have lost my money too. A lot of people lost their money with Cybergenics. It was just bogus supplements. But Russian Bear was definitely something we used. I mean, at that time, it was only also Twin Lab, you know. But Russian Bear just came in an oversized bottle. So you got more of it. Everything else was smaller. Was it cheap or expensive? I mean, it was set at a good price. I mean, I bought it. It was, you know, we used it. I think we used to pop like four aminos every, I think, 30 minutes. We just OD on aminos. And the shake, we used to just kind of share it. We used to chip in. We used to chip in and buy the pro team because we always went to the same gym. I don't know. Guys don't do that now. You know, everybody could afford their own pro team. But it worked. I mean, we got big. We got huge. And this is before any juice, you know. We thought jinzing in the gym was the juice. We used to mess with guys. Yeah, that's the juice, jinzing bottles. So Russian bear, if you're hanging tight, you know, keep up the good work. All right. Cool. So the second question comes from Funed6007. And this one is, do you believe in Mike Mentzer's training protocol? Now, for context, so people understand at home, Mike Mentzer's workout routine is based on his heavy-duty philosophy, which is extreme intensity, minimal volume, basically. So he does one working set to failure, I think. Yeah, he's a golden era. You know, he's a well-recognized golden era bodybuilder that we feature here at Generation Iron. People are big fans of his because of his extreme workouts, hardcore workouts. Often, obviously, people say that just, you know, he's well-known for that one-rep extreme workout. No, I mean, I read a lot on Mike Mentzer. He was a very private guy. I know Doreen Yates is one of his biggest supporters of his training methods. Obviously, I tried everything. I did the Arnold workout, high volume, and the Mike Mentzer. And I felt like my joints couldn't handle the Mike Mentzer workout. Can I do it once in a while? Can I implement it in part of my high-volume workouts? Yes. Is it effective? Yes, of course. I mean, he's worked with many. I mean, look at Doreen Yates. He's won so many Olympias. I mean, he's just a fact to the results that what you can get through the Mike Mentzer-type training. A lot of people don't believe in it because they just kind of linger in a gym. Obviously, they don't execute as hard. They don't push that hard in the gym. And to do a Mike Mentzer workout, it's really, you know, as the old school, you know, used to say, it's balls to the walls. You can't just kind of dilly-dally and do a set. And this is to failure. This is how hard you can push, tear those fibers, and really push to the max. And can you do it? Try it. But definitely the issue I had was I needed longer warm-ups. Do you have a favorite, I guess, Golden Arrow workout or Golden Arrow exercise? Yeah, that's a question that we get a lot here. What is Vic's favorite Golden Arrow workout? Man, Barbell Press. Yes, Barbell Press, obviously the squat and the deadlifts, you know, the official deadlifts, not the deadlifts now that's going around social media. I don't know how people, they do the deadlift or they do like a stiff-legged deadlift. And they don't drop that butt to the ground, man. And I always say, you know, what is a deadlift if it's not a squat with your arms down? That's what it is. And so we used to deadlift every Wednesday at Elmo's gym for about an hour. That's all we did and just kind of went for an hour. And it was like four or five of us. Well, we did one squat and one deadlift. And that's all we did for an hour, you know, and just rotate and just kind of sit down, talk crap, what we're doing, what's going on in school. And then we just kept doing it. And we was pretty strong at it, man. I mean, we were doing already four plates at 19 years old. Wow. For reps. On a box, not off the floor either. We did it on a box. You can go even lower on the box. That you can go lower enough where you can clear, you know, where it basically went almost just to clear your feet, you know. So it was raised high enough where you could, you know, and it was, you felt everything. Yeah. Glutes, lower back. I mean, you got big. We got big. And it's free weights. So when it goes to old school, yes, I love it. It's better. More free weights. And that's the neglect that's going on around right now. A lot of gyms are being done. But a lot of gyms really just focus on a lot of machines. And these machines are not the full effect like the free weights. It's interesting. I interviewed Samir Banu, you know, obviously legendary Mr. Olympia. Also, he was telling me about 1980 Mr. Olympia. Arnold jumped in it, I guess, a few weeks before. Ended up winning it. But him and Mike Metzler almost fought. Yeah. Because Arnold was, I guess, poking fun at him or something just to stir up the pot, you know. And they almost fought backstage. I could imagine. I mean, Arnold came out from filming. What movie? Did Conan? Conan, I think. Yeah, he did Conan. So, Arnold is bringing his fame from the movies. You know, he made Joe Weider, basically. You know, it's not the other way around, I believe. You know, Joe Weider just knew how to put things together, you know. Trainer of champions, you know. Arnold said it in the documentary. Let's not get in fun of Joe Weider, man. Let's not. You know. He's somewhere. Joe Weider. What is it when I met him? Where'd you get those arms? I'm like, I train them. Joe Weider asked you that. I train him. So, where's my contract? So, what's going on? He didn't give you a contract, right? No, no. He put Robin to give me a contract. And Robin didn't like me at that time. So, he didn't give me one. Damn. Why Robin didn't like you? I don't know. Robin asked me. Robin, why? Why, bro? Man. Anyways, I remember that's when I went to Steve and I go, yo, Steve, give me something, bro. And that was the beginning of muscular development and the growth and all the years that we competed. But, yeah. I mean, Joe Weider and Arnold, it was just like the perfect match because Arnold going to shows looking half ready. And he crushed them in 1980. And, I mean, aside from that one, I think the other controversial one. It was a controversial one. Yes. Because some people thought he didn't deserve to win. I mean, we see the pictures. I mean, Mike Mensah was just, he was like a rock. But, you know. I guess his name, Frank Zane was there and he broke his trophy backstage, I guess. Yeah. He claimed it was because he just didn't want to bring a trophy with him. He dropped it. Yeah. Frank Zane, Mike Mensah. I don't think they get enough love. Dickerson also stormed off the stage, I heard. It was a very controversial Olympia. Yeah. Dickerson got it, what, 82? I think so, yeah. 82, yeah. He won it eventually. Yes, he did. You know, rest in peace. By the way, very sad story how Dickerson passed away. Yeah, yeah. Rest in peace, man. I don't want to get into that right now, but it was a very sad story. Yeah, he's one of the few lost champions as well. And, you know, we go down the list. We'll list them here. So you guys can see who we lost. But, yeah, I mean, controversy and bodybuilding is like go hand in hand, you know? I know. You need to take your muscles to the max. Whoa there, Turbo. Do you even know what's in that stuff? Oh, yeah. See, most protein powders are filled with artificial sweeteners, food dyes, and filler. Really? I wouldn't put that stuff in my body. Neither would I. Transparent Labs is made with just a handful of all-natural ingredients without any of the weird stuff. Transparent Labs. Protein without the weird stuff. Let's talk about some new controversy, actually. The new year started off with some drama. Drama. We saw the video right before we started filming this, actually. But, so, Justin Compton. You know who Justin Compton is. Yes. I just want to make sure you know him. You're with Justin. Yeah, I know Justin. I know him. Yeah. So, Justin Compton went on a podcast, and I guess he was talking about, maybe they asked him whatever. I saw only the clip. He said that because of Kai's past, which we know what he's talking about, obviously, but Kai's past. He said that no matter what, the organization, we're not going to let him win the Olympia, no matter what. He said even if he was going to come second and Phil Heath was going to break his leg or something, that whoever was third, they were going to give that to that person. So, basically, he said no matter what Kai would have done, we're not going to give him the Olympia title. And on Kai's podcast, Kai basically said he doesn't know what Justin Compton is, but if he doesn't have anything positive to say, he needs to shut the fuck up. And he said that Justin Compton doesn't have the credentials to talk like this and that it's all bullshit, basically. And then Justin Compton went on various platforms. He said that Kai definitely knows who he is and that he said that he's going to basically confront him in person one day. He said that he promises no violence, but he wants Kai to say it to his face, basically. Vic, what do you think about this? I think it's a fucked up assessment to say Kai could have never won. If anything, Kai won at least a couple of them, you know, in my eyes. But for him to kind of say it confidently, you know, his assessment, okay, you know what? We all did F the shit. You know, I remember they used to say I'm never going to win because I was partying too much crazy shit, you know, or because I've been arrested, you know. I mean, a lot of us have been arrested, you know. Some of us are, you know, running countries, you know, and there's all this craziness. But it's – Not to name names. No, no, I'm saying it's like, come on. But it's just fucked up because I think, you know, bodybuilders are so separated. They're so separated. That's why our unity is far from close, you know, from ever being a thing, you know. And we kind of see something bad happen. We almost – it's almost like you feel like they kind of have a certain joy to it. And it's sad. It's sad because we don't get much to begin with. We have to put – we have to do a lot, put a lot in our body to get to where we are, you know. Then we get judged in a mediocre way and not get what's due to us. And then who's the first one to talk about it? Judges don't talk about it anymore. They do what they do, whether they screw you or whatever crazy f*** they do. And they don't speak about it. But guess who keeps harping on the whole situation? It's the bodybuilders. And it's sad because we kind of, you know, show like we're bitching. This happened. You know what? I mean, you didn't get fair treatment. For some reason, you know, Kai didn't get fair treatment. Yes, I mean, but to bring up his past is kind of like dog-ish, you know. So, Justin Compton said that he was not – initial comments were not targeted against Kai. It was mostly talking about, I guess, the organization or whoever didn't let him win. He mentioned the Mannions, which I'm surprised he mentioned the Mannions because nobody really ever talks bad about the, you know, Germanion if you're a bodybuilder, right? You never hear that ever. Yeah. So, he didn't say anything bad about Germanion, but he said that, you know, he said the Mannions are the powers to be would not let him win, basically. Well, again, he didn't win. Kai's not competing these days. It sucks, you know. But to say, you know, have Kai, you know, shut me up, I'm like, look, Justin, man, if you want to want that, I mean, I'll tell you right now, I mean, Kai is very nice. He's cool. I've never seen Kai that upset, actually. Yeah, yeah, but he can. You know, most of us can. You know, Justin, you too, probably. But you know what? If you're going to, you know, say something to step up to you, let's do it right. Let's get Jake Paul, get you guys a contract, sign it as a just-in-case. If a just-in-case happens, nobody sues anybody, you know, because that's going to be another punk move, you know. He hit me, and then you want to sue. But the people want to see, they want to see controversy. They want to see those fights. I mean, I think at the end of the day, people want to see Kai and Justin in their ring somewhere. I know. Kai said, shut up. Justin said, shut me up. Just come shut me up. It's like, hey, you know, kind of left that hanging in the balance. He said something like he knows where Kai trains, and I guess they both live in Florida, and he wants to approach him with a camcorder or camera or whatever, and basically see what Kai would do. That's what he said. He's going to approach him with a camera? Come on, Justin. That's such an influencer move. He's going to approach me with a camera. Yeah. Listen, if you want to argue with me, and this is a public announcement here. If anybody wants to discuss something with me, confront me, it's like, just meet me in the bathroom. No cameras allowed in there, okay? Meet me in the bathroom at your choice, and we get it, you know, and how can you determine who won? Whoever comes out of the bathroom first. Exactly. I don't know. You know, honestly, I think Justin Compton has a right. He was on a podcast. He had a right to his opinion. He's on a podcast. I mean, it's a big deal. I don't understand. But you have to have the approach. I think one person I saw discussing it was, I think a few people. Everybody's talking about it now. But we've all been through shit. We've all been through it, and it's just differently. Everybody is affected differently, and to bring up something negative is usually not a good thing, you know? To say, you know, I mean, whatever. But let's see where this goes. And Kai, I mean, man, Justin, guys, come on. Do a workout together, Mika. There you go. Approach him with a camera and do a workout together. Yeah, I don't know about the camera, though. No, for the work, to do the workout. I mean, do the approach without the camera. And then bring out the camera. Yeah. And if you do bring the camera, Kai should just punch the camera. You're approaching me with a camera, I'm punching it. I'm telling you right now. I'm going to punch the shit out of that camera, bro. Like paparazzi. Remember the paparazzi? I'm going to punch the camera. You don't approach me with a camera. You're approaching me like I'm some fucking Nat Geo animal and shit. It's true. Oh, man. All right. Well, shout out to Justin. Shout out to Kai. You know, they're great guys. So today I want to give a personal story here at Generation Iron. Here, you know, as you know, we've been working on many different films over the years. And very early on during the inception of Generation Iron, we spent many late days, nights working on set, making sure our films were completed and producing these films. And we quickly realized that even with the proper meals, diets, nutrition, you know, the end of the day has always resulted in plunging energy levels. And the first thing you tend to look into is going to the web and go down to Ribahol to figure out what you can do to improve your energy levels. And the first thing the doctor mentions is testosterone. You know, check your testosterone levels. TRT often comes up. And you often go and you get the blood work done. And sometimes, you know, you don't get the right solutions. Today I'm here to tell you that we have personally tried and tested Marsmen, which has become one of the best viable natural testosterone solutions in the market. Instead of TRT, which can often run you sometimes over $3,000 a year for a cycle, one of the things that we always tend to look for is a natural solution. One of the things that came up was Marsmen testosterone support. Really five capsules with all the ingredients you can imagine in those five capsules. It's a GMP facility here in the U.S., tested, proven, and they've been proven to be a huge support to our energy levels here at Generation Iron. Going into the new year, we always look for new natural ways to keep our energy levels high, to keep our vitality high, and more importantly, to support and aid our workout regimens and just our daily routines. Marsmen gives you the same benefits of optimized testosterone, energy, strength, focus, without shutting your body down. For a limited time, our listeners get 50% off for life plus free shipping and three free gifts at mensgotomars.com. It's a perfect way to kick off the new year strong. That's mensgotomars.com for 50% off and three free gifts when you check out. After you purchase, they will ask you where you heard about them. Please support our show and tell them that Generation Iron sent you. All right, let's talk about the post-holiday thing, right? So a lot of people are asking questions also. How do I get back on track? A lot of people probably didn't hit the gym as hard in December or even stay on their diets. What are some of your advice? What is your advice, Vic, to get back on track? Number one, not only from a workout standpoint, but from a nutrition standpoint. So maybe you can tackle both because one thing we notice and one thing that always comes up, and this is something that people want to know about. Like, for instance, some people lose training focus during the holidays, which results in lack of strength, right? Because when you get back in the gym, you're not going to be able to do the same kind of weight. Let's say bench press or same whatever. That happens to me. That happens to everybody. So how do you get back on track from a training perspective and from a nutrition perspective? Well, getting back on track after the holidays is, like you said, it's tough. But, again, you missed a week or two, it's probably saving you, too. It's giving you a good jump start. The only bad thing is, okay, you're not training as much, but you're also drinking crazy, and you're eating a lot of crazy shit, you know? So to bounce back, you know, let's start cleaning up the food, obviously. Let's not eat, you know, again, it varies from competitive bodybuilders to just your everyday lifestyle. I guess we're focusing on everyday lifestyle. Exactly. And just keep it going back to the simpleness of eating, you know, whole foods, you know, no supplementation. Obviously, the best supplementation is before, during, and after your workout. Start adding, let's start with three days. Let's not try to pick up to where we left off. Right. You know, you're doing five days. If you start with five days, I guarantee you, you're not going to be motivated. You're not going to recover fast enough. The soreness is not going to let you get to day three. So let's build up. Let's start with some compound movements, shorter workouts, and build up week after week. Usually, by the end of January, you should be in full blast. The food. What do you recommend for food? I mean, obviously, some people out there, obviously, a lot of people in the industry do a lot of meal planning. But, like, do you recommend meal prep or do you recommend also a meal plan? Because sometimes a meal plan in places like New York, that makes a lot more sense, right? But what do you recommend? Yeah, you're coming back from the holidays. You're obviously going back to work. Like, you're cooking yourself or there's a lot of, you know, meal prep companies out there. Have you tried them like the popular ones, Factor, these days? Have you tried any of them? Or, like, Trifecta? I don't know if Trifecta still exists, right? They probably still do. I'm not sure. I do. Mega meals, mega fit meals, right? Which ones? I do Prep Daddy. Is that a real thing? Is that a real thing? Yeah. Actually, I swear. I'm Prep Daddy. Or how about this? People in the Tri-State area have seen Eat Clean, bro. So... That's a New Jersey one, yeah. No, no, no. That's the one based out of New Jersey. And actually, you know, someone that works there, Aaron. Shout out to him. Yeah, yeah. That's cool. I never had Eat Clean, bro. It's obviously a Jim Bro brand. It seems like a Jim Bro brand, but I'm sure that they're... Yeah, no, I mean, Prep Daddy also, a few, Frank Fuel. Someone I always use. Are these a local ones? Local New York? Yeah, yeah, he's a local. And again, they bring it right to me. They know I don't like this, you know, frozen anything. I have to have it the same day they cook. It brought to me, and it's usually good for two days. Wow, that's pretty good. Max three. And the price point, very important. You know, you eat something outside, you're lucky you're going to spend $25, $30. Per meal? Yes. So with these guys, you can have two meals for the price of one out there that's... You don't know what's going on in people's kitchens. Or make it yourself for even a quarter of that, right? Making it yourself is basically just have one week, season everything. Now, if you want something, that's the problem with most people and their food. They just, when it's healthy, you have to, you can't cook it all in one day, you know. So have it pre-seasoned, you know, and cook it fresh. It really only takes about seven minutes to cook a sliced chicken breast, not a whole chicken breast. You have to cut it to the middle, you know. And it's just like two, you know, two, three minutes on either side, and it's done, you know. Steak, eggs, depending on if you want to lose weight, obviously. Let's keep the meals low. I don't know if you do intermittent fasting, but it's, you know, creating a meal plan where you're going to either stay fit or for growth. Growth is a whole other difference, Kyle. But to start healthy is, you know, get a training partner, you know. How do you feel about a few people drinking December for holidays to take January off from drinking alcohol? The drinking, again, it starts affecting you after a while. It just dehydrates you. It's just, am I going to say don't drink at all? No, not at all. Take a month off. How do you feel about taking a month off? Yeah, a month or just kind of monitor the amount you're having, you know. Is it going to be one glass? Is it going to be a couple of beers? But it's actually going to do your body freaking great, not just good, great, not having the extra alcohol, the dehydration, you know. Your skin, that's the first effect you start getting from either drinking or smoking is your skin. And, you know, certain people obviously will age faster than the others. But, you know, you're combining the good food and the training. Let's move back, you know, that drinking to the weekend. Let's have that, you know, healthy week. Yeah, yeah, let's have that healthy week. There's a big trend actually happening. A lot of younger generations, they drink much less. From what I heard from statistics. They're drinking less, they're just doing more drugs, you know. Speaking of drugs, how do you feel about that THC-infused alcohol? Sorry, it's not alcohol. It's THC-infused drinks. Have you ever tried? THC, yeah. I mean, it leaves you a little sluggish depending on the person. Some other people could give them anxiety. I mean, I tried it so long ago. It's not a thing I buy to bring to my house with my kids, you know. Right, of course. And I tend to kind of stay sober a lot these days. It's just one of the things where my husband stay focused, get up early. But, you know, if you're going to have the drinks, it has a different effect than smoking it. Right now it's legal in New York, legal in Jersey, you know. You know, and pick and choose. Pick and choose something that's going to give you a good edge, not a lazy edge. And that's the thing with weed. Unless you choose your right strength, it's just not going to do you any justice, you know. So plan out. Let's go back to balance. Let's go back to balance, training, eating right, and let's keep it social. Let's not go OD and just try to, you know, drink to a pulp, get high to a pulp, and, you know, let's get our together. Let's start off great, and end the great this year. Exactly, exactly. All right, guys. Now we're going to move on to the Patreon special topic. So if all of you guys out there don't know about Patreon, please go check it out, subscribe. And you can see the full extended version of this podcast on there and also all of the films and much more. Yeah, a lot of films on there. We have New Damon's Gym on there, guys. Check that out. Also, all the content, all the films that you see me streaming on Prime, Netflix, Hulu, Apple TV, Google Play. You'll find them on Patreon now, literally for $6.99. Come on. Exactly. All right. So, Vic, I mean, we had this conversation with Kyle when we did this podcast with him. Remember, somebody asked what's going on with the gear quality, and you basically kind of scratched the surface on that one. You said that. I think that's what Kennedy's doing at the health department. I don't know. I think he's trying to. I think I saw Ripo. He's trying to restrict. Well, he's trying to make steroids great again, you know. Remember, there were only illegal, I think, 91. You know, that's the year, 91, 92, around there. Before that, anybody, you know, I mean, you could just go walk into a pharmacy. I mean, there's certain pharmacies that will still sell it to you, obviously, if you're local. If you have a local. Right, connection. Yeah, connection. But I think they are trying to, you know, kind of lighten up under restrictions on them and take them off of schedule three. Probably bring them schedule one or something. Yeah, exactly. All right. That was the Patreon topic. And as we always say on the show, guys, stay natural. Right, Vic? Yes, guys. Stay natural. You know, keep humping. Okay, guys. Thank you for joining me in this week's podcast. Remember, follow us, like, and comment. And remember, if you want to see any of our prior podcasts, tune in to our hard radio or podcast or wherever you stream. And also, follow us on Patreon. We appreciate you guys for that. And until next time. Thank you. Thank you.