 Hello and welcome to this week's Generation 9 podcast. Your host, your host, your host, me, Martinez, along with Edson Farahe, Vlad Yudin, and Edwin Mejia. Welcome back. Thank you to Transparence Labs for the sponsorship. Again, remember, no dyes, no binders, no craziness. And for the question of the week, we have two questions again. Take out the goodies. Yeah, for the question of the week, we appreciate everybody commenting. Make sure you continue to comment, like, subscribe here at Generation 9, so we can continue to answer your questions and have Vic select your questions. So the question comes to us from HMedina629. And the question is, Vic, which are the top three to five blood work to ask for when getting blood drawn? Oh, man. Well, I had to pull out what I send my clients and it's just normal that you send them what blood work they need. Everybody should get them, especially trainers that want to start training someone. Ask this of your clients because you don't want somebody showing up, beaten down, about to die unhealthy. But definitely you got to get the liver enzymes, AST, ALT, lipids, kidney functions, hemoglobin, glucose. And most importantly, free panel test levels, you know, your test GH levels. And for men, PSA is very important. Cancer. Yes, yes. For your prostate. And this is something that we do minimum once a year, sometimes twice, especially if they're going to be on TRT, because you got to check under the hood, man, otherwise you're asking for it. But, um... Can you go to a normal clinic to get that done? Or can you just have to... Or can you go to... Because most hospitals and most general practice... They go for basic. They go for basic. They check cholesterol, high blood pressure, but they never check your test levels. So you have to... You have to ask. You have to ask. Yeah, you have to ask. But you can't even... You can't really get your PSA levels checked either. You have to get them checked by a specialist at a clinic, no? Especially, they could get the blood work in and somebody else would read it for them. Okay, got it. Get a sports doctor though. A lot of these doctors, again, they hate going into specifics when it comes to an athlete, because for them it's such a drag, especially when they don't understand it. How to read it. What does it mean? You know, it can... Mostly urgent care do that. I send all my clients to urgent care. They do that. Yeah. Without doubt. All right. Well... They just ask, what do you want? Interesting. You have to pick the list, basically. But they are not testing the hormones. Yeah. Just the StarStorm. It's crazy. You have to ask. Can you add the StarStorm? Can you check my hormones? Ask for full panel. That's it. Ask for full panel. Remember, you use your insurance, they're going to bill your insurance $2,000, $2,500. Damn. You pay cash, $200. Right. Which is crazy. Use of the healthcare system of America. That is insane. Yeah. Yeah. That's just the way it goes. Well, yeah. They need disruption. But anyways, I mean, obviously, that's important because people always ask that question. The second question comes to us from Jim Rat Matt. Jim Rat Matt. Jim Rat Matt. Jim Rat Matt. Jim Rat Matt. Jim Rat Matt. They give you a question. And the question is, question for Vic. I tore my right upper bicep tendon a few months ago and decided not to have it reattached. Right top bicep tendon. But the question is, my right bicep looks better than my left now. Is that normal? I lost a little strength. It's good. Say it again. Why? He turned the bicep and then he said, right now it looks better. That's what he's saying. Yeah. Saying it looks better. It probably does look better. It's because the illusion of looking better. But just don't try to go tear it. Maybe because it gets wrong. wrong you know it gets round because they usually you know attach both of them and once a bulky yeah you have the arm but when you tear one side which is sounds like he tore just one side not complete tear you basically have that peak effect like larry wheels when he tore his right but again it's partially torn it's just uh so it's not good yeah it's not good it's gonna tear eventually yeah so he goes on and says i lost a little stretch but my but the peak i have now is so much better than it was before you're saying the peak i don't compete and if i didn't point it out you would never know you notice it or never know it's torn also will my right bicep continue to grow as i train or will my left bicep overpower it in size of course i'm concerned with symmetry by the way you asked me to send you a before and after pick and i didn't know where to send it so i sent it via message on your instagram account i am 72 years old who went from 212 pounds to 250 pounds in the four years of consistent progressive training thanks in advance jim rat matt so he's 72 and then turning the bicep he basically said he tore the bicep he did not get the surgery and he's basically asking if it's gonna like recover on its own does it look better yeah possibly is it gonna get any better not at all again you're 72 yeah not to uh say anything negative on that but if you're enjoying that peak enjoy it um is your left arm going to overpower your right arm yes you have because you're gonna have more connection on your left arm and your right arm is just the break it's a look are you gonna have problems sending signals to have the same pump as your left arm yes because you have partially torn arm you know there's not much you can do you can repair it because it is cosmetic um a lot of people i know with partial tear never repaired it they deal with it i think the best arms in the industry that i've seen that had double torn bicep was vince taylor and he attached it to have some of the best arms in the world yeah right you know so the very nice peak yeah yeah yeah again it's just um it's because shape of the arm is not the problem he can do so many exercises especially pushes the effect for the chest paco the shoulder because the upper because because the attack yes paco and front shoulder it's not just the biceps the term biceps is not not big deal but because they're not attached he can't push even like left side of the chest or front shoulder but should he get the surgery 72 years old he's not competing what does it mean again most of the time like i said before it's just again cosmetic it's gonna make a big difference it might start affecting his bicep pumps that's about it because the signals are going to be different again remember everything is about you you know what you can curl how much you can curl and that pump um at a certain age you don't get those crazy pumps anymore and now with that tear after a while you're gonna start feeling slightly less of a pump in that area but um you know your left is gonna be stronger it's fully attached you're right if you like the peak enjoy it man i mean what else can you do i mean you're gonna get it reattached might not look as you know the left side too yeah don't tear it that's what i said first thing i said is don't try to tear your left just to make it even because it usually most likely will never be you know all right gym rep matt that's what you say when steller was good yeah both sides too very few people can actually tear an arm and have good arms like vince taylor and i don't think by the way guys if you want to submit the questions and send pictures send it to info generationiron.com yes that way you get the pictures we get to check it out you know i'll try to find you later but all right gym rep matt h medina thank you guys so much for the questions brought to us by transparent labs you need to take your muscles to the max whoa there turbo do you even know what's in that stuff oh yeah see most protein powders are filled with artificial sweeteners food dyes and filler really i wouldn't put that stuff in my body neither would i transparent labs is made with just a handful of all natural ingredients without any of the weird stuff transparent labs protein without the weird stuff all right so let's get into the the main topic here today is the week of the pittsburgh pro pittsburgh finally here it's book finally yes the winner is on i'm gonna read the list of uh men's open competitors you guys tell me who you think is gonna win all right so we have william bonek eric lunsford martin fitzwater james hollinshead michael krizzo krizzo's coming back yeah i showed back leonardo paris vitali good good veto basically he turned the bicep you don't look at crazy man nickel he told good video just won yeah wow he was off for a few yeah yeah he was uh nick walker and eric wood so great lineup right yes i say you have who win who will win derrick lansford derrick lansford is mr olympia arnold champion um definitely the balls on his court you know and his back yeah his back no one has his back and core no no but the ball is on his core he's the one the favorite to win you know now let's say you know again the mutant comes out he did say he's gonna beat everyone he did say actually he said yes it doesn't matter who's in the show he did me when nick walker comes back annihilates everybody he's back on the map the question why nick walker why uh dreg lansford wants to do this show he's he already win the arnold classic i don't know why why don't ask me why he should be rest for mr olympia i i can't he should he could be but you know it's the first of this kind of the pittsburgh you know with the expo the boss is hosting the show it's gonna be crazy i think i i won't think i'll be able to get a hotel i might have to get an airbnb if i do go but um few things are happening that day so i'm trying to see if i can make it but um it's uh it's a show to be you know you both predict that derek lungsford will win both of you guys predict i i put the money in the i put the money in direct who will get second and third second yeah that's that that's the debate listen gaviro just came out from a great way arnold classic south america arnold classic brazil and uh he was he's just looking crazy man so if anybody is gonna you know take nick up for his money will be him because he's just coming off a win he's coming off polish yeah and uh nick is you know going for the comeback he competed last year didn't we see good video in uh yeah we filmed with him in brazil he lives in brazil yeah who i mean how does it look in person that's great he's huge yeah he's huge what about michael chryso i mean he was always coming back as well so you have guys you know you have you know nick walker chryso chryso had an injury i don't know how he can come back let's see how he's gonna recover again you can come back from injuries but you gotta remember chryso he's got great condition his condition is probably one of the best jay cop they say if you bring the jable condition he can be with his olympia has some of the best condition if he comes in with that condition uh when he actually you know crossed over to the ifpb he's gonna be a force to be reckoned with but um and don't forget martin fitzwater is also like nobody ever talks about him no martin again he's another top guy um he got fourth in last year's olympia so it's a stacked lineup it's a great show i want to be there and see your front and center because uh i don't think you're gonna get the full effect through uh streaming or anything else but um it's a strong lineup so right now those are definitely your top five guys right there i put the nick walker in second so derek lunds for first nick walker second yeah yeah you go between good veto and and nick walker but right there it's like this is a huge show for nick walker by that's his comeback show yes and if he doesn't win the show he he needs to go to new york pro immediately right to get to qualify basically for the olympian well new york pro is the follow-up show i think a few guys that are doing the uh pittsburgh are going forward to the new york pro yeah because now you're going for qualifications yeah so why not it'd be crazy if you do the pittsburgh and not the new york pro right they should go both hand in hand i mean it's gonna be a stacked weekend man i have uh yeah my friend's daughter's graduating the same weekend as the new york pro and i'm like oh yeah i know it's just uh you have to show up man i know it's you know but um i'll find a way to still support her um i have to be for new york pro working purposes and uh um you know it's gonna be a fun couple of weeks well i think i think nick walker has a lot of pressure right now to a lot of pressure to show to show up himself in the stage yeah but again second place or third place for nick walker is tastes like a win because he wasn't in the stage i don't think he's going for that you know i can beat everybody his exact statement is uh i don't think is one to go in to settle for second you know derrick lunsford any glitch any small glitch can turn this from a win to a lose right you're right yeah so one small thing if he stresses out flies in wrong just everybody has to be everybody has to be right on the money definitely so right on the money um you know derrick mr olympia you know and again i like uh you know the i keeps mentioning these two guys only because their physiques is right there close to one another nick walker and if you if you was if he was coaching uh dreg lansford and dreg say i want to compete in pittsburgh do you let him oh i don't i don't think i ever like to make a choice for athletes when it comes to competing i just choose a show do it because let's say some other guys are off and you know your athletes could have been on he's gonna start blaming you so never i don't think any coach should ever decide on an athlete's choice because they should make their own choice so christian city doesn't have any word to say he probably has some some i mean derek is his own man again this is a a big show um it's kind of like uh guest posing at the pittsburgh just guest posing alone it's stacked up i think one of the biggest guest posing shows for most athletes yeah now this is an actual show his actual show his walker ends up winning the show that means he just beat the mr olympia and a classic brand new champion well he has a high chance of getting a mr olympia his chances will be so much higher yeah um than not so he's got two chances i think winning the pittsburgh will just kind of seal the deal the dad the dad year he get third in mr olympia which is the last year he competed mr olympia nick uh direct lance will get second did he right i think so and how do you want yeah yeah how do you want me uh nick got third yeah negative third direct lance for second yeah so they are very close but direct lanceward they improve a lot since three four years yeah yes he has and nick walker didn't compete at mr olympia for three years right now you know last year pro last year pro last year and he wasn't that good either yeah he was saving it for the you know the big show the olympia and then he didn't show up so now he's right back to another third of third comeback you know yeah and again it's man it's hard to say i think that martin martin and uh nick walker has the debate for second really yeah but martin's got to bring that condition though the last show yeah he did win but his condition wasn't great but his again overall balance and aesthetic is is definitely you know the build of a champion so and i like his physique yeah his physical like yeah why is nobody why is nobody mentioning william bonak it seems like he's not bonak you know he won the last show you know when you're looking at these guys and again you're comparing the physiques in a full you know manner but derek is uh you know probably the same high as william william black when i see the billion black body he has a very nice body he everything is there but his body is tired his body screaming to let me rest but everything is there conditioning is there size is there and because because he doesn't have that height that he's a little bit shorter than everyone it's little bit get weight weight goes up i'm sorry he get bulky so he's everything is there i think he need real about rest and you think he's gonna win the show no definitely not i'm not putting him to top five either it's funny if we were to have this conversation maybe four years ago he would be i put him to the top yeah he's a strong competitor again but now you know you're competing with much younger guys you know it's a brand new world out there now brand new world you have i mean i think he's changing other guards you know he's plus 40 how old he is yeah he's definitely 40 i think or 45. so terryk o gundy uh randomly said that um he i guess he's making his predictions kind of early but he said the andrew jack might be uh tough to beat at the 2025 olympia he's got everything in place um andrew jack is obviously well what did he what did andrew jack place uh i think we put it up in the fifth right yeah fifth yeah fifth place oh he's still young man and jack mr olympia fifth place fifth place yeah yeah yeah so he's saying he's gonna improve that much more to beat everybody at this year's olympia he was good at our classic too yeah i mean i think he i think he's he has in my opinion the biggest room for improvement i mean he looks incredible i think he's an athlete that is going to be competing for a long time i like i like his conditioning at the honor yeah i think so too he brings a very good conditioning but he still need balance for upper body and lower i think he's going to get there soon yeah very soon yeah i think next year he's not this year one of the ranking one two three on mr olympia and this year he's pushing himself for three to four in mr olympia he's very dangerous he has everything he's a tall big dude conditioning muscle maturity he has everything i think this is time for him but i'm surprised he's not doing pittsburgh pro yeah yeah he just won the last show he just won the last show he qualified so he's got to keep his eye on the olympia which is you know the show to win and uh i know that we're pointing out a few people in social media were pointing out to his calves i'm surprised samson bubbly why why samson did this show samson i mean he's no i mean he did a lot come on he lost he lost he lost his championship in the classic few months ago yeah but he did a lot you know and then right now to do the pittsburgh which was uh you know two and a half months after the arnold he will be putting the olympia on the line yeah yeah you know and uh i mean can he do it next year most likely if he wins the olympia most likely he'll do the arnold in the pittsburgh why not but um he's he did a lot right he did a lot of shows last year so for you to keep going it's for you to actually get yourself out of the olympia lineup you know the sort of the body like uh like him uh or wood the more competition they get more conditioning yes more conditioning again when you're doing closer when you start now three months away that's a lot of dieting man right now we are middle we are middle of between arnold and mr olympic what's the most amount of shows you've done as a pro in one year as a pro i get one year probably maybe one two three probably five wow it's a lot five yeah it's a lot man and uh and you did it just because you wanted to compete or because you needed to qualify no it's you needed to qualify you needed sponsors it's not uh it's just um when you're the contract for the reader you wasn't reader no no no no no we don't ever sign me bro we don't ever like me but but i remember back then after mr olympia it's like a europe tour everyone goes to europe too yeah yeah no the europe tours ended ended uh yeah yeah no one's gone the grand prix were gone already so you had basically the olympia then you had spain and then we then the whole fiasco with the you know with organizations back in 2017 spain was gone yeah you know so now you know these other shows will come up lvs pro came later you know do you remember do you remember one point they had arnold asia and they had arnold south africa yeah and korea i think they had one in asia right yeah yeah and now it's all gone australia is gone australia too yeah australia is gone what's left just the main arnold and what right now brazil brazil and europe and he still has been europe yeah spain right nobody goes to spain anymore though i mean the last year was there what was the one in uk they made one of the uk too yeah last year was your character yeah but it's not a good lineup no so so why um why those other arnold's are gone like 2017 you win in um in spain yeah iron classic spain no no like you won spain before no 2011 2011 was yeah yeah 2011 i did 2011 12 i did 13 no no not 12 13 and 14 yeah so guys you know what happened with the 17th why the arnold classics disappeared from australia from asia uh dr dr john doyle ifpb amateur and uh gymmania npc well that's for spain but no that's for spain but australia what ended australia was kovid but kovid is gone i know but it never never come back because they still had australia was like crazy with the whole kovid even now i mean no they were crazy about it and i don't think people were think about it started 2020 they didn't start normal to 2023 or 4. yeah yeah you know they were like major but what about south africa they don't have a uh south africa was just didn't get enough i guess competitors or sponsors but the one in spain now is that under the npc or is that under the elite central elite so when they disbanded i think it created a lot of a lot of issues too for the league that's a problem that's a problem for europe because the europe has to be using the elite and arnold don't want to do that they give them the professional leaks to npc and then give them the armature to elite and this middle they had a lot of fight created a lot of fight fighting fighting yeah also they didn't have enough competitors for the elite i mean who was going to the arnold i suppose it was the rizzo and then chris had to go because he's not getting paid so he had to make that choice what is one thing you wish you knew when you started bodybuilding that today you are self-aware of and would recommend other bodybuilders that are competing or starting out no calculate your shows on a hand you know calculate what shows you're going to do make sure obviously the closer the better you know it was actually you know you got to plan out your shows but we would just kind of do a show and just focus on the shorthand you never focus on oh if i lose because you kind of did every show to win right um there was you know we didn't have the tour and now you're doing these shows spaced out so far apart you know um then restrictions i know i had restrictions with travel so it was different for me i mean some athletes they couldn't peak twice they couldn't diet so many times and once you qualify for a show it almost made no sense because also the show purses were so little yeah you know 10 grand you know it was like why bother you know so a lot of factors was the money and uh also you peaking for the show so if anything i would tell myself just plan out for certain shows and again it was just new york pro yeah iron man was gone aren't the arnold and uh the olympia lvs pro i mean then some of the other shows were just come and go yeah so you never had a come and go kind of right yeah you never had a show you can focus on on the calendar for the following year because one year they're there and the other year it's not so plan ahead dig into what shows are going to be in your area close to your competition and uh plan your assault that's all you can do and maybe call call ahead call the sponsor you're going to have the show and if you can get a guarantee you can plan ahead so that's the best you can do that's it ashwagandha do you use it and and what is it for of course it helps a lot helps with stress stress relief uh cortisol levels i think every athlete balance hormones yeah balance is hormones uh i think every athlete that's prepping should use it because that's one of the things that most athletes have a problem with and it's uh stress stress can break you down uh change your condition changes your focus uh ashwagandha it's good but make sure you get also a good quality one yeah because also now that the whole fad started with ashwagandha you're gonna get you know some crappy ones you know diluted ones ones some that are not that great so bootleg comes out when something gets big you're gonna get some bootleg brands so stick to something that's been around stick to something more natural and uh more authentically you know organically effective yeah you know so don't just grab a brand you see an amazon that says ashwagandha that's coming from you know i don't know nowhere yeah yeah yeah always reading the review review review review review exactly same thing this product all supplement company has protein and creatine when which one has quality it's lucky you're going to have drostanolone and one by you eat a steak all restaurant has a steak and which one has a good quality which check the quality quality is everything yeah and transparent labs actually has a great ashwagandha so you guys should actually check them out it's very underrated look no further very underrated supplement make sure you guys check them out obviously highly recommended by vic uh for hormones and obviously for stress cortisol levels i believe everyone has to be taken i mean if you're not working out you're like you're biking running walking outside you have to take it right it's very good it's a very good supplement to balance everything balance your mood you know sometimes you wake up you're not especially the mood yeah that's usually the biggest it's really good for the mood we're really really good for the mood all right does it help women with the period mood i don't know saving that i don't know that well i was hoping you said yes so he could i know i was hoping man order a crate of that you know well there you have it folks until next time remember follow us like and keep supporting our podcast thank you for your support and until next time remember if you want to stream any of our prior podcast episode tune into our heart radio apple podcast or wherever you stream your podcast until next time you