 the same. Hello and welcome to this week's Generation Iron Podcast. Your host, your host, Victor Martinez, along with Edson Farahe, Vlad Yudin, and Edwin Mejia. Welcome back, guys. Let's do this again and again. Are you back for real this time, bro? Can't stop us. No, back for real. I have a good feeling about this, and appreciate the fans that are sticking with us during these dark times. But you know what? There's light at the end of the tunnel. We're happy to have you back, man. We are so happy. We are so happy. We have a lot to get through, and obviously for you, it's obviously, I'm sure you're happy to be here with us, because we missed you. Always, always, man. You know, it was getting dark out there, but you know what? We're back. We're still here. We still got, and you know, we on Patreon now. So for you guys that are following us, commenting, liking us, please join us in Patreon, and you know, and our sponsor. Yeah, so first and foremost, I mean, let's start off with the positive note. And you know, we're happy to see you back. We know that you're better now. How do you feel? And how do you feel now with the recovery process? Can you tell us? And I'm sure a lot of people out there are asking the same questions like, Vic, what's going on? Did you go through another surgery? There's a lot of things happening, so we would just want to get more information. All the Persian fans crazy me. Yeah. Oh my God. Ask me, where is Vic? Where is Victor? No, I appreciate the messages from them, man. Yeah. Definitely. I feel good, man. Again, the support you get. I mean, I know people always feel bad. I'm not one to, you know, welcome pity. At the end of the day, my thing is always, you know what? It happened. It's happening. But I'm coming back. I'm fighting hard. And the recovery is just hell. It's a living hell. Because you see a lot of things you always want to do. Things you're missing, working out. Yeah. Working. You know, we work in men, bro. We like to work, you know. Recovery is the most important part. Yeah. But when you're down like that. And hardest. It's very hard. Very hard. For those who don't know, you had a surgery, then you came back, we started the podcast again, and then boom, right? You got the pain came back. The pain came back. Basically, you know, I had the infection, went through the whole surgery, six weeks of antibiotics. I stopped for about two weeks, and I'm like, wait a minute. I'm getting that feeling again. And, but for one thing for sure, I just knew how to move a little bit better. And I did not stay in Jersey for the second surgery. I had to be smart about it. I went to New York, went to the best spinal, you know, surgeons. And I feel like it's gone. You know, it's just that feeling, you know. They still say, oh, one more week. I say, I know you guys are doing it to be careful, but I feel good, man. Good, good. Thanks, God. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Thanks, God. Exactly. For the people in the comments, of course, are going to be asking, like, you remember last time a lot of people were asking, how did you get the infection in your spine? And you said, you don't know, right? It's still the same situation. I mean, again, it's just one of those things, whether Ronnie get his sepsis is one of those things I just want to see where it is. But my main concern was really getting back. You know, getting back. You know, people saying, oh, man, what are you going to do next? I'm like, I need to recover first. Couldn't plan anything, think of anything. The first thing was, how am I going to deal with this pain? Second thing was, how am I going to deal with this pain? The first thing was, the pain and recovery. Man. So nothing was, you know, moving past that. Once, here we are on the seventh week, post-op and feeling great. You know, again, you know, I'm not squatting a thousand pounds yet or nothing like that. But I'm going to start off with some Jane Fonda movements. Nice. You know, just to get back. And again, you know, I'm holding myself up pretty good. But it's going to be a long recovery, you know, to be 100%. I say right now, feel good, 75. Jack LaLanne movements? Yeah. Well, Jack LaLanne was a beast, man. I don't know. I say Jane Fonda, man. Right now. Well, we're happy to have you back, man. And then now you've been starting to eat again, right? You're starting to eat more. Eating more than 500 calories. It's freaking nuts. So you went from eating how many calories per day to how many now? It's just when you have an infection, you don't want to eat anything. Yeah. It's like you get total body shutdown. Right. You know, it's like, it's just, I don't know, your body just starts breaking down. And the doctors pretty much said that if you didn't have all that muscle to spare, that's why, you know, you got to tell people to work out, man. Yeah. It's not all about just looking good. It's that feeling and protecting your body. So when you have that extra muscle, you know, an infection, just choose at that first. If I didn't have that muscle, if I wasn't healthy, I would have never recovered at this pace. It's just a fact. That's why you see most people get into even a car accident. Right. You know, seeing people get freaking tossed all over the place, muscle protects you. It's not just about a look. It's about your health. So I recommend you working out. If it wasn't for my bodybuilding, I would not have been here. That's crazy to think about that, right? Yeah. That's crazy. I have a reserve. Muscle protects you, man. Very well said, man. Working out. Working out. Working out. Working out. Well, the Olympia passed by weeks ago at this point, but we missed the whole thing, right? So maybe we should talk about Olympia. I saw it. I saw it on YouTube. So have you been getting... Have you... Wow, you know. You didn't pay for the pay-per-view, bro? Come on, man. Pay-per-view? No, no. Somebody paid for a pay-per-view. Got it, got it. So before we get into the Olympia, Vic, some people are asking, you know, have you taken any products or any specific supplements besides painkillers, of course, that have helped you with the pain? Oh. What have you taken over the kind of that has helped you over the last couple of weeks? You know, it wasn't my first rodeo with painkillers, you know, and the first thing is doctors, when they try to give it to you, they're always like, oh, you got to be careful. I go, doc, you did your surgery. That's your part. Let me handle the painkiller part, you know? I'm not... Are you saying that they don't want to help you with painkillers? Well, they're scared about the whole pandemic, addictions, you know, epidemic. Yeah, yeah. It's kind of crazy because I've seen people get knee surgeries and then they get painkillers for like two days. And then... Well, they used to give you unlimited. And then they take it off right away. Yeah. Which is insane. And I've seen people suffer for like weeks with pain. Yeah. And again, I have my experience with them. I know how to pretty much use them and just come off them, which is pretty hard. Just cold turkey. Okay. So anything else that you've taken besides painkillers that has helped you? No. Glutamine, creatine. Glutamine, creatine. That's it. So shout out to Transparent Labs. Yes. They have an incredible glutamine and creatine. We review them on Generation Iron. They've been a big supporter of the podcast here for over a year. And Vic, obviously, you speak highly of them. They have some of the best products, a lot of great ingredients, quality ingredients. And we really thank you guys for supporting us and check them out. They have incredible products. There's a Gen Iron code, of course, that you can use for a discount as well. You need to take your muscles to the max. Whoa there, Turbo. Do you even know what's in that stuff? Oh, yeah. See, most protein powders are filled with artificial sweeteners, food dyes, and filler. Really? I wouldn't put that stuff in my body. Neither would I. Transparent Labs is made with just a handful of all-natural ingredients without any of the weird stuff. Transparent Labs protein without the weird stuff. So, this was a crazy Olympia. Results were all over the place. You were very disappointed, right? You want to talk about that? Not just me. All did you predict that derek would win i think you kind of did didn't you yeah i mean i said derek you did say that i didn't talk about samson yeah no you said samson i think samson yeah yeah yeah i had derek in second yeah hardy third but who do you think actually won who who did you have in first after i think actually won i mean i don't know i wasn't there if you were let's not be politically correct at all who did you have in first um from the pictures yeah from the pictures i don't know there were photoshop or anything but uh howdy did look like a first place winner again uh derek does have the better flow in balance and everything but how do you just look commanding you know as far as conditioning when the olympia used to be about conditioning you could look like a block of legos if you had conditioning you would win anyways yeah i know he's not the most appealing physique doesn't have the nice flow from top to bottom i don't think so yeah i don't think he has the most of you and howdy in first two i think overall 100 percent overall hardy has the best package the best package in the end the best package the conditioning and the physics symmetry i mean obviously his back double bicep back is not like derek 3d comes up yeah but mostly mostly pose i give it to hardy not just me so both of you think that that the judges were wrong this time um i mean i think they should have just judged it differently yeah it's so confusing you know one year they're judging for the size one year judging for the conditioning so this is the confusing for the fan and an athlete they don't know what's the what should the broad to the stage conditioning or size let me ask you who did you have a second and third place then in your opinion second up third jack second and jack jack second and jack jack second and uh drek third wow man i like derek man it's just um at the end of the day it's just one of those things that when you're up there and you do a most muscular or front double bicep and you're like waiting for the pop and the corn doesn't pop no his his biceps his biceps is the one piece of the meat his biceps is a one piece eric's yeah yeah doesn't have a peak i don't understand his back is so 3d and when from the front and his legs is watery oh you know his legs his legs are holding the water to me yeah the lines just lines weren't there i mean again let's back down but i think it's unfair that so many people in the comments were hating on derek it's not his fault first of all no no he judges decide him as a winner we're talking about the judge you're talking about judge not the athlete you know so you think judges are completely wrong yeah definitely i don't know what happened this year i really don't know what happened is are you sure you're not being biased i mean if you look at the internet 90 percent 90 percent of people say how you should be win i mean not just the fan you know if derek received any death threats of course more death threats it comes with its place it just comes with the place it comes normal you're talking about the middle east man as long as as long as hard he's competing in the olympia he will always get death threats but speaking of iran the worst the worst thing i saw is that like sorry to interrupt i if you guys look at the comments in the olympia pages man it's like it's like it's like it's like iran against usa it's bad yes that's what it is man i don't know let's talk about berus uh to bonnie now that was his well he he made it to us finally you were always boasting about him the whole year you're saying if he makes it to olympia he's gonna do some damage right so he came he came in what place seventh right uh i think eighth eighth place yeah i think eighth place which is his debut yeah but i represent what happened to beru was exactly a day before pre-judging he had he had the tooth infection and it's very bad painful and he's he's forcing to using the antibiotic for the for this yeah yeah and his body is starts to hold water hold water yeah that's exactly what happened to to him and i was spoken to him i spoke to to his coach obviously milos milos was milos was his coach milos yeah milos is his coach milos predicted he's gonna win milos is cautious from the beginning actually from when he was amateur actually and uh he was good but i think for first to be for first mr olympia it's never bad for the first time on the bat but hardy's first time was third yeah it was different yeah he's done a lot of things you know that's completely different from everybody yeah that's out of the norm you know well you know you have to you have to think in like that beru's think this year exactly happened for the last three years he couldn't come to mr olympia so he was 50 50 until a one week before show do you know how they allowed him to come like what what who did what so one of the lawyer in california actually she's helping him a lot he's talking to two senators from the california one senator is in washington dc he's an athlete the proof is an athlete the mr olympia actually helping to give him the letter to he's the athlete we need him what about the do you think uh because of the whole escalation of the whole and one more thing i'm sorry one more thing that uh the panada equipment yeah actually is helping a lot because he had been sponsoring his mr olympia and he's a athlete on panada too okay so are you surprised the government of iran allowing them to go to america given the whole the whole tension you know i mean that yeah i i think for the first time you're coming and then you leave the country as a time you don't have any problem you don't have a problem for second or third time so well keep the sports and politics separated i agree always got to keep the games right you know it's nothing to do with one another i know people like to intertwine both of them and uh i think that was great that a lot of people within the industry came together like you said the olympia everybody to bring him here so congratulations on your placing and i know you're gonna keep doing great you know but lippery said if hardy wasn't iranian he should be winning if you want to say it out loud he won already though before yeah yeah he won it before already so vick what do you think about nick walker because that was probably a lot of people are very disappointed his placing he got six plays right he was going for the win bob chagrila's probably happy right uh i i think the energy he spent on bob was what sucked him up a little bit you think so really no no no come on not at all he's wanted to say that his physique changed his physique really changed who's nick's nick's nick has to come in big he got big though he got really big no no he has to come in big yeah he has to come in like a new york pro no when he tries to streamline and come in too hard he loses that freaking mutant well i think he looked better than new york pro when we saw him yeah i agree but i mean i think he's more aesthetically pleasing i guess in that regard his body is not the aesthetic type his body is huge yeah i heard somebody made a comment recently they said the way his body is built he's never going to be mr olympia not me saying that i mean i heard somebody say because his legs are shorter i don't think he become mr olympia ever but he can't think so no damn man it's kind of harsh no dashing dreams no he has a lot of time don't get wrong i mean you have to see what's what's the judge picking look look at the mr olympia right now his waist is this much you know nick walker waist is not that small and every you think i'm gonna get my weight back every time every time nick's coming back to the stage his his waist get thicker and thicker and thicker and obviously his shoulder her legs goes thicker too but if he's working on more swipe on the legs more quad and more shoulder side to become this side and this side is bigger he can showing the small waist i think he has a training problem problem yeah he's trained training problem yes training problem that's how he saw he's working out is a problem i think so yeah definitely changes training methods yes yes he need to change he need to change training program yeah yeah i mean the method he's working out again i see i see nick uh most recently is always at the uh you know new york pro i always see him and the way he commands that stage again it's not the olympia stage it is a smaller stage but he just goes in there and he just takes over he conquers it yeah so when you see him there that's kind of like what you want to see at the olympia but the olympia is a whole different freaking space and uh these guys just come in and then they come out of the woodwork and you have the these taller guys which i saw they separated you know the tall guys uh from the uh speaking of speaking of tall and short right lee haney came out of the i guess he started talking about the olympia and he said that uh they should they should separate the classes shorter guys and taller guys because he said it's impossible to judge derrick and hottie versus andrew jack but then how you separate beru's i don't know so i guess the fans they they they a lot of them disappointed because they want to see a taller guy maybe win or something like that i don't know but what do you think about what lee haney said you agree disagree i mean he's going back to when arnold and franco colombo used to compete yeah that was oh that was uh yeah heavy heavy class and yeah yeah he's going back to that and that does make sense because how do you judge somebody they bring two one two they bring two one two but all two one two comes to the open category look exactly that dreg like dreg he was the mr olympia two or two and hardy was two one two and right now number one and number two in the open class it's the previous two one two champion yeah i mean he's got it's rough man but you have these uh new time we look at the martin martin is not tall too he beat he beat samson last week hormone replacement therapy HRT TRT testosterone replacement therapy they all kind of go into the same bucket of hormones men and females they all have the same exact hormones for males they need more testosterone than females and for females we need a little bit more estrogen than males basically what that means is if you get your blood work done your testosterone is low we try to get it to an optimal level we walk into where our medical assistants would be they're contacting patients all throughout the day making sure patients are feeling good looking good and performing their best making sure they're hitting their goals making sure they're tolerating the medication properly and everything is going well patient care and patient service is number one to us and if you have any questions concerns issues then we're taking care of them too as well a TRT company or titan medical what they do is they they make people healthy and they get people to really live the dream of life it's one of those things i always say do you want to live a long life or a quality of life and that's what titan medical does first of all what do you think was samson getting to third place at the third place or fourth place third fourth no fourth fourth reject got there fourth i saw him at the pre-judging way better at the pre-judging yeah i guess i didn't judge the saturday night were you shocked to see him go down yeah i mean i was expecting more again he's you know mr olympia prior and uh you kind of expect him kind of to follow because you got to knock out the mr olympia it hurts but when it comes in and the uh he doesn't bring in that condition and uh also he was flat he was the lighting again so lighting not the best lighting i think i think he was flat he got flat by saturday two two two days ago he posted something he said i should be 300 on stage so obviously they say i wasn't 300 he was 280 something on the so is that the most underwhelming performance by a former mr olympia ever i think big ramy went to fifth place big yeah yeah yeah slowly so big ramy was number fifth okay big ramy from first to fifth the following yeah that's that's a pretty big drop but i mean yeah i mean was it fourth and fifth yeah so those are two big drops i mean i think i think i haven't seen that in many years at the olympia where they fall off that fast they're still young they can still come back and do that you know because like even even prior to that for like eight years seven or eight ten even 15 years probably you had phil consecutively kai against kai then you had of course you had um jay ronnie for many years isn't that chance to come back though derrick came back i mean from a third place but he becomes back the same way he did you know this year there's no way he's gonna win it next year right no no no not like that not with that look wow you know i don't think so so i mean mr olympia it's very close very very close i mean all of them are champions don't and if one person get one mistake at the last day of the day of the show i mean all the game is changed and sometimes four or five people comes top of you look berus take just one antibiotic for his his tooth and everyone say oh he's crazy phil hit saw him that night before show and he said he's he look crazy and if he come to top three i'm not get surprised but on the stage game is changing victor knows everything it matters every hour every minute until you step on stage and mr olympia is a two show the first and second the first night it's like a conditioning show and second it's the size show basically if i'm right yeah the size always and remember he's got the uh visa last minute yes and beru is good so the stress of waiting for the visa not being sure so he was hanging by a limb just to get that visa yeah that's true so he had a lot of you know a lot i just like the fact that he kept his spirits up his hopes up and he made it he showed up he represented got top 10 not too bad but my point is if samsung get fourth place it's not just because he get bad or the other person was good it's one mistake yeah one one one changing well you mentioned mistakes so a couple of weeks after olympia uh samson decided to i guess he's looking for redemption so he goes to prog pro and he competes against martin fitzwater and he loses to martin fitzwater yeah he beat martin at the olympia yeah what do you think about what that move of rushing into another competition very close show very close close i mean my opinion i would have just had him skip it you know after placing at the olympia i don't know i don't know what they offer him i don't know i mean he figures you know what it's so close what was it not no it was like three weeks after right two weeks two or three weeks two weeks yeah yeah so it's one of those things that like like he says samson likes to compete why not you know but now not saying he lost to a mediocre bodybuilder martin looks good he's good he looks good another one of the best martin beat uh he beat chris bonstead last year too yeah yeah martin comes in freaking i mean at the olympia yeah he in place where he should have put a place a little bit better but you know one mistake again it will take you out of that you know top three but uh martin is uh he's a great bodybuilder at the prog i think samson should be win i saw i saw full live stream uh for prog i thought samson should be especially on the final i thought he was gonna get it too at the final samson was fire on the stage i don't know i mean i think i didn't see the scroll ship but i'm pretty sure they changing the place with one or two points not not that big but uh samson i think samson come back to the show because he lost a big show he he need to winning test you know when the champion will lose the show he need to come back to get that winning test to standing a man just one and only man on the stage as a winning to can be continue of the journey for next year or next show basically so he jumping on this prog show to get that taste right away unfortunately he get it so that's hurts it's back to back it's like a two bullet shot on the head it's a lot man they're traveling too i mean yes the prog i mean but again this is uh i like the way it was stacked a lot it was a stack yes you know yes bodybuilding show where prog they really got them in i mean it's the highest i think the most competitors yes and everyone was good everyone was good yeah yeah so man until next year so the next topic our last topic is actually a patreon special so we get censored on youtube so for you guys that want to check out the full episode please subscribe to uh generation i'm patreon so there you go guys don't do pds on watches on patreon and youtube that's right guys and thank you for joining us on this week's generation i podcast and remember follow us like and join us wherever you stream your podcast until next time and remember we on patreon as well we