 sndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndndnd Where'd you go there now? Absolutely man, why not? You know, it's okay. Ice already had me, man. They can't get me twice. Look at all that ice everywhere. Crazy, right? Chunks of ice, man. These things, they don't know how to, they forgot how to plow. That's how long it's been a while. Since we had an actual snowstorm. Totally forgot how to plow. All right. Welcome to this week's Generation Iron Podcast. Your host, me, Victor Martinez, along with Edwin Mejia, and Vlad Yudin. What's up, man? Welcome. How's your week going so far, man? It's going good, man. I got no complaints, you know. We did the first seminar of the year at Beth Francis Gym. How was it? It's always good, man. Always good to be there at the Mecca. Is it an annual seminar? Is that what it is? Annual seminar. It starts off with Jay Cutler. Yep. Mr. Olympia opening it up. And, man, have you been to the gym lately? I haven't been to the Sayasi lately. It is. It's expanded. Last year, yeah. So a lot of. Yeah. They expanded the gym? They expanded the gym. Wow. And they have the official leg room. It's just insane. I mean, the size of the leg room is bigger than most gyms in New York City. Wow. Well, you know, I just got reminded that Steve was a big power lifter, back in the day. So I could see him dedicating a lot to Doug's. And obviously to the power lifting. Every corner of Beth Francis is a power lifting room. What's going on with Jake Paul, man? Jake Paul, man. I don't know what the hell is going on with Jake Paul, man. I mean, allegedly, his Twitter got hacked and spoke some nonsense about Puerto Rico, calling them, what is it? He called Bad Bunny. Fake American. Yeah. Who says that about Americans? Yeah. That was pretty messed up. Fallacy. Look, I don't know, Jake. Yeah. Do you believe it was hacked? Do you believe that his Twitter was hacked? I don't know if it was hacked. I don't know any of that. To tell you the truth, I don't even know what's going on anymore, man. Because everything seems fake. Everything is so divisive. Divisive. It's just, you know, what you see is not right. It's wrong. What you're hearing is wrong. It's not right. I don't know, man. But at the end of the day, I think he has to walk, you know, walk back on that. I mean, I think he really messed up, regardless if it was a joke and he was trying to get limelight for his new fights or whatever the case is. But when you live in Puerto Rico and you talk like that, you deserve to get your jaw broken again. You cannot live in Puerto Rico. Yeah, again. Again. But you cannot live in Puerto Rico. I mean, you know, guys ever, you know, you ever seen those Puerto Ricans in the Bronx? You know, they're freaking nuts. But in Puerto Rico, where they actually come from, they're even crazier. So Jake, take that back. At the end of the day, Puerto Ricans. It would be nice if he ended up in La Pela one day, just hanging out, walking in one of those neighborhoods, see what would happen to him. I doubt he'll do that, though. Yeah. That would be like a safari in Puerto Rico. In La Pela. Come on, man. Jake, I know he's going to take that back and you cannot live there and talk that freaking nonsense. So we've got two questions of the day today, submitted by the loyal listeners. But first, Vic, you got called out by a listener. Not that called out, but he had a comment about what you said. So in last episode, previous episode, we talked about night pissing. The guy asked you a question, how to eliminate it. You said that the PEDs don't really cause night pissing. And then the guy, his name is Brilliance Autospa. Interesting name. He said, Masteron increases urination at night. How does Vic not know that? Do you know what he's talking about? I know. And again, it varies. You know, PEDs, different kind of steroids, testosterone, they all vary from person to person. Does it cause, you know, night urination? I mean, maybe. It didn't happen to me. Obviously, it's happening to him. But I don't think the guy disclosed exactly what he was taking, right? He never did. He just said. He never did. No, he didn't. He said he's on juice. He said he was on juice. He didn't specify Masteron. I think I would remember that because Masteron does make you go to the bathroom, but he just said juice. So that being said, testosterone, you know, anything else, primo bowling, anything like that, or what have you, whatever from the list. I know he did not mention, you know, Masteron. And again, from person to person, it does make it, you know, where your prostate gets enlarged. And either make you piss or make you not piss. So again, one or the other. It's going to vary from person to person. And that goes with everything else, you know, from gyno to pimples, acne, anything. So again, did I know that it causes urination at night? Yes, but that wasn't a specific question to that particular drug. What's Masteron for anyway? Masteron tightening, and again, dries you out really good. Pre-contest, if most people that usually are getting any injury, torn bicep, torn pec, I usually, you know, Masteron is usually the cause. Yeah. You know, because it dries out the muscle just a little bit more. All right. Well, that was the response. Guys, we have two questions of the day today brought to us by Transparent Labs, our sponsor. We thank them, of course. So, Eddie, you want to take those questions for Vic? Yeah, so we want to thank our sponsor again, Transparent Labs, for being with us and, you know, supporting the podcast. You guys should try them out. Why? Because they have some of the best ingredients, products in the market, no funny stuff, 100% grass-fed beef protein. They have 100% grass-fed collagen as well. They also have a line of products that include stem-free pre-workouts and the best product that we love here that we enjoy everybody, Vic. It's the Magnesium PM. Unbelievable. You will start having amazing dreams and highly recommend that product. So, Generation Iron, check it out. Generation Iron Code and make sure you guys get your discount there too. the next question comes to us, the new question that is, comes to us from Francois Calvo, 2891. That's a funny question. So, the question is, does Victor like red pandas? Like red panda? Like extinct red pandas? I don't know if it's a code for something. I thought maybe you knew. I thought it would be a code. I was trying to see what is red panda. It's like a new thing going on right now. Is that like a new outfit? I don't know. But if it's red panda, the extinct, almost extinct red pandas, I mean, do I like them from a distance? Of course. I'm not going to approach it for a selfie and get my eyes scratched out. No way. Are you sure it's not something specific? Like some sort of code word for something else? I don't know, man. Is that a new lingo for different kind of tests? Is that a new test name? Is that a new brand? Red panda pharmaceutical? I don't know. I'm not too sure. Because again, red pandas, who doesn't know red pandas? I mean, they're all the way Southeast Asia. I'm doing like an AI search. What does it stand for? It doesn't come off from it. It says for strength, resilience, ability to navigate, doesn't make any sense. They're talking about the actual animal. I mean, again, you know, we just kind of took it for face value. Red panda. We'll get back to you on that question. If we find out that there's something else specific that we'd like to answer, Vic will answer that question. Coldwood red panda, pharmaceutical. people are going to get absolutely jacked. No, just looking for clean protein. Clean. You need to take your muscles to the max. Whoa there, Turbo. Do you even know what's in that stuff? Oh, yeah. See, most protein powders are filled with artificial sweeteners, food dyes, and filler. Really? I wouldn't put that stuff in my body. Neither would I. Transparent Labs is made with just a handful of all-natural ingredients without any of the weird stuff. Every scoop delivers 28 grams of protein sourced from grass-fed cows raised without any hormones or antibiotics. And you can choose from 14 delicious flavors. Is that mint chocolate chip? Give me that! Transparent Labs. Protein without the weird stuff. Let's go to the real question. This question was confusing. Let's go to the real one. So the real question of the day comes to us from Daniel Ventura 2538. Alright, Vic, I kind of know the answer to this, but I'll let you answer this. Would you consider 35 years old to start juicing? And what about stretch marks after fat loss? Will this fade and loose skin? Can it tighten up? I mean, I would have to say 35 is better than 21 if you're going to start juicing, you know, because too many kids are juicing way too early without actually training and creating their foundation, you know, so 35 is not that bad, but especially more so if your testosterone levels are low, you're having, you know, rectile issues, you're not motivated, your hormone imbalance, again, did you check your blood? We always go to that. We always wind up going right back to that, you know, are you checking your blood work? Did it come back as low testosterone? You check your GH levels? I mean, there's a whole lot of factors, so I'm not going to say dive in, go at it, because everybody's different. I've seen some 35-year-olds with testosterone levels of a 21-year-old, so. Like a heart. Yeah, so it varies from person to person, but 35 is better than being super young, and again, I hope you did blood work first before you jumped in and started having, you know, a syringe party there. Like, yeah, I'm free now. And then stretch marks, will they go away? Stretch marks, eventually in time, will they go away? No, they will not. They will fade slightly, because obviously the muscle, again, you're replacing instead of the fat cells, but totally, no. Stretch marks are just part of, you know, everyday growing up, they do happen. It's, you know, I know women always have some weird lotions and all this stuff, and again, it fades slightly, but they never go away. So just embrace them, man. If anything, just tan, you know, just best way to avoid them or just kind of mask them, but, no, they do not go away completely, 100%. So again, it's not a medical advice, and maybe he should not juice at all, if, you know, maybe he'll Yeah, you always go back to that, you know, if you're feeling good, you're building enough muscle, you're athletic, you're playing sports, avoid the juicing, man. After a while, it becomes a whole crazy spiral, man. Yeah, yeah. Then it goes one drug, then another drug, then another one. Mastron. Yeah. Then you can't piss at night. Mastron, I'm pissing all night. All right, guys, please submit your questions in the comments below, or email us at info at generation r.com, and hopefully Victor will provide that. I'm still going to look forward to that red panda thing. I don't know what that is. Red panda, code word, red panda. Maybe sneakers, no? I don't know, maybe that's a red panda, you heard of that? I've never heard of it. Right. You know what, could it be? Could it be Jordan? Actually, I did hear about that, yes. Is there what it is? There are panda sneakers. I don't know which ones, but I think it sounds like it could be a sneaker name, right? Yes, looking for the sneakers, because it sounds familiar. Could be the sneakers, red panda kicks, but I don't know. Some Jordans, not all Jordans are created equal, you know, so. Looks like it's a Nike shit. Oh. Nike Dunker Lowe. We'll talk about the animal. Okay. I don't know how new or old it is, though. It looks like it's from years ago. Yeah, they are. They are. They're red panda sneakers. Yeah. Yep. Dunks. Okay, are you a fan of these? We're going to put up a, we're going to put up a. No, I've actually never been. I'm an Air Force One, and again, they look like Air Force One red panda. Well, at least we know what he's talking about. No, it's a dunk. It's a good thing we addressed it, because. Yeah, I know. So red pandas, now we know, New York. No, I mean, they're cool, they're funky, but I always wind up going back. When there's no Jordans, always fall back on Air Force One. The dunks made a comeback last year, a big comeback for some reason. Air Force One is always the classic, man. They always wind up going back, and it never gets old, regardless how long they've been out. Well, now we know. Red pandas, they're okay. Again, not the animal, but the sneaker. Hey, what are we after that? What are we talking about? So, this is a topic that's circulated a few times in the last couple years. In fact, we've actually covered this at Generation Iron, and the topic has a lot to do with masturbating. So, one of the things that came up in a recent article that we covered here at Generation Iron is, does masturbating before working out give a strength boost? So, do you have any evidence of that, Vic? Have you masturbated before working out? I mean, actually, masturbate before working out? No, but sex before working out? Yes. Did it help you? Not at all. I mean, actually, I actually did it once before power lifting meet. Oh, my God. And I think I had an eight to ten pound loss on my bench just because of that. It's just, I mean, I don't know about performance. It varies from person to person, but definitely, as I listed on my, I commented on that post, I think I said, you know, if you think you're going to be strong, whatever you do, just don't do it before leg day, you know, because you're going to have weak legs. But it varies person to person. If you're the kind of person that feels relaxed, I recommend you not doing it because you're going to need your strength, your aggression, and the power and the weight room. Some people like doing it because I feel like, you know, they just processing sex too much. So by unloading one before you get to the gym, you're focused on the workout instead of the, you know, the wedgie pants and the camel toes in the gym. You know, they're all over the place. You can't avoid them. They're there. So if you're going into the gym fully loaded, your focus is off, you know, unless you're wearing blinders, you know, which you're not. And the distraction is going to happen. So I think unloading so you can focus, understandable. Unloading to train hard. I don't think so. Yeah, makes sense. Good point. Makes sense. Makes a lot of sense to me. So the next topic that we have comes to us. I mean, obviously, you know, something that we've been covering here at Generation Iron is, obviously, everybody knows Coach Milos. Yes. We've covered him here at Generation Iron. Vlad has interviewed him several times. Yeah. And he recently shared, I believe, bodybuilder Tabani. But who's Tabani? Yeah. So he did Olympia for the first time ever last year. And he provided an update about five months after the Olympia debut. I think he finished 11th at the Olympia. He easily could have placed higher. He got sick of something, right? Like before. Yeah. I mean, the long travel when you're coming from the Middle East. That's one of the things. Shout out to Hassan, who mentioned him a couple times to us. Hassan's a big fan of his. He came in 11th. However, I don't know if you've seen a physique. What do you think his chances are coming back stronger and looking better and looking like he can be a threat? I mean, I can't count him out. He's one of these guys coming in, you know, prepared right off the Olympia. He's only going to place higher. It's one of the things. And now, also, you know, you have 12 athletes at the Arnold compared to the Olympia. So, he's definitely going to come in higher. I see him being compared to the likes of Akeem Williams, the other Fole. What is it? Fole. It's in there. Hassan. Oh, okay. Yeah, I see him being compared to him. These guys are coming in huge. But remember, Hadi is coming. So, that's going to be a very, very tough Arnold classic. So, today, I want to give a personal story here at Generation Iron. Here, you know, as you know, we've been working on many different films over the years. And very early on, during the inception of Generation Iron, we spent many late days, nights, working on set, making sure our films were completed and producing these films. And we quickly realized that even with the proper meals, diets, nutrition, you know, the end of the day has always resulted in plunging energy levels. And the first thing you tend to look into is going to the web and go down to Ribohol to figure out what you can do to improve your energy levels. And the first thing the doctor mentions is testosterone. You know, check your testosterone levels. TRT often comes up. And you often go and you get the blood work done and sometimes, you know, you don't get the right solutions. Today I'm here to tell you that we have personally tried and tested Marsmen, which has become one of the best viable natural testosterone solutions in the market. Instead of TRT, which can often run you sometimes over $3,000 a year for a cycle, one of the things that we always tend to look for is a natural solution. One of the things that came up was Marsmen testosterone support. Really five capsules with all the ingredients you can imagine in those five capsules. It's a GMP facility here in the U.S., tested, proven, and they've been proven to be a huge support to our energy levels here at Generation Iron. Going into the new year, we always look for new natural ways to keep our energy levels high, to keep our vitality high, and more importantly, to support and aid our workout regimens, and just our daily routines. Marsmen gives you the same benefits of optimized testosterone, energy, strength, focus, without shutting your body down. For a limited time, our listeners get 50% off for life plus free shipping and three free gifts at mensgotomars.com. It's a perfect way to kick off the new year strong. That's mensgotomars.com for 50% off and three free gifts when you check out. After you purchase, they will ask you where you heard about them. Please support our show and tell them that Generation Iron sent you. We should talk about Arnold Classic. You have two Iranians competing at the Arnold Classic. Yes, two Iranians. Did you see somebody started a petition, sorry to interrupt you, a petition to get Hadi out of the Arnold Classic because they say he supports the government of Iran and the whole... That's not going to happen. I mean, at the end of the day, I think with the way U.S. politics are right now, it doesn't matter if you support Maduro and Venezuela and I don't know, Ortega and Nicaragua and Vladimir Putin in Russia, you're still going to compete. Keep it separated. Just keep it separated because at the end of the day, when I look at an athlete and whatever he believes in political, you usually don't want to intertwine both of them. Now, I know what they're trying to say because he's being quiet about not... He spoke hard about it actually. Okay. And I believe he spoke out at the Olympia. He was about women's rights in Iran. I remember he mentioned that at the Olympia. So to say let's cancel Hadi before the Arnold, I think is wrong. I think there's a love-hate is a thin line when it involves a regime that's actually killing thousands of people. So I understand what they're trying to say, but I have to go on Hadi's side. As a fellow bodybuilder, and again, you can't just love him today and not tomorrow. He hasn't really spoken in support of the government. Him staying silent does not mean he's in cahoots. And I mentioned this before in conversation. He has a family. He has a family and his number one support and protect is his family. And I would assume that if he had issues leaving the country, I mean, that would stem from the government and not allowing him to leave. He is supporting Iran as the nation. And when people usually have a problem with governments, they have to realize and know that the people in government are not the same. You got to remember that. Just because you're visiting a country, you're visiting the country. You're visiting the people that are there. And you have to follow government rules because, again, they're the ones that are allowing you in. But keep them separated because Hadi right now, he's in a tough position because I know he wants to speak against the government, but he also has to remember first and foremost to protect his family, man. You guys are being too brutal, man. You know what? And again, it's mentioned stand up, say something, but you're saying it from Dubai, you're saying it from U.S., you're saying it from a nice warm place in Florida. You guys are safe, but if Hadi speaks up, you don't know what's going to happen. You don't know what's going to happen. He might lose his chance to travel. Do you have an extraction team to take him out of the country? No, most likely no. So just chill with that and again, wait for him to do the Arnold, get him when he's full of carbs, not when he's preparing for the biggest show of his life after the Olympia. So just chill with him, guys. I understand what you're saying. I know they did kill a lot of bodybuilders. They killed a lot of people, men, women, and children, and it's just crazy. I think if they really wanted to make a move, they should arm themselves underground network of people that can actually fight back. But right now, it's a sensitive topic, but attacking hottie off the bat without getting full information is crazy. Let's talk about the Arnold in general. We were looking at some people that have been competing, some big names, right? We have Nick Walker looking for redemption. We have Andrew Jack, obviously Hottie, Chupon, Akeem Williams coming back, a few other big names, but what do you think realistically? It's going to be a stack class. I mean, username, one of my top fours going up there. And right now, I think with the lineup, it's going to be very close, but Hottie is and could have gotten the Mr. Olympia last year. You got to remember the Mr. Olympia. You know, Derek didn't look up to par. Derek, if anything, was I don't care what pictures, whether you were there, whether you were not, what picture angle, anything. It wasn't, I didn't see any pictures at a good light other than his back shots, you know, and going into this Arnold, I know Derek is not there, but Hottie going in, he's the one to beat, but then moving up is Andrew Jack. You know, he's been moving up on the ranks and the Olympia, so right there alone, I would have to say those are my top two. We're doing predictions. Top two right there? So Nick Walker is out of your top? No, no, Nick Walker can sneak in again, but Nick Walker, as I always keep saying, I'm not going to, you know, double down on what I say. Fitchwater's a big name too. He has to come in huge. He can't try to come in peeled and try to come in with the shape of Martin Fitchwater. It's just, he can't do that. It's Martin, again, he's shape dominant. He's got the mass, you know, the mutant, but these guys are, again, you name me in my top five, top six, you know, Fitchwater. If Nick Walker is not going to win this Arnold Classic, right? If he doesn't come, let's say he's not in the top three, what does that mean for the Olympia? You think he lost his opportunity? I mean, not yet because he's still young. He can still turn it around. Again, his condition is superior when he comes in dialed in, so you can't really count him out. And again, this is one of these competitions where you can look good a month out if you don't nail it the weekend of the show. That's your chance of bypassing a lot of the guys that are ahead of you. So, again, top six, you have Andrew, you have my dark horse is foe. How about for Classic? What are your expectations with Sam Sulik? He looks amazing four weeks out. Sam Sulik, he's huge. We just posted him on Generation Iron, I mean, not before, progress photos, and the Arnold Classic is really pushing his promotion heavily to get people in. Yes, they are pushing him, but I do have a favorite, and it's Mike. Mike just looks good, man. Summerfield. Mike Summerfield, he's actually my favorite, not just in his physique, but the way he flows, like he brings the actual classic look, not just the look, but also the posing. It's like a complete package. I have a question. Since Sam Sulik is not a big fan, if Sam Sulik comes top three at his debut at the Arnold, top three, would you respect him as a bodybuilder, as a real bodybuilder? I mean, it's not like I don't respect him, he just started out like yesterday, you know? As a bodybuilder, would you respect him as a bodybuilder? Listen, you know what, at the end of the day, I'm not saying he's going to lose, but there are guys that have been paying their dues there already for the past few years. You know, if he beats them, more power to him, but it's not going to be a walk in the park, you know? So if he tops three, would you respect him? There is no loss of respect. He's doing his thing, man. But I just do have favorites and in bodybuilding it's just one of those things that if you beat somebody off the gate on your first show, it's like you only do respect, you know? I mean, for you to hate somebody, now if he beats these guys based on followers, if they do the social media shuffle and they put you up there just because you have a lot of followers, then that would be just crazy, you know? But if he does it fair and square, just by pictures, I don't care what the judges say or what the judges put someone, if the pictures don't lie, man, pictures don't lie, video don't lie, and people there, what they see, they're not going to lie, man. So as long as if he does it, you know, where he deserves, and he gets those plays and he beats a lot of the guys that have been up there for a while, more power to him and well deserved. And you know what? I'll praise him, man. I'll do something crazy, man. I can't say I'll shave my hair. I got no hair. Well, you know what? I'll give him the props. That's it. All right. Next we have, so we have a Patreon special, guys. For those who are not subscribed to Patreon, please switch, subscribe right now, switch over it. This is where we cover all of the, I would say extra controversial questions, right? Extra topics that are controversial. Taboo topics. Taboo. Censored topics. Exactly. Something that we can't talk about on YouTube freely, and of course you can stream all the films there as well. So we have a Patreon special today, right? And this is something that wrapped up. Until next time, guys, thank you for watching this week's Generation 9 podcast. Remember, follow us, like, comment, and if you want to see any prior podcasts, please tune in to iHeartRadio, Apple Podcasts, or wherever you tune in for podcasts. Hormone replacement therapy, HRT, TRT, testosterone replacement therapy, they all kind of go into the same bucket of hormones. Men and females, they all have the same exact hormones. For males, they need more testosterone than females. And for females, we need a little bit more estrogen than males. Basically what that means is if you get your blood work done, your testosterone's low, we try to get it to an optimal level. We walk into where our medical assistants would be. They're contacting patients all throughout the day, making sure patients are feeling good, looking good, and performing their best, making sure they're hitting their goals, making sure they're tolerating the medication properly, and everything is going well. Patient care and patient service is number one to us. And if they have any questions, concerns, issues, then we're taking care of them too as well. A TRT company or Titan Medical, what they do is they make people healthy, and they get people to really live the dream of life. It's one of those things I always say, do you want to live a long life or a quality of life? and that's what Titan Medical does.