 Hello and welcome to this week's Generation 9 podcast. And that's your host, me, Victor Martinez, me, Victor Martinez, along with Ed Sanfaragi, Vlad Yudin, and Edward Mejia. Welcome back. Again, thank you to Transparent Labs for hosting the show, sponsoring the show, supporting Generation 9. Remember guys, go to Transparent Lab website, follow, like, register, you will get a protein starter kit. Again, one of the best protein grass-fed, that is, no fillers, no binders, nothing artificial. Go in, use Generation Iron code, and get a 10% discount, and you're gonna get that starter kit, shaker cup, a blend of different flavors of your favorite protein. Check it out. Thank you, Transparent. Today we have a question of the day, and it's very detailed. I guess sometimes you ask people to be as detailed as possible, so this guy really was detailed. Yeah, so I'm gonna try to see if I can summarize this. How detailed is this? Best I can. I mean, look at this. It's about eight to nine paragraphs. Look at this. Eight to nine sentences here. So, Corey Helms, 2099. I'm 34 years old. I work for a lumber company 16 hours, five days a week, 12 hours on a Saturday, and I love to exercise. And when I go to the gym, I do a set of 10 on every machine, and I just amp up the weight. I do incline presses for my legs, 400 pounds. I do three sets of 10 and 400 pounds for my squats at three sets of 10. I do a set of 10 on 14 different machines, and then I run the treadmill for about 30 minutes at 12 miles per hour, 12.6 miles per hour. I just started back. It's been about four weeks now. I do an hour for about 30 minutes, and every night when I get off from work, I have some still at my job that I work out with three years ago when I was going hard. I used to do it at least 800 pounds of my squats, three sets of 10. My heart is five foot five. I weigh 190 pounds. The only thing I use is creatine, and I use some pre-workouts ahead of time at least an hour or so that I will be amped up. What would you recommend I supplement my diet with, and what would you recommend be the best workout routine that I also have fairly large calf muscles? I really love bodybuilding as well as I enjoy boxing, and I was thinking about using some peptides from a doctor that I am at at the age where I'm at now, and I can now, what would you recommend for me to be, or gain, sorry, more size and mass? My muscles no longer get sore. I used to weigh 215 pounds for about 10 years. I was also wondering, am I too old to try and get my pro card? Sorry, this is so long. I was just asking a question, really. Really? It's what I truly enjoy, and I love to do after every workout. I look in the mirror and smile. Well, it was a pretty long question with- Bro, it wasn't that question. There was a book. No, no, no. That was a lot of run on. It has to be detailed. So, to be detailed. First of all, you know, big up. I mean, you're doing more in a freaking day than most people do in like a freaking month. Freaking nuts. No, you work for a lumber company. I want to ask you, do you wear lumber shirts, or is that just- Okay, no. That's- I don't know. I've seen people wearing lumber outfits that don't cut no lumber. With a hat. But that's insane, man. I mean, the lifts you have are impressive. That alone should bring up your gains. I will not, you know, I mean, I have to go back because this was not one single question. Again, you're going with the details. You're doing 400, you're 5'5", you know, your weight is good, and you're not old. You're only 34, man. Like right now, this is your prime. So, I would say stick to the 400 or 315. Rep that out. I think we just spoke in the last episode, Tom Platt's best legs. Let's focus on those reps. Again, you're going to actually have some longevity left. You know, save those joints. I'd rather do higher volume, you know, more hypertrophy with, you know, and just build those freaking legs with higher reps, you know, not so little like the 10 you were doing with 400. Let's stick to 315. Keep it at 15, 20 reps, you know. And if you're really feeling, you know, tough, let's go for that 30, 40 reps like Tom Platt's did. But also. 30, 40 reps. Wow. I mean, again, you are going to build your quads even better while also preserving your joints. So, that's very important. Now, you have the creatine. Let's add some EAs. What is it? E? EAs. EAs. EAs. Some glutamine for your recovery. You're sore. Try at least 3000 milligrams on the vitamin C for your recovery as well. So, it could avoid, you know, some of that soreness. But cold plunge. I mean, massages. That will help. I'm not sure how comfortable your lumberjacks will feel getting massages. But he didn't mention how much he eats. Yeah. He didn't mention your food, but definitely structure your food. Just keep it simple. Keep it simple as simple can be. And again, just have chicken breast at least 10, if you are hungry, 8 to 10 ounces, you know, per meal with a carb. You know, you have your potatoes. You have your rice. Whatever it is you like to eat as far as carbs. I will also recommend adding a carbohydrate drink after your workout. You know, very important. Again, no detail on your diet. I'm just giving you the simple diet, you know, in the morning. You can go away of having your 10 eggs, you know, five holes, five whites, a cup of oatmeal with some fruits in there. Again, two meals of chicken, one meal steak, one meal fish, if you are eating that much. But again, obviously, I can structure a little bit better, but I'm just giving you a quick spinoff on this diet. Now, you're 155-190. Let's change up. I don't know how many times a week you're doing this routine. You're doing every machine. Let's just focus now on at least doing maybe three to four machines, you know, or exercises for legs. You know, three for, let's say, bicep. Three for tricep. You know, shoulders. Do one for each head, you know, anterior, side, rear, with presses being one of them. Let's simplify. Let's not do too much, especially with this, you know, work schedule you're having. You know, I don't know if this is part-time or full-time. You said 16 hours, five days a week. Looks like part-time, but you do have 12 hours on the weekend. Let's maximize, you know, on your longer days. I recommend not going to the gym on your long work days, especially on a 12-hour day. Use that, you know, 12-hour days to work and then just kind of recover and get yourself some rest, man. But very impressive. You used to do 800 pounds on a squat. You know, again, that's cool. If you were doing two reps, yeah, don't bother. Stick, again, to a good amount of weight that you can actually play around with and really get those skin and actually muscle-tearing reps, you know. Keep them at high reps, low as 12, as much as 20. What else? I don't know. I mean, use the box. I could only imagine you're super slow right now because putting on muscle is only going to slow you down. Keep boxing, though, is a great form of cardiovascular. I recommend that to a lot of my clients as opposed to just sitting in the treadmill, just walking, you know, sitting on the bike, just pedaling. I always emphasize boxing because it keeps, you know, keeps you young, keeps you healthy, and at the same time active. It's a good form of cardio, better than aerobics. As far as peptides, I would have to say CJC is good. Ipamorelin, if I said it right. Did I say it right? I don't know. I'll be chopping everybody's name off. You know, Ipamorelin. And I don't know. What else? What else? Ipamorelin, CJC. And for your joints, TB-500 because you are moving a lot of weight, you know, and BPC-157, just covering your joints, covering growth. And I think you should be on your road to gaining some more muscle mass. And good luck if you want to be a pro. I say tighten up that diet a little bit more. Again, I just gave you something quick. And good luck on your journey. But get that old thought out of your head. Stay focused. And I hope this, you know, Transparent Lab supplements will help you get you kick-started and get you going, man. But definitely send us pictures. I think people, if they want a little breakdown, I think pictures will be even better because we can actually see where you're focusing too much and you don't need to. And one of them, from what you said here, you said you have huge calves, you know, do calves, you know, once a week. You don't need to do them much. But I think... Good point. Send us pictures, guys. We can really assess, right? Yeah. I think we covered everything. I mean... Maybe he should do the Legends show this year. I think your answer is long enough, too. Yeah. It's long enough. No, no. He's saying he's doing 12.5 miles per hour. What is it? 30 minutes? 12 miles per hour? Bro, it's too fast. Yeah. It's a cheetah. So slow it down because you want to maximize on your growth while keeping your blood circulation good. How many seconds he run 12 miles per hour? It says 30 minutes. No way. Yeah, it doesn't compute. I didn't even think about that. No, it's impossible. Yeah, it doesn't compute. But definitely the boxing is good. If you are... I think if you are running like this and you are... Isn't that a Wilson bullet? Yeah. I know. That's the Wilson bullet record in the Olympics. Yeah. But he said he's doing 10 to 14 different machines. Then he runs on the treadmill. So you're kind of going the right way on your strength to build muscle, but you're negating it with the running. So that's why you're kind of at a standstill. So don't run. Do a whole lot less. If you can run, I'm jealous. I want to run too, but... I run too every day, but bro, max seven. Max, I mean, I'm 6'2". Yeah. I can't do more than seven. No, I mean, you have a lot of energy. The only thing I could gather is you're not getting much ass, bro, because you're using it all here, you know? It's like, damn, bro. That is impressive. But if you are, main question was to put on size, simmer down on the speed, you know? Let's keep it just cardio, circulation, cardio, and watch your growth. Just your body will turn around just in a couple of weeks. All right. Great answer, bro. Great answer. All right, guys. Please submit your questions in the comments below, and maybe don't make it that long. I don't know. Maybe send some pictures. Send pictures, though. That way you get a full scope of how you look and kind of tell you, okay, you're wasting your time doing so much where it's just you got to make it make sense, you know, so you can put on some muscle. Send a question. Don't send a letter. If you want to send a letter, just DM Victor. I don't mind it, you know? But if, you know, you send me something that long, you know, you got to pay, bro. You broke the whole plan for me. Yeah. You need to take your muscles to the max. Whoa there, Turbo. Do you even know what's in that stuff? Oh, yeah. See, most protein powders are filled with artificial sweeteners, food dyes, and filler. Really? I don't want to put that stuff in my body. Neither would I. Transparent Labs is made with just a handful of all-natural ingredients without any of the weird stuff. Transparent Labs. Protein. Without the weird stuff. All right. This is an interesting development happened a couple of weeks ago, right? Arnold Schwarzenegger made a statement that he said that majority of the supplements, pre-workout supplements on the market, have inaccurate labeling. Yeah, I believe that. I agree. And then Goob, on his show, he basically said that he made research about gummy bears, creatine gummy bears. Yeah. Never believed that. Ever. And some of them didn't even have creatine in it to begin with. And some had also an accurate labeling. But what do you guys think about? How do they get away with something? You know, there's just not enough in the creatine gummies. You got to remember, you know, usually when you need about, what, five grams? Yeah. You know. Per serving. Yeah. Per serving. If you see a gummy, I mean, it's not going to taste that good if it's going to be all of it loaded. Loaded. You know what's the problem? The problem is that we have three different creatines. Creatines from China, creatines from Germany, and creatines from America. So all three is a different quality and different mesh. Which is the best. Here comes the German one. Of course. The German was the best. Of course. Because they have 400 meshes. And America is at 200. The Chinese say is to have 200 and 400. But the Chinese, when you get it and test it, is not 400. It's always less than 300. And 200 is 100 something. The problem is the supplement company, they're not buying the expensive one or the good one. Right. They go to the China or the factory. They're not telling the supplement guy, the owner of the supplement. Yeah. They say, okay, we put the creatine. Which creatine do you put it in? The China one, America one, or the German one? As all three is three totally different creatines. So this is a problem. This is a problem. Mostly creatine right now in the market. Especially the creatine mix, which is combination with some of them, like a pre-workout. They don't have quality. We don't have quality creatine. That's why the Europe supplement, specifically the creatine one, everyone that takes it, they loves it. Perfect. So you can imagine, they're doing that with creatine. So when people buy this cheap juice, it goes to show. Exactly. If it says 200, most likely chance you're not doing 200. There's 100. So what about pre-workout then? Arnold Schwarzenegger said pre-workout. So based off the pre-workout is the creatine. Creatine is the base on the pre-workout. So basically the majority of that supplement is creatine. If that creatine is not enough or quality is low, they'll not answer you. They'll not result. So what you're telling me right now is that the creatine is the issue amongst all these labels. Definitely. The problem is- It's too expensive. The cost went up with creatine. The more consumption- I think the Chinese one right now is 3.20 cents per pound. The German is almost $6. And America is $4. It's a big difference. When you're going to a huge amount, it's a lot. There's not enough meat you can take to have enough creatine either. Yeah. But it's all about the meshes. We have 200 meshes and 400 meshes. Well, I mean, doesn't the FDA control what's in these ingredients? They can test those products and see what's- They have to test. They should. I mean, they should because that's basically false labeling. But you know what I'm thinking right now? With those tariffs in China with 104% in China, right now the Chinese creatine is more expensive than the American- Because of the tariffs. No, the tariffs. Yeah. But it's EU tariffs too. I mean, right now we don't know. I mean, it's less than 104%. China is 104%. It's a lot. Yeah. I don't know. I don't know how long it's going to last. Tariffs. Yeah. I don't know. But I think China is- But anything comes from China, they don't have equality. Everyone knows. I know. Everyone knows. Specifically the food-wise or supplement thing. I'm not getting involved. No tariff. Nothing, man. It's just one of those things at the end of the day. But I understand. Shouldn't it be a governing- Like FDA should be testing this thing? So FDA is not involved with supplement. FDA- So who's involved with supplements? Not nothing. Nobody. Nobody's in control. FDA just involved with the factory, with manufacturing. FDA check the manufacturer to doing everything right. But they are not actual testing the supplement. None of the supplement- So who's in control? Who can control this industry there? We don't have anything. I don't understand. I don't know. You can put anything in a bottle and- You can. Basically, you can do that. But anything on your label- So the best thing you can find is sort of a good certified lab. And test all your stuff there. Yes. When you buy it. I mean, your supplement goes to test before your label approves. Your label has to be approved. So they come in random, take a one. They see what you label on it and then check it. What's in it. But they are not testing as a quality-wise. They check ingredients is matched with the label. Yeah, but Arnold is saying that the actual labeling is inaccurate. Yeah. So whatever it says on the label, it's not what's actually- So when they put the five-gram creatine inside, they put the five-gram creatine. But creatine is not just that quality. I can agree, though. They bring it down. Because it's happened where I bought a product. You know, you're talking about, you know, early 2000s. I will buy a product. It will be amazing. I will buy it for two, three months. And the fourth month is like, crap. Like, what's going on? And usually, I think they want to, you know, it's basically that switch bait. Where they get you in the beginning. And they cut costs. So now they're making money basically out of nothing. Yeah, it's very important to the manufacturer where they buy actual product. The protein, the whey protein, the concentrate. Where they come from. The creatine, where they come from. And all these dose has a base. So base of these proteins, amino acid. Each amino acid has to be proof where they come from. So if they come from the third world country, they don't have quality. He's right. But most companies start with the good quality to get the people, to get the clients. You get it and say, oh, this is very good. And then you tell me, you tell him, he tell our clients. The company grow up. They go for maximum profit and then change the... It's kind of like something like you've been to a restaurant and it's really good for the first couple of months. And then you go back like a year later and it's like... It's happening. But usually I get on it because I'm very particular when it goes to food. You're going to always know the switch up. Exactly. Like it happened in Fort Lee. Imagine you go to a bar and then you order the dairy martini. And then they give you the vodka and the dairy martini. It's like Noches. It's still dairy martini, but it don't have quality. You know, they don't have a good taste. Well, it's like Noches. I go to Noches restaurant, you know, a Colombian spot. Yeah. It's always good to eat there. And they make the weakest freaking drink. So now I'm like subjected to bring my own freaking flask and just do the little... Add a little bit. I have to do it. I don't want to do it. You just want to enjoy it. I have to, man. That's so funny, bro. A little flask. No, I'm like, I feel like one of these old freaking guys. You should put the pipe. Pipe is put here. I know. Yeah. Yeah, I know. But I like the good... They got the good mango drink. So you get the mango drink, which is only like five bucks. And you're just throwing the nice little tequila in there. And you're good because I don't know, man. You buy a beer. It's $8. You get two beers, $16. I just bought a case for $16. It's like, why am I going to buy two beers when I can just get a whole, you know, $6. That's a good idea, Vic. I should probably... Don't teach those new stuff to the kids, man. Nah, don't drink at all. I mean, I don't drink that much. But I'm saying, if you're going to... Once in a blue, you're going to have a drink. It's like, come on. Give me a strong drink, man. Yeah, I mean, that's the problem. It's like, you don't want to be going into a restaurant with like a little bottle or something. But you have to sometimes. I know, man. It's bad, you know. Restaurants up here are tough up here for a lot of restaurants. It's like you're going to Mission Star Restaurant. They bring your food. Right. I play them this much. But it does happen. They cut corners. That's why I keep going to the same pizzeria time and time again. I don't like these corporate pizzerias. I don't like any of them. And don't ever freaking... If I see you ever offer me a Domino's or Pizza Hut, I will freaking punch in your left kidney, bro. But... All right. What do you guys think about Hani Rambat making comments on his podcast? He's basically saying we need another men's division on something we have. Nah. Which is going to be kind of similar to what women did for the women. Bikini. There's bikini and there's a fit model. Fit model, yeah. He's saying it should be something similar for men, which is basically... Nah. Too many, man. What do you mean similar for men? Like another... We already have physique. Another category. We already have physique, man. Basically, men's physique got too big, right? Yeah, they are. So, if you want a smaller version. Nah. Come on. I mean, it's like, you know, they're going to end up with like 50 million divisions. Do you know the IFBB of Santokha in all of the America? They have a two category for physique. Don't they have a suit one? Physique? No, no. Physique and muscular. It's a two category. The muscular is a big... Men's physique and men's muscular physique? Yeah, men's muscular physique. So, men's muscular is a bigger than the physique. It's like the one that's here. Exactly. So, basically, it's going to be the same thing. That's exactly what Honey Rumble said. Yeah, yeah, yeah. We have it out of America. I mean, another category. What's going to be the top prize of the Olympia? $1,000? You know? It's like just another category and another freaking two hours. Freaking sitting down. The point is he's saying that how the division started and what it progressed to, now they need to kind of... Yeah, we don't want to watch incertitude. And watch the Olympia for five hours. I mean... No, right. Oh, it's more than five hours. That's not fun. I mean, it's just too long. What they're doing is making it easy. You know? You have these new machines now that are made. They suck because they want somebody who barely lives, feels like they're curling 100 pounds on the whatever freaking machine. So they're making it easy now to compete just because... What is it? DEI for competition, you know? Make you feel included. DEI. Right? DEI. No. Make it hard. They're not doing this in baseball. They're not doing this in football. You still got to play the freaking game. But they've added the women's fit model division. I don't think this sport needs more categories. More categories. Yeah. What this sport needs is more freaking help from the people who are bringing out these categories. Give more to the athlete. Again, more categories, giving less to the athletes. You know? And that's all that's happening, you know? I mean, what is this? This sport, to me, if you ask me, this sport needs more report. More news report. More, more, more. There's a lot more you can do and stuff. We don't have enough. Any news report for this sport is private in Instagram, YouTuber, you know? We don't have an official person. They should just make a social media category and that's it. So that way everybody that has social media just go here. That's exactly what they should do. Maybe. Just compete online, basically. Yeah. Compete online. That's it. With the picture. Social media category. Just compete online from your house. Get a pro card, too. Yeah. Maybe you'll do something here, Vic. I mean, another category of I barely work out. You know? I'm like. I barely work out. I barely work out. But they want to give out. Listen. How do I get ready? Just don't do much. I think. I think. Do as little as possible. They want to give out those pro cards. They want to give out thousands of pro cards a year. And it's okay. Yeah. I don't know. That's business. They should start putting pro cards in cereal boxes, you know? That way. Cracker Jack. Come back with your pro cards, Cracker Jack. Pro cards. They start giving them away. Why we don't have a for normal person? Category for normal person. Yeah. The most normal category. You know who the most muscular? Do the most normal. Most normal. The most normal. Muscular, most normal. No. All the serial killers were winning. all right so nobody here i guess wants to see a new division i guess no no another division come we have a lot last thing i want to ask you guys today at this this episode i kind of raise a question for everybody right and goob has been basically airing people out on his social media even pro bodybuilders photoshopping their pictures look as a pro do you think it's ever okay for pro bodybuilder to photoshop an image for social media posts or even in a magazine it's false advertisement man what we going back to vogue in the 90s or the airbrushing you know it's like wow you know look at this it's it's just wrong because i don't know you want to look good in the picture it's fine i mean whatever i mean a lot of women fell for it you know they wanted to look like vogue until they realized they had to be anorexic and all that and then that kind of went out the window now you got the bbls which is fine you know guys like juicy and girls like putting in their body it's like whatever you know it's cool but when it comes to competing for one of those it's like this shouldn't be awarded and i don't know you you want to start looking at people in social media you think they look great until you meet them and then they're not i don't think that it's professional you know when you say athlete pro photoshop is not professional but photoshop is so cheap you know you know he you know he caught right he caught ryan terry ryan terry was it yeah ryan terry uh men's olympia who exposed him that's odd huh huh wonder if that's supposed to be crooked roz from today my ass you know i think i think if you're an olympia competitor or ivb you should not be photoshopping your photos now i also think that where this comes into play and it's very controversial is when you're coaching you're trying and you're showing transformation videos or transformation photos and you're photoshopping those photos that's a major issue and i agree with gu because you're basically creating in many ways like visual fraud well imagine you you're photoshopping it you post it up you're lying about it now whatever people want you to compete you show up and that's what like yo yeah that's why they should have their social media category whoever freaking photoshopped their picture better i mean to me when the athletes say i'm a pro everything for that person has to be pro the acting has to be pro the eating has to be pro has to be sleeping manners the manners everything yeah so when you're doing photoshop is not there's nothing pro about it no it's not professional it's amateur it's yeah it's behind my mother but to raise a question now when they put magazine covers back in the day on flex and md didn't they photoshop those images no man all my flex pictures were real man i mean i would have kind of maybe just like a touch-up no i think i think some of us would have been like yo chill like what is going on yeah yeah i mean even though i asked you know make my arms a little bit bigger you know more than this one chris lon bigger than this come on no no i told chris lon make my head smaller to your body get bigger yeah yeah make my head smaller bro but you know the photo shoot is all about angle you you know that if you if you find a nice angle you can you're into photoshop and per bernard did it right he did him right i mean great pictures official always came out like you looked so you're gonna start doing the photoshop it's just you're gonna be a big disappointment man i mean what is this a picture for your you know dating profile you know using a high school picture and you show up looking all ragged decrepit i don't know i mean maybe maybe you're looking better you know post the old picture with no hair looking all bummy and then come back out with your you know new fronts and the turkish in the turkish hair plugs you know eyebrow no that'll be a good upgrade you know it's like oh my you look better than your picture great you gotta win there but looking worse than your picture that's pretty bad yeah yeah yeah all right guys thank you for joining us in this week's podcast remember if you want to see any of our prior podcast episodes follow us like and comment you know and stay in the mix you know please any more questions stay in the mix let us know we'll be glad to answer them and uh thank you transparent labs and until next time guys peace you