 ckid, That's the guy that was second last year. That's the controversial second. He says he should've won. That's Victor Martinez. Jay knew people. Jay, you know, knew a lot of people. Could he have made a deal? Could he have made a deal? Could he have made a deal? So do you know, maybe- Listen, I don't know if he did, man. I don't know if he did, but if he did, and he knows he did, then it's on Jay, man. All right, let's go. Hello and welcome to this week's Jay Nation Iron Podcast. Your hosts, me, Victor Martinez, along with Edwin Mejia and Vlad Yudin. Thank you, Transparent Labs, for the support and for sponsorship. That's right. We're back in Manhattan for another exciting episode, right, Vic? Back in Manhattan. Back at HQ here in New York City. And we've got another set of questions, comments, controversy, and more importantly, suggestions from our readers today. And I know, Vlad, I know you wanted to take this comment, so maybe you can start off here with the exciting comment of the day. Yeah, for sure. Thank you to our listeners. So we were talking about HDH injections on one of the episodes, and LWPH2CL, these are some creative facts they got going on. He's hiding, man. LWPH2CL. He was saying that we now have real evidence that HDH injections can, A, give you cancer, B, aggressively accelerate any cancer cells that you have in your system, so not worth messing with it. Yes. Have you heard this before? And what do you think? I have heard this before. They do accelerate cancer cells. Again, it's growth hormone. It's, you know, it's one of those things that, you know, make you better or make you worse. The first time, I think, and it was going around. It wasn't proven. But the first time, and the reason I bring this up, because he was such a great bodybuilder, and a big fan of his, I still am. It was Dennis Newman. This guy was looking like Superman on juice, like crazy. What era is he? Dennis Newman, man. He's 90s. 90s, okay. 90s. I was competing, but obviously was not at his level yet. Did he die? No, no. He's still alive. Thank God. I know we're going. I remember because he was, could have been great, man. This guy's physique was just crazy. I mean, the driest, best shape up there. And again, looking like Superman. He was doing the USA, kicked ass, won the USA. And we were just kind of like waiting. Remember, that time was before social media. We were kind of waiting to hear from him, waiting to hear what's he going to do next in the pro ranks. I believe we were waiting for him to do the, what that time was the Ironman, you know. And boom, the news came out. He was diagnosed with leukemia. And that's when, you know, Steve was doing articles on him. And I think most magazines were doing articles. What could it have been? Could it have been the GH? Could it have been, you know, people throwing in the juice, just throwing it just because. But I think he came out and, you know, reported he won't be competing. And it was the saddest news because, but that's when we got first win about the link of, you know, growth hormone and cancer. Obviously, it wasn't Lyle Zato. Lyle Zato was doing it because, you know, he got paid. It was something else. Lyle Zato was something else. They were throwing the juice propaganda of, you know, get you sick and all that. But it was Dennis Newman. And it was sad because, obviously, he started competing. Thank goodness, you know, he's still alive. And like I said. I think he survived it. He survived it. You know, leukemia probably because they caught it in the first form. But, obviously, that was the beginning of the end of his bodybuilding. Should the bodybuilding be scared of using HGH? If you do have, you know, again, my mother did die of cancer, you know. And my approach to it was, you know what, if I die, I die. It's just, you know, I was just crazy like that. That's crazy. But I wasn't thinking of it. You know, my thing was, let me just stay mindful of it. Let me not abuse it. Let me just do it when, obviously, I have a show. So, if I didn't have a show, I was not just doing GH just for the hell of it. There was no off-season GH, nothing of the sort. I did compete. I used it. So, you're talking about, you know, one cycle a year. And it wasn't bad. So, you know, still here, still alive. And so, a lot of people were concerned. I think if you do have the gene and you are susceptible of getting, you know, cancer, I would recommend, you know, stay away from it. And why risk it? Why find out? To stay away specifically from HGH, you're saying? Yeah, like why freaking, you know. So, the listener is right, then. And what he's saying is correct. I'm not going to say he's wrong, you know. It's not a medical device, but it's just an opinion. Yeah, it's just these are all opinions, but why find out? Why take the chance, you know? And again, he specifically said GH. And that's where it's been, you know, known to kind of enhance or progress, you know. All right, guys. Well, we welcome your comments, please. And also, of course, today we have a question of the day brought to us by Transparent Labs. That's an interesting question, of course. And I'm sure you're going to love this one, Vic. Uh-oh. Yeah, so thank you guys for submitting your questions. Continue to submit your questions for Vic to answer them. And more importantly, you get your chance of picking a Transparent Labs product every time you get selected. And also get a chance to become a member at Patreon. Watch all of our movies, all of our shows, the films that you see on Prime, Netflix, Hulu, Apple TV. All available on Patreon. You need to take your muscles to the max. Whoa there, Turbo. Do you even know what's in that stuff? Oh, yeah. See, most protein powders are filled with artificial sweeteners, food dyes, and filler. Really? I wouldn't put that stuff in my body. Neither would I. Transparent Labs is made with just a handful of all-natural ingredients without any of the weird stuff. Transparent Labs. Protein without the weird stuff. So the question comes to us from Rogue209917. Vic, you said on the pod with Kai that you are not mad at Jay for stealing your 07 Olympia title because the judges made that decision. But why? Don't you think they made that deal and he took it? He knew about it and took that deal. Conspiracy. Great question. I love him. Conspiracy. I like Rogue 20. Did Jay make a deal? Jay, come on, man. How much did you pay, man? Could I have paid it first? Was I offered that deal? No, of course I wasn't. Looks like you were left out of that deal. I was always left out. You got to remember when I entered. I was never really, you know, I love bodybuilding. I went to bodybuilding. I did bodybuilding shows. But I was only at bodybuilding shows when I competed in them. I was never, you know, I never went to shows because I couldn't afford it. Nobody ever took me to a show. The way I got introduced to it was by actually doing shows. You know, in the high school, my friend Eddie Carroll, rest in peace, you know, came in with Caprice and they did a show in my high school, 1993. And I just entered it by shaving. I wasn't even a member at the gym. I just said, man, a bodybuilding show was coming to my high school. Yeah. I'm doing it. This is just from push-ups and pull-ups. Wow. And that's how much love I have for bodybuilding. So I was never, I felt like I was never really in the club. I never played the politics. I never played the ass kissing. I never did any of that. So I would compete, go home, do my three jobs, and go about my life. So now I'm going into the Nationals. And this is from doing, you know, the Metropolitan, the Suburban, and all the other shows that Steve was hosting. And I would see Steve, who was basically like the mean gene, you know, of bodybuilding because he was so intense. And I would just, you know, stay on my lane, shut the fuck up, and just waited to be called for anything. I've never, I saw him. And then I think he invited Dorian Yates as one of the guest posers. And obviously, I'm going to get a picture by Dorian Yates. Excuse me, sir. Here, sign the picture. And just did what I had to do. When the show was over, my life went back to whatever I was doing, which is going to Johnny Lats and just working again as a doorman and anything else. So Jay knew people. Jay, you know, knew a lot of people. Could he have made a deal? Could he have made a deal? So do you know, maybe? I don't know if he did, man. I don't know if he did. But if he did and he knows he did, then it's on Jay, man. Guess what? I was just doing my thing, training hard, busting my ass, you know, in and out of the gym. I went in on oblivion. You know, I didn't know crap of anything. You know, if anybody in bodybuilding would say that I knew anything. No. If anything, I'm the one that would help at shows. I'm the one. I would guest pose for motherfuckers as a favor and that would never, ever return the favor back, you know. So if anybody did more favors than me, it's like, come on, man. It was me. So it's just that's it. That's it. I competed, competed straight as an arrow. And if I was doxxed because of what I did in the past, then it's whatever. But I did everything with the integrity of a bodybuilder and the love of the sport. Here's another question that might come from, you know, Rogue Tony. I mean, would you ever, can we ever, I guess, picture Kai, not Kai, well, Kai versus, let's go Kai versus Phil and Jay versus Victor on stage. Maybe at the Masters, maybe in the future. People would want to see that, right? Yeah. I know. After this surgery, you can count me out of any Masters, anything, man. I'm hanging by a limo. Okay. Okay. Yeah, it would have been nice. That was early 2025 conversations. But right now I'm like half a back here. We heard a rumor that, you know, there was a proposal out there for Phil and Kai to go at it on stage. That would be great. But I heard somebody turned it down. I'm not going to name names. That should be like a side bet. A side bet with no title, no organization. Yeah. It should just be like a side bet. Actually, that's what was proposed. And apparently the fans wanted it. People wanted it. Let's put this together. Either Rock or what is it? Jake? Jake, come on. You are, Jake. Let's tag him on this. They were people involved with the- You want to promote this, man? This will be a good one, man. Yeah. People involved with the Federation. I think it would be amazing because it would bring everybody together. On Netflix. Yeah. It would bring everybody. Man, it would be beautiful. It would bring everybody together. It would bring all the athletes together. The bodybuilders. You'd have Jay. You'd have everybody promoting it and marketing and hyping it up. And everybody would watch it. There would be some big money on this. You know? If only Phil's followers and Kai's followers, there'd still be great money on this. But I think everybody would watch this. The whole world would. Here's what I don't want to see happen. I don't want these guys later. I'm not going to say names, but I don't want maybe Phil or Kai. I think maybe Phil later or others might regret not doing it. I say right now he's doing it. Look, Mike Tyson came out of the woodwork. You know? And he just gave us a mediocre showing. But Mike Tyson. Man, that was terrible. Man, that was terrible. Yeah. It was pretty bad. But, you know, he made some good money. And I think this is about entertainment. So I think both guys coming back out of the woodwork, this will be pure entertainment. It would be great if he saw them box, too. Nothing like a fight. Bodybuilding in a fight. Like NDO. NDO when he was boxing. Remember that? Different conditioning. But it'll work. Entertainment sells. We've got a lot of crazy topics to cover. So, guys, please submit your questions in the comments below. And then hopefully Victor will answer some of those questions. Ed, what do we have today? So, you know, one of the things that comes up, too, is, you know, 50 Cent has been in the news for quite some time. He's obviously released the Diddy Doc on Netflix, which I'm sure you've seen it. I've seen it. I think it's great. Did you like it? I mean, nothing I like. It's just, you know, that's always been. You know, it's just. I mean, did I have to see it? No. I mean, stories circulate. You already see. Especially that whole thing that happened. I think one of the things that brought me back to the 90s was that whole stampede. When he did the, you know, the City College event, you know, that was like down the street from me. I remember it. But, I mean, you saw he just wasn't a good person. I mean, when, you know, Biggie died and he treated his mother. I mean, there's a lot of things that you didn't have to see a documentary to kind of know what kind of person he was. I mean, I thought it was a well-done documentary. I mean, as filmmakers, that was. Solidified even more. Yeah. That was a very well-done doc. Shout out to him. And, obviously, 50 also likes to train. And shout out to him. So, let's say, you know, one thing that comes up here on the podcast is that the news came out that, you know, apparently 50 Cent alleges that Campbell Soup used 3D printed chicken. I guess 50. I think it was Campbell Soup's own CEO was trashing them. Yeah. So, 50 came out and he said that. And the company actually replied to 50 Cent recently saying on a post on TikTok, I think, that saying that they use real chicken and invited 50 to come to their family. And he said, you know, he's a good guy. He's a good guy. He's a good guy. He's a good guy. And, just for context, 3D printed chicken or steak or whatever is a lab-grown cell-based, you know, meat produced by layering edible bio links made from animal cells, plant proteins, fats, and nutrients. With 3D printers, basically, what happens is they can mimic the texture and the structure and a taste of a conventional chicken. I got kidney pains just hearing that shit, bro. Right. Let's see. So, it's cloned meat, basically. Cloned chicken meat. Again, you can throw this on 50, but remember, before 50 even started bringing this up, one of their own main, you know, executive. I don't know if he was the CEO himself, but it was an executive that started trashing Campbell Soup as, like, not even, you know, poor people eat this. And I admit, we didn't grow up privileged. Everybody ate Campbell Soup at some point. No, no, no, no, no. We had, I had the options of eating Campbell Soup, and I refused to eat it. I was on strike. I'm like, Mom, I'm not eating that crap. Even as a kid, you wouldn't. Even as a kid, when I eat it, guess what I was? You knew it was bulls**t. Listen, it was so bad that I said, you know what? Before I eat that Campbell Soup, I opened up the Spam. I remember putting the little key in it. That's better? And rolling it out. I'd much rather have Spam. Really? You don't think that's cloned? It was junk. It had a lot of calories. But it got me so swollen. You can feel the... A little sodium, right? So swollen, my cheeks would be all puffed up. I think it had like a thousand grams of sodium or something. Yeah, for a serving probably. But I would eat enough just to be able to sleep through the night. And that's until I started doing the whole banana and milk before bed. No, I don't want Campbell Soup. I never did. I never will. My question is the cloned chicken, cloned meat, is the future of any fast food? No, no, no. If I don't see a bone in it, I'm not going to eat it. You know? That's why I still eat that malecone rotisserie. You know? That's official. You know, they inject that with saline or like sodium water or whatever to make it bigger. Not malecone. No? Not malecone. Nah, man. They injecting anything is Crisco oil. Not malecone, man. They're too official, right? Come on, man. Yeah, yeah. They're very official. Food is amazing. Yeah, yeah. You can still get a whole chicken. $20. It's good, man. So, Mick, what do you think? You're going to refuse to get any Campbell's products? I was never a Campbell guy. I didn't like the commercials. I didn't like anything about them. I think they used to have the Alphabet one. Alphabet Soup. The Alphabet. Was it them too, right? Probably. They can put them on the controller. Nah. Nah. I know my alphabets. I don't need to eat a soup to remember it. I didn't want to touch anything Campbell. That freaking red and white label. I know it looked. Trying to make it all fashionable. I was never into it. Never into it. I remember. Andy Burrell painted them. I think the most used we had for a Campbell's Soup was to play kick the can. And even then, it's like, nah, I didn't want to use that. Let me use a Goya can better. You know? That's not bad. Yeah. I did do a lot of Goya products before I started finding out about them too. It's like, man, all this shit we grew up with, man, we got shafted, man. We got shafted. And, you know, lo and behold, all the cancer shit that's going on around, man. It's all these food companies, man. All these food companies. It's just trash, man. I mean, Goya was the shit. Now I'm like, I don't even want to hear about Goya, man. Yeah. It's not made from scratch. I don't want it. Don't want it. Don't eat it. In a can, no good. But, you know, spam is a delicatessen in Hawaii, right? Yeah, they fry it for breakfast. Fry it for breakfast. They have it in restaurants. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I've seen it. It's official, bro. Yep, yep. So, yeah, spam is better than Campbell's Soup all day. That should have been a thing, spam or Campbell. Big one. Let's go to the next one. That next story is pretty crazy. Yeah, so we all know Brian Johnson, the longevity guy who's obviously big into the whole blueprint world of health and wellness. He's a billionaire, right? A billionaire. I mean, I'm not sure yet, but I do know that he has, he's close to it if he's not already, but he has a lot of investors, you know, like Logan Paul, these other big, big venture capital firms. He now is saying, and he links penis health. He links penis health to overall health and longevity, particularly obsessed with the ways his penis might help him live forever. The data Johnson collects on his Johnson includes ejaculate volume, sperm count mobility, and nighttime erection quality, which he then compares with his teenage son. His regimen to keep his penis in tip-top shape includes shockwave therapy and Botox injections. We'll put a link here for people to see where we're sourcing this from so you can see. This is the guy that wants to look 30, I think, in the 30s forever. He wants to be kind of like that look forever. Yeah, so he competes against his son for penis to help. Being a billionaire is not enough. This is crazy. You're a billionaire. This is the shit that goes on. You're a billionaire here, and most of your focus is really, you know, your penis, whatever you want to call it. I don't know. It's crazy. I know a lot of guys are just, you know, they're born, you know, gifted, you know, we good. We good with the girls. I don't think last time I was single, I swear I was like 19 years old. I don't even remember. But I don't think. But the billionaires always, you know, spend their time, wants to make their money. It's like this is the main focus, you know. It's like you don't have something, you overcompensate. You make billions, you make money, and you try to go that route. Botox on your penis is crazy, man. It's nuts. Wow. That's like, I don't know what's going on. I remember, but it's crazy. Even because I know a lot of guys, you know, who, you know, freaking, they have it, you know, great. I'm big, so I'm King Kong. And I think I was at a shoot once in L.A. I was at a porn shoot. You went to a porn shoot? Again, it was, L.A. is different, man. L.A. is different. If I tell guys, you know, you have a nice, beautiful wife, everything, don't go to L.A., man. Everybody's going to prowl on your woman. They're going to take your chick over there. Wait, so what happened? You went to the, you know, I went to the, you know, it's a thing. They go, that was the after party. It happened to be in a shoot, in a porn shoot. Wow. We used that hanging out, people doing L.A., you know, and there's, there's, there's, I'm going to say it without naming names, obviously, but guys walking around, the underwear, I guess they're waiting to be called. Then we're just hanging out. I'm just, like, minding my business. Obviously, I don't need to see a shoot. I'm good, you know. You know, smoking the L.A. trees, I'm good, too, you know. And the guy's walking around, his underwear, you know, showing off. But you could tell, even though he's the porn star and he's in a porn shoot, he's still insecure, you know. He's insecure because he's got a big slum, but he's small. He looks like a boy, boy body, you know. Walking around here, you know. So, comes around once, you know, and it's L.A. There's, of course, there's this Coke on the table. Well, of course. You know, it's L.A. And shit, you know. And he comes around, does it. He goes, yeah, I'm getting ready. I'm getting ready. And so. Fellas, you already know what time it is. It's time to level up. Blue Chew Gold is the newest innovation from the number one chewable ED brand. This ain't your grandpa's little blue pill. This is the four-in-one beast that's setting the gold standard. We're talking two ingredients for blood flow and to keep that rocket pumping. Mixed with apomorphine and oxytocin to turn up arousal and connection in your brain and body. Blue Chew Gold dissolves under your tongue and works in as little as 15 minutes. That means you can get in the game quicker and stay in the game longer. And we've got a special deal for our listeners. Get up to 10% off your first month of Blue Chew with code Generation Iron. Again, that's code Generation Iron. Visit bluechew.com for more details and for safety information. And we thank Blue Chew for sponsoring our podcast today. And what happened to him? Oh my God. Yeah, what happened to it? It was just great watching it, bro, because he was incapacitated. It was fun, man. But guys, be happy what you have. I think some guys trying to break the smallest penis in the world record. That's bad. I think he's less than an inch. That's pretty bad, guys. It could be worse. So whatever you do, if you make your millions, just enjoy yourself. Satisfy your girl, your wife, whatever. There's so many ways to do it. There's a lot of skills. You can adapt and learn. But I don't know. I mean, this guy's basically proving his manhood on a spreadsheet. Yeah. So I appreciate that. And I know a lot of viewers do as well. And so shout out to Mr. Brian Johnson. We've actually spoken to him in the past via DMs. Yeah, he's a very smart guy. But I just don't understand where it says here. There's one thing I don't understand about this thing here. It says he compares his nighttime erection with his sons. I don't get that. What does that mean exactly? Hey, wake up. Let me see. So what he's saying is that he measures how often. He has some sort of measuring device that shows when he gets a boner at night. Wow. And that is associated with male vitality and health. So essentially, when you get nighttime boners. No, no. Yeah, it's like one of those things that you wake up. And in morning wood. Yeah, yeah. That's a good thing. It's a good thing. Always a good thing. Always. But I want to know where his wife is in all this, man. I don't even think he's married. No. I mean, he's a billionaire. I don't think he needs to be married. But it's just. I mean, I've never seen his wife or anybody. I don't know. I also read he doesn't drink alcohol anymore. Yeah, he definitely doesn't drink alcohol. Everything that's bad, he doesn't do. Yeah, yeah. Which is, again, as I always say, and I'll keep saying it. Like, if you are rich and you are out of shape or unhealthy, it's all on you, man. Right, right. There's no reason you should be. You didn't say that before, yeah. In shape or healthy if you're rich. Obviously, cancer, you have no control over it. You know, everything else. But you should be taking care of yourself, man. There's no excuse for you to be obese and rich. Nuts. Let's talk about this Diamond Gym situation. So Diamond Gym in New Jersey. Maplewood, New Jersey. You've been there many times, right? I mean. You're becoming their destination. It's become a viral, viral. I mean, this year alone, I mean, you've had people like Larry Wheels. We've been there with Kyle Landy, which is obviously well-known on bodybuilder with Down Syndrome. You've seen other guys there recently as well. Ashton Hall, which obviously we all know because he's gone viral with the water routine in the morning. The water. Last time I saw him, he was a guy beating running by this kid Speed or something. I show Speed. Yeah. That's the last time I saw him. I didn't see him anymore. So Vic, can you detail for us that what is the Diamond Gym workout? And have you seen Ashton Hall's workout at Diamond Gym? I didn't see his workout, but I can tell you, I can assume I know because Diamond Gym is nostalgia. Remember, I believe John Kemper owned it. And now, you know. Dwayne owns it. Yeah, Dwayne owns it. He's a judge. And no other better person could have owned it other than him because he kept going with it. He didn't change it. He didn't go modern. He didn't upgrade it. You know, same equipment, old feel. And why is it big? You know, this is without seeing Ashton Hall's video. It's because you're going to really, you know, well, all this social media is going on, all these fancy gyms and all these. You don't get that anymore. You don't get the hardcore feel, you know, in your face. You know, you can do it pushing. You don't get that anywhere else. You know, what do you have now? You have shitty gyms like Planet Fitness. You know, you have, you know, bougie gyms, you know, like Equinox. You know, it's like if you scream, everybody's disturbed now because of whatever you do. So you don't get that dimension. So the guy that runs these workouts, his name is Unc. We met him, actually. He's a huge firefighter. Yeah, Unc. Yeah, of course. You met him. He's huge. He's huge. He's a firefighter. And he's like a drill. He's like a drill surgeon from the army. Best man to do it, man. He makes you run up and down the hill outside. Yeah. He does it right. And again, I mean, what is a gym if it's not, you know, going, chain your freaking ass off? You know, but if you scream at a gym now, it's like people get offended. They scream there. They scream. You know. They scream. No, no. I mean, these other gyms, you know. Other ones, yeah. Yeah, we were recording. I was recording there. He was trying to make me run and stuff. And I'm like, wait a second. Yeah. Let me get out of this. Let me get out of this section. You get caught up. You get sucked in by the power of training. You know, it's like, come on. Don't just stand around. Let's go push, push, push. The way they were doing it was 100 triceps, 100 biceps. And then I think like 50 push-ups. Yeah. I mean. Like in a cycle. Yeah. If I go in, I don't know what we're going to push. I think last time I was promoting my Legends event, I rolled up with about four people in there. We got into it and we were just going at it. And it's great. I think everybody should go, experience it, try it. And you're going to really realize how soft you're training yourself once you train there. But I like how there's a gym in the middle of like Maplewood, New Jersey. Yeah. There's like a small, kind of like a, it's close to Newark actually. And this now is the destination to go viral. Twist and turn to get there. A lot of twists and turns, yeah. You got to really get there. But once you're there, it's like, okay, you know what? Really take your time to enjoy your workout. Really train yourself. You know how come Jones has become like famous? Like that gym is now, it's always been famous, I guess. But now 2025, 2026 is going to be the gym to go to. It's crazy. Yes. And that's, it's in New Jersey, man. Come on. New Jersey is coming back on the map, man. All right. Now, next we have a final, we have a Patreon special. Ed, you want to take us to that one? This is a Patreon. So guys, if you're not a Patreon, please go to Patreon, subscribe to Generation Iron. You can unlock all the full episodes and all the films can be streamed there as well. Yeah. So the Patreon special question of the day and or common is really a subject on panic. You usually start feeling it when your heart rate starts getting elevated. Were you at Olympia when Paul Dillette collapsed on stage? No, no. I just read it in the magazine. Did you know what it was? Yeah. No, at that time, I didn't even go to the Olympia. I remember Paul Dillette used to do a cramp stretch, you know. But no, I wasn't there. I did read it on Flex. They had it on there where he collapsed. You said he almost died. Yeah. Yeah. That's what I read. And, you know, thank goodness that ain't happened. But it could happen. It could happen. So just always, you know, be mindful of how you feel and just relate it. They do have medical staff backstage and just tell them, you know, don't hold it in. Don't think you're going to beat it because if it's happening, especially, you know, just check your heart rate, man. Check your pulse. That's it. Usually, that's where it starts. All right. Well, that was our Patreon special topic of the day, guys. Please subscribe to our Patreon for, you know, feature-length episodes and all the films. Right, guys. Thank you for joining us on this week's podcast. Remember, follow us, like, and comment. And if you want to see any more prior podcast episodes, tune in to iHeartRadio, Apple Podcasts, or wherever you stream your podcast. Until next time. Hormone replacement therapy, HRT, TRT, testosterone replacement therapy. They all kind of go into the same bucket of hormones. Men and females, they all have the same exact hormones. For males, they need more testosterone than females. And for females, we need a little bit more estrogen than males. Basically, what that means is if you get your blood work done, your testosterone's low, we try to get it to an optimal level. We walk into where our medical assistants would be. They're contacting patients all throughout the day, making sure patients are feeling good, looking good, and performing their best. Making sure they're hitting their goals. Making sure they're tolerating the medication properly. And everything is going well. Patient care and patient service is number one to us. And if they have any questions, concerns, issues, then we're taking care of them, too, as well. A TRT company or Titan Medical, what they do is they make people healthy. And they get people to really live the dream of life. It's one of those things I always say, do you want to live a long life? Or a quality of life. And that's what Titan Medical does.