 the same. Hello, welcome to this week's Generation R podcast. Your host, me, Victor Martinez, along with Edson Farai, Vlad Yudin, and Edwin Mejia. What's up? Welcome back, and again, thank you, Transparent Labs, for the sponsorship. This is great, great products, no binders, no fillers, no craziness, all straight up good quality protein. Vic, tell them about the shirt, man. Yeah, guys, this is the San Clemente Film Shirt. This is a film that was written by our friend, Brett Nichols. He's a freaking great guy, smart guy. He's been working on this for a while. And what is the film about? Well, basically, it's a family adventure. It's a dark comedy, and you can think of it like Little Miss Sunshine and any other crazy family films you have seen with a crazy twist. It's gonna be fun, and I think he has me in there playing, guess what, out of all things, a state trooper. Wow. Can you handle that? I know, I know, I know. It's gonna calm down. But there's one thing I gotta tell you, though. If I'm gonna play a freaking state trooper, I know a lot about it, man. I know. We're excited to see you. When does it come out, Vic? He's actually working on locations right now, still casting, but, you know, it's gonna be a great film. He's gonna get great funding, and you guys, anybody who wants to do product placements, it's still open now, but it's gonna close soon. Cut. Nice. Nice. Nice. All right. So, transparent labs got us two questions of the day today, right, Ed? Yeah. And I've asked judges, and they only suggested not to use cover-up. Does this mean that I have to condition twice as much as anyone else to be in the mix? Thanks. Interesting. Um, tattoos are an interesting argument because, uh, if you think you're not gonna do well with a tattoo, that's wrong because Doreen Yates had tattoos. Um, a lot of competitors had them, but they had them placed strategically where they did not take away from obstruction, obscurity of their physique. You know what I mean? It's like it's placed either on the form, you know, but now we're talking about, you know, if you do a woman with titties tattoo, very distracting. Don't recommend it. You know, it's just, uh, it won't fly well. A lot of these competitions, remember the family shows. So, uh, they will definitely discredit you with some vulgar tattoos. And, uh, one of them also could be, let's say if you have tattoo of abdominals, would that be considered cheating? You know what's funny? Rich Piana did something similar to that. Yeah. He did a waist tattoo. Yeah, but I would make it obvious. And make it a slimmer look. I'm just saying, what if you do like shadows of the actual eyes? I've seen that before. People do it. I don't know. Again, it's, it's, it's questionable. I see the tattoo in the shoulder line. I saw the shoulder. He had that too. He had that too. He had that too. He was the first person actually. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Can it help? Can it not? The only thing I would say is if you do have tattoos in order to just, you know, take away from looking at that tattoo, you should just kind of get crazy conditions. What does it mean? The judges told him not to cover, not to use cover up like makeup. Yeah. The makeup to cover the tattoo. Yes. It will make it worse. Really? It will make it worse. Yes. It makes it worse. Huh? Yeah. They make it worse. The makeup does make it worse because you can, let's say you do come in super shredded. Now you have a tattoo, you cover it up. It's going to look like you have. Yeah. Because cover, cover is like a makeup and makeup is thick. It's thick. Yup. So they try to be a teeny scheme. So imagine you put the cover on it. It's like, it's like you put this. You guys seen in some countries you do like the roll paint? Yes. Yes. My country do that still. They do those like dream tan? Yeah. It's dream tan. No. I'm telling you, I'm slapping like this. I call dream tan nightmare tan. It is. Every time I see it, I tell guys, you do not look good. It's so crazy. You look horrible. It's so crazy. And the thing is, I mean, the guys usually probably do look good, but the dream tan makes it worse. It makes it awful. It makes it worse. You look like a penny almost. Yeah. Which guys these days out of pros have a lot of tattoos? I'm trying to think. I have a lot of tattoos. There's a few guys that have tattoos. I'm trying to think. Nick Walker has a couple of tattoos, I think. Yeah. Not a lot. Nick Walker has tattoos, but it's weird because. It's like a forearm or thing, right? Yeah. But it's weird when a white guy gets that too. It looks pretty good. But some black guys, it looks just like a freaking splatch. Like a, it just, you gotta use different colors. It just, it's gotta make sense. And when you do a tattoo and you're black as coal, it's like, I mean, use yellow or something and white. Is that possible in tattoo? I don't know. I'm not a tattoo artist, but your skin tone does make a tattoo better or worse. And I know it's a thing for a lot of people. Why you don't have tattoos? You don't like tattoos? I mean. You sound like you don't like tattoos. I like tattoos. I do like them. But if I'm going to put something on that I have to see over and over. Yeah. It's gotta be, you know, I gotta make sure, you know, if you put a freak in anything, I mean, I want to be affiliated with a gang. You put the wrong tattoo, you're a gang member now. Bro, when? You're a hospital. Yeah. I want to be deported to SECO. Just for a fake tattoo or translated to something different. So you don't want to be deported to Salvador? I mean, I could go to Salvador and most likely I could make it back here through the border, but I don't want to go through all that, you know? It's like, you know? And especially. You don't want to be stereotyped? I mean, yeah. I mean, they were translated to something else. You do a tattoo of a freaking, I don't know, of a dumbbell. There's somebody consider you some kind of freaking iron coat gang or something. But mostly a physique guy has a tattoo. Physique guy, yeah. Yeah, mostly a physique guy. I can say 90% of the physique guy has tattoos. Yeah, right, right. I know, but I think tattoos, I think most guys do it because they think they look tougher. I don't know. But it doesn't. I mean, a lot of people doing significance, obviously, is a lot of tribal. So they asked Kim Kardashian why they don't have tattoos. She said. I haven't decided on something that I could really deal with and kind of say, you know what, this represents me and some other stuff. And I will not do a tattoo that's already been made. If I want to do one, it's going to be something that's just made for me. Now, the Kim Kardashian answer very nice. She said, no one put the sticker on Rolls Royce. A sticker, a bumper sticker. I've heard that before, yeah. You know what's interesting? Sometimes you know a guy, like you know a guy and he's like already like, you know, for like his whole life, no tattoos. And then suddenly he just started getting a lot of tattoos. And then one year is covered up in tattoos. That's kind of weird, right? Well, that's just going through it, you know. The worst thing about a tattoo is when your skin starts sagging. It looks like you're leaving oil paint in the sun. You said that Kim Kamali didn't have a tattoo until 50 years old. Oh, yeah? So, when he passed 50 right now, full hands, shoulder, chest, neck. Oh, really? Everywhere he has tattoos. Really? Yeah. He had a lot of tattoos right now. So, they have to work harder basically, right? The guy, this guy here, what's his name? Jordan Roy. He has to work harder on conditioning, right? I mean, you have to work harder. Try not to put a dead center on your back unless, you know, I mean, avoid tramp stamps. Back tattoo? If you have a low back tattoo and you're a guy, I know what you're into, man. I think he's saying he already has a bunch of tattoos. It's not like he's in a war. No, no, I'm just saying, you know, I'm just commenting where the tattoo is placed. If you're a guy, you have a tattoo, I don't know, and your ankle, that's just weird. Ankle? All right, let's go to the next question. But that's exactly what you said. Back tattoo for bodybuilder is the worst because back has a lot of line. If you put a tattoo on it, you basically destroy all the details. And again, I mean, if you're going to bodybuild, that's an obvious thing that, you know, decide before you go ahead and just place them strategically. You know, I always like forearm tattoos. That's like the safest spot. Yeah, safest spot. Yeah, yeah. And try striations on a tattoo. I don't know. Abs. I think they look cool. Let's go to the next one. All right. What do we have? Yeah, so the next question comes to us from Stefan Sabov, 2437. A lot of people in the gym said you, said of you, take Masterson Trend tests. You have to put- Masteron, Masteron. Yeah, I mean, that's nice. Yeah. I can decipher. You have to put more Masteron and Trend than testosterone. Is it true? What does it mean? You got Masteron, Trend, or Hardeners, Hardening agents, you know, Conditioning agents. Retail, you didn't tell me you're using a lot of Trend. Trend. You told me don't use Trend. Well, first I want to start off by saying don't use Trend. Trend, exactly. He always said that don't use Trend. Stay away from Trend. But if you must use Trend, if you're already doing it, you know, good luck with your Trend. And, you know, I hope you don't catch, you know, spousal abusal. Victor always against Trend. He's always said don't use Trend. I guess it's just that, you know, you don't do drugs when you're doing Trend. That's like . But what he's asking here? I know what he's saying, though. If you're going to be on Trend and you're going to be on Masteron, you should lower the test, you know. And again, it depends on the person, you know. It really depends on the person. You usually don't want to use too much testosterone so you could get the most out of the Trend and the Masteron. You're harder, you know, getting closer to a show. But, you know, you don't want to also, you know, restrict, you know, building too much, you know, estrogen. You know, guys don't want to lower the libido. That's that risk you're also taking. If you're lowering the testosterone and taking more Trend and more Masteron, your libido is going to be basically kaput. Gone. Forget about it. Yeah. And you lost everything. If you have a woman, you know, it's like, look forward to your breakup, man. She's going to be very unhappy. But usually that's kind of like the way it's out, you know. More Trend, more Masteron, less testosterone just enough to get the full effect. You know, yes, you're going to look great. Your libido is down. You know, if your test is higher, Trend testosterone, you're going to look good. But obviously you're going to hold a little bit more water. Trend and Masteron, it's both exactly very similar. Ninety-nine percent, they look like each other. Are they used a lot? Masteron used a lot? But I mean, people go because it gives them a good look. But remember, you're also going to, you know, the aggression. I mean, just the side effects alone is one of the things that you have to use it for such a short period of time and not really. Or else you're going to hit hell, you know. Not more than four weeks, max. Yeah, not a good feeling. If you're not mentally strong, it's going to make you crazier than what you already are, you know. Yeah. But being that, that's basically the explanation to that. So if you are doing it for a show, all right. If you're just doing it just to walk around, don't bother me. I have a question. Any doctor using Trend for Q? There's no medical use. We don't have anything medical for this, no? No, there's no medical use. If you're a police officer or firefighter or whatever, anything, government, and they, you know, they find testosterone, you can actually easily simply find a result, a reason why to use it based on medical. But if they find something like EQ, Trend, Masteron, basically. Problem on. These doors don't have. They could use that against you if they're really trying to get at you or, you know, go for your job or anything. Especially if you shoot somebody. You had Trend? Dude. Wow. That's, I mean, when a cop shoots somebody, the first thing they ask for is let me see the blood work. Yeah. Steroids on, I don't know. And you have Trend on you? Dude. It's most likely they'll try to cover that up too, though. Yeah. Wow. I didn't know that. Yeah. Speaking of all this, you just know a guy who got his pro card, second show, and completely natural. Yeah. Hurricane, man. He's from the gym. This guy's a beast, man. He's a... And no steroids. Completely natural. Yeah, yeah. Natural IBB pro right now. Jeffrey Hurricane, the four. This guy, I always see him in the gym. You know, at first I didn't want to talk to him. He's always with his freaking tripod, you know. No, he's messing with you, but as soon as you saw him, he's like, damn, this guy can really be a pro. And I walked up to him early this year and I was like, dude, just do a show this year. Like, just the way you are right now, without even dropping water, you can win whatever show. And not only did he win, this is like his second show. Yeah. He got his pro card at the Pittsburgh Pro. Pittsburgh Pro, it's a big, big show. Pittsburgh Pro is not easy. Not easy to anyone. I mean, he was looking forward to doing team. You know, he doesn't have to do all that craziness, but he won the, I think the physique, the classic physique, the novice and the open. Are you working with him or no? No, don't need any work with him. He's doing the right thing. He knows what he's doing. And again, the only thing I said is like, let's practice some of the posing. But right now he's pro. But right now he's pro. If he come to you and say, hey, Wick, help me for pro qualification. He knows I'll help him. He knows that. He knows that. I offered it already. And, but I said, just keep doing what you're doing. Don't do anything crazy. And look, he's a pro. And I have to say he's a well-deserved pro. Nice. You know, not on top, not just his physique, but also his kindness. He's a very nice guy. Nice. All right. Well guys, submit your questions in the comments below and hopefully Vic will answer them, right? Yeah. Hopefully I will. . . . . . . . protein without the weird stuff so what do you think of the rock has a movie coming out uh when he's playing um mike kerr uh mma fighter and a wrestler what do you guys think of that transformation of the rock rock is always in shape man rock is always in shape and with him to actually get into a role is and you have to you know just look in better shape it's really not that hard i was watching his pictures and the clip coming out his skin get old he doesn't have he doesn't have a dad maybe it's the makeup on purpose no i don't think so i don't think so yeah it's like 50. he should be over 50. he's 50 already man yeah he should be over 50. but his skin is not his skin is not that sharp and clean because of i think because of the losing a lot of weight well getting shredded shredded yes yes because you know for this film you have to get a little bit more shredded and that's what i'm talking about yeah the skin is losing because after his his weight goes down and we always look at him as a big dude you know he's always big and right now he's shredded i think this is the shredder ever uh we saw him because he's massive he's always he's always looked massive he does the the films and then he always goes back every once in a while to wwe yeah to make cameos and all that so for the film i think he skipped this year's royal rumble i'm not sure but um but yeah you're right because he always he looks good filled out he looks good just playing the rock himself but when you lose that extra weight and you know you're big like him just to get tighter you're gonna have that loose skin which is you're gonna see a lot of that in the masters olympia can we can we say he's the arnold of the time carrier the bodybuilding fitness and he and and advertising this sport to the society well he came away of wrestling because of his father yeah so i would have to say he's probably he's way bigger than hulk hogan man definitely he is yeah yeah so coming out of wrestling and uh everything he's done and he's got the football league yeah you know he has he has more than a football is it still a thing yeah yeah yeah xfl xfl yeah were you a hulk hogan fan growing up i was until he got all crazy and all racist things yeah i mean i knew you thought it and everything but i like hulk i ain't messing with you no more man yeah yeah yeah not a good look for hulk hogan like damn hulk no no i believed in you man but you know he allegedly won a huge lawsuit against this company called was a gawker yeah and when that came out at that time i was still pro hulk hogan and and you know i was like cool man get him hulk and then you come on with the other yeah yeah i'm not cool me neither i don't think that was a good move on his part i think he lost a lot of fans after that he never knows the same yeah i even know his rants but i can't even say it right now i know all of it i know i mean i was die hard better we don't say them in this that because we don't want generation to be taking taking down after that either so no no i mean no no not the the bad rants like oh no no the the good ones when he was wrestling you know before he came out or you know so you think you think he's like a stain on wwe not on them they're just not going to bring him back though well mcmahon and mcmahon too got all types of things yeah because he's into the pooping stuff you know and again my question is how much money do you have that you just get bored of like yeah he's a missionary exactly in the dog yeah yeah i mean the pdc these pdc cases are insane right now especially people out there they have very very interesting lives or buying too much baby oil fucking jim mcmahon you know going the poop way and i don't know man i don't know man speaking of yeah i mean he had a big documentary on netflix obviously and then most recently liverking was just showcased on netflix and uh generation and generation generation i made the cut you know they we were on there yeah uh which is interesting because nice liverking is being exposed and i guess a lot of people now are finding out the whole greater different the greater world is finding out what's documentary about the body uh about the water about all his bullshit yeah apparently he's on there i mean they have a lot of stories on there about him no bad publicity you know as long as you're getting publicity it's just uh he's getting it out there i don't know but uh liverking i i still today even when he was a thing i didn't know why he was a thing i'm like i don't even know what this and it was trying to find out why i don't understand apparently he used to steal from supplement stores on this on in the documentary series they show him speaking about him about his stories about how you used to steal supplements from stores he used to also print fake money um a lot of a lot of fraudsters watching man i don't know are you gonna admit that on video he admitted that video i haven't seen it but allegedly that's what that's in the doc can you say i would mess with fake money here speaking about the rock transformations for these he's proud of himself i know but i don't know man but speaking about the rock transformations you know it's interesting i mean you have like you know i know that he was on joe rogan and joe rogan never asked him about his cycle you know do you think that the rock is on i mean you don't want to ask that of the rock is you don't want to outshine the actual interview i mean and at the end of the day somebody asked the rock are you juicing he should just come out and be like none of your business that's what yeah yeah exactly exactly you know i mean a lot of people were just the reason i mentioned things a lot of people were surprised that he didn't say anything in the interview but the point is he had this pretty interesting transformation you know he's there for the actual interview and uh you know it's kind of like uh when mike tyson went into some interview and the guy went in and violated and asked him about that issue you know and that that was the best response i ever seen you know like that's how most people should respond to both you know reporters when they ask yeah violating questions like that yeah because at the end of the day the rock is not trying to like sell you know he's not selling nine fake man like liverking he was selling the uh ancestral lifestyle yes so he was being fake you know and he was claiming to be natty and uh that's why people came down on him yeah but a lot of people go after michael hearn for the same thing and michael hearn is allegedly you know he people go after him because they say he's not natural but i don't think michael printing fake money behind the no of course desk you know yeah but he's not selling nothing fake though he's not claiming anything fake he's not you know being all i like michael by the way i'm just saying people go after yeah they're always gonna go out there remember when you're doing something great and somebody wish they could do it and they'll never do it because they can't do it they're gonna always stir something up you know it's just the nature of the freaking beast of these uh primitive human beings yeah did you like his performance in uh magazine dreams i think so i i think he was great he's such uh he's talented man he's talented he's strong pause again you know it's not for the faint of hearts people get offended for anything these days but uh i think he was good man i think he was great actually and uh i i think somebody should really get him on some you know the big a film somewhere you know speaking of films do you think uh because magazine dreams is a great film right it was a performance but it's very dark and a lot of people saying you know why why it's got to be such a mental illness portrayed as a bodybuilder right but do you think a movie like a rocky is possible to create in the bodybuilding world because rocky was not dark rocky was kind of like inspirational to a degree right if you look at the rocky movie right yeah it was sad but it wasn't like dark right yeah do you think a bodybuilding industry can't have a rocky uh story i think so i think you can yeah you know but remember the only thing that always outshines the actual bodybuilding is right away when somebody sees muscle they think steroids immediately and it comes immediately like they never think they never look at a musician and think you know they never say never ever music and movies nothing and meanwhile 80 of them are using it and it's just like it's just the thing but when it's bodybuilding you look good you look in shape and regardless how natural you are like right now they're probably saying jeffrey is like nah that's bull he's not natural yeah absolutely right now they're doing that right now they're they're standing by their word and saying he's not natural so it's just that's the only thing when it comes to bodybuilding so you're gonna catch a bad rap and that's why and every time when the a guy works out for a year and he does a crime right away they label bodybuilder kills woman you know it's like it's always gonna be a thing and it all started from the whole baseball era but we have we have to look at you have to look at this too back then boxing was huge that's why rocky movie hit right now bodybuilding is not that huge yeah fitness industries get huge fitness industry each building is actually rules most of social media because everybody's yeah that's what i'm talking about fitness industry fitness industry is huge but not specific bodybuilding yeah you know body i mean fitness comes out of the bodybuilding but right now fitness to become huge and look at this any building right now you you see in the city they have a fitness room but none of them has basketball room none of them has swimming just few has a pool that one has a pool they shut down the pool they open the gym so each hotel aren't arnold was and you say he said back then when i travel i have to looking for the gym local right now each building has gym there's a gym everywhere now yeah and it's funny because you walk into a room you're a bodybuilder and already people kind of have some weird kind of thought about you i i think if the movie come out like a rocky in this industry it's supposed to be a person i don't know bodybuilder or in in industry competitor and come out develop himself in fitness in the industry which is a businessman or something yeah which is more open window because bodybuilding industry is very close very very short window it's not big yeah it's more window and there's a lot you can do after and uh i mean you see a lot of guys with social media now you do a couple of shows that can set you up to do other things and around ramondino um i guess there's some rumors that ramondino is basically possibly considering men's open division he officially said that he's good for it he said he's not sure if he's ready when he wants to make a decision he wants 100 ready what do you guys think about he's good for it you know he's gonna have to put on a little more side but when i saw him at the arnold last year he looked i mean he looked like open already you know but um i think he's good for it and i think he should at least give it one more try at the uh classic i think so too i think he has a chance not even better chance now to win right yeah they probably didn't consider him classic they looked at him as more open because he did put on crazy amount of muscle you know you know can be you know great open pro but you know and right now the way he is he's gonna be a good aesthetic open pro but um with the guys like samson and and these guys holding such mass it'll be a challenge can he do the classic one more time he should but he can't put on and come in with that crazy size he did last year for open he needed a lot of size yeah a lot at least two years he has to be go offseason two years well chris bums did it he he wanted men's open yeah chris bums did did it man but chris bums chris bums chris bums bums had growing every year with with his show right now he's a classic guy he wants to go against 300 260 240 he is not 200 even in on stage yeah but i i put my money on dino doing great in the opening be the size yeah i mean have you guys heard of this i think this is a bad decision yeah i mean i think so i think it might come down to to several factors but i think it might be a bad decision this is a bad decision he's he's a narrow shoulder he has a narrow shoulder he's thick but he doesn't have that whiners yeah lucky bodybuilders but again i'm looking at chris bums they got second he's a little bit bigger than chris bums did come on you can't compare him to chris no i know but the thing is you're right you know bumps they had wider clavicles and that does is a big plus when it comes to open but um i like dino someone a bit biased so he's a good person he's a great he's a great for a sport actually yeah he's a great for a sport he's great for classic he has a lot of fan crazy fan not normal oh yeah but i i think this is the bad decision to he go to open because of the form of physique he has he has a narrow shoulder thick guy i think he has to stay in the classic and prove himself on the classic he's a classic guy you really thought about this yeah it's not really yeah but remember a freaking second or third place in the open gives more money than the first thing no way he can't go comes to 10 place i don't know man it'll be something to see it'll be something to see remember maybe two years maybe if he goes to ireland maybe then you know ireland oh man actually but i like ireland i don't know man i'll go to ireland just to see larry compete just because i love ireland man i've never been to so many bars in one day wow like ireland man it's beautiful contract oh man i was i was beautiful i was always skied up over there man yes yes speaking of body people moving to different divisions and bodybuilders overseas i mean there's a bodybuilder in germany called uh our albertus albert's krinikas have you guys heard of this guy he's a 19 year old bodybuilder he's huge i saw it and he's about 205 pounds 203 pounds classic he's already won two shows 19 years old no no he's not pro yet is he no no solid 209 no he's not pro he's not pro he's sorry i mean the fact that he's not only 204 203 is insane he looks a lot bigger than that looks a lot bigger look this this person is good for open categories small waist wide shoulder muscle round round all muscle looking biceps on shoulder round quad is wrong everything is wrong wrong this person as a 19 years old with this size imagine he goes to 26 28 you know when i look at him i remember uh kian yes i remember exactly like a kian kian when he come kian flex wheeler bring brought him to this sport when i saw kian he was small but beautiful shape but look at him right now he was standing next to samsung in pittsburgh pro i was looking at him and say kian please come to open please he is he oh i think he will he was amazing next to samsung you always he holds muscle great but i think this kid um should just focus on the classic not rush to open yes because the open is just that whole size game he's going to start distorting his physique and right now the waist physique is he's a great really really solid future competitor in in the i mean every pound he puts on is a quality pound yeah you see him it's like he's growing nice and balanced yeah young skin nice everything is good i hope he has a good mentor you know it doesn't fall into some craziness what's going on in germany the classic goes to german this guy comes up the german bodybuilder start to come up again i mean after marcus roll and dennis wolf we don't have anyone to become crazy it's the prestige you know look at bodybuilding not enough prestige but germans have always been you know great look at all you know all those from that region is the whole region came out with always great bodybuilders so you can never discount them out i mean come on colombia is coming out with great bodybuilders yeah so it doesn't really matter where it is is who's actually falls you know for the love of bodybuilding and does it and sticks to it but um it could be anywhere remember go back to the early 90s and uh how many bodybuilders were they in the middle east not not many none just samir banood a few you can count on a world stage they probably existed but not on the world there was a few but not like now now it's like you're getting a lot it's a huge movement of course so yeah so it's a lot of people doing it it's just a lot of people don't have the support or the means to actually you know sustain their bodybuilding lifestyle that's all it is so but this guy is great he's gonna come out a lot more as we go and uh good luck to him all right guys thank you for this week's general h on our podcast remember i want to see any of our prior episodes tune in to our heart radio um apple podcast or wherever you stream your podcast until next time remember follow us and like and appreciate the support