 Welcome to the Kai Green Effect. Welcome to the Kai Green Effect. What's up everybody and welcome. It is your boy. That's right. Kay with the AKA, Mr. Getting It Done. And you are watching the Kai Green Effect. I am here today, brought to you by the powers of Generation Iron and Pro-Am. And without further ado, I got to introduce our co-host, Vlad Uden. What's up, man? What's going on brother? Good to see you again. Likewise, likewise. I feel good. I feel good. I feel like James Brown ain't got nothing on me. Is that true that you got your own shake dedicated under your name at the Wolf's Gym? Is that true? Is that true? Is that true? Yeah, we got a greens, greens, green, green. It's a greens, greens kind of green. Yeah, now I'm really cool. I came back to the, to after traveling, I'd come back to town and the gym that I train at these days is Wolf Gym Boca. It's, it's really, really cool. They actually did a whole new remodeling. There's a lot of real interesting things that they're offering to their, to their following and fan base. The numbers are growing by leaps and bounds. And I was so fortunately enough able to discover that when I got back from a long amount of traveling, they actually made a shake for me. It was called the, the Kyrie. It's named after me and it's good. The shake. I mean, I think it tastes delicious. I mean, you know, I got to try it. But yeah, it's a greens product and they, they were really trying to push this idea of health. That was very funny because technically before that, I never would have, I guess, looked in that direction until they said, hey, Ky, you've got to try this. Let me know what you think. And it was just a really, really nice way of just welcoming me back. And I, I got to say a shout out to Wolf Gym Boca because they were really, really awesome with just how they treated me. Speaking of gyms, that's actually one of the topics today that I wanted to talk about. Is it really? Yeah, man, like you've been to many gyms. I mean, I don't know how many gyms you've probably been to your whole life, but it's got to be in the hundreds, right? But do you have, do you have a top three gyms you can say right now without being biased? Top three gyms that like, okay, those are amazing gyms. And also what, what, what is the criteria? Like, what do you like in a gym? Do you like small gym, big commercial gym, underground gym, personal training gym? You know what I mean? If you have to pick the top three that in your mind were like amazing, what would they be? You know, that's a, that's a, I guess that's a really interesting question to ask because, you know, I think you have different things that are important to you at different times. So I know for me, one of the things that I used to value very much with my ability to train was being able to just be allowed to just lose myself in the process of getting ready. The ability to still feel like you had, you know, the privacy and almost the license to be allowed to go and focus. You have a top three? My favorite. My favorite. So a top three, I think it, I think it, I think it, it can change. Um, depending on where you are in your training, I think in your life, but I will say this, my favorite gym right now. Um, one of my top favorite gyms right now is the gym that I go to every day. So Wolf Gym obviously is, is Wolf Gym Boca is my spot. Um, I trained there. I, and I, I'm, I'm very, I feel, I feel very comfortable there. Um, and, uh, let's see, but I'm trying to plug it. That's, that's not even trying to plug it. This is really just, um, just be unbiased, you know, like maybe, you know, You know, here's the thing. I think there is a certain amount of bias that you just, that just comes along with the process because ultimately this is something that you have to feel good about. You know, the reason why you feel good about it is why you would, why it comes up in your mind immediately. If someone were to ask you, I got to say this, I got Ace train at, uh, Bev's. Um, and for its own, you know, particular reasons, it will always stand out in my mind. That's a great gym. Um, for, yeah, I, I kind of donated one of my, um, one of my Arnold classic, uh, trophy. Um, um, to stand there. Uh, I let, uh, I let it be put on display there, believing that it would definitely be a thing that can help to inspire and encourage, um, a lot of athletes that were coming up behind me. There was a time I came in that gym and I would, you know, I was a teenager. I came in that gym as a teenager, believe it or not. Um, and truth be told, there's a lot of different places that you kind of have to, you kind of move around, um, in your process of growing. But, um, I trained at, um, I trained at Bev's, you know, Syosset, like more than 20 years ago. That's crazy. Um, yeah. And every time that I, every time that I had come back there, I, you know, I was either reminded of something that was a monumental moment in my life, my career. And it also allowed me to kind of think back very fondly to a time when the sport was like this golden place for me. And to go into a gym where you could see pictures on the wall that were not just of the local people that trained in that gym that had reached their own level of star as a celebrity locally. But the very people that were the photos on the wall were, you know, people like Mike Ashley, you know, um, looking amazing in the, in the, you know, at the prime of his career, you know, uh, they had photos on the wall that went, they weren't posters. They were actual photos that were taken of these individuals walking in that gym at that time in their life and career of Corey Everson, you know, had, you know, pictures, had pictures of Corey Everson on the wall, you know, at a time when, when bodybuilding was like featured on ESPN, you know, it was like, um, it's a magical time. Man, it's, it's, it's almost unfair to say three gyms because there's been so many. It's like, uh, having a relationship, you know, and they talk about that one that got away and it's like, well, you know, maybe not just one. There was, there was maybe like, you know, there was a strong, you know, strong and impossible. Too many to say, but with that, yeah, those two stand out in my mind. And, you know, I always got to remember some very valuable lessons that I got a chance to learn while training at Fifth Avenue gym. I think we got a chance to train there. Um, we got some, some earlier footage of some training stuff that we got to do. I think the first times that we got a chance to film more than 10 years ago, um, you and I, Vlad. So yeah, um, an honest effort to answer that question. Those three, my top three would be those three gyms. Fifth Avenue gym, Wolf Gym Boca, and Bev. Fifth Avenue gym, Wolf Gym Boca, and Bev. So we have James II, 19098 asking you, Kai, years ago, you did a guest posing with Danny Lynn Bailey. Whose idea was it to pose together and how long did it take to prepare the routine? Your boy, James. That's what's up. Hey, hey, James, thank you, man. Shout out to you for even taking the time to even think and ask the question like that. We, that guest, but you know, it's so funny because until you say that, I probably would not have the opportunity to kind of walk through some of those thoughts and ideas that I probably haven't had the need to think about for maybe the last 10 years, you know? Um, so yeah, if I had to say off the top of my head, I think we were in a place like, not New Zealand. We were in a place like, uh, we were in a very, we were in a, we were in another country altogether. It was a different world. Um, and Dana Lynn Bailey and her husband, Rob Bailey, um, we were all, we were all friends. Um, in fact, um, we'd known of each other and had a very, very, uh, cool relationship, um, before they even became like, you know, um, like popular and successful and certainly well before she became Miss Olympia. So with saying that, um, when we traveled to this other country to be a part of like, uh, uh, you know, a show, there was, um, damn, I think the show was titled The Illest, The Illest. Oh. Yeah, it was, it was titled The Illest. It was really cool. They had, they had done like an amazing light show. They had like the dopest band. Uh, the show promoter was just like one of those, you know, um, he was, he was a showman in his, in himself and, uh, he wanted to have a great show. Um, when they brought us out there, I think we all kind of felt we were in another country. The uncomfortability, I'm sorry, the uncomfortability that came along with that kind of allowed us to even get closer. Uh, for some reason, when you travel. It was a spontaneous thing or did you guys like, okay, we're going to go there. We're going to do this guest posing routine. No, we did not go there with the expectation to do a guest posing together. Um, in fact, I had like, I had a, uh, a costume and a guest posing, a set of ideas that I wanted to do, you know, this show, um, prior to going that had nothing to do with, um, with doing anything with them. But honestly, Rob Bailey had just started to release his own music at that time, right? Rob was asked to perform live if he would consider it, you know, we're at this show and it was the first time that I'd ever really even, you know, I came in with the expectation to do my thing. And I thought, well, you know, I want to do my thing by myself, but, you know, Rob decided he was going to, um, he was going to lace everyone with a blessing of hearing his track and he was going to grab the microphone. And it was like, for a minute, we all were like backstage somewhere talking amongst ourselves. And it was as if we were high school, you know, kids in a performing arts, you know, theater school, just like, you know, considering a possibility that was much larger than ourselves and certainly, uh, full with creativity and, and life of imagination. That was all its own. Um, so before you got, before you can go anywhere with it, you know, the show promoter was like, Rob, would you perform it? And Rob actually sang he, um, and it gave us an opportunity just to imagine being like backup dancers, if you will. Um, and, uh, yeah, man, it was just, it was, it was cool. So to answer the question in the kind of way of doing it that I can only do by being me. Um, um, it was, it was spontaneous because we never done that before. Um, and there were more pieces that were added to that puzzle that just kind of came together, um, with the, with the request to consider it. So, yeah, and, and we all just knew personally that this was our moment. This was, this was an opportunity to, to try something out and just to be creative and in your own space. And there was, there was no fear of what if it failed? What if we look like fools doing it? Um, it was, um, it was an opportunity to kind of step out and make history. And that's definitely what we felt memorable. We did a great job on that one. Yeah. Well, thanks for saying that. That's what's up. All right. Next question. Joyful kettlebell. Well, joyful kettlebell is asking, where did Kyle learn to dance? Any dance schools question? Did you go to dance school? Um, so the short answer is. No, I didn't, you know, there are people that have that, uh, that are, that are trained as dancers from very young and what it can mean to be a dancer by following the, you know, the idea of, you know, what it means to, to grow up in the way of becoming a dancer. And that wasn't my experience, but, you know, taking dance classes at like three, just doing ballet and being exposed to tap and, you know, modern. And then, you know, uh, by high school, you know, you're doing, you know, not, that wasn't my experience. But one of the things that I saw when I was a kid was, uh, there were a lot of dance films that, that really became very popular. Uh, yeah, I probably won't say what I would have said, cause I wouldn't want to date myself. And then also I probably wouldn't want to avoid the jokes that come along with some of the influences that were there, but there was a lot to be said for being able to be a dancer and just to be, to be free enough to dance. Um, so, um, you know, a lot of times people will say, if you demonstrate a tendency to want to be, you know, colorful and entertaining, they'd kind of like discourage that. Cause if you say, Hey man, that, that's not masculine. Like you just need to be masculine. Don't do much. Don't say much, you know, keep your back erect, you know, shoulders back and just kind of, you know, parlay, lay back with it. You know, don't, don't say too much. Don't, don't, don't sing. Don't dance. Don't, I remember, I remember to answer the question. Yes. I enjoyed, I enjoyed every opportunity that I got exposed to. And when it felt safe enough as a teenager for wherever I was, I think dancing was one of the natural things that, um, um, I took to. Um, and I think later on, you know, I don't think any, any of the, any of the athletes in the game actually expect to get on stage and say, Hey, well now I'm going to, I'm going to dance. You know, it's kind of like one of those things that I think it just becomes a, a natural part of the way you seek to express yourself. Um, and as a result, some of the things that other people might feel uncomfortable about, like, Hey, I mean, every athlete has to get ready to do their routine, whether they're doing Figner, whether they're doing, um, you know, men's physique, you know, open bodybuilding, the two, you know, the two 12, you know, you've got your routine. Gotta move. Yeah. And with that, you know, if you have allowed yourself, cause most, a lot of people will say, well, I can't move. I don't like that. It's just not a part of me. But, you know, if you look at kids, you observe kids, you know, let a kid just, just be himself. You know, you'll find that there's, there's a lot of things inside of us that we just look for license a lot of times and just opportunity to share it. Do you think women like a guy that, that knows and likes to dance and knows how to dance? I think, I think, I think they're different, different strokes for different folks. You know, um, I don't think every woman would say that, Hey, look, this is what, you know, I expect every man to just, you know, I don't know. I think that they're different. There's different flavors for everybody. Next question is the most important one. It was submitted via email from Kevin Real, R E E L. And this is in reference to your possible comeback to competing this year. So, so Kevin is asking, Kai, if you do end up making a return to the stage this year to compete, what will be the deciding factor for you? Will the promoter have to provide a guaranteed purse for you to commit like they do in boxing or MMA? Or is it something else you will require? It's a good question, I think. And it's obviously in reference to when you kind of like made it, made a reemergence with the pro-am and you sort of like made this announcement that there's a possibility. This kind of opened up, you know, a lot of people want to know, what's the deciding factor? Is it, is it the purse, the money? Like, what is it? Every athlete, when they start competing in these shows, like I did, if they, if they, if they did it in the way that I did. I mean, I, I, I bought my MPC card. I, I, I trained and I, I, I put my hat into the, into the mix. Um, I put my, um, I came to, I came to the shows and I, I, I competed as a teenager and I competed as a, as a, as a, as a young adult. You know, I graduated through the ranks, you know, um, and with more time and experience, I, I, I kind of developed my own, my own way of learning how to do this. You know, um, in the beginning, I didn't know what it would cost me to prepare for a show of that magnitude. I know you know. But now you do understand that to say something like that means that, yeah, there are, there are things, there are certain realities that come along with that. And because it is that there are realities that we have to consider, you know, um, when Celine Dion goes and performs, Celine Dion is not. She gets paid. Right. She's not questioning whether or not, you know, um, right. I've seen people talk like a hater and say like, ah, well, how dare you? If you're the athlete that has grown through the ranks, you know, um, nevermind what it took you to learn how to put this thing together and, and do what other people would have said is impossible. You know, there are people that will still look at you now and say, oh, well, you know, it's impossible, you know? Um, but you've been doing the impossible, you know, from the time you started this thing. And it's not because it wasn't possible. It's because you were willing to work and develop a way to make the possible, make the impossible a reality. That's certainly something that you can touch. Um, and with that, yeah, man, we're able to promote, we're able to, you know, develop, we're able to build, you know, other companies and other opportunities are able to kind of grow up around that, you know, using that as a resource. And certainly, you know, I think the athletes that does that should be able to benefit as well. But it's got to be, what I'm saying is at this point in your career, right? We're not talking about 10 years ago. We're talking about right now, right? This particular moment for the, to ask, to ask this guy's question, I feel like a lot of people want to know, right? Like it has to be an opportunity for you to see the value, like whether it's a monetary value, whether it's promotion, like it's got to be a value that you see for you to dedicate six months of your life. Or more or less, whatever, right? To, to really go through that process, right? Every, every athlete that is a professional in this game has to, you know, take the time to, you know, think very seriously and honestly about, you know, the business side of, you know, this experience. Yeah, you know, Celine Dion deserves to be paid. And, and the athlete that, that is able to be able to bring the things to the table that are of value, you know? Yeah, there should be a conversation. There should be a number of conversations that are, that are made in an effort to, to deal with that. On, it has to be addressed, you know what I mean? And, do you think in a bodybuild, because typically bodybuilding show, you need at least like, you know, 10 competitors on stage, right? Typically speaking, you need some kind of a minimum to compare to, you know, do you think a one-on-one competition in bodybuilding, that, that format has never been done before, right? Just one guy versus one guy. Like, let's say you and Phil Heath, right? Like whoever, you know what I'm saying? Like, imagine like you have two rivals, I don't know, a Dorian Yates and Flex, whoever, right? Like I'm saying like a one-on-one battle on stage. Do you think that format can actually be of interest to watch for the fans? If you just have one, one versus one format, do you think that can work? Well, of course I think it can work. We've, we've seen it work, particularly if, if the athletes in question are able to come to the table with, I think, the assets that are necessary in order to, to allow us to experience the magic of it working. You know, you know, if there were a time with Phil Heath, he wanted to, you know, prove to himself or satisfy any belief or any disbelief in his ability to, and he decided to, hey man, he wanted to, he wanted to prove that point to himself. You know, I do want to stand there and, and, and, and go toe to toe with this guy again. You know, I, I don't like the fact that he reflects on times when he was protected. You know, I don't appreciate, you know, hearing him say that publicly, you know, in fact, there's a, there's a, there's a right thinking responsibility. Many would say, you know, to the athlete, that there's some things you're not supposed to say publicly, you know, about the, what goes on behind the scenes. But I know that he knows, you know, and if it were possible that what we both know left the question in his mind, that he still felt like he wanted to settle. I see him, you know, he looks like he, he, you know, can possibly go another round or two if he had to, if it was important enough to him. If he really thought he did deserve everything that he got, which he and I both know he didn't, you know. Don't say anything, go ahead. Well, I mean, you know, I am, I am, I am, I can only be, I can only be what I, you know, and I was there just like he was, you know. And because I was there, there are conversations that had to be had, there are things that had to be done that we both know. The world doesn't know, the fan, the enthusiast, they don't know, but I know. And I understand. You know, the Ky Green Phil Heath rivalry was not a joke. It wasn't a joke. I mean, we also were able to come along at a time when the truth be told. So, man, this, you know, unfortunately, I'm going to say this real quick because this is, this is, this is, this is on my heart to say. I worked for years to get the opportunity to get the privilege of being asked to come to the Weider headquarters and to, to meet Joe Weider and to stand in Joe Weider's office. And to go through that opportunity that you saw all the greats that you looked up to, the Chris Dickerson's, the Lee Haney's, you know. Having the opportunity to have Joe Weider acknowledge you. You know, there was like a rites of passage that back in the day, it meant, it meant everything. It meant that you were, you became, when you became a Weider athlete, that was, that was like, that was like the, the Holy Grail that you'd arrived in the industry. It was like you, everybody's dream was to, you know, to do what they did, develop themselves, become a champion, then get the opportunity to be in the magazines. And then, if you were really lucky, you get the letter in the mail and they fly you out to LA and you get a chance to go to train at Coles Gym. You leave the world that you knew behind and you go into that world where the magazines are inside of the magazines. Every day was a sunny day and every time you saw the athletes, they looked like gods and they never were out of shape. It was just, it was that place where you quietly just didn't understand when you were, when you were hopeful growing up in this spirit, in this, you know, in the want to be there, want to be validated. I want to be a Weider athlete. But to be a Weider athlete means that life becomes this, you know, this thing that it's just so much better than anything that you ever know. Because every time you open up the magazine, you know, it's a sunny day and the physiques are larger than life and I want to be there. I need to be validated there. It's magic there. And so I'm saying all this to say that, yeah, I went there, I got a chance to meet your Weider. And, you know, I didn't know that we were in a race against time though. You know, it was us. Finally, I'm a Weider athlete. It took a lot to get there, years of training, years of, you know, maybes, impossibles, and just almost, almost, but maybe not quite. You know, there used to be a time where it was very hard to get a pro card. I mean, to get what you think you know now, there was a time when only, only the very few, there were probably just a handful of pro cards to ever be offered for the year. Less than four. You know, and you had to be very calculating to get that opportunity because in your class, only one person could go. Only one. And the funny part about that is in your class, in a given class, let's say like in, do you remember when Sean Ray turned pro? Dude, you had in his class that year, you had guys that were going to, within the next five years of that show. These were, there were men in that class that were going to go on to become legends in the sport. You know, legends in the sport. I am saying this to say that there was a time when only the best of the best could come through there. And once she got there, you know, I didn't know that it was limited. The amount of time was so limited. I got my pro card and it still took me years before I could ever start to blossom into starting to realize the, the glow of my own star. And it just, it's a product of work. But when people tell you genetics, everybody, it's not genetics. Because there are people that have exceptional genetics and don't know it. They would never know. You don't even know what great genetics are until, until, until you get tested. You know, until you get tested, there's people that will take their genetics for granted. You know, I tell you now, every time I get my blood work done and it's like, oh, wow. You mean, I'm okay? You're great, Kai. It's like, really? Like, what? Yeah. Are you sure? And it's like, hey, heart. Like, wow. Are you kidding me? And it's like, yeah, man. You know, I tell you in that moment, there's that relief of, or the reveal of what great genetics are. You know? I want to touch on one more thing because you brought up Weedr, Flex Magazine, right? So, Victor Martinez made a statement on a podcast that we do. And he said, they were kind of like a conspiracy theory, right? Well, I guess you had to be a Weedr athlete to win the Olympia. And it was, MD was a competitive magazine, right? Now, subscribers got into the comments and they're like, not true. Jay Cutler won in 2010 and he was signed to MD at the time. So, what do you think about this whole thing? Is it true? Did you have to be a Weedr athlete to win the Olympia? Or is it kind of like, you know? So, honestly, I got to respect Vic because Vic has been places that certainly the fan and the enthusiast hasn't. You know, so if you are a fan and you're an enthusiast of the sport, you know, with all due respect, it's important to be able to kind of just like, just understand and recognize that. I've had my own, you know, share of opportunities and, you know, ability to be present in conversations that, you know, a lot of times just the fan and the enthusiast just doesn't get a chance to ever say. You know, they'll say, you know, if you want to know, if you really want to know, you have to do, you know, because to stand on the sidelines and to, you know, think that you heard it three and four times removed from the source and think that it's still just as good. It's just not as good. It's not as good. So I'll say I'll answer that question, but not because I heard what Victor said, but because there's a truth that I've lived. I know that there's a responsibility that you have to maintain, I think, in order to respect the fans and to respect the industry, you know? So sometimes it becomes very irresponsible to talk as candidly as you could. And it may inspire people to feel like, oh, he's not keeping it real as much as it may be that, listen, man, to whom much is given, much is required, you know? And to be there, to do the work, to get there means that there comes with it a responsibility that you have to respect. I will say, Victor's not lying. That was a very, very real thing. And if you don't want to believe it, then just look at the history. Look at what happened. Where did you see the contradiction? You know, I guess this is a perfect moment for us to cut. Look at the history. All right. What's up, everybody? It's your boy, Kate, with the AKA, Mr. Getting It Done. I am here with you. Very thankful for having the opportunity to talk with you and to have my conversation with my boy, Vlad. I think we kind of had a really cool exchange. No doubt. I feel very, very, very blessed to have it. With saying that, you've been listening to the High Green Effect. And we're going to bring this thing to a close. We're going to thank you for tuning in. We're going to ask you to come on back when you think about us again. And certainly, we're going to try to give you some more information, share with you some more things, and maybe even inspire you a little bit. And until next time, let's keep it positive. Let's keep encouraging each other. Peace. Till next time. Oh, God.