 Welcome to the Kai Green Effect. I want to welcome everybody at the sound of my voice to this, our thing. This is our podcast, myself and Generation Iron, Vlad Yudin. We are here for the Kai Effect, the Kai Green Effect, that is. And yes, I want to welcome you for a listening hour of, hopefully, pleasure and enjoyment. I hope so. And if it is, it's just something that you don't like. Some people like things that they don't like, but certainly it's our job, or I consider it my mission, to want to bring you some things that are thoughts and ideas that can help you maybe expound on some of your own thinking. And certainly, angel brings some good into your day, a little moment of joy in your life. Vlad, how do you feel about that? I'm feeling great about it, man. How you been? Were you working on any new music lately? I am working on the new iteration of how I see Kai Green develop into his own other thing. It's like, it's not even me. It's more than that. It's a larger idea that I am very, very, very excited about. Yes, I am in the studio. I have been in the studio recently. And I can't wait to share some of the stuff that I've been working on. The title, affectionately, is K.I. AfroKade. It's funny. I know. But in a short while, I'll be able to share with you some really cool insights on at least what this subject means for me. And you might like it. You'll certainly be entertained when you see it. Didn't you tell me a story you one time ran in a gym somewhere? You ran into the guy from You Got Talent or something. And he was like, was it Randy or something like that, right? Did you tell me that story? Oh, wow. You just reached back. Yeah, that's kind of crazy, man. That is, you know, I wish I took a minute to even brief myself on some of the notes from that. Because technically, what you just touched on was a moment of opportunity that happened by chance. In the gym one day, training, I was doing a big circuit system. I had like three other people that was training with me. And we were like intensely about this day at the moment. And some guy walks up to me. And he starts, like, you know, talking to me. And he says, hey, Kai Green, blah, blah, blah. And it's like, I was still sweating, breathing heavy. My set was coming up. And it was like, I wanted to say something pleasant and just get right back to work. But when I looked again, I realized he was still talking to me. His lips were moving. He was saying something. And it was like, wait, I don't have time to talk. I want to get back to this set. Okay, say something cool and then keep it moving. But he said something. And I listened. And I listened again. I'm sorry. What did you say your name was? He said, look, all I want to do is know, was that your voice? Was that really you singing? And I said, wait a minute. What did you say your name was? It was at that moment that he revealed to me his name. It was none other than Randy Jackson. I was like, Randy Jackson? The Randy Jackson? I was like, wait a minute. This is a moment of like, he said, yeah, man, my brother, my brother sent me this video clip. He's singing, man. I thought, wait a minute. The afro was funny, but man, I didn't, I didn't know he had a voice like that. And I was like, wait a minute. I mean, it's one of those moments where like ego and like just blind luck opportunity just like knocks you back three steps and says to you, hey, man, this is why you need to be humble. This is why sometimes you need to try to be patient, even when you feel overwhelmed in the moment. I wanted to get back to my set. But yeah, man, it was, it was, it was, it was the Randy Jackson. And, you know, it was just one of the biggest compliments that I could tell you I think I've ever heard, you know, in light of just recognizing something else that I thought was pretty cool. He's a very big producer for those who don't know and a big television star as well. He's huge. Yeah, it was a moment. It was a moment of like, it was a moment of just, just humbling moment of opportunity. And I just thought, wow, this is awesome. Thank you for even remembering that. Yeah. Because that was years ago. How can I forget that? So Kai, typically we do a lightning round from the, from the, from the listeners. But I think today we should address some topics first and then we'll do the lightning round. Okay. Let's do it. So some of your comments, I guess, made some, some noise in the industry, ruffled some feathers. I don't know, maybe the wrong way, but it's when, you know, you and I were discussing your potential comeback to the stage competing wise and what it would entail. I think a lot of people in industry thought what you were saying is if you want to come back to a major competition, you want to get compensated for that upfront versus a special specialty event, like a novelty event. Right. So that's, I think that's a confusion is I think people, I don't know, I don't know how they took it exactly, but I'm guessing they thinking you want to get paid to come back and compete at a regular competition against other competitors. Right. So that thing is what's happening here. So, you know, that's an interesting, interesting way of seeing, you know, I think, thanks Vlad for even giving me this platform and opportunity to even address that. Cause you know, I think sometimes people can get the wrong idea and find themselves very passionately fueled with the wrong impression. I think Kai Green getting back on stage is not a question of one, you know, can he beat everybody in the world? Mm-hmm. You know, as much as it can be, hey, here's an opportunity to experience this sport and larger working idea that is a summation of all the things that we think are good about ourselves. You know, the opportunity to be encouraged again, to imagine again, not to be limited by just the sets and reps numbers that we see in front of us. You know, hey, well, how big are your arms? How big is your back? You know, what about the art, the love and the vision of this experience? I think Kai Green getting back on stage gives us an opportunity to see what that looks like, to experience that magic. It's not a question of whether or not he's competing to beat everybody as much as it is that he has a reason to do it. And with that, yo, man, he's able to show, again, an idea that is beautiful. I saw Phil Heath and Jay Cutler in a video clip the other day. Yeah, I saw that. And, man, I thought that was so cool. Yeah. Honestly, I couldn't believe that Jay was in such condition even now. It spoke about the lifestyle. It spoke about the personal development aspect of this experience beyond the stage. It was a way of ministering to me, seeing his example. Right. You know, I saw Phil Heath actually looking like, yo, this dude, are you kidding me? I relived an experience of magic that I couldn't have gotten, you know, looking at some of the other ideas that are being offered in this sport right now. And just for a minute, it was a beauty that I felt I was in touch with that I think a lot of us that are enthusiasts and lovers of this experience at heart can appreciate. I think, so a lot of people in the bodybuilding industry, what I think they think you are saying is, let's say they're doing Masters Olympia, right, this year, or they're doing some kind of other competition. What I think they're saying is that you want to get paid to compete in a competition versus, and they're saying basically it's unfair to other competitors. They're coming there for the prize money, right, and you want to be paid to compete there. What I think, and you might want to explain it better, what I think you're saying is, no, I don't want to get paid to compete in a competition. I want to create an event, almost as if you were to guest pose in any event, right, you get compensated for that, right? So what you're saying is basically the same thing as a guest posing, except some other guy comes out on stage, right, and you guys do a pose off against each other. So it's not part of the actual competition. It's a standalone separate thing, right? That's what I think you actually were saying. So here's the thing. The truth is, you know how they say when the student is ready, the teacher will appear. You know, we each represent an infinite number of opportunities. You know, we just do, you know, through the course of our lives, we're an example of how we think, you know, what we do. Choices that we make are a reflection on how we think, how we process information, where do we come from, how have we been brought up. All of those things are on display, I think, in that example of, you know, who we are, what we do. However you control the narrative, you know, you know, people can say, hey, you were there to, you know, to perform. People can say you were there to, you know, however you choose to justify it. But I think, you know, there's an opportunity in this to have an opportunity to consider again, at least for a moment, that competitive experience, I think, is an opportunity just to consider the art film. I don't want to lose the idea, but I'm just saying that, yeah, it's not something to hate someone about or to create a whole bunch of negative stuff. It's really something that's based in good. And the further development and building of our brands and things are all things to be realized as a result. You know, the nostalgic remembering, the nostalgic ability to remember that experience, what it was, what it felt like, what it can be even today, I think, is profitable and fruitful. For anyone that was considering at least entertain the conversation, even now. Let's say nobody in bodybuilding would step up, no promoter would step up and want to put together an event like this, right? Like a pay-per-view event like this. Let's say that's out of the question completely. If that's the case, is there, and that's what the fans ultimately want to know, right? The enthusiasts of the sport, as you say. If that's not in the picture at all, is there a possibility that you do want to just compete in any event, whether it's Masters, whether it's any company? It doesn't matter what competition it is. Is there a chance of you doing a competition for just to do it? That's the thing. I doubt that you can be in a place that you're not affected by your growth and development. Certainly, your ability to mature and evolve is something that is expected of you. If I had a son and my son were in kindergarten and we celebrated his first steps in kindergarten and when he was ready to graduate to first grade, we would applaud and we'd give thanks for his ability to develop beyond where he was. Now, my son, when he goes on to college, I would expect the same thing. I don't expect to have a son that's 35 years old still talking about, hey, dad, you're going to come to my graduation from the second grade to the third as an adult. You know, I would expect him to accomplish more than that in the effort to grow and develop. Certainly at this stage in my life and career, we're at a place where I think. You should not be expected to be where you were 20 years ago in the development of your vision, bringing your vision to the stage, you know, showing the world how to see you and what you want them to take away with how important, you know, disability to present yourself means to you. To compete 13 years ago, 20 years ago, I think you'd certainly have to have different ideas about what your legacy will be. And certainly at this time, you know, 20 years later, I've been I've been now training and competing, you know, for more than. I care to say. But with that said, I believe that there's so many lessons learned that by this stage in your life and career, you know. It should not be about money. More importantly, it should not even be about competition. What you are is an opportunity to experience or showcase what this thing looks like beyond just the sets, numbers and reps of today. There are still athletes that are working now that would like to see a really awesome example of what this thing can look like by the time that you have had access to so much time and maturation in this game. You know, the process of your prep, the ability to showcase on stage, to stand and deliver. By the way, what did you think of Kevin Levrone's comeback? Remember, he did a comeback. He made a comeback like 2017, I think it was. He actually went to the Olympia. Remember that? Yeah, I do. What do you think? What do you think about that? I was present at that Olympia. Yeah. What do you think about that comeback? Did you all were you impressed? Were you, you know? I think at the time, I, like most people, didn't get a chance to appreciate everything that I saw with the example of what he did. And I think the truth, a lot of us will miss it, you know, if we don't know what we're looking at. You know, Kevin Levrone coming back out of retirement, for him, he had totally moved to another side of his life and personal experience. You know, he had moved beyond the sport for him, the disciplines and things that, you know, from what I understand, in the life of that man, was experienced on a whole new level in a whole other direction. And for that man at that time to entertain thoughts of coming back to the stage, he ended up having to face some very interesting challenges to do that. You know, it was not something that a lot of people will just take for granted. Oh, because of his genetics and because of he's been there before, it should be easy for him. No, you know, I, and I, you know, even though I, I've gotten a chance to meet him and I've gotten a chance to talk with him personally, there's still very, very, you know, significant things about that effort for him that I didn't get a chance to hear him express to me personally. But I will say that now having moved to another stage in my life, I am now in a much better position to appreciate some of the challenges and struggles that Kevin Levrone had to face when he made the declaration of accepting, you know, the opportunity to get on that stage again and do a comeback. You know, and it's, it's, it's, it's, it's one of those things that you also have to control the narrative, you know, because if you don't control the narrative, then it just becomes something else for someone else to use as they please. And, you know, you know, you know, alert the people's attention to the things that will just make sense to them. Kevin Levrone making that comeback was a significant triumph on a lot of levels for over obstacles and challenges that the fans and viewers wouldn't have never known. You know, it's, it's probably, you know, a really good thing to giving Kevin Levrone an opportunity to maybe discuss some of that in his memoirs, maybe some public speaking, I don't know, some interviews, but yeah, that's something. I think what was smart about it from that perspective, he was the first one to do it because the following year, Flex Wheeler made the comeback to the stage and it didn't get enough. It didn't just get the same out of spotlight. When Kevin did it a year prior, it received a lot of spotlight. It was a talk of that Olympia, actually. So I think he capitalized on that, the first one doing it. When you're the first one doing something, right, it's always like unpredictability because a lot of people are saying, oh, what if he's going to come back and win because he's so superior? You know what I mean? It was so much. And I think when it comes to these type of events, anticipation is everything. It's like when Mike Tyson fought Jake Paul, right? The fight itself was not very exciting to a lot of people said it was terrible, but the anticipation was everything, right? Because you don't know what can happen in that ring, right? So that's the same thing with Kevin Lavrone. Like nobody knew what to expect. And that's why I feel like it's so – and it kind of like, you know, to be perfectly honest with you, if you was to make that comeback, right, it'd be so much anticipation. Because like what is – because Scott, you competed last time in 2016, right? So it's been a few years. So it's like, is Kyle going to come back the same way? Is it going to be way off? Is it going to be – like it's going to be so much anticipation. And that's what I think people still talk about this. You know what I mean? If you competed last year and you make another comeback, it wouldn't have been as interesting. But you know what, with saying that, though, I want to throw this out there. You know, we're in a different time in the sport. And certainly with being able to say that, there are new ways and ideas that we'd actually be able to speak to building the anticipation, thus also being able to attract, again, some of the very sound business strategy on the other side of that, that also, you know, becomes important too. But with that, you know, to kind of go in over the shoulder of the athlete that's dealing with some of the challenges, you know. Every athlete that aspires to do something big in their sport and their industry, you know, has to encounter along the way issues and ideas that are, for some people, threatening of the whole mission in itself. A lot of times we get the impression to see an award-winning record-breaker performance of any said athlete, being a track and field athlete, a football star, a player on the ice hockey field. A lot of times we get the impression that we're going to be able to do, you know, some of the things of note while tendering an injury or a set of issues that, if the public knew, it would be like, man, that's probably impossible to do, you know. And in it, in the accomplishment, becomes this beacon of what it looks like to be hopeful, the exercise of faith and to see it, you know, in real time working in our life, you know. Well, we're actually, you know, we're getting almost out of time, but any thoughts on Nick Walker's performance at Pittsburgh Pro? It was some controversy there, I guess. Not controversy, but a lot of fans were split on who actually won. Did you see any footage from that event or any pictures? Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. So who were you rooting for? Or who did you think were deserving of a first place? So here's the thing. One, you know, Derek's my boy. And honestly, Nick Walker is like, I'm just very, very, very personally, I feel like I have had an opportunity to see my light and experience kind of, you know, touch that, you know, in its own way. It is just so spiritually moving for me. Anytime I actually come across the vision of seeing the stuff that he's doing now, to hear and to see what happened on that stage. First of all, his name in the mix brought interest, spotlight, spectacle. It gave Derek something to actually have to fight against. You know, the question of, you know, what will he do going forward? And can he do it? You know, any of the challenges that some of the naysayers, you know, would want to identify for Nick, I believe just really makes the pot that much sweeter. I think what was accomplished that weekend was something that was really good for the sport. It's great for their careers, not just Nick Walker's. It gives us more food and nourishment that makes this sport better because it exists. I applaud the efforts of Nick Walker and Derek. I think they did an amazing job, man. It was actually even score. The score was even, but the judges had the final say, and then they picked Derek. By the way, did you hear what Bob Chicarillo said afterwards? You know, it's... Yeah, I did. The veins, the varicose veins that he was calling out, I guess. Yeah, here's the thing. I think at the end of the day, you know, as an enthusiast of the sport and the business of it, I think there's some things that we need to be responsible about in order not to give our sport and things a black eye. I think anytime we get an opportunity to speak with a microphone and position of authority, there's a sensitivity that we need to have. I don't think with that, though, that Bob was saying something that was designed to be hurtful. You know, but I would want to focus on, yo, man, there's a huge accomplishment, you know, to Nick's credit. With doing what he did. I mean, the spotlight was on him, and that intensity is very, very hot. That position of being, you have no choice but to stand and deliver. And when you have to do that, like Nick Walker had to, it doesn't make any of the other challenges less, you know, formidable. If anything, it can become every reason why you would hear the objections that tell you, don't even try, give up, turn around, don't even come there. You know, this guy's an ex-Mr. Olympia. Who are you to stand there and think so boldly of yourself, your vision, your dream, the passion in your heart, and stand there and try to, you know, go toe-to-toe with him? Are you kidding me? He fought the good fight. He fought the good fight. Sure. I can do nothing but feel uplifted with the results of what happened there. And it's, yeah, I really want to applaud him. I really want to applaud him. He came there. He was hard. He was conditioned. This was not, you know, he couldn't afford to be off at all. At all. At all. You know, and for what he did, he brought it. He brought it and he brought it handily, you know, and it's not set in stone. What will happen? Should they meet again? You know what I mean? And now to meet anywhere else with any number of other hopefuls that are in that lineup right now. That are working just as hard. You know, it's an opportunity to like come face to face with the realism of this game. That this race is not given to the swift or to the strong, you know, but he that's willing to endure. And I think, I think that he's on a roll now. He's on a roll now. And you can't count him out going forward. You be following that, that, that, that, that did he trial at all? I want to get your opinion on that. That is crazy. Wow. That's crazy. You know, I grew up in New York real talk and, you know, the nineties, you know, when being a young man bouncing in the, in the, in the club scene, you know, was, was something that you did. You found this low hanging fruit in an effort to kind of scratch out a living for yourself in the New York City nightlife. As that was my reality in the nineties. So to find yourself, you know, with an opportunity to work on the door at a, at a, at a party, like, you know, at the Mirage or Latin quarter, you know? Yeah. Yeah. I, I, I can say I was there. I was there, you know, Hey, you know, and I was there with the total parties. I was there with the total album release party, an 18 year old, 19 year old, you know, young man bouncing in New York City nightlife, you know, a million years ago, it felt like, um, to cross paths with P Diddy, the P Diddy, um, puff, as they call him at the time. It's like, you know, more than you could hope for, you know, bouncing on the, on the door. P Diddy walked by you. There was one of those, one of those moments where I would imagine even, even then that you hoped to be somehow you, you just caught up in that, in that energy of success, you know? So this guy, like to see him going through this stuff that's happening now, to realize the height that he climbed to, um, and just to see how the whole world is affected by, you know, how he allegedly ran some of these operations. I mean, ah, celebrated, you know, total's whole album. You know what I mean? Does that affect, does that affect now how you, um, cause you know, this, this trial is very graphic. Uh, there's every day that they release and it's, it's impossible to avoid it because it's all over the news, right? It's right. You can't. So does that affect now how you look back at, uh, listening to the music and just, does that, it does, it does, it does. It forever changes, you know, some of the thought things that I considered is what I imagined the reality of, of being at the top of that experience in the spotlight would have been. Um, yeah, I, you know, I, I'm very saddened by, you know, the allegations. I think, you know, um, it'll be interesting to see what happens. Um, has, has, has a celebrity been negatively affected? Absolutely. Is it something that you think, you know, you could come back from? Um, I don't think so. I really don't. Um, but, you know, um, I don't think you should have to give up your soul, you know, in pursuit of developing your art. Um, but there's a part of me that does believe that that's not really the question. I think, um, I think your art is, is, is always going to be the thing that celebrates the deity about you and, you know, your opportunity to exist. Art always celebrates that. Um, I hear you. So we are almost literally out of time. We have three questions from the lightning round. Um, please just try to give, uh, two sentence answer. Let's get it. Cause I want to get, I want to, I want to, I want to address all three questions, but I want to, I want to go through it as soon as, uh, as fast as possible. Okay. All right. First question from Boris, uh, Chris on seven, four, four, seven guy. How, how can you build bigger legs and sparing your knees and lower back and process? I'm 45 years old. Thank you, sir. Boris. So bigger legs while sparing your knees and lower back. I think that's one of those questions we are wrestling with every day, myself included, even now. Um, uh, activate, activate, activate my first answer to that. Activate, activate, activate. Lee Haney used to say, stimulate, not annihilate, stimulate, not annihilate. So the idea immediately, it goes out the window. It was thinking, I need to squat heavy in order to build my quads, in order to build my hamstring. I'd say, focus on building your hamstring, building your quad, building your glute, stimulate, not annihilate, activate, activate, activate. I think as long as you act, as long as you're thinking in the lines of, of, in the lane of activating your muscles, activating your quads, keeping them under, under, you know, you can apply the time and attention prevent principles. You can, there's a number of things you can do, but let your activation of the muscles be the thing that leads you. And not just the selection of heavy duty exercises performed with just a lot of heavy weight. Nice. All right. Second question. This one is interesting. Uh, from Myra eight, one, nine cut is Kai single. Ah, that's what's up. Come on with it. She's probably, she's probably interested. Ah, yeah, that's, that's what's up. That is so what's up. I am actually in a committed relationship. Yes, I am in love. I'm feeling good about that. And, uh, yes, my lady knows who she is. That's right. She's in the air force. Feel good. Mama. Stand up. Do you get a lot of DMs from women asking you out on a date? Man, I get DMs from everybody. It's like, whoa, I feel like Rick James. There's a Rick James in everybody. Just a little bit. God damn, that's great. uh, I just didn't get my invite to the Diddy party. So, you know, uh, I'm still waiting on that one. All right. Last one. He sounds like, uh, either a bit of a hater or maybe a very anxious fan. This is, it reverts back to you competing again, right? So Nero Bruno, how old are you? Question mark. And do you think waiting will improve the chances? Question mark. So this is back to like you competing, not competing, whatever. He's saying like, what are you waiting for? Like, you know, what do you think you are going to get better or something like that? You know? So, so here's the thing. I mean, I appreciate that question. Um, and in the lightning round, I know we're probably supposed to move fast, but I want to, I want to unpack that for a minute. Um, you asked me a question. Do I think that waiting will that improve my chances? The chances of what aiming to be the success that I aspire to be every day when I wake up in the morning. I mean, that's not something you wait on. That's something that you actively put into practice. Now, you know, um, the only chance that, that we're, we're, you know, looking for is the opportunity to do your best at creating the life for yourself that you, you know, being the working person, that the chief principal influencing your life, there's not going to be any more, there's not going to be anyone more influential in, in your life, um, than the man or woman that you see in the mirror. So that said, I have a responsibility every day, you know, to work and do my best, you know, um, and with that, yeah, I think as we evolve and as we, as we grow, yeah, with that should be an opportunity to realize that and even more vivid dimensions. Yeah. Yeah. We should be expanding in our thinking. We should be growing, um, every day. So, and the, the chance that you talk about, the chance to show something beautiful. Yeah. I think every day we have an opportunity to expand and grow in the direction that we want to most. And to, in doing that, um, show something even more beautiful. Yeah. Yeah. Well, there we have it. That was finished. I'm not finished, Vlad. I'm saying this for real. I like how you, I like how you spun that. That was smart. That was smart. All right. Well, there we have it. That was our lightning round. Uh, I encourage everybody to, uh, write in the comments below and request more questions that you want Kai to answer. I think that's, that builds a great engagement and direct communication with Kai Green. Yeah. Look, wait a minute. Cause we still got more. Here's the thing, man. We are just getting started with this. This is, this is not even just scratched the surface yet. You know, now we have a commitment that we're making to the viewing audience that has begun to follow us here. Um, and we're going to continue to develop for the better. You know, we're saying that I can't let every cat out the bag just yet, but we're working to improve even what we're presenting now. I only expect to do more to reach and to aim higher. And we're going to bring it here first with you. Um, so if you've already tuned in and you've gotten to a place where you've at least gotten this far with us, I encourage you to stay tuned. Because yeah, man, the work is about to be done and we ain't nowhere near finished. All right. So on that note, I guess we're going to just sign off. I thank everybody for tuning in at the sound of our voices, Vlad and myself. Um, we want to encourage you to remember to be encouraged, be of good courage, you know, keep it positive, stay positive. And let's keep encouraging each other till next time. Let's keep it positive. Let's do it again. Peace. people,