 subjected to subjected to I knew the boys were going to be okay. I felt confident because I could hear his confidence. After coming off the anesthesia, they told me John Michael had not been placing the ambulance yet and that's why I wanted to see him. I was able to pass him and they said that the other two had been loaded and that they were on their way to Vanderbilt and that's where I would be heading to. So my dad, when he had walked into the hospital, he saw the three angel ambulances and then he saw the one for the adult. He didn't realize that all of that was for us. It was incredible. It wasn't until Greg got there, they put me in the wheelchair and he rolled me to go see the boys and I was able to see each one. They all had their own room and they were on their little incubators. The elf on the shelf, John Michael, was the size of that. So it weighs 1 pound 8 ounces and that was his birth weight. I knew I had controlled every bit of it that I could at that point and now it was a little bit of relief. It's like now I get to let the hospital work its magic, which they did. See, you can see there were today's nurse, today's doctor, today's weather. I had a NICU journal and looking back at that, the things that they were able to do, that feels like a lifetime ago. Matthew is showing great stable progress on the ventilators. Wesson is not showing signs of an infection. John Michael, he did not tolerate the bubble CPAP. All the nurses there were amazing. I noticed I was seeing one nurse. More often she had let me know that she was his primary nurse. That was Wesson's nurse, Miss Cassie. And then Matthew was the second one to get a primary nurse, which was Miss Emma and then John Michael was the last one he got Miss Emily. Those three girls, they would work together. They were trying to make sure that the boys' rooms would still be close together. They were trying to make sure that they were feeding them at the same time. They would send me pictures, they would give me updates and just felt like I had my own little hand in that hospital. After 105 days in the NICU, Matthew gets to come home. His primary nurse was with us on his last day and I was so happy to share that special moment with her. I'll never be able to describe how good it feels to have one of our babies home. That wasn't a conventional way for them to come to this world, but looking back, I wouldn't change a thing that we did. Hi babies! Oh my goodness! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! I bet you remember this play. That was such a scary time because I've never felt so torn leaving my babies at the hospital. They took so much of that guilt away because I never questioned if they loved my boys. See the girls? Oh my goodness. They needed to see my boys succeed just like I did. I'll never be able to thank them enough for what they did. I will love them the rest of my life.