 havelesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslesslessless And it takes five to 10 years for that non-cancerous polyp to become cancerous. And that is why colorectal cancer screening can be life-saving. The next question is, is how common is colorectal cancer? And in fact, it's one of the more common cancers in the United States as well as globally. It will impact about 157,000 individuals per year. And unfortunately, about a third of patients will pass away from this disease. It's the second leading cause of cancer mortality for men and women combined. So it is a very common malignancy. Is colorectal cancer hereditary? That's a great question. In fact, most people presume colorectal cancer is inherited. However, that's a very rare percentage of patients. It's less than 5% of all patients that have an inherited form of colorectal cancer. The majority are sporadic, meaning it just occurs due to changes over time. And that's why screening is recommended starting at the age of 45. When should I start screening for colorectal cancer? So perfect segue into this next question. So the age for screening for an average patient is 45 years of age. However, if you have a first degree relative that's been diagnosed, let's say at 50, and that is your father or mother, you need to be screened starting 10 years earlier than their diagnosis or at 40 years of age. And that is the national screening guidelines in the United States. Has the recommended colorectal screening age been changed? And yes, that's another great question. This is a recent development within the last decade. Originally, the screening age was 50 years old. The average age patient in the United States that develops colorectal cancer is 66. And as I mentioned earlier, it takes 5 to 10 years for a non-cancerous polyp to become cancerous. So that's why screening was originally recommended at 50. But now we have noticed an increased incidence of early onset, meaning those less than 50 years of age developing colorectal cancer. And that is why the age has now been reduced to 45 years of age. So for an average individual without risk factors or any known family history, they should start screening at the age of 45. What would you like to say to someone who is noticing colorectal cancer red flags but thinks they're too young to schedule a screening? Another great question. We hear this all the time. Patients have nonspecific symptoms and they remain unresolved. And the most important factor that I can emphasize to any young individual, if they're too young to be screened, let's say you're 42 or 35, if you have symptoms that do not resolve, you need to go reach out to your primary care doctor or your family practitioner or a nearby clinic. If you have a change in bowel habits, if you notice blood in your stool, if you notice pain while you're having a bowel movement or a spasm-like sensation, weight loss, or any other associated symptoms, please reach out to a health care provider for further information. Oh, what are the screening options for colorectal cancer? So most people do not like to undergo the standard of care test, which is a colonoscopy. A colonoscopy is a great test. It allows the non-cancerous polyps or any suspicious polyps to be removed. However, it does require sedation. But the advantage to a colonoscopy is that it looks at the entire colon, including the left and the right side of the colon. There is an option called a flexible sigmoidoscopy, which doesn't require as much anesthesia. It can be conducted in office. However, you will miss a quarter of the cancers, which occur on the right side of the colon. There's also non-invasive tests that are available. There are tests such as testing your stool for blood, which are available. And then we have newer tests, such as Cologuard, which are available for testing. However, if it tests positive, you still need a colonoscopy. And I think that's what's really important to emphasize is you get a colonoscopy completed. If nothing else is found, you do not need another one for five to ten years. The issue is if you have one of the non-invasive tests completed and you test positive, then you still have to arrange for your appointment and follow up to get a colonoscopy. There's also a virtual colonoscopy, which is like a CT scan, which looks at the three-dimensional appearance of a polyp. However, a CT virtual colonoscopy does not remove the polyp, and you still need to have the polyp removed. And then you have to get a colonoscopy scheduled afterwards. Do home screening tests work for colorectal cancer? Yes. Any screening is better than no screening. And we highly encourage these tests to be completed. They're not perfect. No test is perfect. But it gives you at least a better chance of being screened and to improve on our screening rate in the United States and also give you some ease if you're having some symptoms and you want to ensure that there's nothing of concern there. So we do recommend home screening tests, which is these non-invasive stool tests, if you do not have the opportunity to get a colonoscopy. But once again, a colonoscopy is the gold standard. So why is colorectal screening so important? I want to reemphasize that it takes time for a non-cancerous outgrowth or polyp. It may look like a mushroom or it may be flat, which is called a sessile polyp. So it's just a little hump. These non-cancerous polyps, though, change over time due to exposure and they develop various mutations. And those polyps over basically a five to ten year duration, that may become cancerous. And the earlier we catch and remove these polyps and the earlier if it is diagnosed to be colorectal cancer, the earlier stage you are, the better chance you have of being cured. And I think that's the most important thing to emphasize is screening is going to potentially save a life. And this is what we recommend for all patients. Is a colonoscopy really that bad? So I'm not going to lie. It's not the easiest test to get done because it's no fun to do the prep. It does take time. However, if you get the colonoscopy completed and if it's clean, you do not need another colonoscopy for another five to ten years. And really a colonoscopy, once again, I cannot emphasize enough, is the best test. And you get everything done. Anesthesia is involved. And you will sleep well. It's short-term anesthesia. The gastroenterologist will be able to evaluate your colon extremely well to differentiate and remove any tubular polyps or those flat polyps I mentioned. Those are extremely important. Any pulp that's seen should be removed during a colonoscopy to reduce your risk of developing colorectal cancer. What causes colorectal cancer? Well, a small percentage of patients do have an inherited form of colorectal cancer syndrome. And that is also associated with Lynch syndrome. That's the other name for it. You can also have something called familial adenominus polyposis, which is also extremely rare where you have hundreds of polyps that are noted. But the majority of patients have sporadic colorectal cancer. And you're just at greater risk as we get older. That is pretty well documented. However, in the rare instances that we're seeing of early-onset colorectal cancer, we do not know the exact cause of why this is happening. So once again, if you have unresolved symptoms, regardless of your age, every patient should be screened for colorectal cancer if something remains unresolved regarding the GI tract. Whether it's bloating, gas, blood in the stool, change in the appearance of your stool, pain, spasm-like sensation, weight loss, those factors must be addressed and to please follow up with the health care provider. Oh, what are the symptoms of colorectal cancer? So I think I mentioned some of these, but I can reiterate some of them. So change in bowel habits is very common. Noticing blood in the stool, increased gas, increased bloating, having pain while you're having a bowel movement, weight loss, any pain in general, night sweats, those could be symptoms of colorectal cancer. And so it's really important to get those investigated if they remain unresolved. And when I say unresolved, I would say probably if you do not think it's just due to GI distress, and it's been more than a couple weeks. And then also really ask your family members about your family history. A lot of young people don't think about that. And that's really important to keep in mind. Everybody should know about their family history as much as possible. Can colorectal cancer be prevented? For the majority of patients, yes. Definitely. That's the whole purpose of the colonoscopy and cancer screening. And if you know about your family history, you know that you may need to be screened earlier. However, there are those young patients that have no family history that develop sporadic colorectal cancer. And those patients will not necessarily be old enough to be screened to prevent the development of cancer. So once again, it's really important if you have symptoms that remain unresolved, we want to make sure to reach out to a health care provider to get screened earlier. And then that way, if you do have a diagnosis of cancer, you'll be in earlier stage of presentation, and we can likely save your life by taking you to surgery and or radiation therapy if needed. Is a colonoscopy considered preventative care? Yes, without a doubt. It is definitely considered preventative. Once again, I know it may seem tedious. Nobody likes doing the bowel prep, but it will only need to be done every few years and hopefully even, you know, maybe 10 years if you don't have any polyps. But once again, if there is a polyp that is noted, they will probably ask you to come back in three to five years. But it's life-saving. So it's extremely important to keep that in mind. What is a polyp? A polyp is a non-cancerous growth. As I mentioned, it could look like a tubular polyp, which looks like a mushroom, or it could be a flat polyp, which is what we call a sessile polyp. And those are harder to evaluate if you've not had a really good bowel prep. So the bowel prep is critical. So your gastroenterologist can see these small differences in your colon that may or may not look abnormal, and they can address it. So what's the difference between colon and rectal cancer? So the colon we think of as the large bowel. The rectum is the last portion of the large bowel. So it extends for about 12 to 15 centimeters from your bottom, what we call the anal verge. And depending upon the height of the individual, a rectum can be, as I mentioned, 12 centimeters. That's pretty standard. Or up to 15 centimeters if you're fairly tall. So not everybody has the same length of rectum. The difference is that for rectal cancer, sometimes depending upon the location, if you have a tumor identified, you may or may not need radiation therapy as part of your treatment. And then nowadays with rectal cancer, we are actually, depending upon how the patient responds to treatment, sometimes we can avoid surgery nowadays. So we're really thinking about personalizing care for our patients when appropriate. For colon cancer, as long as it's not spread, we commonly remove that segment of the colon with the lymph nodes that are nearby to get the most appropriate sampling of, to ensure there's no other spread of the cancer cells itself. We also, when we have a patient which may have the inherited form of colorectal cancer, such as Lynch syndrome, which I mentioned can be very, very helpful to know every patient should be tested for it regardless of what stage. Nowadays, we sometimes utilize immunotherapy in the setting of colon cancer, but that's still a little early in development. We know that it's actually beneficial in rectal cancer if you are now noted to have what's called microsatellite instability high, which is commonly associated with an inherited form of rectal cancer. So that may be where a role for immunotherapy exists. But that's, once again, less than 5% of our patient population. How is colorectal cancer diagnosed? Well, a couple things we do as part of the workup. Colonoscopy, hands down, the number one thing we do. Then we get a piece of the tissue and get a biopsy to confirm if we have concerns that this may not necessarily just be a benign polyp or a non-cancerous polyp. We send that off to the pathologist. And that usually comes back within a couple of days, up to five days, depending upon your institution. And then if there's concern that this is consistent with cancer, then we will have you meet with various specialists. It's a very unique approach. It's a multidisciplinary approach, meaning it's not just people like me, the medical oncologist or the gastroenterologist that does the scope. It involves a surgeon commonly. And if it's rectal cancer, we involve a radiation oncologist. We also want to make sure you get the best staging, which means we decide how advanced the tumor is, meaning has it just spread within the colon itself? Has it gone through the muscle layers? Are there lymph nodes involved? Do we need to get an MRI if there's something of concern in the liver? Or if it's rectal cancer, we commonly do an MRI because that is the best way to look at rectal cancer for a surgeon and to determine what actual stage it is. So staging looks at the tumor itself, the extension of the tumor through the muscle wall, the number of lymph nodes that may or may not be involved, and whether or not it has spread to other organs. So those critical factors are how we decide whether or not you do have colorectal cancer and how do we move forward with your appropriate treatment. How is colorectal cancer treated? So if you have early stage colon cancer, and we presume you just have the sporadic, more common form of colon cancer, surgery is usually the way we approach it. If you have rectal cancer that has not spread, depending upon where the tumor lies in the rectum, if it's a high-lying tumor or a low-lying tumor, your surgical team, the radiation team, and the medical oncologist, all together in a multidisciplinary effort, will determine whether or not you may benefit from radiation, whether or not after you do some treatment, you would still need to go to surgery. Sometimes we try to avoid surgery and try to preserve the sphincter or the rectum so the patients don't end up with a colostomy. It's a quality-of-life issue. So we are definitely personalizing the treatment more so for rectal cancer nowadays. Now, if the tumor, unfortunately, has spread to other organs, which makes it metastatic or stage 4, then we commonly think about giving the patient chemotherapy. And that's when we do additional tests to see if there are any particular tumor mutations that can help the medical oncologist make treatment decisions. And that's really important. And all the tissue is always tested for every single patient with colorectal cancer, regardless of stage. We want to ensure you do not have the inherited form of colorectal cancer. If you do, we need to also refer you to cancer genetics. There's lots of different treatments nowadays, and we like to look at cancer treatment for colorectal cancer as more personalized. We look to see what mutations are in the tumor, if the tumor has spread. That usually involves a blood test. We also evaluate the tissue itself. The blood test takes about 7 to 10 days. The tissue test can take up to 3 weeks. But it tells us what mutations exist in your tumor type and helps guide the therapy for us as medical oncologists to ensure you have the best treatment that's appropriate for you. Sometimes we will offer you a clinical trial, and a lot of patients will say, well, what's the benefit of participating in a clinical trial? Well, every single drug that has been FDA-approved had to go through a clinical trial process. So because of individuals that participated in clinical trials before, that allows us to provide you new FDA-approved drugs to improve your overall care. So I think that's really, really important to keep in mind, because there may be a trial that's appropriate for you as a patient that's newly diagnosed. Does treatment for colon or rectal cancer cause side effects? Unfortunately, every treatment that we provide to a patient may have some side effects. It doesn't mean you're going to have those side effects, but there's always a risk. And we decide to discuss that, and we want to make sure that you feel informed. We want the patient to feel informed about the potential side effects. So we often provide patients education materials regarding the side effects of radiation therapy, the side effects of chemotherapy. And we often have patients meet with our clinical pharmacy specialists, which is our PharmD in clinic, who will go more in depth about what potential side effects may exist, and how do we prevent those side effects. We also give education materials about how to prevent the side effects, and we also give you medications to address if you develop those side effects, such as nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, et cetera. Will I need a colostomy after surgery? No, not always. It depends upon the location of the tumor, and sometimes it's just temporary. So it just depends upon where the tumor is and the discussion with the surgeon and how he's going to approach the tumor. So that's where really the surgeon will really be able to have a one-on-one conversation with the patient and the patient's family members to ensure that the patient feels comfortable but understanding what it means to have a colostomy, even if it's temporary or permanent, and how we can support that patient. So we also have a support care team to assist with that. How common is early-onset colorectal cancer? So early-onset colorectal cancer, unfortunately, is rising in incidence. It will impact about 20,000 individuals this year alone. And unfortunately, as of 2023, it's going to be the second leading cause of cancer mortality for those that are less than 50 years old. So although it's not as common as the general patient population, it is impacting a lot of our young individuals, and we need to be cognizant of the fact that this is a real global issue, and we need to be aware of the symptoms that may develop so you can be diagnosed at an earlier stage rather than presenting with advanced disease because we're more than likely going to be able to cure you when you're in an earlier stage of diagnosis. Is there a month for colorectal cancer awareness? And actually, March is Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month. It's a dress-in-blue month. That is the color for colorectal cancer awareness. It's really to remind individuals to please get screened and to address your symptoms if they remain unresolved. Once again, this is a very common cancer. 157,000 people will be diagnosed with this cancer in the United States. So remember, a colonoscopy can save your life. I think those are all of our questions today. Thanks so much for watching. We really appreciate your attention.