

=== FILE: Barton Triplets Part 1 ｜ Monroe Carell Jr. Children's Hospital at Vanderbilt [LenKzc1dVTQ].txt ===

 bix-step-to-daddy, terrible steps, John Michael is our highest energy, very playful, Matthew, he is our more calculated, more calm, the chill one from the very beginning, Weston, our baby he's our happy, go Weston, go Weston, go Weston, Carter, he is the best big brother, getting one sibling has its challenges but for him to have three in a very different way, he's always been an amazing boy, what got us pregnant was the FSH, follicle, stimulating hormone, we were doing those shots, the second round they said there are three eggs, she's like I hope one takes, I took a pregnancy test because it was time and it lit up like a Christmas tree, did the ultrasound and there were three babies, I was having a healthy pregnancy then we found out they were all boys, we were getting the nursery ready but I was on the phone with my sister who had just had her baby two weeks prior, I asked her I'm like what is the rule about contractions again, and she reviewed it with me, I was like I think I need to go home, I think I'm having contractions the way things progressed it was at such a quick rate, that's when I realized like I'm going to have these babies today well I got the call at work, I got about halfway home and Monica takes me hurry, that's all she said I knew they were way too early, I knew that if I had them here they wouldn't survive and so I got here, I found her, got her in the car, so right here at the end of the road and if we turn left we go to Nashville, that's where I really wanted to go, that's where our doctor was, if I turned right we'd go to Telehoma and that would be our local hospital, heart and hospital I was about as scared as I've ever been in my life and I just made the decision we could get to the ER, maybe they could stop the process, maybe they could get us an ambulance that could get her to Nashville quicker than I could the 911 dispatcher who just kept saying don't have her pushed, don't have her pushed, which is easier said than done to Telehoma than that's having contractions to do but so here's the emergency entrance and they, Hartin had already had two nurses out here with a wheelchair so they were, they were waiting at the door we turned right and we went to Hartin which was nowhere near our plan there was a group waiting for me with a wheelchair and it got very exciting very quick

=== FILE: Barton Triplets Part 2 ｜ Monroe Carell Jr. Children's Hospital at Vanderbilt [s79FXWm-TYo].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to I knew the boys were going to be okay. I felt confident because I could hear his confidence. After coming off the anesthesia, they told me John Michael had not been placing the ambulance yet and that's why I wanted to see him. I was able to pass him and they said that the other two had been loaded and that they were on their way to Vanderbilt and that's where I would be heading to. So my dad, when he had walked into the hospital, he saw the three angel ambulances and then he saw the one for the adult. He didn't realize that all of that was for us. It was incredible. It wasn't until Greg got there, they put me in the wheelchair and he rolled me to go see the boys and I was able to see each one. They all had their own room and they were on their little incubators. The elf on the shelf, John Michael, was the size of that. So it weighs 1 pound 8 ounces and that was his birth weight. I knew I had controlled every bit of it that I could at that point and now it was a little bit of relief. It's like now I get to let the hospital work its magic, which they did. See, you can see there were today's nurse, today's doctor, today's weather. I had a NICU journal and looking back at that, the things that they were able to do, that feels like a lifetime ago. Matthew is showing great stable progress on the ventilators. Wesson is not showing signs of an infection. John Michael, he did not tolerate the bubble CPAP. All the nurses there were amazing. I noticed I was seeing one nurse. More often she had let me know that she was his primary nurse. That was Wesson's nurse, Miss Cassie. And then Matthew was the second one to get a primary nurse, which was Miss Emma and then John Michael was the last one he got Miss Emily. Those three girls, they would work together. They were trying to make sure that the boys' rooms would still be close together. They were trying to make sure that they were feeding them at the same time. They would send me pictures, they would give me updates and just felt like I had my own little hand in that hospital. After 105 days in the NICU, Matthew gets to come home. His primary nurse was with us on his last day and I was so happy to share that special moment with her. I'll never be able to describe how good it feels to have one of our babies home. That wasn't a conventional way for them to come to this world, but looking back, I wouldn't change a thing that we did. Hi babies! Oh my goodness! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi! I bet you remember this play. That was such a scary time because I've never felt so torn leaving my babies at the hospital. They took so much of that guilt away because I never questioned if they loved my boys. See the girls? Oh my goodness. They needed to see my boys succeed just like I did. I'll never be able to thank them enough for what they did. I will love them the rest of my life.

=== FILE: Breast Cancer Research and Care at Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center [-NLRV8e3sS0].txt ===

 my mother was diagnosed with breast cancer at the age of 45. Because of the right diagnosis, treatment, and care, she lived nearly 40 more years. Every two minutes, a woman in the U.S. is told she has breast cancer. Comprehensive care from only diagnosis to the latest treatments is the foundation for achieving the best outcomes. At Vanderbilt Ingram Cancer Center, physician scientists are charting the future of breast cancer care. We're discovering new molecular subtypes of breast cancer and mapping mutations in each tumor's DNA to new therapies. And through it all, we treat the whole person, not just the cancer. Vanderbilt Ingram Cancer Center's research and innovation offers families the best chance for treatment, a cure, and the opportunity to live with cancer, but not be defined by it. Because in this fight against cancer, every detail matters.

=== FILE: Breast Cancer Research and Care at Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center ｜ 30 sec [b54deOqvx0U].txt ===

 my mother was diagnosed with breast cancer at 45. But thanks to the right diagnosis, treatment, and care, she lived nearly 40 more years. At Vanderbilt Ingram Cancer Center, physician scientists are charting the future of breast cancer care. Their research brings families hope for effective treatment, a cure, and the chance to live with cancer would not be defined by it. Because in this fight, every detail matters.

=== FILE: From The Simple, To The Complex ｜ Pediatrics ｜ Vanderbilt Health [DcWHj98wNV0].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to they know that solving the most complex problems prepares them to solve any problem. Because when it comes to your care, every detail matters.

=== FILE: From The Simple, To The Complex ｜ Transplant ｜ Vanderbilt Health [HkzDkEQkHaE].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to A band about health, they know that solving the most complex problems prepares them to solve any problem. Because when it comes to your care, every detail matters.

=== FILE: From The Simple, To The Complex ｜ Vanderbilt Health [axSmbBVUQrM].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to

=== FILE: From The Simple, To The Complex ｜ Women's Health ｜ Vanderbilt Health [DxmfM7UgTMs].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to routine. At Vandabelle Health we know that solving the most complex problems prepares us to solve any problem. Because when it comes to your care, every detail matters.

=== FILE: Garrett's Story ｜ Vanderbilt Health Neurosurgery [2YVHRLBQI-o].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to I've been in the National Guard for 13 years. I started having really bad symptoms, chronic migraines, really bad photophobia, and get really lightheaded every time I stood up. Garrett had what we would call an IDH-altered WHO grade 3 astrocytoma. These are really difficult to treat tumors. Every family member of mine that's needed major care has always been Vanderbilt. If I wanted the best care for whatever it was, it was baseball-sized brick that was in my head. That's where I needed to go. His treatment for these tumors involves essentially a multi-disciplinary approach. The first part was his surgery. Follow that up with six weeks of daily radiation plus low dose of chemotherapy. After my final chemotherapy cycle, and that's when I had me, is this really over? That is a special group of people. They're a center of hope, period.

=== FILE: Nicole Kidman ｜ Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center [go4Vg-Bh81g].txt ===

 I'm Nicole Kidman, and this is one of my best friends who's jumping in now, because she's way more important. She is. I'm Vandana Abramson, and I'm a medical oncologist specializing in breast cancer. I work at Vanderbilt-Ingerum Cancer Center, and I co-lead the breast cancer research program. And we're here because we really believe that you can make a huge difference. My mother was diagnosed with breast cancer at 45 years old, but thanks to the right diagnosis, treatment, and care, she lived nearly 40 more years. There's so many new treatments on the horizon, but we need to do everything that we can today to help the fight against breast cancer, because in this fight, every detail matters.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:58.472667Z ===
