 You already have your own training program, but you want bigger arms. Right now, I am going to show you exactly how to modularize and insert arm training into your program to simply get bigger arms. A lot bigger than this. This is just me being pathetic and reflexively flexing. Let's do it. All right, so you want bigger arms. Duh. Let's see what we can do about this by sliding in, by dropping in a modular arm training program on top of your normal program. And it is so brutally simple, it is going to let you choose how much more arm training to do. Only when you have the time and effort to do it, only when you have the time and effort to do it, recover from it in a measured way and continue on. In order for us to create this modular program, we have to realize something that's kind of a big deal in hypertrophy science. It is that effort, volume, and frequency are kings, three kings, for added size. Which means if you are doing hard training, getting close to failure in your working sets, if you are doing plenty of working sets per session, and if you are doing multiple sessions per week for any given muscle group, you are going to see the most predictable size gains from that triple formula. Which exact exercises you do, which exact rep ranges, the specific agglomeration and structure of your program matter. They matter, but they matter substantially less. Because we know that effort, volume, and frequency are the absolute keys to muscle growth, we can design a drop-in plan that drops in effort, volume, and frequency to make sure that you're getting your best gains. Now we ask the question, what would happen if you had four additional arm workouts to add at the end of any sessions of your week? Four arm workouts per week. This would multiply your arm volume and thus stimulus and thus growth like crazy. Now four is a lot, and you can absolutely drop all four of these arm specialization workouts on top of your normal program per week if you like with this plan. If you have the time and you're recovering well. If you have very limited time and you're not recovering super well or any combination of those, you can drop in as few as one of these per week and you'll still get more arm growth than you're getting now. And of course, everything in between is going to be the sweet spot for most people. Dropping in two of these or three of these is going to be awesome for many people. This way, you can add arm size to your liking and not have to change your own workouts on everything else, including the arm training you're already doing. So it's kind of like your normal workout is pancakes and you're trying to get more carbs and more sweet stuff, so you pour syrup on your pancakes. How much syrup is entirely up to you, but you can pour a lot out, pour a little out, anything in between. Except the syrup is arm juice. No, that's called synthol. Don't use that. So here's the workout idea. I'm going to give you guys four sessions per week to do in sequence per microcycle, really, if you think about it. Because we'll get to the week part in a minute. It doesn't always have to be a week. Four sessions per microcycle. You do one, two, three, four, then you come back around to the next microcycle with a little bit more weight, maybe a few more reps, maybe a few more sets, and you repeat the process again and again and again and again. And you can drop any one of these four workouts sequentially at the end of any of your normal workouts. So for example, if you have two lower body workouts and two upper body workouts per week, you can just add one of these and then another one of these arm little blasts at the end of every single lower body day. So now you're training upper body on upper day and upper body arms wise on lower body day as well, if you have the time and patience for this thing. You drop these sessions in at the end of any workout, and then the next time you come in to do arms, you move on to the next arm session. Because we have four arm sessions, you do arm session number one, next time you come in and it's time for a little drop in arm workout again, you do session number two. Next time, it could be the next day, it could be three days later, whatever fits your schedule. You do session three, then session four, then you come back around every fifth session to start on session one again with a little weight, a little more reps, a few more sets if you're interested, and you keep progressing. After five weeks total of hammering your arms with this kind of volume on top of your normal program, you deload, stop crushing out the arm workouts, really recover, and then you can repeat this arm prioritization, arm specialization phase if you want. All right, let's talk about the sessions. The exercises and rep ranges that we're using here and you're going to see here are just examples. But they're pretty good examples, and they're there for good reasons. The exercises I've chosen, the sequence of exercises, the types of biceps and triceps pairing have logic to them. There are many very good ways to do this, and you can experiment by yourself, but this structure is a pretty good place to start for many people. All of the exercises you're going to be doing in the arm specialization part of your plan are recommended to have one-minute rest between sets. This allows you to blast arms really fast. One-minute rest for arms typically isn't enough to get super full recovery, but you're not trying to power lift for your arms. But it's also plenty of recovery such that each set doesn't turn into cardio. That one-minute rest I've experimented with a long time, and I really, really like to get the workouts getting snappy, get them arm gains and get out fast, get a baller pump, and still perform at a very, very high level. In this four-session plan, the first two sessions are substantially heavier in the 5 to 15 rep range. The second two sessions are substantially lighter in the 15 to 25-pound rep range. What this does is it gives you a variation in repetition range, which we think in the research might cause more gains. It also reduces the systemic fatigue, the neurological fatigue you tend to get with going really high rep sets, which can really beat that ass. And it also reduces and manages the joint and connective tissue fatigue that you have from the heavier work. So you do half of your sessions as heavy, half of your sessions as light. You never really accumulate a lot of neurological fatigue from the light sessions because the heavy sessions break it up. And you never really accumulate a ton of joint connective tissue fatigue from the heavy sessions because the light sessions break it up. And to be honest with you guys, just psychologically, it's dope to do a few heavy sessions, kind of get sick of it, and then a couple light sessions, you get refreshed, then you're sick of light sessions, and then it's back to heavy all over again. I recommend starting with two sets per session, per muscle. So per exercise. Each session has one bicep exercise and one tricep exercise. I would do two sets of the tricep exercise, two sets of the bicep exercise to begin. It's not a ton of volume, but remember, we grow in the long term. Easing into a program means you reduce the chance of injury or overreaching early. If it's too easy for two sessions, well, shit, in session three and four, you can go to three sets for each one, and then you solve the easiness problem. It's much easier to add sets in the future than it is to take away the fatigue you got by adding too many sets too early. We're in the long run 100% for all of this stuff. If after a few sessions recovery is a breeze, add a set to biceps, to triceps, or to either one or the other, depending on which one is recovering better than the other. If recovery isn't a breeze, and if recovery is tough, don't add sets. Just doing two sets of biceps, two sets of triceps, extra a few times per week, four weeks, will cause unbelievable growth compared to not doing them. So yeah, there's definitely more growth to be had by doing four sets of each, but if you can't recover, that's pretend growth. It's like going out and being like, yeah, so if I would spend all of my money on a Ferrari, my quality of life would go up. Well, yeah, if you have a spare $250,000, that's true, but if that's going to cut into the amount of money you're paying for your home mortgage and your groceries, that doesn't really work out the same way. So if you can recover from more sets, absolutely try adding a set here and there. But if you can't recover, just do your best with the lower volume, and you will 100% get really, really good gain. All right, let's get into the sessions. There are four sessions. Session number one is heavy. Sets of 5 to 15 reps. That means on a first exercise, first set, going close to failure, shooting for somewhere in the 10 to 15 rep range is really good. And then that second set, after only a minute, you probably won't be able to get the same number of reps. And that second set or third or fourth set later in the program might drop all the way to sets of 8 or 7 or 6 or even 5 reps, and that's totally cool. What I mean by this is you don't have to reduce the weight every set to stay above 10 reps or something. 5 to 15 is a broad range that lets you start in the 10 to 15 rep range for every set that you start, set number one of an exercise, and then let the decay hit you. And it's totally cool if you do as few as five reps per set all the way towards the end. In session number one, you're going to start, as an example, but it's a pretty good example, with overhead extensions seated with an easy bar for 5 to 15 reps per set. After you do two of those, and of course with the warm-ups beforehand, you're going to go and switch to easy bar curls. Again, 5 to 15 reps per set. The really cool thing that you'll see through this whole program is that we're using exactly the same implement, bar or cable or dumbbell, for both bicep and tricep exercises. Which means what? It means you can come into the gym and hog that shit. Someone's like, hey, how many easy bar shits do you have left? And you're like, hey, check out that door. They're like, yeah? You're like, feel free to walk the fuck out that door, because I'm all over this shit, baby. This is my easy bar. Get off me, dog. Get off me, baby. Scott, where you at? What a plan? Oh, what? But seriously, you can save yourself a ton of time, because you'll have the same bar in front of you. Because you're not supersetting these, which would be fun, you get to use the same load that you need for curls or for tricep extensions. And then when it's on to the next thing, you change the load, warm up really quick, and then you hammer it away, allowing you one-minute rest without having to switch a ton of weights. But you have your favorite bar or cable or whatever it is right in your hands, so you can get this done really quick. If I said do easy bar, and then I said do dumbbells, oh, shit, man. The 20s are gone. Some girl's using them for God knows what. Pretend glute exercise. All of a sudden, your quick drop-in arm workout is bullshit, because you're wasting 45 minutes pretending to talk to the girl and being interested in her stories, when in reality, at the end of the story, you're like, oh, cool, yeah. Yeah, Cozumel's really fun to go to. Are you going to use those 20s or what's going on? Overhead easy extension, seated for 515 reps. Easy bar curl, standing for 515 reps per set. Two sets of that to start. Write your numbers down on the RPI hypertrophy app. Move along. Session number two. And you can do the session the next day if you're recovered, the day after, or three days later if you want. Session two is barbell curls. Now, notice, we started with triceps in session one to flip the script, to prioritize everything evenly. We're starting with biceps in session number two. Barbell bicep curl, standing, comfy grip, 5 to 15 reps per set, still heavy. And then barbell skull crushers with the same barbell, 5 to 15 reps per set after that. Mind you, the weights on these are not the same. You're going to skull crush much more in most cases than you can barbell curl. That's no big deal. Warm up to each individual weight as you need it for biceps and triceps separately. Session number three. Go over to the cable machine. Cable overhead extensions for 15 to 25 reps per set. So basically starting like around 20 to 22 reps in that first set and letting the decay of fatigue hit you on the way down. And these, you're going to do my rep match. Ah, what the hell does that mean? That means if you have 22 reps of overhead extensions on set number one, straight set. On set number two, on your RPA hypertrophy app, you type in that MM logo, or sorry, you select the MM MyoRep match logo. It pops up and it's going to fill in 22 reps for your second set. That means take as many MyoRep breaks of 5 to 10 seconds as you need in that second set to get 22 total reps. This f***s your volume so damn well. It blasts you into the stratosphere on stimulus. It is tough, but 100% worth it. So those are MyoRep match. First set is a straight set. All of the other sets after, if you end up doing three or four or five sets of these later in your program, all of those sets are going to be whatever reps you got in that first set, repeated with as many breaks as you need. Brutal. After that, you do cable curls right there in that same place for 15 to 25 reps per set. MyoRep match. Again, amazing psychotic pumps. Lastly, session number four, you're going to start with line dumbbell curls, a.k.a. clown curls. 15 to 25 reps per set. MyoRep match. Those are going to screw your arms up like crazy. For sure, only do two sets of those when you start. And you've got the bench, you've got the dumbbells. Well, shit. Dumbbell skull crushers for 15 to 25 reps per set. MyoRep match. For many people, their dumbbell skull crusher will be substantially higher. So a really quick trick you can use is after you get done with your curls, use your curl dumbbells to warm up for that first set of actual really tough skull crushers. Put the dumbbells away, get the dumbbells you need for skull crushers, and get to cracking. That is the entire program. The good news here, guys, is that in your RP Hypertrophy app, we already have this as a saved template. It is called Drop-In Arm Specialization. It is in the four-day option for the male gender option in the app. If you go in there, you can see the exact structure. And if you want, you can take that structure, add in your own workouts, the arm stuff will be unaffected, and then you can do your own plan by saving that workout as your own template. Look, this is an approach that is going to be super effective if you are diligent and consistent. The biggest thing here is this. Just try to get as many of these arm specialization workouts as you can. You don't have to do four per week. But sequentially, whenever you do the first one, the next time you train arms, you do the second one, then the third one. It could be the next day. It could be two days later. It could be a week later. The more of them you pepper in, so long as you can recover, the bigger your arms will get. Continuing on in this way, five weeks on, one week deload. You can repeat the cycle numerous times if you like to get your arms just a little bit, little bit, little bit bigger. And at the end of that big arm journey, you'll find, I'm not sure what, I'm still on mine. I'll tell you this, the bigger my arms are, the happier I get. If you want happiness, download the RP Hipertrophy app. If you don't want happiness, well, then I don't know. Send me a DM. I'll cheer you up. See you guys next time. Bye.