 autemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplempl sources and real foods for muscle building. Protein is critical for gains and eating about a gram per pound per day is a good idea. And it's an even better idea to split it into four or five roughly evenly spaced meals with also lots of protein inside of them. But quality of protein matters. And because the quality often depends on the source, where you get your protein matters as well. So let's take a look at kind of a whole bunch of protein sources and make this a really complete exploration to give you guys the real world understanding of where you should be eating most of your protein and maybe where you should be eating a little less of it. And then also maybe where you just should never be eating protein. So do you have your ID? You're eating protein here? There's a school here. We're definitely going to talk about those places. Stick around to the end. Scott, this is going to be a longer video. Yeah. Yeah. A lot of, a lot of, oh my God, a lot of protein. Videos, the videos, more knowledge. Onto the video. Oh, sorry. Quick preview. If you guys ever need to sort out your protein and sort out your meals and sort out your sources and take a picture of your food and upload it instantly into the protein counter, the RP Diet Coach app is available on the app store at all major app stores. Shit, we're even on app stores. They only have app stores for. Scott, are we on the Huawei store in China? The WeChat app? I hope so. I hope so too. But I don't think we get paid for that. No, I suppose we don't. All right. I ranked all these proteins for you guys. That does not mean you only eat the top rank. As a matter of fact, the top four are all amazing, but there's only one rank one and it's for a reason. And today's rank one, in my humble opinion, for best protein sources you can consume on average is dairy protein, whey, casein, milks, yogurts, and yes, even cheese. White women get excited. Cheese is on the menu today. And also white women, we have things like kefir, which is the Russian pronunciation for Scott. What's the white way? Kefir? Kefir? Kefir. Oh my God, I love kefir. It's got good things in it that are good for me or nature or me seeming to be a good person. So just buy them and just stop. Can you just like that? Sorry, I went off on a tangent. Greek yogurt's in that mug. All sorts of stuff is in there. Why am I telling you that dairy proteins are amazing? Because they do amazing things we'll get to in just a second. But typically they have the highest quality protein source known to man, which is whey protein, and a bunch of other incredibly high proteins like casein. And dairy, this gets a little creepy. Vegans, earmuffs, I love you guys. You're way ahead of us all. The purpose of milk is to grow a calf into a cow. Anabolism, the creation of new tissue, it really is exactly what milk is designed for by evolution. And so when people say, I got to know about dairy, I know about dairy. Dairy is like almost curated to make you jacked. And if you just modify the carbs and the fats a little bit with some of the dairy products that we have to tell you about, man, you're really winning. Now, there is a huge diversity of dairy. Like, does this mean you should be pouring powdered Parmesan cheese down your mouth? I'm not going to tell you not to do that because we all have to live. Scott, is Parmesan cheese the best thing to put on food or the best thing to put on all food? It goes on everything. Everything. You could be eating a chocolate candy, be like, it's Parmesan cheese in here. Great. It's probably better because of it. But for the stuff to rely on the most in the dairy section, probably go with things like whey isolate, nonfat Greek yogurt, and from Iceland, skir, which is just Icelandic Greek yogurt. Basically, it has a crap load of protein, very little carb. And if you do the nonfat version, it has zero fat. So the macros are absolutely killer. These products have a huge amount of protein per calorie, and they're often super, super filling. For most people, people that don't either have a milk allergy or are not lactose intolerant, they're incredibly easy on digestion. They're amazing post-workout, pre-workout, intra-workout, shit. In any meal, they're awesome. In the evenings, you could eat yogurt sources and a lot of casein protein, which comes in powders and excellent flavors. It usually tastes better than whey protein. In a shake, it's creamier, it's thicker. It digests really slowly. So when you have a huge meal break, six hours you can't eat or you're about to go to sleep, casein is a great choice. Also, we would be remiss not to mention the filtered milks. There are brands like Fairlife and a bunch of other really awesome protein brands that have a milk product, quote unquote. It's not pure milk, it's filtered milk. And so they filter out almost all the fats, a crap load of the carbs, and you're left with a ton of protein with delicious waver. Filtered milks are amazing because their protein per calorie is just whopping and awesome. Now, on the rely less on category, unfortunately, full fat cheeses and whole milk maybe need to be a little easier. Now, whole milk, interestingly enough, the fats in whole milk have been shown through a massive, massive meta-analyses to be really healthy for you. Those are like some of the healthiest fats you can consume. When they get rid of all the other variables, people that consume high-fat milk are actually super-duper healthy, which is really sweet. But unfortunately, one of the big things of health is having a caloric constraint, calorie balance, not eating too many more calories than you burn because you gain weight. When you gain weight, a bunch of it is fat, you start to become less healthy. So be easy on the whole full-fat stuff if you have trouble maintaining your weight. If you don't, full-fat milk is awesome. Obviously, full-fat cheese is just a great way to blow up. Cheese gets like the first slice of the diet soared in most diets, right? Scott, you imagine having a client, you're a diet coach, and they're like, how much cheese can I have? And you're like, this is the hard part where I tell you that cheese is just, cheese has a two punch. One, it's incredibly caloric. And two, it's incredibly delicious. You just want to eat more of it. And three, it's possible to insert cheese into almost every food. It just makes it better and easier to eat. If I told you to eat a turkey sandwich with no cheese versus one with cheese, you would probably eat the cheese one faster and be less full afterwards, even though it has 200 extra calories. It's legit, right? Like it's one of those foods. So I've been eating a dry turkey sandwiches on low carb bread with no cheese. And it's like, it's labor, right? You're like, I'm doing work here. This is an enjoyable at all. Yeah. In addition, sugar added yogurts. Yoplait is great. Does the woman's body all sorts of good in those commercials. But some of the full sugar yogurts or sugar added yogurts just end up being like kids treats. If they're low fat, they're cool for post-workout snack. Otherwise, it'd probably be easy on them. You know, if you gain 18 pounds from watching this video and you're like, Dr. Mike said I'm supposed to be eating dairy and it's all, you know, Yoplait packs or whatever, then you're good to go. But honoring the page entrepreneur spelled wrong on Instagram, uh, gogurt, which is yogurt on the go is the number one reason CEOs have a lot of money because they consume gogurt. Um, there are many expenses you have to consolidate in your life. Um, you know, child support, you got to figure out, is that worth it for me to pay? Do I go to court about it? Things like that. But gogurt is something you just need to consume at all times. Just remember that for when you're going to be super, super, um, successful. Logistically in the real world, milk proteins, dairy proteins of upsides and downsides. The upsides is like you can put them into almost any food like protein bars and shakes powders. So they go anywhere you want. The downside is like actual milk goes almost nowhere that you want, except for in your home, in your fridge. And after five minutes out of your fridge, it spoils or something like that. But yogurts travel really well. And so the flexibility, by the way, for cooking with dairy products is massive, right? So this is one of the reasons why this is a tier one category. You just can't go wrong with dairy products. If you factor out the milk allergies and the lactose intolerance straight up, straight up, straight up. Number two, a surprising twist is eggs. Egg protein, which comes from whole eggs, egg whites, and even egg white powders, which are really awesome protein supplement, have all sorts of really big advantages. We'll talk about those in a second, but there are things in this category to rely more on and to rely less on. Relying more on egg whites is a really awesome thing because egg whites are nearly a pure source of protein and some of the highest quality protein ever studied. That's a big deal. Also, egg whites are this incredible thing that add a ton of bulk to your meals. Scott, I had an egg white puffed up omelet a few days ago, and I was like, how am I supposed to eat this? This is the size of my head. It's humongous. And it had like, I don't know, 80 grams of protein in it. And I was like, well, okay, very well. So that's going to come in super handy in a fat loss diet. Whole eggs, you can also eat plenty of, but just understand that the calories can add up because there's lots of fat in whole eggs. Although for almost everyone, cholesterol from the dietary sources is not doing your body any kind of bad. That's an old mostly myth. If your doctor says no extra cholesterol foods, you got to listen to your doctor because there are some cases where that's true. For most people, the way you reduce your cholesterol is get more exercise, get better sleep, and lose a substantial amount of fat by increasing your muscle and decreasing your fat at the same time. That's going to lower your cholesterol. If you eat high cholesterol, low cholesterol foods, it tends to not make either a big difference or sometimes no difference at all. As far as relying less on some things, don't just do all egg whites all the time. You can, but you miss out on some of the nutritional values of the yolks. So throwing a couple of yolks in there is totally cool. And there are a lot of highly processed egg snacks. I mean, you can turn around any kind of really crappy snack food and it's got egg whites in it. Most cakes are made with egg whites and ingredients. Not enough protein. It's way too much other crap for you to be consuming. So it's not like we put egg in any food and makes it amazing. But egg white heavy stuff is really, really awesome. Tons of health upsides. For this, there's high quality protein. Eggs have an incredibly high cooking utility. You can put egg whites in damn near anything and it just makes it fluffier and more awesome. The downside is that if you consume a lot of yolks, the calories tend to rise, which can be a problem. Real world logistics here are really good. The egg white situation, especially powder, is super, super cheap, available almost everywhere. Cooked egg whites don't really transport that well. So when you meal prep, Scott, how do you feel about like it's eight hours after? No, no. It's 18 hours after you made the omelet for your meal prep Tupperware and you're pulling it out of your work fridge at 7 p.m. on a late night. The omelets don't age well, do they? Like they're safe, but it just, it loses all of its puffiness and it starts to be chewy and kind of weird. Like slimy. Yeah. Egg protein powder is ultra transportable. So it's really, really dope. Flexibility here is massive. You can make scrambles, bakes, protein pancakes. You can stir it into oats. It's just super, super crazy. If you want to maximize protein and minimize extra calories, then you can just use egg whites or egg white powders, or you can use mostly egg whites and throw in a couple of yolks to make your calories as high as you need them. And also it can really enhance the flavor of your food and the nutritional content. It's mostly awesome vitamins and stuff that you get from eggs are actually in the egg yolk and not in the egg whites. So it's not like egg whites are like the super healthy thing to eat. They're just a very calorie constraint thing to eat. Number three in our rankings is you guys probably been thinking this is going to be number one or two and you weren't far off lean meat sources. Scott, did you know that I was in an adult film once called lean meat sources? I didn't feel so good about making the film. I thought it was a really exploitative environment. They yell at you from behind the scenes. I thought you liked that sort of thing. You know, it's like, uh, it's got to be a lot, you know, I just wasn't in an emotional place that I normally am. I wasn't in work mode. I became vulnerable, Scott, and they, they pounced on it. The vulnerability, the, no, the consumer they love it. They're like, I can tell he cracked at nine minutes and 57 seconds. Why are we still on TV? Scott, why hasn't anyone pulled us off and pull off? Am I right? British folks, you know what that means. Okay. So common examples, you guys know all these already chicken, turkey breast, lean ground poultry, um, lean ground beef. You can have pork tenderloin, all kinds of steaks, bison fish goes in this every kind of fish, every kind of seafood, shrimp, crab meat. Personally, I only eat lobsters and protein. You couldn't laugh when I get that out. Scott, what kind of ball or flex would it be to eat only lobster protein? That's sick. For every meal, but Medaille, I'll go further. Someone's like, Oh, I'm thank you for letting me visit your mansion. I'm good on the lobster. I will take you up on a snack though. Do you have like protein powder and you open up your cupboards and it's every kind of flavor, like chocolate, raspberry Supreme, but it's lobster powder. Like you, you have a factory where you make lobster protein powder completely degrading all the taste, right? You still get the fishy aftertaste, but just, and someone's like, why? And you're like, because I have a lot of money and no sense whatsoever. We could, we should drop that RP lobster protein. That's a great idea. Someone's like, it says there's an error on the site. It's $299 a pound. We're like, no, yeah, that that's what it costs. That that's at cost. We don't make any money. Lobsters per pound. Come on. A hundred percent. How many lobsters do you think are in there? Yeah. We need a lobster farm. Maine is so far away. Scott, are you one of these people that knows like where your food comes from? And because, you know, when the fancy restaurants, which I've been to like two ever, they usually like to tell you where the food's from because you're need to know that sort of thing. Dude, I hate that. I hate it. Right. Waiter puts the thing down. They explain everything. Like I just, just let me have it. I don't care. Yes. I, I three things. I have no idea what you're saying. It's not important to me. I don't care. And here's the positive side. I really trust you guys so much more than I trust myself. So if the chef thinks this is good to put in food, I don't give a if the lobsters from Nantucket or Maine, does that matter? Cause you know, usually like, Oh, lobster shipped in from Maine and you're like, is that good? Is Maine a good place to have lobsters from a lobster from other places? Bad lobsters. Yeah. So I actually go to a lot of these bullshit restaurants, Mike, that you hate. And I actually rate them on that. Like, cause it's like 50, 50, some explain everything and some just like throw the food down and walk away, which I love. So they get bonus points. Wow. Just be awesome. And then don't tell me about it. Like throw the food down and get out of my sight waiter. Holy shit. Scott's a dick. Scott's a video guy, everybody. He's on my shirt. No, but facts, bro. I feel that like just as the food's good, man, we're good. I'd rather chat like about life with the waiter than about the state of Maine's lobster industry. Um, what do you want to rely on more from this list? Very lean cuts of meat and plenty of white fish and things like shrimp, massive protein per calorie, really simple prep, but just like inject protein into your meal options. 93 to 96% lean ground meats are awesome. They're tasty. They have some decent fats for you, which are moderation or healthy, and they're incredibly cheap. And so they're just super, super great. Also, I like to eat most of my food and essentially casseroles where it's mix everything together. Lean ground meats are amazing. However, meat is not a carte blanche category for you to just eat. Call. You want to rely less on processed meats, sausages, breaded and fried meats. There's lots of sodium there. People are taking an excess sodium. Sometimes lots of fats, lots of fillers, some kind of chemicals that are maybe not ideal for you to be consuming in high amounts. Fatty cuts as daily staples can be okay. If you can come to eat less carbohydrate and if your blood work is good, but some fatty cuts are like, man, like this steak has 40 grams of protein and 30 grams of fat. How do I macros this thing in my RP diet coach app? And the answer is like, just shit, you're going to have to move a lot of stuff around. It's not something you can eat sustainably meal to meal. Remember this is still a fitness channel, I think. And so for fitness stuff, fatty cuts can be good, but fatty daily cuts multiple times a day, especially as it kind of gets out of hand. A lot of people ask about organ meats. Organ meats can be super nutritious, but for the calories that have lots of fats in them, they usually don't have enough protein to like really just organ meat your way into multiple organ meat meals per day. Scott, I'm getting liver King vibes off the ship. Not protein efficient per calorie. And also like, to be honest, folks, if you've ever had organ meats, there are sometimes really strong tasting and they're not for everyone. So when people say organ meats are amazing, if you get enough vitamins and minerals and nutrients, which you almost certainly already do. If you eat a diverse diet, you don't ever have to have them, but you can have them. And they're awesome just in moderation because they get really crazy for the calories. They don't have a ton of protein in them. Health wise. I mean, meats have tons of amazing nutrients. They have complete protein, obviously iron, zinc, B12 fish have omega threes in them. The downside is that some big predatory fish, like believe it or not, tuna can carry quite a bit of contaminants because they eat at the very, very top of the food chain. Which if I were them, I would just eat only lobster. But then again, why am I judging tuna? They're fine the way they are, I guess. And processed meats are not super physique friendly long-term. So if you're eating lots and lots of tuna, be careful and stop eating lots and lots of tuna, especially albacore tuna from what I understand has a little bit more mercury in it than you're interested in. I actually know one person who ate so much fish during a few preps that they got mercury poisoning, which is really dope in the not so fun way. And so it's not something crazy, but just don't just eat tuna for every meal all the time is what I'm trying to say. Real world logistics for meats are pretty good. And this is kind of where they, I don't want to say they're dinged on, but this is why like dairy and egg are so dominant. Chicken and tan and canned tuna are economy Kings, moderately lean ground beef. You can get anywhere. So that's awesome on cost and availability. Transportability is like, yeah, you got to get jerky and there's just a ton of sodium and it breaks up your teeth. Well, every time I eat it, you can do canned fish. If you don't like your fellow office workers and you want to poison the well with that environment, um, pre-cooked chicken keeps pretty well, but nothing like, you know, you can really walk around with lots of flexibility here, but generally grilling and air frying, take the cake. Um, you can do all kinds of stuff. I mean, you know, the flexibility of consuming animal proteins, meat proteins is like the biggest in the world because most human meals that you eat at restaurants are based around animal protein. So that's a solved problem there. If you want to maximize calories, good God, I said that backwards. If you want to minimize calories and maximize protein, because you're in a fitness lifestyle, skinless poultry is a really good idea. Skinless chicken breast, Turkey breast, white fish, lean beef cuts, lean pork, tenderloin and plenty of seafood. Cause most seafood is essentially almost fat free. And you want to do grilling and air frying that drains the fats. And you want to trim visible fat. If you can, if you're really trying to go lean and, uh, obviously, you know, full on Turkey bacon or Turkey bacon is not that bad full on, uh, sausage and all kinds of fatty cuts, uh, maybe minimize for that sort of situation. Number four, the sword is drawn. Scott, the sword turned blue, like Lord of the Rings. Who's around then? It's not orcs. This joke's going to suck. It's vegans. So actually the sword turned green and it's like saying really nice things. Cause vegans are really nice people. High quality. Vegan sources are a thing. And they're becoming more ubiquitous all the time. For example, there is a thing called TVP textured vegetable protein, which is any number of a kind of proteins that usually complete protein source, usually very high quality, usually a combination of vegetable sources and comes in textures that resemble meat. This is like a phenomenal product. This is a great product. There are many different kinds of versions of it, but when you buy it, you can put it into your rice and pasta dishes. You can put it into anything that would usually have meat in it. And it sort of tastes and textures like meat and close enough. Real world TVP is goaded. You have soy isolates, tempeh, microprotein, which is made of fungus. But it's really, really awesome. And actually, Scott, did you know that potato protein isolate is a high quality protein? Oh, I didn't. Yeah. Yeah. That's a thing, man. That's a thing. That's a thing. Get that somewhere. Yes. I'm Irish. I'm super interested. Oh, yeah. I heard it tastes a little earthy and grassy. So, yeah, the vegan proteins. Yeah. You can get pea and rice blends because neither one of those is very good, but together they're complimentary. And there are fortified plant yogurts with added high quality isolates that you can buy. Those are really common examples of really good sources. When you're eating these, you want to rely a lot on TVPs that have high quality, complete protein sources, plenty of soy isolates, pea and rice blends, and even potato protein isolate. If you can get your hands on it, tempeh is really good because the fermentation improves the digestibility and it gives you solid satiety. There's only so much temper you can eat until you're like, holy shit, I'm full. Vegan micro protein is a very filling and it cooks like meat. And I've heard only really good things about it. You want to rely less as a vegan or eating vegan protein sources and things like plain Satan, which I like my Satan red with horns. Scott, what do you think about, do you like classic Satan? Like eight feet tall, red body, horns and tail, generally a pretty affable guy. Or do you like, like modern takes on Satan, where it's just like a CEO in a business suit, but he has like red eyes from just one perspective. Oh, I said always a business suit CEO. Yeah. It's just easy to hate people that have more money, I guess. I guess I'm in the classic Satan. Classic Satan. That's the one I worship anyway. Every day, I kneel down, as you should, in front of a goat head, that is still bleeding. We're done on this channel. Satan, even the hail, all praise be to his name, his great lawyer, royal darkness, for sure. Canceled all jokes, folks. I think Satan's pretend, but, but if he's real, you feel me? Yo, a fact, check this out, Scott, if Satan gets to be real, Jesus Christ got my back and Moses. You're, we out here. It's a gang. Yeah. You got ganged up. Yeah. Satan, you plan, but we out here. We had Zeus and shit. He's going to light, boom, lightning. In any case, plain Satan, I guess I can't say that. Satan, and wheat gluten alone, have low lysine, which is a critical amino acid for muscle growth. So, that's not going to be good. Not high quality by itself. You got to really, really be careful with some vegan sources because they'll say protein, and then it turns out the protein quality is not that great. We'll talk about that in a little bit. It's a real whole, category. And then quinoa and buckwheat actually have really good complete protein sources in them, but they're very low protein density. So, you have to eat like 900 calories of quinoa to get a meaningful amount of protein, and then you've eaten 900 calories of quinoa, and you're probably crying. I'm kidding. Quinoa's fine, right? Scott, do you like quinoa? You ever had it before? Eh, it's not my fave. That's one of those foods where I think like white people just went out of their way to like find some food that's super inconvenient, not that good, and they're really proud of eating it because now they're better than you for some reason because they don't eat traditional food. White people, you guys take jokes really well. Not all of you. Most of you. Quinoa needs like a lot of stuff in it to make it nice. Yeah. Seasoning. Yeah, if you're at a restaurant and they're like, not good enough for that. Quinoa's included, you're like, how are they going to prep this though? It's like, it could be a throwaway ingredient. Here's the thing. Vegan proteins have tons of health upsides. They're often high in fiber, which is dope. You don't get that from animal products. Tons of phytonutrients. There's all kinds of really tiny molecules in a bunch of plants that are super good for us. We don't even know like hardly half of them, so they're really, really awesome. That whole fruits and vegetables thing is a real thing, by the way, them being super healthy for you. It's usually very low in saturated fat and often have diverse gut-friendly options like tempeh. Not that the other ones are gut-unfriendly. Tempeh actually just like is really good for some of your gut bacteria, so that's awesome. Downsides. There are some people struggle with some GI stuff because soys and legumes sometimes upset people's GI tract. High fiber can do the same thing. Promoting what I call the vegan spray. Think about it. It's not coming from your mouth. Though if it was, that would be even more disturbing. Some TVP products have a crap load of sodium, so if you need to watch your sodium, watch that because the sodium typically makes everything taste better. And watch the added oils, but we'll have more to say about this in just a little bit. Real-world logistics-wise, vegan proteins do really, really well. TVP and tofu are cheap. Isolates and blends vary by brand, but often you can get them really cheap as well. Transportability. Dry TVP transports everywhere. Vegans actually just bring the stuff with them and cook wherever they are. In many cases, that's really dope. Tofu and tempeh need refrigeration, which is sort of annoying, but a lot of the TVPs and isolates are super ultra-portable. Flexibility here is massive. Like, TVP is literally designed to be maximally flexible as a meat product alternative. So you just put it into whatever, like lasagna, whatever. Scott, I've put some vegan lasagna before that was good, bro. Yeah, I've had some that was good. Yeah. Vegan food, I'm not one of these people. You know, there's people that are like, I don't eat vegan stuff. I voted for another president. And I feel that it's super hard if it's tasty and it has good, high-quality protein. I ain't going to say that. I had some eggplant parmesan that was fire. Yo, fact. I was like, damn. Well, the parmesan's not really vegan, is it, Scott? I mean, it's just called that. Then they put their vegan bullshit. Oh, it's vegan top-down. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, yeah. But it was fine. It was good. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, the vegan fake cheese is actually really decent. If you want to maximize protein and minimize extra calories, you can get flavored isolate blends, which are awesome. Just add a couple scoops to your daily routine and that takes care of a lot. TVP, firm, extra firm tofu is really good. Tempe lightly oiled can be also fine. Vegan sources are awesome. And they're going to take a little bit of work. Now, the last category here that I think is, last category? No. The next category is a little bit more complicated. And this is where complexity comes up. It's complementary protein sources, things like beans and rice and similar combinations. Beans, lentils, chickpeas combined with rice or corn or tortillas. Hummus and pita, technically a complete protein in there. peanut butter and whole grain bread. These are options. They totally are. They're ranked five for a reason. And we'll get to that reason in just a bit. But if you want to rely on them, you want to rely more on things like beans plus whole grains because they have a complete amino acid profile when combined. And the fiber is really good for your health and aids in fullness as well. Lentil pasta with a veggie sauce is something you have to know how to make. A lot of times it comes prepackaged. It can be good, can be a complete protein source, can be really easy to throw together in a pinch. You know, Scott, you're a busy career mom and the kids are like, mom, where's dinner? And you're like, you're going to have vegan lentil pasta, you little pieces of... Exactly. Here's what you want to rely less on in this category. You do not want to rely on counting grains alone as protein because most of the protein is very low quality and less combined with other sources. It's really just not usable by your body in the traditional understanding of what protein is used for, like fixing various structures and making you more jacked. It doesn't break almost...  aut aut autopoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppoop to that, some of these recipes require the addition of heavy oils. I mean, if you like, you know, you are from the Caribbean, Dominican, et cetera, Mexican, then like, yeah, beans and rice is a thing, but that shit comes in doused in oil, which makes it delicious, but also not exactly bodybuilding food. And peanut butter and stuff, we'll have a whole thing to say about that later. Upsides in health, tons of fiber, tons of micronutrients, cardiometabolic benefits for many of these sources. The downside is that lower protein density, which can be surmounted. I just wouldn't call these like really go-to protein sources. They're awesome extras. Let me give you an example. If I go to like a burrito place, Chipotle or whatever, and I get their like bowl, I get beans and rice and chicken, which now is more protein substantially by like 10 grams of high quality protein than the chicken alone. That's probably how to do it, less like just eating them by themselves. GI risk from some of these. If you have a ton of carbs and fiber, that's not so risky, but it's a real thing. Real world wise. This is why they make a good ranking and they're still in the mix. They're dirt cheap and super pantry stable beans and rice. My God, they're practically free at the store. Transportability is massive. You can do cans, pouches, dry goods, meal prep friendly all the way up and down. Flexibility is massive. You can do bowls, burritos, soups, curries, pasta swaps, the whole nine yards. So this is a very, very good utility if you understand that it should be a small part of your protein intake and not the biggest part of your protein intake. Maximizing protein and minimizing extra calories with these is kind of difficult. So if you have kind of lentils and bean pastas, low oil chili, bean heavy ratios with measured grains, you can get something out of it. But beans are not really a low calorie food, which is great for people that need a lot of calories and starving. Beans are incredibly nutritious. But man, again, this is where the problem is, is that for maximum protein and minimum extra calories, you really just want to go to animal protein, advanced vegan protein sources, dairy and eggs, because the complementary plant sources here, they're not really pulling their weight. Now, to the rest of this list, which is now officially protein sources. So we had four protein sources, which were like, awesome. Dairy, egg, meat, and high quality vegan. You could rearrange those rankings and still the list would be amazing. Then we had complementary protein sources, which are like, they have a role, but it's not great, you know, super, drooper, contextual. Now we're into the part of this list of protein sources that you should be very careful of, not because they're going to kill you or they're bad for you, though maybe, no, I'm kidding, none of that. It's because they are nominally protein sources, but they really don't have a lot of useful protein in them. And you can get bit real hard by relying on them for a substantial amount of protein. And then you realize what you're consuming isn't high protein at all. Low quality animal sources are the first on this big list. They're ranked number six, but if we had to do a ranking, which wasn't just ordinal, but was actually like on a spectrum graph of effect, this would be like hundreds of feet below the last one. Collagen, gelatin, and bone broth. Scott, how many white women references can I make in one video at this point? White women, y'all are great. Everybody loves you. And you're great. I just do a couple of jokes here and there. These are good potentially for connective tissue health and for overall health and enhancing the flavor of your meals. Bone broth is dope. And if you pair them with essential amino acids, various amino acids, you can actually manufacture them into bars and shakes that are quite good. We'll get to that in a little bit. But if you're counting collagen or gelatin or bone broth to your serious protein target, you need to cut that out because these are often such incomplete protein sources that they don't count one-to-one. There's not even a linear way to count them in many cases. They're very poor for muscle protein synthesis, especially for skeletal muscle. They have health upsides. They have a lot of glycine and arginine content. They might support collagen synthesis, though we're not 100% sure on that. They're usually very easy on the stomach. Bone broth is awesome if you're feeling not so well. The downside is that it's just an inadequate supply of the kinds of amino acids you need to get a full-spectrum muscle protein synthetic response after training in the hours and days that you're growing muscle. So they're not real meat and potatoes protein sources to rely on. The logistics are good. There's powders are everywhere. You can put them into everything. The flexibility is good. The transportability is good. But remember that core value of, is this a thing I can eat to grow muscle, is already kind of a, no, not really. So that's the situation. Had to address those because a lot of people ask, what about collagen? What about gelatin? What about bone broth? And the answer is kind of like, I would just see them as ancillary nutrition and cool flavoring. I wouldn't see them as like, this is what you need to be eating to get jacked and lean. Next, very similarly, are number seven on our list low quality plant sources. Things like gluten or seitan alone, nuts, seeds, butters sold to you and advertised as protein, which happens all the goddamn time. Almond butter, peanut butter, tahini labeled as protein. This is exemplary of that category. If you are going to eat these, again, understand that if you pair them appropriately, like pea and rice protein, you're winning. But if you have a whole bunch of nut butter and apple slices, this is not a very good protein source. And it has a crap load of calories from very healthy fats, but a crap load of calories. Scott, I'll never forget in the nineties, every single women's magazine, a little nutrition section at the end, you know, it might as well. And almost every single one of them and seemingly every issue, I kid, but it was kind of absurd, had peanut butter paired with apple slices. Oh yeah. I remember the peanut butter stuff. Which is, and they were like, it's a great source of protein for those strong muscles ladies. And I'm just like, uh, I think everyone who knew any bit of nutrition just eye rolled right through that part. That's just not true. Yeah. Or like they added nuts to stuff and it was like, yes. Yeah. Boost your protein with nuts. You're like, yeah, this is a fat booster, not a protein booster. It's a low quality protein, very high quality fats. So that's a big deal. Just knowing that guys is like half the battle. Some of these protein sources are very healthy for you, but they're not exactly protein. They're written as protein, but the protein quality is so low, they're not going to get you jacked. So don't consider them as protein building blocks. Couple bonus ones for you. Cause people ask about these and we wanted to do one killer video that you could reference back for a long time. Number eight bonus protein fortified foods and blends, because some of these don't fit into any one category. For example, RTD shakes that have some different kinds of protein could have whey, some casein, some egg, even some collagen mixed in there. Protein bars with all of those ingredients as well. And often a lot of collagen because collagen is cheap. It stores really well. It's actually very tasty and it's textured really awesomely. High protein yogurts, puddings, protein pastas and cereals, et cetera. If you're going to rely on these, rely more on bars and shakes with whey or various whey isolates as first ingredients and more than 20 grams of protein per serving with low added sugars and fats. Things like quest bars, things like pure protein bars. A lot of protein bars are just really, really awesome sources of protein because they're mostly whey and casein protein, sometimes egg protein. And often they have a little bit of collagen protein in them. There is a bar called the David bar. The David bar is like the most calorically protein and protein dense, calorically low bar that you can buy. The taste is something to get used to though. A lot of people seem to like it. And it's huge amount of collagen protein, but they put just enough specific amino acids in there and whey protein isolate that it actually scores a really high score on the typical protein scoring scales. So in that case, if a combination is intelligent, like the folks at the David protein bar are super, super intelligent, made a great bar, then you can have all that collagen and it still makes sense because it was engineered to have all the amino acids that collagen is typically missing. That is not true for all bars. So you got to buyer beware in that situation. You can do lots of high protein dairy cups if it's skier or Greek yogurt based. That's totally cool. Protein pastas can be great, especially if they're enriched with whey protein or casein protein, which is often the case. Sometimes it's egg. That's still really, really good. You don't want a high protein pasta that's enriched with also plant protein because then you don't know which one it is. You don't know if the quality is super high, which you want to rely less on as collagen only bars. Scott, bro, I was in London and I bought this protein shake at the gym and it was a really great shake. And it was like just a clear juice. You know, it tastes like orange juice. And I was like, this is amazing. And I had it for two days straight to work out straight. And my second workout, I turned around the label. It was a 100% collagen. Oh man. And I was like, but last time I realized how much muscle I wasn't growing, which was a tiny amount because the intro workout winner doesn't matter all that much. But I was, you know, Scott on principle, I was pissed, man. Yeah, that's annoying. It's just, if it tastes too good, it's probably collagen. Probably collagen if it tastes too good. Yeah. That's like the only one that you can make. It's changing, but slowly. The other thing you want to avoid in this situation is basically what are called candy bars in disguise. There are protein bars with 15 to 20 grams of fat, 30 to 40 grams of carbs, and 15 to 20 grams of protein. It's cool that they have a little protein in them that is not a health food. It is not a weight loss food. Don't just cram three of them down your gullet and think like, why the hell am I not losing weight? That's totally a thing. The upside here to these products is they are adherence rocket fuel. It's so easy to get bars. I am basically a walking free advertisement for pure protein bars. Pure protein, y'all playing too much. You feel me, hit me up. Your boy, I'm saying, Scott, we're trying to look for sponsorship, maybe? Easy for you to say. Pure protein is dope. I love their bars. High protein, relatively low carb, very low fat. They're super tasty. They're super small. They're super transportable, super easy. I just buy them on Amazon by like the ton and eat them all the goddamn time. They're amazing meal replacements. So huge. I mean, like it's just the easiest thing in the world to take with you. The downsides of some of these bars, some of these combo products have tons of sugar alcohols. If you're in Australia and you eat most of the protein bars in Australia, you know exactly what I'm talking about because you just basically could just go to New Zealand anytime by like opening up your asshole and using the sugar alcohols to fart your way to New Zealand. Safe, effective, good for the environment, probably not good, very carbon heavy. Real world logistics here, crush. I mean, it's the best real 10 out of 10 convenience. The cost is a little higher, but the convenience is just wild. Transportability is just absolutely best in class. Flexibility is high just because you can combine it with anything. You got some nuts, you got an apple, throw a protein bar in the mix. That's a whole food meal. Whole food, good God, it's not a whole food meal. That's a whole meal that addresses every part of your nutritional concern for that meal cycle. It's awesome. If you want to maximize protein and minimize extra calories, aim for bars and shakes that have more than 20 grams of protein, less ideally than 25 grams of carbs, and less than 10 grams of fat. If you can make that happen, hey, amazing. Next, number nine bonus round are fermented and cultured proteins. Cultured proteins are like, oh my word, I've seen this opera three times, or I'm not going again. We got tempeh, we've got natto, which sounds like a nuisance influencer YouTuber or something, but is not. Mycoprotein, cultured dairy, and precision fermentation whey, which is actually a really awesome product. These tend to be very healthy. They tend to be often very easily digestible. They are really friendly for your gut. So if you like to eat them, it's amazing. Also, precision fermented whey usually has the same aminos as whey, but there are methods to make it from non-animal sources, which is a huge deal if you're an ethical vegan. So I would look into that ASAP. When you're having these protein products, remember that calories and macros still count. It's not just free health food. People are like, oh my god, kefir's got like good stuff in it, and go glug, glug, glug, glug, glug, and it's like eight grams per serving of fat. You just glug down four servings. Congratulations, that's like most of your daily fats for the day. So you want to stick to the more healthy products, and just understand counting macros and counting extra fats is a real thing you want. Tons of health upsides. The downsides is some of these things are not so good tasting, and so if you don't want to eat them, you don't have to. But if you're into them, you're totally good to go. So more or less consider this kind of like, hey, super approved. On the convenience and cost and availability stuff, ah geez, a lot of these things cost a pretty decent amount of money. But if you've got that kind of money to spend, you like being super healthy, and you like the food taste, don't think there's any magic in there, but it is helpful for your health, and it's an awesome thing to have. Lastly, I think, number 10, exotic sources. Things like pea protein isolate, which doesn't sound so exotic, but I'll get to the more exotic stuff in just a second. Insect protein, protein, cricket protein, mealworm protein, algae protein is a real thing. What is the status of these protein sources? They're ranked 10th, but there's not a ranking anymore. They're just a bonus. And the reality is, if you have pea and rice blends, they're engineered for completeness. They taste a little earthy, but they're good for shakes and for baking. So they're totally cool. And a lot of insect proteins are a complete protein profile, almost all of them. They're very high density, and mostly they're sold as flowers or bars so you can cook with them or combine them with stuff. It's rare that you have these as like, here, eat a bunch of crickets. You can. Scott, we tried that once, didn't we? It was a disaster. Yeah, people can check that video out. Mike eats strange protein snacks. It's fun. It was now funny. Then it was a disaster. I would rely less on things like single source pea protein by itself, not a complete protein source. I've fallen for that one at the health food store before. And algae proteins, as a primary protein source, they get to be impractical for serving sizes and the taste is kind of interesting. These are very healthy sources in many respects, products. But the downside real world is the taste and texture situation is kind of a trip. There's a bit of an allergen risk with insects and shellfish. And the price is that it's just not really super available. Usually it's specialty market territory, so the prices vary a lot. Transportability is good with powders and bars. Whole food transportability is not that great. Flexibility is pretty low because you usually just want to hide the protein and its weird taste into some kind of blend. Sometimes that works out. Sometimes it doesn't. If you want to maximize protein but minimize the calories, you want to pick formulas that blend isolates, pea and rice or pea with added methionine, which is an amino acid the pea protein lacks. They can keep the calories tight. That's pretty good. Using exotic sources, you can rotate in just for fun every now and again. I wouldn't anchor your protein source to them unless you love them. And then cricket protein is something you can eat all the damn time and it's really healthy and it's a complete source of protein. So it's really, really awesome. Man, that's just about all the protein sources that I've been able to think through. Scott, you got any others that I missed? That's pretty good. We did camel's milk in that video. Well, that's a fun milk dairy alternative if no one's tried it. Delicious. Don't ever buy camel's milk. It tastes awful. I've been Dr. Mike. This is Scott the Video Guy. And we'll see you guys next time.