 g Givenrudez, gurgh, buzii,amentalistr buzii, I know that's what a lot of you guys are thinking. That's what I'm thinking. I read this study and I was like, many headlines will read, one high-fat meal enough to impair metabolism. With science out to end all cheat meals forever. Hey guys, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. Does one high-fat meal, just one meal, nuke your whole metabolism, attacking your blood vessel pliability, and then eventually your brains? Oh shit. Scott, why is it that always in zombie movies there's some kind of scientist that explains the zombie virus and he always says brains in a very like... Brains. Brains. I think it's like the appeal to authority, right? If the scientist is scared, like you know it's for real, bro. Facts, bro. Facts. You're not scared until a lab coat wearing ass mopper is like, hey. Like, oh, this is serious. This shit isn't just pretend. The zombies is real big homies. And on that note, let me get into the content of this video. I will occasionally do one hour long Zoom, full deep dive consult calls. I don't coach anymore. I might coach at some point again, but haven't in a little bit. But I do consults every now and again for elite clientele. Oh, darling. They're usually calling out of their derisibles or private planes or submersibles on the moon. And one gentleman that I was consulting with recently asked me a really, really good question. Usually, folks are smarter. AAF. It's going to say a swear word, but I resisted. See, Scott? I resisted. Howdy, champ. Howdy, champ. This young gentleman who I was consulting asked me if one high fat cheat meal, which he has on occasion, would be bad for his health. Just one. Just one. Would it be bad for his health? So I was about to launch into my, dude, everything is okay. You're going to be fine. It's just one meal rant. But he cut me off and he did it with data. It turned out that he brought receipts in the form of a published study. And the name of the study is postprandial hyperlipidemia, or as they say in the UK spelling, it's lipidemia. Scott, it's a D-A-E-M-I-A. It's like behavior, behavior, or colors. I love it. Postprandial hyperlipidemia impairs systemic vascular function and dynamic cerebral autoregulation in young and old male adults. Now, that's enough complex fancy words for me to get really freaked out and know that for sure high fat meals are killing our children and our old people too. So this is a big deal. I was like, holy crap. Was science out to end all cheat meals forever? He and I talked it out. He sent me the study. I had a good read. I gave him my responses. And a part of the discussion that we had motivated me to make this video for you guys about this study, about the idea that one high fat cheat meal can screw up your health, and about how to think about cheat meals in general and single studies in your health endeavors in particular. Because the media loves studies like this, but they're almost always not exactly what they seem. But first, I don't want to keep this mysterious. So here is my client's full name, social security number, credit card number, account numbers, and the password as apartment front door. Get your notepads out, guys. It'll be appearing on the screen in 2, 1. And here's all the information. Okay. Go ahead and screenshot that. And feel free to just take all his money. Now that we've got that, all the way to the science. Scott, let's say you're a scientist. And you do science in your science laboratory. But your assistant scientists are all AI-enhanced, super-intelligent, golden retriever puppies. But they're like – We get nothing done. They sometimes misbehave. Are you going to tell them, hey, guys, back to science? Are you just kidding? Yeah, I'm not going to tell them what to do. Come on. Golden retriever puppies are an unfair level of cute. Unfair, dude. Like there's cute and then there's why? Why are you like this? But they grow up into such mean dogs, don't they? The golden retrievers. Vicious, really. Vicious golden retriever. All right. Really quick fat facts, which is one of my pickup lines at the club. Damn, girl. You fat as hell. You feel me? And that's a fact. You're – And she's like, did you just say yurp? I'm like, yes. I did spend a lot of time in Philadelphia. She's like, all right, gang, gang. And I'm like, I don't know why you said gang twice. In any case, saturated fats mostly occur in foods like butter, cream, fatty meats, some cheeses, palm oil, which is a thing. Monounsaturated fats are often found in olive oils, nuts on avocados. And polyunsaturated fats are found in those sources as well as fatty fish and very many seeds and oils. Those are the omega-6 and omega-3 fats of which the omega-3s tend to be a little bit under represented in our diets and we should be eating more of them. And then, of course, there are trans fats that are kind of an industrial fat design. They're designed to preserve food. They're really just not around much anymore, hardly at all, because most countries have probably properly regulated them away from human consumption. The monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats are by far more healthy when you're eating lots of fats than most kinds of saturated fats. So just remember that. Now, after a high-fat meal, you eat a big, fatty meal. What your body does with it is a couple of things. It packages it into this kind of transport structure called a chylomicron. And then the chylomicrons go into your blood. Fat levels in the blood rise for four to eight hours. The duration depends on kind of two things. How many total calories and how much fiber did you have with that food? Because that all slows digestion. And the second thing is like, well, how many fats did you have? Because the more fats, the slower digestion, the longer it takes to leach out of the gut. Four to eight hours. And this is called post-meal hyperlipidemia. It's a totally normal thing that happens when post-fat meals. It has to happen. If it gets excessive or it's all the time, it can be bad for your health. But in context, it's a normal thing that happens. There is a typical reaction from blood vessels, the immune system, and the brain. Blood vessels usually get a bit stiffer after a very high-fat meal. And the system that helps them dilate is muted somewhat. In some meals, what this does is it reduces the regulation mechanism of blood brain flow just for a short amount of time. And you might think like, okay, that means that you should probably be having smaller meals with lower fats for long-term overall better health and body composition. But that's actually not true. If your daily calories are controlled for, bigger meals with higher amounts of fat versus smaller meals with lower amounts of fat produce roughly the same health and fitness results over time. Especially on the health side. You can be unbelievably healthy eating two meals a day with lots of fat in them. Unbelievably healthy eating six meals a day with very little fat in them. Everything in between. So automatically because we know that from just mounds and mounds of literature, it's going to be difficult for us to really sincerely believe that one high-fat meal can really screw you up. But we have to have diligence. So let's look into this full stop because there are lessons to take away from here on the margins for sure. So what did the study actually show? The study in reference. Scott, can we link the study somewhere? Sure thing. Thank you, sir. 41 healthy men, 20 younger men, 21 older men. Scott sounds like my harem, a typical harem composition. Yeah. I like my men of mixed age range. And what they did was they measured vascular function before and then four hours after a very high-fat meal. Now, when I say very high-fat, I mean this was a milkshake designed to be as high-fat as you could possibly make a milkshake. So it had a little bit of sugar, a little bit of syrup, and the rest was heavy whipping cream. So it had, Scott, 1,362 calories in the milkshake, which is solid, typical. Yeah, yeah. That's like a grocery thing. 130 grams of fat. That's awesome. There's a lot of fat. I thought it was delish. Yeah. I thought it was great. And almost all of the fat was saturated fat, like literally over, I think, like 120 grams of it was saturated fat. Even more delish? I guess. Yeah. Just like – you might as well just like be drinking bacon grease at that point. Can you imagine another study where they're like – it's just like they cook bacon in front of the participants and the participants are like, ooh, this is going to be great. They just pour the grease out into a beaker, let it cool and they're like, hit it. You're like, but where's the bacon? They're like, no, you're drinking bacon grease. You signed the waiver. You're like, Scott, would you drink bacon grease for science? Yeah, for science. Yeah. Yeah. Sounds great. Yeah. So they tracked arm artery flow-mediated dilation, basically how well a vessel opens when asked, abbreviated FMD, so we'll be using FMD from now on, basically blood flow of vessel constriction. And they also measured dynamic cerebral autoregulation, which is kind of like the brain's shock absorbers that keep blood flow steady when the pressure wiggles. And that is abbreviated DCA. So remember, FMD is the degree of blood flow pliability in the body. And DCA is how well does the brain do that sort of thing. And they found four main things in their study. When the shake was consumed, triglycerides, which are kinds of fats, triglycerides, glucose, and insulin rose, as expected after a meal of that size. FMD, the blood vessel shit, fell. So you have worse blood vessel flexibility. Cerebral pulsatility rose, which means the DCA response that caps it, declined. So it got worse. So brain blood flow buffering weakened, which means you can have more high blood pressure in the brain, which is not ideal. And older men showed more of a impairment in DCA, that brain dampering mechanism, than young men did. So those are the main findings. Okay. Okay. Why does this matter? Why does this study have some good merit? It's very clean human evidence that a single, very high fat, very high saturated fat meal can transiently dent both peripheral vessel function and the brain's autoregulation. And that's very much better evidence than cheap meals are bad. It actually shows you exactly how they could be bad because they have these transient effects that are very short. Now, from this study and the broader literature around this, we can instantly take away some recommendations, some insights that I'll give you right now, and then I'll give you some more later. This kind of transient reduction in blood vessel flexibility, pliability, and in the brain's dampering mechanism for pressure is probably totally fine transiently. But if it happens for a long, long time, the risks start to add up. So probably don't spend all day or all week or all month eating saturated fat bombs. And, like, you would think that's not really, like, revelatory advice, but, like, half of America eats cheeseburgers and fries all the goddamn time, Twinkies and all that stuff. Another one is this. Train before you feast. It's been shown in other studies that aerobic training, resistance training, even high level of activity before, in the hours before you go and have a big meal, absorbs that meal a whole lot better. And all of these negative outcomes tend to be substantially reduced. Another thing. There are other studies showing that monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats, healthy fats, don't have nearly the same effect on these blood characteristics, on these pressure characteristics, as do saturated fats. So maybe if you have a situation where you're having lots of unsaturated fats at a big cheat meal, it's probably better for you. And it's also been shown that higher fiber intake during that meal can mute a lot of these responses. So adding plants to your cheat meal, which sounds kind of weird, but look, big old plate of super delicious Alfredo and chicken and pasta. Throw some broccoli in that mug, a couple broccolis here and there, and then it really does help the situation. Now, what's misleading about the study if you weigh over index, especially on the media representation of this study? This is almost exclusively saturated fats. Many headlines will read, one high-fat meal enough to impair metabolism. Impair in the sense of we could say the same kind of headline could be this. Exercise impairs leg strength. Why? You do a bunch of squats. We measure your strength before and after in a 1RM test. Five sets of 10 squats make you weaker. Transiently squats make you weaker. So the problem there is we can't say that about all fats, and we can't say it's a chronic thing. Period. And transient responses are often the opposite of what's happening long-term. So you could say stress is really bad for you. Chronic stress is bad for you. But acute periods of very challenging work, very challenging school, very challenging training are actually good for you because they make your body respond and make those adaptations. So one high-fat meal is not the same thing as destroying your health. And what about those health endpoints they measure? Well, FMD and DCA are meaningful signals that if you keep this up chronically, bad things will happen to you, but they're not exactly heart attacks and strokes. And the meal composition is a little bit extreme. Almost all saturated fats is going to be a wacky thing. Now, it's not alien because burger, fries, shake altogether. Man, yeah, you're doing 130 grams of fat or thereabouts in many cases. But there are lots of other contents in that food. And so if your idea of a high-fat cheat meal is 130 grams of fat, now that's a lot of fat. Most people in the fitness industry, their idea of a high-fat meal is like 50 grams of fat. And that has not nearly the same effect. So if it's 50 grams of fat except taken in with fiber, high protein, after training earlier in the day, and it's plenty of monounsaturated or polyunsaturated fats, like just basically none of this applies. And you're super 100% good to go. By the way, Scott, one thing – have you ever had this happen to you, dude, where you're like a god into fitness and macros and then you just see the matrix all the time and you can never see junk food the same way again? No, I mean I'm not into fitness or macros. So maybe one day. No, but it's overrated. It's overrated, I say. It's f*** though, right? Like you look at a regular bag of chips. And you're like, damn it. You're like, this is 86 grams of fat in here. People are just munching. You look at someone at the game who's having like tater tots and a hot dog and you're like, that's 900 calories just from fat. I mean I sat beside someone on a plane for like four hours and they just ate like a bag of chips and then like a bag of gummy bears and then like a candy bar and then like a regular soda. And I'm like, how? You're just out here to live your life. Yeah. One of the – I was on – and you guys maybe will link this, but I was on the Trigonometry podcast a while back. And they were asking me about what's the actual cause of obesity. And I was like, you know, it's unlikely that it's like we're being poisoned somehow by some kind of like external like exogenous thing. It's just one little ingredient in our food. It's like, you know, RFK is trying to get rid of like, you know, high fructose corn syrup in the diet and stuff. And it's like that's like cool. I guess it's an interesting idea. But like man, if you see real Americans eat, you're like, I don't think it's a corn syrup, man. I think they just eat. You eat 900 pounds of candy on a flight that lasts two and a half hours. What are we going to – what in there is going to – there's no need to suspect why you're like this. I've literally seen multiple grown women eat like 4,000 calories of candy on a cross. Yes. That's continental flight. Yes. What the hell? Yes. Like unless you're not eating anything the rest of the day, that's still two days of food. And I know, bitch, you've eaten. And like look, we're all human. We all eat weird shit. It's just there's no reason to suspect that it's crazy, right? There's no magical thing, you know? So how can you sanity check future studies that have the one meal at a time claim? One meal of X by Z could kill you. I want you to ask at least six questions. One is who were these people or the study subjects and how confident are we? Are they in your demographic? Are they females age 45? Are they males age 22? Are they mice? Are they cells? Almost no media will put that into the headline. You look into it. If they're mice, your confidence needs to get lower. If they're cells, your confidence needs to get a lot lower. It's cool, interesting results, but it's not exactly applicable to your life. What exactly was eaten? The fat type, the carb type, the protein type, the grams, the rest of the plate. Are there fiber? Are there healthy oils? Are there polyphenols? Is there protein? Was alcohol involved? Here it was heavy cream and 130 grams of mostly fats. Like that's a very, very unique meal that most people – I mean, look, people cheat. They eat some bullshit. But not exactly everybody is drinking heavy cream, you know? When were things measured? Minutes? Hours? Was it four hours after? Was it the next day? Because if you had measured these people the next day, you realize that the next day, the transient stuff is gone completely. If you measure inflammation from working out right after working out or four hours after, you realize that lifting weights and running endurance is the most inflammatory event you can do to your body. You can be like, holy shit, inflammation is really bad. But if it's chronic inflammation, acute, it's totally fine. Was there a comparator? Did they test this against a low-fat meal? Did they test this against a meal of healthy fats? That did not happen. So the study is more limited in its conclusion. What were the endpoints? Are they examining actual things that will kill you or predictors of predictors that could kill you if they were chronically elevated for years instead of acutely blipping once, which is what this study did? And just remember, almost every time. This is a thing that I hope gets clipped into a real. When you read a headline in the news, scrolling your feed about a study, you will almost always see the most exaggerated, bombastic, over-the-top version of whatever truth was in that study to begin with. When you look into the study itself, almost always the extremity of the claim gets reduced either substantially or completely to nothing. Remember that fact. Because it's going to serve you really well in analyzing all sorts of claims. Anytime someone's like, did you know that brr, brr, brr, brr, brr, brr? You could be like, I bet it's not as extreme. And almost every time, you're going to win that bet. So anytime you see a really crazy headline that says, one meal, enough to ruin your metabolism, you're going to look into it and you're probably going to find that, like, actually in the context of a healthy diet, this is totally fine. And only if you do a bunch of cheat meals for years on end is it going to hurt you. Which brings me to my next point. The big cheat meal question. Is one or two cheat meals a week going to mess me up? Because I know that's what a lot of you guys are thinking. That's what I'm thinking. I read this study and I was like, I'm going to get lean. And after I get lean, I'll take some pictures. And then I'm going to have a pizza. No, that's going to kill me. I'm going to breathe air and misery. And I think that's probably healthy, I guess. So what is the deal with cheat meals? The short answer here to the question of, is one or two cheat meals a week going to mess me up? Is no, not in a context in which you do regular lifting, get plenty of activity, 10,000 steps a day or so. Get good sleep. An overall high quality diet with plenty of protein, plenty of fiber, plenty of fresh veggies and fruits and whole grains. And a stable body weight that is at a healthy weight. If you have all those things going for you, you are probably not going to get affected basically at all by cheat meals on occasion. If you don't have all this going for you, you should be working at your life to get these things going for you because they're critical to your health and longevity. A single, very high saturated fat meal can temporarily ding vessel function in the brain's blood flow buffering for a few hours. That doesn't mean atherosclerosis or cognitive decline. It's a short-term state change. It's most relevant if you stack the exposure or pair it with other hits. Dehydration, in addition to that, at the same time, alcohol, all day sitting. Scott, no more Vegas pool parties, I guess. Aww. What happens at Vegas pool parties other than dehydration, alcohol, all day sitting, and junk food? Uh, cancerous sunburn. Right. Damn, dude. You would think like, man, Vegas pool party is a healthy thing and you're like, nothing about it. I don't think anyone thinks that. I don't think anyone's thinking that at all. Here's another thing. Composition matters. If you want to be extra super healthy, you can have big, delicious cheat meals built around monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats. Olive oils, nuts, avocados, fish, and include plenty of plants. And the acute blood vessel story looks much better than a cream-centric meal. And there's a lot of amazing, delicious food that you can eat that meets that criteria for sure. Context also helps. Moving your body a bunch earlier in the day or just on average through your life leading up to that point meaningfully improves your ability to buffer post-meal fat boluses. In very unhealthy people, this thing is way worse. In super healthy people that are physically active all the time, especially that have a high degree of muscle mass, this thing is a blip on the radar. So if you're going to cheat and you want to cheat smart, like you can just cheat and eat like a bunch of tacos and it just does not matter in the grand scheme as long as you're doing a healthy lifestyle. But if you really, really want to just at the subtle margins enhance the health value of your cheating, here are a couple of recommendations. Train the day of. Super tons of lifting, super tons of steps, super tons of cardio is going to do a lot of preparative work in order to make this not hit nearly to the same extent. If you want, choose your fats more wisely. Consider olive oil heavy foods of which Scott – how many foods that are heavy in olive oil are actually delicious? Like a thousand or whatever? That's like every Italian food or something. Lean into fish and avocado if you can. All you can eat sushi is an amazing choice. That's not nearly as bad as some other option. Adding plants and protein. The thing is about adding protein is like most good cheat meals have a ton of protein. Burgers have a ton of protein. Steaks have a ton of protein. Pastas have a ton of protein. You know, grab you a protein drink of your choice to pair with it or afterwards and you're good to go. There's just a – it's a total thing. So, I don't know. Like if you just have fries, I guess you're a Caucasian female and that's cool too every now and again. But protein is really easy to add and having some plants in there typically makes the meal feel better. I'm telling you, sushi is winning all these categories right now. Another one is don't chain your feasts. If you have a whole – like Scott, when my friends and I get together typically on New Year's, a lot of times for like two or three days straight, we would just have a ton of delicious junk food for two or three days straight. And I tell you what, man. Every year it puts me on AI'm not having junk food for another three months afterwards. Yeah. It will do that. It will do that. If you are a health conscious person, you actually can't sustain that. So, I wouldn't even worry about that. But like if you're really tempted, just have like really good food throughout the day, some protein shakes and stuff and then one big ass delicious meal that's whatever and you're really good to go. Yeah. Having junk all day long every day is the way to get into the bad stuff. And, you know, knowing the red flags is a good idea if someone has a very high fasting triglycerides, not in good health, prior pancreatitis, familial lipid disorders, uncontrolled high blood pressure. Or, yeah, you want to keep the indulgences low until those things get sorted out. If you need help with your diet, the RP Diet Coach app is just a click away in the description of this video. And I will see you guys next time. And go eat a cheat meal. And then make it smart if you like. But if not, your healthy lifestyle is going to carry you through. Peace out. Bye. Thank you.