 Hey guys, I'm Dr. Mike here for RP Strength, and I'm a sport scientist who goes to the gym to try to get jacked. But, just because I'm science-based, doesn't mean I'm hashtag science-based. What the hell is that? It turns out I just don't know a whole bunch of exercises that are hashtag science-based. On the old TikTok, Scott the video guy found a whole bunch of them for me, I'm gonna try them today, and see how much I can learn and maybe how much I can unlearn of the insane stupidity that no longer will follow. But maybe some good stuff too. Hey, be easy, Mike. Alright, let's go. Let's science it up. You guys know when you look at a, like a thumbnail for a video that has the person doing the exercise not moving yet, and you're like, if I was paid a lot of money to figure out what's gonna happen next, I actually just don't know. So this is S-tier Exercise Prayer Hand Emojis. And he looks winched into place through a variety of levers. I've got this strap. What the f*** is going on? So there's like a, like a systematized way to analyze exercises. And one of the ways is like the time it takes to set up and warm up is a cost against the exercise. Exercises like dips, close grip pushups, inverted skull crushers. They just like take so little time to set up and warm up for that like they, they win on that count. And so here, I mean, that's just a f***ing unmitigated disaster. Let's see how long it takes to set up. Okay, we're on the clock. Okay. And then this individual is controlling the eccentric. Not a ton. So I think that's fine. They're doing a fine job there. It could be better. It's a lot of emphasis on the concentric. Yeah. I mean, towards the end there, there's not really much eccentric control. And you can tell there's not a lot of eccentric control towards the stretch. So that's not great because that's where we know eccentric control actually has the most influence because high forces at closer to the stretch cause more hypertrophy in almost every study. The other thing is like they've set the situation, the cam too low. And so you notice they're only coming to a little bit more acute of an angle than 90 degrees at the top, where this young gentleman could absolutely come all the way up. Now, I think it's really neat that they have the strap that prevents them from coming forward. The problem with that is that strap preventing you from coming forward removes the action of the muscle that would prevent you from coming forward. And that muscle happens to be the long head of the triceps. Yeah. It's cool. This thing's neat because it like prevents me from having to use my tricep to stabilize. I guess. But it's purely extension function. Feels real stable. No, Scott. God damn it. I feel like I'm being tortured. Get me out of here. It is a stable setup. And so it's true that you'll recruit lots of motor units this way. Recruitment and stimulus are two different things. You can actually recruit all of your motor units doing a near lockout isometric press. But that doesn't cause as much hypertrophy as a dynamic press that goes into a fuller stretch. So it's just kind of like motor unit recruitment is dope. It's not the only factor in the equation. I would just say that if I was to modify this exercise and really increase motor unit recruitment, I would just do a skull crusher on a smith machine. Yeah, I mean, it just feels annoying and the cuff hurts. I guess, you know. So how do we rate it? Oh, it's tough, tough rating. Can I give a dual rating? Yeah. I guess, I guess, I guess. On straight up efficacy, like once you get in here, how much muscle can you grow with this? I'd say it's like a seven or an eight. It's a nice exercise. On setup time and complexity, like a two, you know? There's probably more complicated ways to train. I just can't think of any offhand. That's it. That was gross. All right. How the do I get out of here? I'm going to go. Okay, POV, you try to do some science-based exercises around old school lifters. That guy's not having it. Scott, what muscle is that for? That's your assignment. All right, so it's kind of like a little bit of a pack fly. I think it's probably, this guy probably thinks it's for the lats, which it probably is to some extent. What I like about this exercise is that the vector is roughly orthogonal to the limb at the most stretched part of the movement, though that's not the most stretched part of the muscle by long shot because your lats don't stop here. They stop up there. And then the lift would get progressively easier as the concentric went in, which is a really good force curve. That's really swell. All right. All right. Did he go higher than this? Yeah. How does it feel? Uh, not great. It feels weird on my elbow, but I'm sure that's just like a warm-up thing. I feel my tricep a lot. There's like this universe of lat stretch I'm missing, which I'm used to, where like it's the most effective, but we can't go there because that's not hashtag biomechanics. It's some shit. This dumbass shit. Get out of here. Going for the door. Help. Real quick, fellas. This might apply to a lot of these. To be science-based means you take all of the scientific knowledge that you have about stability, about range of motion, about stimulus to fatigue ratio, about stimulus to time ratio, like how much time you're spending in the gym, about how something feels for your body, detecting joint pain versus muscle pain, about ranges of motion, and about the vectors that you can impose into various muscles through cables and angles. You take all of that together, and what comes out of that integrated analysis is science-based. A lot of these videos just take kind of cable setups that like nominally or notionally like stimulate a muscle. They're like, let's do this. So cable like this. That's part of the picture, and it's not wrong. It's just not the whole picture. And so like if you have a situation where you have like a door in your house that's wired to like an electrical opening system, and you press a button and the door creaks open and it takes like a while, and you're like, why don't you just push the door open? And you're like, what's science-based? And they're like, what's the science? You're like, electricity. You know, like Thomas Edison, you're like, right, yeah. But you know, because science is our way of inspecting the entire universe, anything in the universe can be kind of science-based if you think about it. And even a lot of bro-lifting makes a ton of sense from a scientific perspective. And so when you call something science-based, what you mean by science is like, let's say like inferential diagrammatical biomechanics, which means like you're inferring that based on some diagrams from biomechanics, this could train this muscle. And you just kind of accept as religious faith that it does do this better than others. And that's not really science-based. And that's hashtag science-based. Now you're really winning because everyone knows you do science. No one ever wants to mistake you for doing actual weighted pull-ups, some shit like that. Yeah, science says that works, but that's regular science. And bitches with, you know what I'm saying, that shit down there between their legs, they don't come out for those folks. But these hoes out here for the science-based, hashtag science-based crowd, man, wall-to-wall bitches, you feel me? Let's go get laid, Scott. Let's do a few more of these. Quote, science-based lifters don't train hard, but ugh, which, you know, people say, and then this guy says, I definitely put more effort into this set than your fourth set of 10 reps. Like, okay. Who's he talking to, Scott? That was a hard set. The range of motion is very limited, especially at the top. If they've looked into the literature as likely misinterpreting a study on pullovers, because the studies are done on EMG, and EMG is terribly predictive of actual muscle hypertrophy, the part of the range of motion he's doing looks good. He's doing that holding the thing thing. Scott, there must be somebody jacked out there telling them to do this, right? There's some guy or someone. Yeah. Yeah. Um, and so the holding the thing, I think is great, great idea. He says he put more effort into the set than your fourth set of 10 reps. It looks like he put in a lot of effort. Never can tell. It does look like he had trouble hitting that end range of motion at the end. And I think his next rep would have been bad technique. And so I think he actually went like, this is like a zero RIR set in the proper understanding. So this is cool. This guy's working really hard. I like it. It's just that the idea that like not reaching up all the way is going to like deactivate your lats is just, was just wrong. Scott, can you give me one of those shits, man? Oh, f***. Ow. Oh, f***. Ow. Believe it or not, there are other muscles that you also want to hypertrophy and, and ranges of motion. Like if your lats aren't growing a ton, there are other muscles in the back that'll take over. Your rear belts will grow a ton there. Your triceps will grow a ton. It's like avoiding range of motion to just like zonk the lats is both wrong. And even if it was true, it would be short sighted. We're going to try this and we're going to be science-based real goddamn soon. Also, is he wearing, Scott, he's wearing, uh, uh, like air cargo, like noise canceling headphones. Because he can't be bothered. The RP Hypertrophy app has dozens of pre-made workout templates to help you build a plan faster than any other training software allows. But you can customize each plan exactly to your needs by prioritizing and deprioritizing any muscles you like to train, choosing the exact exercises you'd like to use, and customizing the volumes you employ at every single step of the process. If you're looking to bring up lagging muscle groups, look no further than the RP Hypertrophy app. Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. Okay. Can I improve this? Yeah. Okay. Get rid of this bench. We don't need that. I'm going to take the cuff. I'm going to back away from this thing and lean down. So we get both a full lat stretch and there is a 90 degree ish plane here. That means it's going to be tough at the top and easiest at the bottom. And then we can even do shout out to coach Kasim for this one. Instead of standing out here, we can rotate across to pre-stretch the lat. Give coach Kasim a follow. He's great at this kind of shit. And then you're going to sink down to generate some tension. Notice big lat stretch crossing like this. Boom. Control. Big stretch. Control. Turn into the movement. Yeah. Now we're fucking rolling. Beautiful. Big stretch up here. Stay low to catch that lat. Oh my God. I felt that one. And then my favorite part. Scott, can you give me one of them shits, man? Oh, f**k. Y'all TikTok gym scientists cooked with this one, bro. Okay. That was actually cool. Elevated heels on the plate mean more quad range of motion. He's not going all the way down. He should be. We'll fix that. And the bar is on his upper thighs, which makes this a non-axially loaded exercise. Doesn't load the spine. So you can like put in a lot of volume here and not have your back be limiting factor and get tired, which is really good. I do suspect that with a meaningful amount of weight, this would really hurt your upper thighs. And maybe like that would prevent you from doing as many reps as you would like. So let's set it up, see how it looks, see if we can maybe make it a little better. And this is an exercise I could see myself hypothetically doing if that bar doesn't feel like total s**t there. If it does, it's going to be no for me, dog. Let's go get hashtag science based. So this is kind of cool. My heels do come up off the bottom, which I think is not a big deal because it's already sissified squat. And the really interesting thing this exercise does is that the bar will fall off of you if you go all the way to lockout. So if I go to lockout, it'll slip. And this actually keeps you doing two things. One, it'll also slip potentially if you sit back. And remember for quads, you want to sit forward. So this actually rewards two things. One is forward knee position of the quads. And two is two thirds bottom length and partials. So if I stay here and I really let my knees come through, my arms are almost like not even having to do anything here. And if you potentially put a pad on this bar, fuck man, could be a decent exercise. He does have the, uh, the ability to rack at the bottom when he goes to failure. Uh, but if he went to failure, failure sort of by accident, uh, I don't know if he could rack it. Actually, he would be real stuck in there. That would suck. I guess a little bit of a downside of this exercise is, um, it does keep your torso bent, which means it's really kind of like a partial squat at the bottom. The advantage of a sissy squat, especially a sissy squat in a machine, is that you can keep a forward hip position at the bottom, which means that you hit this middle part of your quad. It typically just goes into insufficiency and doesn't get very stimulated when your hips are bent at the bottom. So unfortunately this movement can't really replace leg extensions. Not terrible. Um, these hurt. Definitely the upper thigh is a sensitive area. So if I got me a bar pad, could make it work. It just doesn't like have any kind of like, um, obvious superiority to entire swaths of quad movements. So I just, this is cool. And realistically, just not a very difficult setup. Fucking 125 pounder, 45 pounder here, put some weight on the bar, get in there and do the shit. No problem. So we're not just here to rag on hashtag science based. Some of the shit is dope. This seems to work. As long as your upper thighs aren't kind of limiting your ability to try because it's too painful. This is nice. Science approved. If you hate science based lifting because it looks silly, just say you don't want it bad enough. Okay. I don't want it bad enough. I like this. I like this exercise. Why? This person is a pretty stable position. They are actually putting the lever arm where it's supposed to be. So that the very top, you get maximum tension at the lengthened position. And at the very bottom, it's actually almost no tension at all. So the force curve drops off from stretch to contracted. And that's really, really good. The cuff situation is like what I would say, like needless. Just say you can just have a handle that you hold because your, your wrists probably are not the limiting factor in this exercise. If you think they're the limiting factor because you can use more load with a cuff, that's just because the cuff is lower towards the fulcrum and it just like physics, you can move more load, but that doesn't mean your muscles are trying any harder. He's got a lot of setup there with the different kinds of blocks and stuff. And obviously this, this like row bench was not designed for any of this. Um, got my dildo shit here. Hello. I'm just going to do triceps here. Yeah, no. Yeah. Triceps. Seriously. Science. The modern age. Again, my typical questions are like, how many sets are you doing to try to grow your triceps? And if the setup is this complicated and you have to reposition the cuff over and over, oh, that doesn't work. Between arms. Like, is he resting? Is this my rep match? Is he my repping? Is he resting with short breaks? That's what I would do. Once, once you got me in that setup, I'd be in there for five minutes per arm, taking 10 second breaks and then keep cranking reps. Who's going to give me this? Scott, can you give me one of shits, man? Changing the weight would be really difficult because you have to get up, undo the whole setup, change the weight. Warming up is difficult. And so just because something looks silly and sciencey doesn't mean it works particularly well. I think that if you have candidates like skull crushers, barbell, easy bar, inverted skull crushers, dips, JM presses, push downs of various kinds, dumbbell skulls of various kinds, behind the neck extensions with barbells, dumbbells, then this exercise ranks somewhere in the pretty good, but just not better than any of those because most of them actually have that same force curve where they're tough at the bottom and easier at the top. And so this is like really going out of your way to go and just have a fine time doing a decent exercise. Yeah. I liked it when he did it. Yeah. Yeah. Scott, come up. I don't want to do this anymore. All right, guys, that was really fun. And here's the thing, man. Science-based, hashtag science-based, it's all good. The way to choose exercises is to see if typically exercises are good. If you can generate a lot of tension at the stretch, not mandatory, have a good range of motion, not mandatory, but all these things add up. The exercise is stable at the joints required and you feel strong doing it. Very, very good idea. You can progress through the exercise. And really importantly, you feel the muscle tension and or burn through the set. And then after multiple sets, your muscle fatigues substantially so that performance on the exercise and other exercises for that muscle go down. As long as your joint connective tissue pain isn't any higher than it is normally, and you can do this week in, week out, and progress, that is a fine exercise. If it looks like a standing barbell overhead extension, or if it looks like the wackiest TikTok blowjob machine thing you've ever seen, that doesn't really matter because to the point of this video, when one of the guys who made one of these reels said as much, it shouldn't be the wacky look that's keeping you from doing these things. But if you try them and you love them, hey, amazing, do more of them. If you try them and they kind of seem weird and they all have one other thing going against them, they're usually unilateral, one arm at a time, which is a lot more time for training. And they usually have a big training setup, so you need a pretty free gym. And it also takes away more time. If the time trade-off is worth it to you, that's a thing. The biggest thing about time trade-off is this. Review after review shows the more volume you do to a very high point. We're talking 20, 30, 40 working sets per muscle per week, the more growth you get. And so if you have an exercise that's damn good, but you can get too quickly, warm up quickly, do two arms at a time and really smash volume, you're going to be able to fulfill a lot of volume requirements. If you do one thing, one arm at a time, unilateral, one leg at a time. If your contraption takes a ton of time to set up and pull apart, whatever amount of time you're in the gym, which is relatively fixed, now has fewer working sets in it, and then you're going to grow less. So I would try to go for exercises that you can have awesome tension, awesome target muscle exposure, awesome feel, great progression, but maybe take a little bit less time arbitrarily to set up than some of these alternatives. But if you like these alternatives and it worth the time to you, you can still pound it in with many, many, many sets per week of heavy work. God bless you, science it up. And you know what? Tell them I sent you, unless you do one of the weird ones. I don't want to have anything to do with that. See you guys next time. Bye.