 Ifrsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsem Dr. Mike for RP Strength. I have been a longtime professor of exercise and sports science. I'm a competitive bodybuilder, and I am a black belt in Brazilian jiu-jitsu. And yet with all of these quote-unquote accomplishments, I'm a rounding error to a man that needs no introduction. It's Tom Hardy, the man who invented the trapezius muscle and played the best Bane I've ever seen. Tom Hardy. Get it? Get what? My endless love and adoration. Let's take a look at Tom Hardy as something about his training, some things about his diet, and some things about how he radically changes his look from film to film to film, which is really, really tough to do. My radical look changes are mostly just through bouts of depression and ice cream consumption. I think he has a smarter plan than that. Three, two, one. Tom Hardy. Okay, so this is Tom Hardy saying what happened for Bronson. For Bronson, I put on about seven pounds a week with no steroids. Okay, real talk. You don't need steroids to put on seven pounds a week. Evidence? The entire cast of my 600-pound life. Gaining fat is way easier than getting muscle. But Scott, seven pounds a week, baby. We eat in. Yeah, I mean, that's insane to me. That gets uncomfortable. The bloat itself is going to kill you. All that. In the end, I'd put on about two and a half stone by eating chicken and rice, which was my staple diet throughout the day. Nice. Standard. Then I'd have a pizza, Haagen-Dazs, and Coca-Cola. Now, this is how the world gains weight. America, specifically, which to me is the world. That's a joke. I mean, pizza's usually, gee whiz, 4,000 calories. Haagen-Dee is another thou. Coca-Cola, depending on how much you have, 500 to 1,000. Yeah, man. We're putting in, that's where that seven pounds a week comes from. Yeah, he's gaining a pound a day, Scott. That makes sense. Excess 3,500 calories per day. So, not good stuff, but I had to put weight on. At this point, I'm wondering why he even bothered with the chicken and rice to begin with, right? I'm not being critical here. This is just all for lols at this point. But if he had done, like, higher fat meat sources with pasta or even with rice with lots of tasty but healthy sauces, and then done, like, a bit of snacking at the end of the day with still high-protein foods, you could have put on a lot of weight, and more of it would be quality and less bad for his health. It's just an interesting thing to do, like, mostly clean food and then just at night pound a bunch of shit. That is absolutely a way to put the weight on. I needed to put a layer of fat on my body. That's going to work because Bronson, when he was younger, was a big guy, a brawler. Which fat actually, I guess, insulates you from hits, if you think about it. My diet was lenient as we weren't going for the Bruce Lee look, and we weren't looking for the cut. Are you sure shit didn't find it? Yeah, man. I mean, I'll say this. This is a part of acting which is, like, not good for your health. Purposefully gaining weight this rapidly is bad for every system in your body. It's bad for your cardiovascular system. It's bad for your liver. Actually, this kind of weight gain preferentially stores fat around your organs, which is just going to, like, screw up your health for a long time to come unless you get rid of it. It's bad news. I always have a ton of respect for actors that will do crazy-ass shit just for the role. Christian Bale losing all that weight. Remember that, Scott? A couple times. Like, unhealthy amount of weight for The Machinist and other related films. Yeah, it was tough to watch, but, like, damn, that is really... They called it The Craft. These guys are on that shit. I'm just some dumbass fake YouTube personality. And if you're like, hey, Dr. Mike, do you want to get fat just for lols when you're younger and need surgery later to fix that problem? Yes. Do you want to get fat for a movie role? No. But we'll pay you lots of money. Nope. Weird, right? It's like I'm stupid or something. Our New Year's sale is happening right very now. The Diet Coach app is for sale, and the Hypertrophy app is for sale. But for the first time ever, the Hypertrophy app is available in the iOS App Store. So either click the link in the description or just go to the App Store and get those apps mega discounts. They don't last. See you next year. More Jacked. For the movie Warrior, which is... Scott, have you seen Warrior? It's so good. That's a movie I can watch over and over again. But I'm just really sad he was mean to his dad all that time. Do you get sad about that part? Yeah, it was kind of rough. Yeah. For the movie Warrior, Tom Hardy gained 28 pounds of muscle to play an MMA fighter going from approximately 162 pounds to 185 pounds over 10 weeks. 28 pounds of muscle in 10 weeks is profoundly unlikely. Even with a kitchen sink of anabolics, there's a way to do it where you're super lean and have lost substantial amount of muscle. And then you balloon back up to your typical body weight and then some and cram anabolics and train six times. I was going to say a day, but a week. You can do this sort of thing. I believe a famous internet person, Alex Hormozy, once did a thing like that with Greg Knuckles back in the day. Scott, it should be Google-able. You can throw that up there. But it was one of these rebound things. Just straight up start like a 10-week process of just eating normally and being in Hollywood and doing Hollywood things like going to ditty parties and shit. And then they're like, hey, your contract's finalized. You get $10 million, but now we have 10 weeks to gain 28 pounds of muscle. It's just insanely, insanely, insanely unlikely. So I think he probably gained 28 pounds. The other problem here, Scott, is the difference between 162 and 185 is 23 pounds. Yeah, they can't even do basic math. This is a crazy quote, right? Guys, a public service announcement. When you hear quotes about almost anything technical from a non-technical source, it is very possible the quote is true. But it is also possible that the quote is some kind of exaggeration and not really a real thing. I'm a bit of a dilettante nerd in the military tech space. And the kind of shit I see passing for what people think is true in that space when they just quote newspaper articles is baffling. Sure, shit the case in nutrition. Sure, shit the case in training. And I think this is one of these instances where you're like, ah man, I don't think it's 28 pounds. Could be wrong, but unlikely. Oh, you think darkness is your ally. You merely adopted the dark. I was born in it. This next picture is just for reference here. And then this has Tom Hardy talking about it, not text, but this is the famous weight gain and then back knee picture that leaked to the paparazzi that everyone was talking about. Is he supposed to be jacked in the picture on the right? This is the same, this is the same, same role. Yeah. Same time. He talks about why he doesn't look as jacked on the right as he does on the left. I see. His traps are goaded though, bro. Tom Hardy was part of a, there was a meme that said, uh, Tom Hardy is living proof that traps are the only muscles that matter for a man. Is that true, true? But there's a lot of vibes in it. Also, Scott, can I bring your attention to something? What is exactly the functionality of his double belt there that he has on? Dude, he's like going to do like heavy squats after this. He's two straps. He has to strap. Yeah, man. If only there were a simpler way. Do you think he wants a really awesome belt through which to get hypertrophy at both low and high rep ranges? Something that's adjustable to a size that he can breathe into and then close up and cinch really tight that you can use for stiff-legged deadlifts and good mornings and squats, but at the same time, walk around on the gym and it conforms to your abdomen and it's actually quite tall. So it gives you a really awesome aesthetic look. Is that something Tom Hardy would want as Bane the character, Scott? I bet. Look, I'm not trying to say it's good to be an international kingpin criminal because Bane, blah, blah, blah, blah. No, no, no. But if you want that belt, it's the hyper belt from the same amazing people that brought you Versagrips. Link in the description. It's a great belt. Myself and Jared Feather, IFBB Pro, who's substantially more jacked than Bane? That's weird to say, but true. Designed the belt with not you. No, no, you're cool though. Not you. I never liked you. You, the viewer in mind. I was really overweight. Actually, I ate a lot and you know, I was not much heavier than I am now. I just ate more pizza. Sounds fun. I'm talking about it. And then they shoot from low to make you look big. Scott, why don't you shoot me from low to make me look big? It's tough to get that low. Hey, you're short, you little short. I would go around and people would pull up on their motorbikes and lift the lids and go, I always thought you were bigger, mate. Oh, God. I was just bald and slightly porky. Scott, do you think the Bane character deserved someone juiced out of their fucking mind? Like Bautista in his prime or The Rock? But he didn't have the Santa Claus voice? I'm Bane and you've been naughty. Or was he a good character? I don't know. I don't know. This is all these comic book movies or whatever. Who cares? Oh, no, I got this. I got this. Oh, I'm Scott. I'm a movie buff. Comic book movies are real movies. Here's Scott's address so you can dox the fuck out of him. Ready? With pencil arms. But no, that's the magic of lighting and stuff. Three or four months of training and lifting. Okay. So you did three or four months of training and lifting. That's cool. Scott, these Hollywood people, they just quit lifting, don't they? They just stop. It's not a lifestyle. They like go back to being supermodels on super yachts in the super Mediterranean super sea. And then they go back into work and start lifting again. What a trip. What a trip, you guys. I'm eating lots of pizza, you know, and it wasn't great for my heart. They're like, hey, do all this punching. He's like, can I get a slice of pepperoni? Tough. Yeah. Did you feel good? Oh, really? No. Yeah. That's the one thing about eating junk and like the dreamer bulk and the super bulk is that like you have all these stars in your eyes about how it's going to be awesome. But then you gain like 15 pounds in a month by eating cookies and pizza and sprinkling little cookies on pizza and putting the pizza in a burrito and eating that. And all of a sudden, you feel like shit during training. You don't throw up all the time. You gas out on the leg press after eight reps. It actually kind of sucks. So like clean gaining or lean gaining is kind of like, you know, a little bit wissified of a concept, but it's dope because then you actually can train hard and stuff. Yeah. Gaining with junk food sucks. I've done it a bunch. It sucks. We have to develop a solitary physique, you know, the kind of physique you would, you would develop if you only had four walls. Yeah. That's super smart. You don't want someone with like super jacked hamstrings and like, uh, Scott, you ever see that shit where you have like movies in which they have like prison stuff and it's like solitary confinement in an Island base underneath the Pacific. And like a lot of the guys look like they're competition ready bodybuilders. They're like, who the fuck are you? What, who wears the gym in this place? Like they just stay in their cells 24 seven. I'm like, I don't understand that. Are these genetic anomalies? Like how does that work? This is brilliant stuff, man. You got to make sure the physique was like prison physique looks a certain way. Unless you're Cali muscle, then you're goaded. Then you're just, I don't know. I don't know how Cali muscle pulled it off. So we focused mainly on that kind of thing. Um, dips on the beds, upside down, pushups. That's so cool. They actually used, uh, prison like equipment limitations to build a physique. Someone, someone probably accused him in the comments, Scott, of having a physique you couldn't achieve in prison. Be like, no, I literally, you know what? Nevermind. There's so many different kinds of variations of pushups. Whoa, that's so tough. What a great exercise. Skull crusher, basically free weight inverted skull crusher, superset to pushups. That's really dope. You could also do a bunch of the tricep version only, and then superset when your triceps are basically dead to the pushup because the pushup is easier than the tricep extension. So you do a bunch of tricep extensions real close to failure or to failure, do pushups. You won't have to do a ton of pushups and your triceps will get nuked. And on another day of the week, you can do mostly wide grip pushups for mega chest development. There are some variation. If you end up being a person who is a legendary prison gang member, in the UK. The UK, Scott? Is Bronson a UK person? Yeah, I think. All the brawlers are from the UK. I heard the filming went on and there was less time to train during the day. I mean, you'll see if you're watching the film closely, you'll see how my body is changing. That's because the scenes weren't shot in consecutive order, necessarily. So by the beginning of the film, we shot the end. So you can see that I'm actually much smaller there than I am in other scenes where I'm walking around in the cage. So my body got smaller and smaller, didn't it? Because a lot of it is, as Ali said, sending the signals on a daily basis to keep a part. Scott, I have no idea what he said, man. That accent's really got me. So he basically said that you can see he's less and less jacked as the filming went on because he didn't have time to keep up his training. Oh no! So in some scenes, he's randomly less jacked because they shot out. They shoot out of order, right? So it's like one scene he's jacked, the next scene he's small. And he's like, he can notice it looking back because his training went to hell during the film. It's at least good that they shot it out of order, am I right? Yeah. Ah. That's the kind of thing where you know you have body dysmorphia. Do I? No. If you don't send the right signals or if you don't send them often enough, the body will revert to type. Fact. Absolutely. Wow, that's a really good way to put it. You've got to continue to send the message of muscle growth. Otherwise, your body's like, what was I here for again? And it will lose its muscle back down to basically baseline. Sad tragedy of human existence. So if you're a couch potato and you get up and you want to train, and you train, and you train, and you train for two, three, four, five months, and then you stop for a month. Tom Hardy's face, Scott, is like, he's talking about me. Son of a bitch. Your body will go back to the way you were before you trained. It'll remember the stimulus, but it prefers the other thing. Yes, it will. You get the gains back way faster than you got them originally, but you will lose a huge substantial amount of them if you stop training. So you actually have to train consistently for a long period of time for your body to forget its previous state and embrace the new stuff. And even that might, he's phrasing it very gently, it may take years or it may take another amount of time. Your body may always remember how jacked you used to be, but for the decline of ability through age, you could be in a position where, yeah, you trained back in high school like a f***ing animal, and you're in your late 20s or early 30s, you start training again, the s*** comes back way faster than you thought it would. Go, nice and slow, give it a bump. Go, yep. One, two, three, four. Oh, that's so tough. Folks, there is still more video to go, but if this isn't the kind of Tom Hardy video you thought it would be and you need something racier and seedier, nastier, but also more informative, and you love also more information, the members area is where to be. It's a little bit of money, a ton of value. Give it some clicks. Go ahead and subscribe to that. And now, back to the video. Seven, eight, nine, and... It's a fine exercise. Get you cranking. Tom Hardy got a dump truck there, you know what I'm saying? Yo, what's up, Tom Hardy? You feel me? You've been to real prison before here. That's cool. Not a lot of eccentric action, but plenty of concentric. A fine abdominal exercise. Not the best, but pretty good. And lift the bum, gonna pull both knees in towards the elbows, and then push both legs out. Go. Yeah, I was curious if you'd do that. That's awesome. Two at a time is real tough. Really tough. And all the way out. We didn't even work every single hour. Do you know what I mean? And every single day. But it's not about working hard. It's about working smart. Science-based. Of course it's difficult. It's hard. But if you're working in the right way, then... Do you think he's making a love symbol, Scott? Looks like it. You don't have to spend hour after hour after hour in the gym. Let me riff on that really quick. So, this young man who is Tom Hardy's trainer said, you don't have to be in the gym all day. You just have to train smart and get after it super hard for a little bit. The amount of people that assume it takes a full work day to get really jacked in a really good shape is actually quite high. Scott, you ever heard that sort of thing? They're always like, how many hours a day do you train? I'm like, one and a half. And they're like, they're always looking for a bigger number. They're looking four or six or some shit like that. And so, a lot of people probably assume that for various Hollywood roles, these guys are training all day. And it's just not true. So, after about an hour and a half or two hours of training, it's just kind of the most training you can do through the day to get most of your gains. If you're a real psycho and you're real serious and you're a pro bodybuilder, you can probably train in the gym a total of about three, maybe four hours of hard training per day. But then you like full send, do nothing else other than recover and sleep. And you can't sustain that for longer than a few weeks, a few months with usually plenty of steroids as well. So, really an hour a day, six days a week is like unreal stimulus. I mean, you're going to get 90% of the gains you ever could just training that much. So, a lot of people, it's good news for them because they're like, oh, wow, it doesn't take as much as I thought to get in really good shape. And as a matter of fact, with 30 minutes twice a week, most regular people can get in amazing shape. But then again, some people don't want to hear it because I think Scott may be one of the reasons they say, oh, I thought it took eight hours because that's their excuse to not go to the gym. Yeah, I just don't have time. Yeah. Oh, I always bring up this story. And our COO at RP, our chief operations officer, he back well, well, before he was with RP, he started lifting and started eating well and got in really good shape. And he went to a family function. And one of his uncles was like, oh, like you're in really good shape. And he's like, yeah. And he's like, oh, I would do what you did. But, you know, I have a day job. And our friend, the COO is like, he didn't say anything because, you know, he's from the Middle East and there's a respect culture there. You don't say anything to older people. That would be construed as disrespectful. But in his in his mind commentary, he was like, well, don't you think I have a day job, too? What kind of crazy ass shit is that to say? But it is giant, giant COO because if you think, oh, it takes eight hours for me to train. But it really takes one hour. Oh, it's a tough bitter pill to swallow. Folks, Tom Hardy is goaded out of 10. That's the official actual rating. And Max, please display an anatomically correct reference diagram of a goat over the number 10. That being said, I guess some of the takeaways from this are if you need to gain weight fast, nothing beats junk food. Gaining weight fast with junk food can give you back pimples just like steroids can. It's probably worse for your health. The other thing is if you are a fitness lifestyle person, you're always kind of in shape. And to get into really good shape, it's a very easy process for you that just takes weeks. If you are not in good shape, typically you don't train, it's going to take longer and be a little bit more miserable. So those of you that are in the stay in shape lifestyle, keep going to the gym. It's amazing for you. For Hollywood folks, as long as you're willing to take about 12 to 16 weeks before roll, before filming starts, you can get into really, really good shape. Surprisingly so, especially if you're diligent about training a lot, training the right way and dieting really well and keeping up your physical activity. And last thing that comes to mind is if you want to maintain a certain look, remember that that look degrades unless you train it with at least a third of the typical volume and have good nutrition as well. So if you're filming for several months on end, probably a good idea to have some kind of resistance training and some kind of access to protein. You don't need much, but you need something because then otherwise you get the Tom Hardy thing where in some scenes you look trained and some scenes you look not so trained. All right. I've been Dr. Mike and I'll see you guys next time. Ooh, that got me really hearty. If you want more things that might get you feeling that undescribed emotion, right here is a good video to click on. See you guys next time. Bye. you