! Whoa, yep, mayorex, all day long, that's good, this is very time efficient, oh my sweet lord, Andre Smayev is the reason that massive shoulders, arms, and forearms are never the wrong answer, how can you go wrong with this? Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength, and also for And also for gigantic arms of Andrei Smaev. I skipped the whole intro. Whatever. I used to be a professor. I bodybuild, I guess. Jiu-jitsu, something. Andrei Smaev has enormous arms. And he has put out a 1,000 rep. Rep? Rep. Rep. Not set. That would be bad. Arm workout. Let's ogle. Let's oogle. Let's giggle. Let's goggle. And let's find out how much science there is in this workout. And how much just audacity of having enormous arms. Three, two, one. Arms. Friends' muscles don't have a brain. But my mouth. Good point. Scott, I was going to listen to what he had to say. But his biceps got in the way. Insane. Holy shit. I love the live translation. It's kind of neat. They don't understand how you perform the exercise. They grow because of stress. I'd like to do at least 500 reps for the biceps today. 500 reps. Let's say we got about 15 reps per set. Then that's a lot of sets. It's a lot of sets. But remember, we're going to science this. In multiple studies and now reviews of the literature, we have seen that weekly set numbers in the 30, 40, and 50 plus working set range to failure have caused better and better gains the higher you go. And we have yet to see an upper limit in the scientific research that past a certain point, you actually grow less. It might just be that you get burnt out or hurt. So when we're talking about 50 sets and each one of them has 10 reps, we're talking about 500 reps. Fact number one. Put that aside. Fact number two. Training frequency matters. It does. But it doesn't matter a ton a ton. So if you train a ton one day a week or if you train half a ton, which you're probably lifting for reps, two days a week or a third of a ton three days a week, you get a ton either way and you get most of your gains either way. You do make better gains if you train frequently than if not. But by a small margin, unless you just cram more volume into the frequent session. So being that a lot of sets can be done in a week to grow and the more you do, the better and that you can train very few times a week and still get good growth, then the 500 reps in roughly one workout for biceps goes from totally insane from our normal. Well, well, you do, you know, you do, you know, eight sets of stuff twice a week. And in the context of the scientific literature today, it turns from totally insane to potentially reasonable if one big thing is adjusted for, and that is experience. So this is a real actual public service announcement. Do not try this workout if you're not pretty well trained and if you haven't smashed your arms with a ton of volume before because you can get way too much stimulus at once. Your muscles start to break down in the way they don't heal back up, and that's called rhabdomyolysis. It's really bad for you. It's bad for your kidneys. It's bad for the rest of you, and your muscles could never be the same again. Unlikely, but possible. So don't just go out there and do 500 reps for your biceps and 500 for triceps. But if you're used to doing high frequency, really high volume, tons of sets close to failure, and you're recovering well, then yeah, this isn't so far out of left field that it's completely insane. That being said, let's take a look at the details. You need to choose a weight that's heavy enough and then do a high number of reps with it. To keep growing, I need to keep shocking my muscles every workout. That's why a shortened range of motion, heavier weight, and a high number of reps is exactly the method that has brought progress. That's curious. You have 25-inch arms. I'm not going to debate you about the shit. From a scientific perspective, is a better fuller range of motion probably going to cause more size? Yes. But in order to survive 500 reps, you probably don't want to double the range of motion of each rep because that doubles the mechanical work. It doubles roughly the damage that you get. Right? And so if you're going to do – Scott, if you had a gun to your head and says you have to do a 1,000 rep arm workout, would you do it partial or full round? Partial. Partial. 100%. So this is actually pretty smart given the context here. Also, he has gigantic hands as well as arms. So right now, this picture doesn't look like his arms are that big, but they're enormous. Maybe Max can throw together some Instagram pics of him next to Larry Wheels, who's enormous but next to Andrei Smaev looks like a human being. The Hyper Belt, the first belt ever designed for muscle growth training. That's why it's taller, it's thinner, and it's 360 degrees of support. It also doesn't have a latch system. It just has one of these pull situations where it's Velcro so that on some sets, you need the belt really tight. On other sets, you need it not as tight. And between sets, you can loosen it to just have a really cool, conformal-looking structure and just still walk around with it. So you don't have to take it off and put it on all the time for your workout. You can keep it on most of your workout. You just tighten it when you need it. The Versa Grips Hyper Belt is here. There's links. There's descriptions. There's savings. Tons of savings if you buy through us than just going on the site Raw. Give that some thought. All right. Back to Arnold. No. Shut up. Stop doing your bullshit belt stuff. Nobody cares. Look at you. You're four foot ten. Scott, am I really four foot ten? Yes. You're actually telling the truth this time for once. Finally. It must be hard for you to tell the truth as age. I always focus on specializing in biceps. Why biceps? It's simple. I've been a longtime follower of Kaylee Muscle, who loves training biceps. That's awesome. I always do triceps at the end of the workout. I almost always start my biceps workout, whether I'm training at home or in the gym. Does it matter if you do triceps first or biceps first? Fundamentally, not a ton. The rest is down to specifics. I like to train my triceps first and then my biceps because if I train my biceps first, the pump is big enough to limit my range of motion on triceps and the exercises don't feel as great. However, always training triceps first and biceps after can make it so that most of your energy goes into triceps and then your biceps get the short end of the stick and they don't grow as well. So every now and again, flipping the script is a really good idea if you're going to do an arm day. I do this to engage not only my biceps, but also the muscles of my forearms. Boy, does he have a lot of forearm muscles. Yeah, that's important, especially for... Scott, what is this, Scott? Forearms that are like 20 inches or something like that, right? It's just something totally stupid. His forearms are bigger than almost everyone's biceps or upper arm, which is crazy. I can even do an entire workout just for this part. This gym just happens to have that rare handle to really hit my forearm even more. Why are his hands so big? Is that handle just mini size? I think that's a regular handle. That's a cool machine. You don't see that as a really great tool for developing the kind of musculature you need for arm wrestling as well. Let's find out what he does with it. I decided to hold it by the fingertip like this to extend the leverage, but the biceps will also engage really well. We'll be working in the 20 rep range. The number of sets will depend on how it feels. Okay. With each set, we add one plate. We need to work our way up to the full stack. Ah. I suppose, Scott, he's counting these in his reps for the workout. Yeah. So if these are submaximal sets, if he's changing the weight before he hits close to failure or remotely close to failure, because a lot of times when people pyramid up, it's not like they do 30 reps to failure and then 25 reps to failure and then 20 reps to failure and so on and so forth. They usually do kind of same number of reps and they increase the weight every time, which means the first many sets are not taken close to failure. And so they're really just warmups, which is totally cool. But when you see a workout on paper, that's 500 reps for biceps, you're like, how can anyone recover from that? You see it in real life. It's a lot of warmup sets. The number of ultra hard sets, probably substantially smaller than the total. And the number of repetitions that get close to failure is substantially lower than what you would expect with 500 reps. If each one of the sets to compose those reps was a real hardworking set. I'm about to eat my words here in a bit. Watch him go to failure on all these. Okay. He just stopped. Makes sense. I guess that's what my training looks like. And I claim to train sort of hard. Yeah. Okay. So that's nowhere near failure, which is kind of a good thing because then he's for sure not going to have any recovery problems from that many reps. But if you want to become maximally time efficient, I would say after a warmup, most of your sets should be closer to failure because that's going to be super stimulative. And you don't have to do a whole lot of volume that could have been done much faster. Now we're moving on to an unusual exercise called dragon curls. This is an exercise often used by Charles Glass with his clients. Flex Lewis also did it, as well as Dexter Jackson. Dexter Jackson is jacked beyond all human understandings. Dragon curls. I think they're called drag curls. Isn't that where you keep the barbell close to your body? Its specialty is that you need to pull your elbows back and lift the barbell along your torso. Yep. Drag curls. Dragon curls are the way better name. Probably a little translation. Oh. I'd imagine. Oh, you're talking about translation? I heard you talk about me dragon, you cod fucking frog, you f-flex. Jesus. Flex is popping up a lot today, folks. I'll tell you what I'm popping up. You Irish bag of f-king dicks, you. Folks, there is still more video to come, but Andrei Smaev is so giant, we couldn't just fit him into the regular video. So there's extra bonus content, longer, harder, uncut version of this video only for our members, who also get training videos, detailed Q&A videos, and a bunch of awesome vlogs, and a bunch of science-y stuff. Check out our member section. It's a small price, huge value. Click around, subscribe for things. Back to the video. Here, the stretch phase of the biceps isn't important. On the contrary, we focus on the contraction. We'll also do 20 reps. Whoa, Smith machine curls. Great way to drag curls. This is going to be in a straight line. This always bothers my elbows because I'm made of glass and not Smaev's stuff. Why are his hands so big, Scott? They're freaky. And with the third exercise, we'll finish off the biceps using the bar with a hammer grip. He loves the hammer grip stuff, huh? Definitely great for forearm development. Yeah. That's a cool bar, too. I think I have that bar at home. I don't know what this is. How it works? I know basic anatomy. Don't put your dick in here. Or do, and fun things will happen. Never can tell. This is about 132 pounds, and we'll try to do 20 to 30 reps. Impartial's gone. Whoa. Yep, Maya reps all day long. That's good. This is very time efficient. Oh, my sweet lord. That's like a double XL t-shirt or something, too, probably. That's crazy. Andrei Smaev is the reason that I say that massive shoulders, arms, and forearms are never the wrong answer. How can you go wrong with this? When I first started my journey, I really loved doing French tricep presses, and my triceps always hurt afterward. That, typically the French press, is the overhead, standing, behind-the-neck barbell or easy bar press. That's how it's typically, it's also called the French press. I wonder if he's going to say he's too jacked to do it now. It could be a thing. These push-ups are loved by Arnold, as well as by Lee Priest. Yeah, there you go. I actually recently started doing these, Scott, and I love them. Oh, I'll do them a try. In love. How do they feel on your elbows? Yeah, great for my elbows. My elbows are weird. A lot of stuff that typically hurts people's elbows doesn't hurt mine, and stuff that people love typically hurts my elbows. I often did them at home using the back of my bed, but in the gym, there are many more exercises that work excellently. Overhead dumbbell extensions, French presses, close grip bench presses, and much more. Those do any of them. Yes. Those are chains. That's hardcore. Okay. He's getting a pretty big stretch. Notice, that is his full stretch. Do you guys know how I know that? His bicep is in the way. Just a little shallower, or sorry, a little deeper than 90 degrees is the most he's going to get out of his elbow bent. So, this is actually full range of motion. And so, these are technically length and partials. Dr. Milo Wolf, where are you at? Throw away your notepad and your Excel sheets. The RP Hypertrophy app has all of your workouts displayed in one place. With guided videos on exercise techniques and a program that evolves to better suit your needs the longer you use the app. All you have to do is follow the plan right on your phone and get the gains. Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. I always work my triceps with high intensity in the range of 20 to 30 reps. We'll also do push-ups after that. Super f***ing smart. You do your triceps first. Your push-ups are going to be limited by your triceps. And then you do your triceps again when you do push-ups. Real smart. If it's the other way around, triceps can be limited by chest. And then your triceps are tired for push-ups later. But if it's this way, it can be a really awesome way to save your chest for another day of training. And nuke the shit out of your triceps. Tricep work first. Isolation work first. Followed by push-ups after. Real, real good idea. We have exactly 40 minutes left. And we need to, without getting distracted and with minimal rest, do as many reps as possible. After doing 20 reps on the cable, we immediately do a superset of 20 triceps push-ups. The main goal of this exercise is to stretch the triceps as much as possible. So the elbows should go straight down. We'll do several rounds of these, usually totaling at least 500 reps for the triceps. So Scott, he's, oh, hold on. So he's doing those. Great technique. Super deep. God, he's massive. So with that, is that what he called a push-up? He did the cable stuff first. Yeah, I cut out the cable because we already saw that. So he did cable and then he walked. Right into. Excellent superset. If you want to do that triple superset after, just drop to the ground as soon as you're done. So you do cable extensions, walk over, do the French press on the Smith machine. And then as soon as you're done with that, drop into regular close grip push-ups with your elbows by your sides. That's going to get us really fucking popping. 25.6 inch arms. Muscular arms are unbelievably rare. Unreal. Unreal. Unreal. Scott, it's not often that somebody has bigger arms than almost all pro bodybuilders. Mm-hmm. Wild. Let's see. I think we definitely did 300 to 400 reps for the triceps. You kind of lost count, you know. It was a lot. And by the time I was 18, my arm had grown to 21 inches on the pump with my weight already over 220 pounds. Yeah. Let me make something perfectly clear. Andrei Smaev is a hardworking person who is also genetically incredibly special. That's why his arms are big. If you think you're going to get gigantic arms, your best arms, by spending an hour and a half in the gym and doing mostly submaximal sets for arms, that's probably not the best way to do it. I'm sorry. I got to say that because, you know, I was young once, believe it or not. Yes, I was still balding. And I also looked up to fitness influencers and wanted to do what they did because I thought I was going to get their results. And sometimes they have some stuff that you can do that's like, damn, that's going to get you what you need. And sometimes it's just some kind of quirky stuff that they did that worked for them but may not work ideally for you. Scott, his forearms have grown an unbelievable amount. Yes, they really have. Holy shit. I think even his hands have grown. His hands and his bones, bro. Goddamn. That was cool. Cool insight. Basically, it's this. This is my little teaching moment here, whatever bullshit that's worth. If you're doing ultra strict, super deep, ultra full range of motion, high relative effort, close to failure on sets, you're unlikely to be doing a thousand rep arm workup. If you're doing lots of submaximal sets and lots of partials and you've worked up to it, you can pull off a 500 rep bicep, 500 rep tricep workout. That is absolutely a possibility. So one thing that's important to point out here is don't just read something or see something on the gram and say a thousand rep workout and then go do it yourself. Don't try to train like Mike Menser trained. Super full range of motion. Everything psychotically to failure and beyond. And think you're going to do 500 reps. That shit's not going to happen. Or it is and you're going to go to the hospital. So you got to pick which one you want to go to. Full range of motion. So that's taken very hard. They're time efficient. Time efficiency steals one thing from you. You know what that is? Time spent training in the gym and getting swole fucking arms and just luxuriating in the pump. If you want that, this is the way to train. If you want big arms, I would give Andres Mayer a follow. If for nothing else than the sheer inspiration that some one of us simply could and is developing the world's biggest muscular arm. Guys, I'm going to go jerk off now. Unrelated. I'll see you next time. You got to give them a rating. Oh, rating. Gigantic arms from Russia out of 10. I've been Dr. Mike. See you next time. All right, folks. That was really fun. I feel like my arms are bigger already. If you need bigger arms, this video here might help you. Click on it just in case. Maybe. See you guys next time.