 If you can't age 173,amentalistrude,amentalistrude,amentalistrude,amentalistrude, in powerlifting federations in which they explicitly did not test for drugs, and so it was fine. It's against the rules to get cop-tanked, correct? Louie. I was like, let him finish. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. If you don't know who I am, Google me. Scott, does anyone actually ever say that? Can you imagine actually saying that in real life? I used to be a professor of exercise and sports science, and now I'm a YouTuber. I have competed in Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu before, a whole bunch, and I'm a black belt, and I competed in bodybuilding, though not so successfully, but I'm trying. Back in the day, way back in my 90 days, I used to be a squarely mediocre competitive powerlifter, and I trained with a bunch of folks that did equipped competitive powerlifting, and a lot of them used the ideas and system of the West Side Method, invented and perfected by none other than Mr. Louie Simmons himself. Some of the stuff he says is wacky, and a bunch of the stuff he says is super fucking wise. Louie took training for raw powerlifting and modified it towards equipped powerlifting? Other people have added to that corpus since then, but everyone stands on the foundation of wisdom that Louie laid because of all of the ways in which training is different from raw training to equipped training, training with a squat suit, a deadlift suit, and a bench pressure. Louie, with his training methods, probably broke through about 80% of all of those differences. Let me say this in another way. If you trained for equipped lifting in the late 90s and all the way through the 2000s without ever have taken a look at the West Side Template or Louie's ideas, and you just trained it like a raw lifter, your probability of getting the most out of your equipment, and thus the highest total, was enormously smaller. If you integrated Louie's ideas, all of a sudden, 80% of the benefit that you would see would already come. The 20% is for other innovators, and they did a great job. But Louie Simmons, without his ideas on how to train for equipped powerlifting, equipped powerlifting training was just raw training interpolated into equipment. Because of the differences that I'll very likely address in this video, it's a real big mismatch. When you're lifting raw 300, 400, 500 pounds, the dynamics of fatigue, the force curves you feel with the equipment are completely different than when you're training with 700, 800, 900 pounds. Huge difference. Louie is an innovator and an absolute class act when it comes to thinking at that next level. He straight up owned the field for many years, and we will always be in his depth. That doesn't mean he didn't say some wacky shit, though. We're going to have a little bit of fun and talk about good stuff. Three, two, one. Fun and good stuff. Hey, Scott, why is there a totally depressing image of almost nothing and trains on the screen? It looks like Michigan, where I grew up. A tiny dingy warehouse dead in the middle of Ohio is home to world champions and record holders. Every single... Okay, that was an exaggeration. Almost every single best powerlifter of all time trains at a dingy warehouse, period. If your powerlifting gym is in a dingy warehouse, you know you're going to be getting strong. If it's in a corporate gym and it's all commercial and it's all pretty, there's a probability you're going to get strong. I just wouldn't bet a lot of money on it. So the dingy warehouse thing is real, and it's part of the vibe. Scott, did you see all these women's records and stuff on this wall? A 148-pound Laura Phelps squatted 672. Oh, right. I mean, I... That makes sense. You're like, I'm going to join Westside and break all the records. Looks at the records bird. I'm never going to lift a third of this. I'm even the wrong gender. Westside Barbell has become legendary for its brutal form of strength training. The gym's founder, Louie Simmons, is the godfather of American powerlifting. Louie Simmons, yeah. Okay, so... I'm sorry. Is Louie Simmons the godfather of American powerlifting? No. American powerlifting has a deep history before Louie Simmons. Is Louie Simmons the godfather of equipped American powerlifting? The squat suit, the deadlift suit, and the bench shirt benching? Absolutely no ifs, ands, or buts about it. And people from all over the world come here to study his methods. If you cannot bench 550, squat 800, and total 2,000, deadlift eight, one of those, you're not even a member of Westside Barbell. The thing about Westside Barbell in reality is at its peak when Louie was around, it was a brutal place. People were often unkind to each other. It was kind of a Spartan mentality of everyone. It was kind of like a pack of wild dogs. It was like eat or be eaten. And they only had elite people there. And so when you were there, it was kind of like more like being on like a national team or like an NBA team or like a varsity team. Like you were not guaranteed your spot. You were invited there. You don't just show up. And you were put in the mix and put in the blender. And you had to be strong to begin with. And you had to survive being there. There's like there are really very few if not zero gyms like Westside in its prime. It was really more designed to replicate that Bulgarian weightlifting vibe where it's like you're not here for your health or your enjoyment necessarily. You're here to break records for Louie and for the game. You're here to get strong as possible. And that means you're going to take some risks to risk with drugs, risk with equipment, risks with training intensity, frequency, volume. And all the guys there were good with it. And so like these are some warriors straight up. Like the shit is no joke, man. This is not your regular Namby Pamby commercial gym like I train at. Just kidding. They won't let me in commercial gyms anymore. It was a misunderstanding. You guys all know about the one thing. Three things. I already says don't say five things even though it's technically true. When people ask me what book to buy. Hey, look, it's Sean Strickland. Maybe a lot of white people just look the same. It's actually him. No, no way. To get stronger or more fit. I'd say a basic physics book is the first book you should have. Oh, shit. Walking with bands. That's true. Newton's laws of motion apply to everything. I don't bring a person to show me how to lift weights. I bring physics professors, mathematics professors, calculus professors and so forth and engineers because that's what I think. That's what's missing in this sport. Folks, when you're a power lifter and you are trying to lift West Side style numbers, you absolutely need a proper prong or lever power lifting belt. But if you're a bodybuilder, they kind of ain't got none for you. There's like some kind of weird belt you buy at the store that's too skinny on one end and too fat on the other. It's maybe made for weight lifting, but who God only knows. And it kind of pinches you off and feels weird. That was true and is no longer because the hyper belt from the same fine folks that make you VersaGrips and are our sponsor have a hyper belt that was designed exclusively by myself and IFBB Pro Jared Feather to be the ultimate belt for hypertrophy training. You can use it for sets of five. You can use it for sets of 30. It breathes with you, but it's super tight. It's completely adjustable and it's nice and tall. It gives you 360 degrees of core support and makes you look, I must say, sexy as hell. Why are you using it? Which is really the whole point of physique training, isn't it? Isn't it? The hyper belt is real. There's a link in the description to get it on big discount. And back to the video. There's a lot of difference in this gym. This is a club. My accountant told me I spend $1,500 a month for buying breakfast. What, Scott? Do you get breakfast at the gym you go to? I don't. And here you said these are all mean people. They all breakfast together. They do have breakfast together where I think they said lots of mean, sarcastic jokes to each other is what I understand. That's what I heard. You can still be mean at breakfast. Yeah. Oh, yeah. First thing in the morning at 6 o'clock, we all eat breakfast together four times a week. Holy Westside. Dude, the Westside vibe is so sweet. But it's just a bunch of like, white people, which is big everything. And just so big. Love, love, love. Very, very Ohio. You know, too many gyms. You go to a gym and you leave, you never see the guy again. These guys are pretty much buddies. And everyone is for everybody here. There is a video. So I trained once with Mr. Dave Tate way back in the day when he was doing this style of training. And Dave Tate and his crew would do a similar thing where they would eat at Bob Evans. And then they would go train right after. And I thought the eating was going to be separated from the training by a while. And I was training for bodybuilding as usual at the time, a little bit of power lifting. And this was in my natty days. I was like fat, pudgy, useless, weak. I ate a whole bunch of food because I was like, Bob Evans is delicious. And then after about 20 minutes, they wrapped up the conversation. And they're like, okay, time to go train. And I was like, oh, shit, shit, shit, shit. And it was legs for me. And dude, you guys, like I threw up. I had a little bit of diarrhea. But I had diarrhea as well. It was awful. Still had pretty good training. But I sure wish they told me. That whole idea of eat breakfast and then go train right after is a trip to me. I don't know about you guys, but I like to train on like not empty stomach hungry, but empty enough stomach to like not feel my guts all over the place. What do you guys think? Let us know in the comments. Do you like to train a little bit with some food in you or a little bit more empty? What do you think? Really, the science of it is whatever gives you your highest performance is good. So if you feel kind of sick, eat less, eat further away. If you feel like we're low energy, eat more, eat closer to the workout. It's really all to personal preference at this point. Um, and, uh, Max, if we can pull up the video of me, uh, training at Dave Tate's, it'll be really funny for people to see how it used to look. Cause that is on YouTube. I believe. But each week we max out. So 52 weeks out of the year, we max out. That's probably why my gym's the strongest gym in the world. Big facts here. So you can get really strong by not maxing out all the time. Sets of doubles, sets of triples, not even max doubles and triples absolutely work great. But Louie also had this term. He called circa max, which is close to your max around your max training is really what makes champion powerlifters and champion weightlifters consistently going heavy, especially in blocks of training, which are designed to peak you is the only way to really get proficient in going heavy. This is especially true in equip powerlifting. Your equipment, your bench shirt, your squat suit, your deadlift suit does not work properly as designed unless you are in excess of 90% of your one rep max. If you put any less weight in your hands, it just, you just won't be able to go all the way down on the shirt and the shirt will fit different and feel different. Same with the squat suit. So in order to test the equipment out and in order to expose yourself to the whole force curve in an order to challenge your stability at ultra heavy loads, there's no real good way of doing that other than lifting ultra heavy loads. So Louie was a genius in the respect that he found a way to sustainably go as heavy as possible for as long as possible. Specific adaptations to impose demands. The specificity principle is undefeated. Going heavy as constantly makes you good at being really strong. Constantly. Huge deal. Louie's cult of personality transformed Westside from a local gym into a brand name. But that hasn't stopped Westside from being accused of cheating. It's not against the rules to take drugs. True. Louie and his guys always competed in powerlifting federations in which they explicitly did not test for drugs. And so it was fine. It's against the rules to get cop taken directly. Louie. I was like, let him finish. Mike, let him finish. Here's Scott. You know what the funny thing is, is the Westside guys never competed in drug tested events to my knowledge. So like the whole, if I think Louie's just saying like a pithy fun thing that he never actually did. Like Louie never helped like weightlifters beat the drug test for the Olympics or anything like that. Like that's just not a thing. But the way he says it himself, you're kind of like, oh, he's a bad guy. So come on, Louie. Come on. You could be a stripper and you've got a hot body. You'd make money. If you're an athlete and you're in performance, why wouldn't you take performance enhancing drugs? Yeah. Strained analogy, but I've made about 900 worse analogies. Scott, what a good analogy would be in this regard. A stripper with fakies. Yeah. Be like, well, why'd you get fake tits? Cause I make money off my tits. You little bitch. Oh, okay. But it's cheating. Like cheating at what? Is there like a universal tit committee? Ooh, Scott, you've been on one of those before. Don't you run a breast approval examination clinic? But I run the itty bitty titty committee. Itty bitty titty committee. Ladies, if you're interested in Scott, the video guy, understand that if you have big titties, you can just throw away your notepad and your Excel sheets. The RP Hypertrophy app has all of your workouts displayed in one place with guided videos on exercise techniques and a program that evolves to better suit your needs. The longer you use the app, all you have to do is follow the plan right on your phone and get the gains. Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. If you're in performance, you should take anything that helps perform. Have you got a better coach than me? Are you cheating? This is a really good point. People like to zone in on drugs. Now, look, if the Federation bans something, it's totally, you have to respect the Federation. You have to respect the rules. Cheating is wrong. Period. But the philosophical underpinning of picking drugs as the thing you're choosing to ban is kind of strange because on first principles, it doesn't really survive like a deep philosophical introspection. Training is completely artificial. Like we did not have machines and barbells and belt squats in our ancestral environment. Having good genetics is the ultimate form of cheating. You didn't earn shit. You're just born into this shit. Eating specific kinds of foods and taking supplements is the most artificial thing in the world. But then like drugs is actually a shooting a compound into your body. Testosterone or it's close derivatives that is very close to the natural thing is all of a sudden this huge deal. And it's totally categorically different. It's cheating. Like, I don't know, man. Is it though? Like, is it more cheating than anything else? Cheating can only be defined in one way. It's against the rules of the Federation. But if there's a Federation that says, hey, you can take drugs, all of a sudden it's not cheating. And to Louie's point, a lot of shit could be called cheating that helps you unfairly. But then what the hell is fair or not fair? If everyone's playing on the same level playing field, it's all good to go. There's nothing fair in sports. There's nothing fair in sports. I can't defend all these guys. I'm trying my best. Roid rage. That doesn't happen. They talk about male pattern baldness. Let's get something real simple. 65% of males in America have male pattern baldness. For people not at risk, steroids do not enhance the risk of baldness. And some people just won't get bald on it. Evidence? Jay Cutler exists. Full head of hair. Son of a bitch. The roid rage thing is wildly over-exaggerated, but real. The thing is, if you define roid rage as like bane, like you take roids and then you're like, sure, shit doesn't happen. Do steroids increase your degree of probability and magnitude of aggression when you take them, especially if you're a kind of person that's sensitive to the shit? Me? Yeah, absolutely they do. And most of that like starts and ends as a thought in your head. So, you know, and compared to alcohol, I mean, it's not even close. So, yeah, roid rage is real, but I would say it's like 10% real and 90% overhyped bullshit. So probabilistically, Louie's like mostly correct. Folks, there is still more video to come, but if you want the extra extended borderline unethical cut, you gotta subscribe to our members section with just tons of other great stuff in it. Give some clicks. Is this a subscription somewhere super close? Okay, back to the video. And anabolics has been out since 1939. They're still on the market. We're born with testosterone. Roids don't make you any better. You go ahead of a period. Scott, this is tough. Roids do make you any better at lifting weights, but they're part of the equation. And here's something that'll really stir the pot. In study after study after study, 10 to maybe 15% gains of strength above natural peak is what steroids give you. They give you way more muscle mass, but strength is usually about 10% higher on steroids. So think about it this way. If you want to bench 500 pounds and you've been training for eight, nine, 10 years hard, getting big, eating all that stuff. And in your weight class, let's say you lift in the 220 pound weight class, you want to bench 500 pounds. If drug free after a decade of lifting at 220, you're not already benching somewhere in the 400s, it is highly unlikely that steroids are going to get you to bench 500. When I started taking steroids, I was at the end of my power lifting career and at the beginning of my physique journey. I don't want to call it all bodybuilding career. It's frankly embarrassing. And I got stronger from steroids, but I was training more for high reps at that point. So my strength increases were like very modest. I did a lot of my impressive lifting drug free on very low doses. And so the idea that steroids, you take them and they just make you like infinitely stronger. And like, that's the reason why that guy's strong is a whole pack of lies. Why, why am I saying this? It's not necessarily to defend steroid users and conserve their honor. There is such a thing. It's mostly to tell young kids and people considering taking lots of dangerous steroids, like it's not going to be magical. That's going to make you 10 times stronger. There is a possibility you'll do that, but that possibility is low. The possibility that gives you really gnarly side effects and gets you hurt is at least as high, usually much higher than the possibility that it'll get you really, really, really, really way stronger than you could have without steroids. A really good example is John Hack. If you can throw him up on the screen. He was drug free for a very long time and broke every world record up and down 10 weight classes. And then he got on drugs and got like, yep, like 10% stronger and broke a bunch more world records. There is no steroid to take if you want to be like John Hack and you're just a regular person like me. I talked to John. We trained together a few times. He's the man, by the way. And his trajectory of getting stronger through high school and college was exactly the same as mine, except towards the end of college. He just got remember that conversation. He just kept going on a straight line and I was like mortal. So I petered out and I was like, Jesus Christ. Like I hit very close to my peak strength, some between age 25 and 30, but it was just like like that. And John just kept going. That is not steroids. That is raw genetics. And steroids are not nearly as powerful as genetics. So people that say steroids do all this work for you, they don't. Equipped lifting and steroid use makes the results better, but it makes the entire process way harder and way more annoying. I've done equipped lifting. I've done plenty of drugs. Raw lifting, drug free is not going to get you the best absolute results, but it is by far the easiest of all of these ways of approaching it. I wish it was the other way around. It absolutely is this way. All right, folks. I could have taken this talk in a totally different direction. Louie said a lot of wacky things with a ton of conviction. Reminds me of someone I know. Me. And I decided, you know what, man? We've done plenty of hate content and attracted our fair share of well-deserved attention for being hateful fucks. And all of it we've got coming and we deserve every little bit. Really, I do. I know there's no we. Scott's off camera all the time being handsome. Son of a bitch. Scott, why are you better looking than me? Do you feel guilty about that? I don't. What a dick. And he's a dick. We could have ragged on Louie, blah, blah, blah. And I've done that before. I've reviewed Louie's various things on other folks' channels way back in the day with a huge degree of skepticism. Because at some point, everyone was drinking Louie's Kool-Aid and they wouldn't call him out on his bullshit. Everyone is bullshit, including me. Shit, half my shit is bullshit. Um, but, uh, man, positivity and we're better off learning shit and having some fun together than we are talking shit. So I'm talking significantly less shit now and it's sweet. And I'll talk a little shit there and if not again, you don't ever want to take your shit talking down to zero. There's a good healthy balance. And, uh, honestly, in the context of equipped powerlifting, Louie is nothing short of an innovator, um, and a generational character. And so Louie gets a equipped powerlifting and sports science goat out of 10. And that is an official certified exercise scientist stamp of approval. So I will end this by saying just one last thing. West side. See you guys next time. All right. That was fun. How fun was it? Take it, take it, take it, take it, take it. That fun. Real ones. No. Anyway, guys, there's a video right here that you might want to click on. If not, that's okay too. See you next time. Bye.