 Hey, folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength, and I have a question for you. Is the new U.S. government food pyramid a step up or just more BS? Let's find out by figuring out what the heck the new food pyramid even is. So it is the U.S. government's newest visual food guide, and it's literally called the new pyramid. And it's tied to the Dietary Guidelines for Americans document 2025 through 2030. So the document is called Dietary Guidelines for Americans 2025, 2030. I'm sure you've already read it. Scott, you've seen that copy I sent you, yes? Of course. Of course. We all read our homework. That document and the pyramid dropped on January 7th, 2026, near very short time ago. It was released jointly by the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the Department of Health and Human Services, the same tag team that puts out the dietary guidelines on a regular cycle. And you might remember other pyramids from your childhood. The rollout was led by HHS Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr., a well-known TRT user, and USDA Secretary Brooke Rollins, who I've never heard of, but seems like they have a cool name. The big headline message is eat real food. And the translation here is eat fewer food-ish products that have 37 ingredients and a smiley face on the cover and eat stuff that looks like it's like actually made of food. And this isn't just a cute graphic the government put out. It affects major federal nutrition programs like school lunches and other government feeding programs. This is a big deal. Now, what's the pyramid recommending? In the top tier, and it really is kind of an upside-down pyramid if you think about it, in the top tier, the pyramid recommends protein, dairy, and healthy fats. They want you prioritizing protein basically every meal. They even give a target around 0.54 to 0.73 grams of protein per pound of body weight per day. Scott, that's real far away from a gram and a half. Isn't that right, brother? Yeah, man. Gram to the face. But higher than normal, which is interesting. The I'm-just-trying-to-hit-my-protein era is now federally approved, which is nice. The next tier has the vegetables and fruits, like three servings of vegetables and two servings of fruit per day. Whole, colorful, mineral processing, all really good. I do have a bone to pick here. I haven't gotten to the criticism part of the talk. This is just a minor note. Scott, what's a serving? Oh, that's a great question. There is no answer to that question that a human being can understand. Servings are stupid and pointless. But in any case, you can get at least a relative understanding that, look, protein sources are super important. Healthy fat sources are super important. And then veggies and fruits after. Okay, cool. Next level is whole grains. They're in, but smaller, two to four servings per day. And they're very whole grains. Yes, refined carbs. No. They explicitly say to avoid highly processed foods, especially the salty-slash-sweet package stuff and ready-to-eat snack ambushes. I think this is great news. Sorry, I'll appraise this later after telling you guys what is actually going on. Added sugar gets specifically roasted. It's basically not recommended with guidance to avoid added sugar entirely for kids aged four and under. For drinks, water and unsweetened beverages get the gold star. And alcohol gets a limit it because hydration shouldn't mean IPA-based. And I think we already knew that to begin with. They frame this, the authors, as a flexible framework, not a strict diet. More guardrails than nutrition prism you can never leave. All right. Pretty interesting. But how is this different than the last pyramid? We're going to take a little history tour here. It's got the rickety buses from the 1920s and smokestack chimneys and people going everywhere but in three-piece suits. Did you ever notice that back in the old timey days? Everyone was always in a suit. They dressed so good back then, man. It was sick. Like Peaky Blinders style was geek style. Can you imagine how bad people smelled? Yeah. Pre-air conditioning? All summer, yeah. Pre-in – like what's that called? Pipes of water going through your pre-plumbing? Pre-plumbing. Anyway, how is this different than the last pyramid? So the government has been updating food guidance for like forever. Pyramids are just a new concoction. 1916 was the first year governments really started telling people what to eat and since then they've been keeping a good job at it. In 1992, several important things happened. One is the L.A. gangster rap scene was at its zenith. Scott, Snoop Dogg, Dr. Dre, Eazy-E. I mean, holy shit. The entire soundtrack to GTA San Andreas is like the most fire shit I have ever heard in my entire life. That is the most important thing that happened in 1992. But of secondary importance, the food guide pyramid, the classic horizontal layers, came out to hit a big base of grains. I used to eat Cheerios, Scott, and read the pyramid autistically. Well, that makes sense. Because it was on the back of the Cheerios. The autism also makes sense. Big base of grains, then fruits and veggies, then protein and dairy, very different than this pyramid, with fats slash sweets to use sparingly at the very top. So this is the carbs is the foundation era. In 2005, this got a big rework into the my pyramid. Still a pyramid, but now it's vertical color stripes, which is a little confusing. And a little stick figure in the middle climbing stairs. It also added an oils band and baked in physical activity, which was cool. They finally realized, like, you have to tell people to be physically active as well. In 2011, they got away from the pyramid altogether and did the my plate. The USDA basically said, forget the triangle and switch to a plate icon split into food groups, veggies, fruits, lean proteins, et cetera, intended as a simple reminder, not detailed instructions. I loved the my plate because you eat one plate at a time. You don't eat in a pyramid. Scott, do you ever envision your daily intake as a pyramidal abstraction? I actually eat on a pyramid-shaped plate, and I put everything where it's supposed to be. You're, like, not so hungry, so you're at the top still eating the fats and sweets. You're like, I'm never going to get to the grains at this rate. This is not going to happen. So it's also worth noting that the my plate got a design refresh around 2020, but the big format jump, the big content jump, was still 2011 plate to the 2026 pyramid comeback today. And so the 2026 new pyramid, the pyramid returns, but its emphasis shifts hard. Protein, dairy, and healthy fats get top billing. Veggies and fruits stay big, and grains get a smaller, more specific lane. So the old pyramid vibe is grains are your base. The new pyramid vibe is proteins plus plants are your base. Refined carbs are on very thin ice. The new pyramid is also way more direct about what to avoid, processed foods, sugary drinks, added sugars, whereas older guides often leaned on moderation and hoped your cookies would develop empathy. They didn't, by the way, and we have an obesity epidemic. All right. So let me talk about two things next. Thing number one is what is not ideal about this? Criticism first. So we end on a happy note. And then I'll talk about what is really, really good about this new pyramid. What's not ideal about it? Number one, including butter and cheese in the highest priority row, I don't think is a super sharp idea. Why? Both butter and cheese are not healthy fats. Straight up, they're just not. They're okay in moderation, but don't do great things for your cardiovascular system in higher daily consumptions. And remember, when they're tier one, mom is going to go out there and eat all the butter and cheese they can. And when you tell them, hey, like, you've been dipping a block of cheese into a bunch of melted butter, they're going to be like, it's in the food pyramid, you dick. And they won't be wrong. Next, both butter and cheese are very high palatability. Scott, any debate on the fact that butter and cheese are real easy to eat in high amounts? Yeah. Amazing. Amazing. They're very high palatability, which means you're going to be eating more of whatever foods you add them to, which ratchets up your calories and makes you, as the French say, a la fat. Both butter and cheese, to make things worse, aren't just very high palatability. They're very high in calories themselves. High calories plus high palatability. Palatability just means, like, how tasty is the food and how much of it do you want to eat? High calories plus tasty food you want to eat a lot of, plus the U.S. government says eat up, is a very, very interesting recipe for more weight gain for Americans. Potentially. Though there's sort of good news on this a little bit later. And number two critique, the relegating whole grains down situation. Whole grain consumption correlates with and almost certainly causes, in part, massive health improvements in almost every group of well-controlled studies. And the volume of literature and the quality of literature of these studies is absolutely gargantuan. This is like capital T true that whole grains are amazing for you. Whole grains are absolutely not more obesogenic. That means they do not cause people to gain excess body weight and body fat more than butter and cheese. And per calorie, they're better for health. So not only do you not overeat whole grains nearly as much, calorie per calorie, they're better for your health. Butter and cheese getting the nod over whole grains is backwards. And I hate to say it because butter and cheese are my two spirit foods. I have a third spirit food. Do you guys want to know what it is? We see when men get very excited, you know what I've done. Yes, it is possible to overeat whole grains. But mostly the people overeating grains are just overeating like kids cereal and white breads and not whole grains. While butter and cheese never get overeaten. Am I right? Ever. Why would you ever do that? Lastly, and this is a little bit of a bone, but I got to throw it in there. There seemingly is no mention of non-nutritive sweeteners. It says to avoid sweetened beverages, which is awesome. But fails to mention the non-nutritive sweeteners like sucralose, stevia, and a bunch of the other ones are absolutely great. Small issue, but an issue nonetheless. You want people drinking diet sodas. Diet sodas are amazing. They're so good. They're roughly as quote-unquote bad or good for you as water. But people like them and they taste great and they don't have to force you in a conundrum of I'm drinking water now instead of drinking Coke. If you have to choose between water and Coca-Cola classic, realistically, a lot of Americans are just going to choose Coca-Cola because this is a country of having a good time. If you want to choose water, go live in a Mongolian prison or some shit like that. But if you tell people you choose between Coca-Cola, which is not so great for you in high amounts, or Diet Coke, which is basically neutral for you, damn near close to water, then all of a sudden you don't have to choose between misery and the starlight shining incredible feeling of Coca-Cola being guzzled down your throat. You can just have both with diet soda. I'd really wish there was a mention of that. So that's my critical stuff. Let's move on to what's really good about it. This is not a complete list, but it's a long list because there's so much good about this pyramid. Number one, it promotes a protein core. That is amazing. Protein grows muscle. It supplies a steady stream of energy. It is anti-catabolic, which means it prevents muscle loss, especially in the era of weight loss drugs. This is a huge deal. Unbelievable. All-around gold star. Number two, it promotes veggies. Veggies are the healthiest pound-for-pound food that you can eat and suppress hunger the most. Veggies are goaded. They have no equal. When the veggies enter the Colosseum, all the gladiators just scrimp right out because there's no point. When broccoli raises that sword, everyone kneels, period. Amazing that veggies are getting a huge front row seat. This pyramid also promotes minimally processed food. There are food processing methodologies that make foods even healthier. The thing that makes Greek yogurt go from full fat to no fat. The thing that gives you whey protein and casein protein powder. But a lot of processing is just designed for foods to have way more calories and way tastier and way less nutrients like fiber and vitamins. And so when it's Twinkies on the menu, yeah, man, processing sucks. For most people, the advice of less minimally processed food – or sorry, more minimally processed food and less processed food is just really, really good advice. The other thing is this pyramid doesn't push like 900 grams of carbs onto people off the gate. Scott, I remember the 1992 original pyramid where the entire base was like – just looked like pieces of Cheerios or some shit. How many bread slices and pasta spoonfuls am I going to have to eat to be a good person? And it's just kind of wacky. And so probably didn't have major effect on people, which I'll talk about in a sec. But it's good that we're not telling people to eat just like grains until the cows come home for no goddamn good reason. It promotes healthy fats, which is amazing. Healthy fats like nuts, nut butters, olive oil, canola oil, avocados, things like that are phenomenal. Very difficult to overeat in the context of any kind of diet. Super, super healthy for all your body systems. Awesome. And this pyramid promotes dairy, which is actually interesting. Something I didn't used to know, but high-fat dairy like whole milk, not processed dairies like cheeses and shit and butters. High-fat dairy like whole milk, whole Greek yogurt, whole cottage cheese is actually super, super healthy in a calorie-balanced diet. So if you can get the calorie balance right, full-fat dairy is actually really dope. And obviously, lean dairy is really, really dope. And lastly, a really good thing about this pyramid is it warns against sweetened beverages and alcohol. If all Americans stopped drinking alcohol just for a year and stopped drinking all sugar-sweetened beverages, you would see massive, massive weight loss, massive health improvements. It's not going to happen anytime soon probably, but it is what it is. So amazing. Now, if I had to tweak my own food pyramid, anoint myself to king of health of the United States, is that king of health on steroids? No, shut up. You're going to jail in Guatemala or something. How would I do it? I would change the design just a little bit. The top row, the most prominent row, because it's the upside-down version, would have lean proteins, almost mandatory on every plate. The middle row would have veggies and fruits. The number of people that have ever gotten too fat eating veggies and fruits, minimally processed, super fresh, is very, very low, possibly zero. The third row would have whole grains and healthy fats. These are higher calorie sources, spoon for spoon, and so they shouldn't be brought up to the front. But nonetheless, they're very good for you and can be eaten in moderation within the context of your calories. And then the bottom row, a point of the pyramid, I would throw in butter, cheese, chocolate, and junk food. Notice, big difference between my pyramid and the new pyramid is that butter and cheese are in my eat hardly ever situation if you're trying to be a super healthy person and you have trouble with your weight, while for theirs, butter and cheese are in the rank one. Big, big difference there. But both of us agree junk food is junk food and probably shouldn't be eaten much. Now, second to last point for this video. Will this recent pyramid, or even my own version of the pyramid, if people are going to accept it, impact obesity rates? My guess is almost certainly not much, if at all. We know this because the old food guide pyramids had almost no measurable effect on obesity rates. How can that be? Did people actually follow the food pyramid? The short answer is absolutely not. Here's the slightly longer answer, though also pedantic. The idea that tens of millions of Americans suddenly became dutiful little nutrition monks because the USDA put a triangle on a pamphlet is optimistic, bordering on delusional. What actually happened behaviorally with each one of these pyramids? Especially that 1992 killer pyramid that's supposed to be the thing that caused the obesity epidemic. It didn't. Allegedly, who knows what happened as people read the shit and they were like, oh, I gotta eat 18 trillion pounds of grains and boom, I got fat. What actually happened was the following. People ate refined grains, not whole grains. They already misread the pyramid. Just kidding. They never read it. Just refined grains taste good. That's it. They added fats and sugars on top of higher carb diets. One of the big debates a few years back was the high carb recommendation hurting Americans and should we recommend low carbs? People would say, has said that like, well, Americans are eating less fats and more carbs now because of the pyramid. We actually looked in the data. It looks like they just ate more fats and carbs. Americans never got the high carb menu. They never got a good guy. Americans never got the high carb memo. They didn't get the high fat memo. They don't read memos, you guys. Portion sizes at the same time exploded. Ultra processed food availability skyrocketed. Price came down. The diversity was massive. Still is. Liquid calories, soda and juice became normal daily intake during this time. So if someone says Americans ate too many grains because the pyramid told them to, you can fairly respond with something like Americans ate too much of everything because food got cheaper. It's a good thing. It's a good thing. It's a good thing. It's a good thing. It's a good thing. It's just supply and demand. People really like to eat super tasty, high calorie food. And a lot of people just don't really give too much of a shit about what acutely happens to them in their daily lives. I know this sounds crazy, but it's politically incorrect and also true. The pyramid, the original 1992 version, never said drink 64 ounces of Coke. It never said supersize it. It didn't say eat Doritos between meals. It didn't say consume over 3,000 daily calories even though you never move. Yet here we are. Compliance matters more than advice. By a long shot. The most at-risk people for obesity, in fact, the people that should be heeding the advice of these pyramids the most are predictably, as measured in the research literature, several things. They read the least nutrition guidance. They trust government advice the least. They have the least executive bandwidth to implement it, i.e. they have other priorities. And they often live in food environments, by choice, where pyramids are irrelevant abstractions and getting food that's really tasty and really convenient is absolutely number one on almost everyone else's mind. Meanwhile, the people who actually tend to read dietary guidelines and attempt to follow them are disproportionately more educated already. I already know most of the stuff. Higher socioeconomic standing. They're already healthier and have tons of really good health behaviors. They're way more conscientious and future-oriented, which means they actually organize their nutritional lives to give a shit about what happens to their health later. And they're just less likely to become obese regardless. This is one of these things where the pyramid is supposed to help the people that need the help the most. But the people that get the help are the ones that need the help the least and arguably just don't need it at all. And the people who do need the help, folks really prone to obesity, they don't read about pyramids, they don't give a shit. Or they've heard about it once or twice and go, sweet, cheeseburger time. That's it. Blaming obesity on dietary guidelines assumes high compliance among the least compliant group. That's backwards. My best guess, folks will ignore this pyramid within a week. Scott, prediction? Yeah, for sure. And continue to eat mostly based on how they feel. Well, guys, that's how most normal people eat. Just whatever they feel like with some slight maybe guilt trip about maybe eating a vegetable. Around the late 20-teens, I was saying very much in social media and whoever the hell would listen to me, mostly people that wish I'd shut up, as usual. I was saying very often the only real solution to obesity is not another pyramid, not more education. I think it's just going to be about drugs and gene editing. The ozempic revolution started to prove that the drugs thing was probably on point. Gene editing eventually, I think, will prove me completely correct if I'm being an egotistical asshole, which is my real state of affairs, by the way. So I think that's still a thing. And I think that the pyramid is just going to be like a no one asked, no one answered type of thing. Legit. It sucks. I wish we could just tell people what to do with a wise and omniscient government, but that is not reality. I will leave you with something a little bit more positive and substantially more useful. I have three rules that can replace the entire pyramid. Tell your family and friends about these three rules. Rule one, eat a core of lean protein of every meal. Rule two is overall calories kept to keep you on track for a healthy weight. If you're overweight, that means less calories to lose weight. If you're normal weight, that means normal calories. If you're underweight, eat more. And lastly, number three is fill in the non-lean protein calories because you have lean protein taking up some of the calories and you have a bunch of calories left over. Fill those in with any combo you like of veggies, fruits, whole grains, and healthy fats that are ideally minimally processed. And if you're struggling with weight, fill them in in that order. So if you're struggling with your weight, way, way more veggies, fewer fruits, sparingly whole grains, and not a ton of healthy fats. If you're really struggling with keeping weight on your body, you can't gain enough weight. The doctors say that you're too skinny, et cetera. You need to start with healthy fats and whole grains. Eat as many fruits as you can. And veggies are kind of sprinkled in to see if you're not super full yet. So it's taking the pyramid and turning it upside down. But as long as you're getting lean proteins and then all of your meals have the calories remaining from some combination of veggies, fruits, whole grains, and healthy fats, probably in that order, you are going to have a real goddamn good time at your nutrition. And it really only needs to be that simple. Healthy fats versus whole grains is not a combat Godzilla versus Mothra show we ever need to see because they're both totally awesome. Fruits and veggies are both totally awesome. We don't need that fight. We do know that butter and cheese are on the sidelines of that fight because they're arguably the enemy and not the main show. I hate talking shit about butter and cheese because for the soul. Scott, if I gave you a buttery cheese sandwich, could I even make you happier after that? Yeah, no, that sounds good. Like a nice buttery grilled cheese. Come on. Now, what if my hands were still covered with cheese, fat, and butter? Could I make you happier after that in any other way? For sure. My word. What kind of channel are we running here? Folks, if you are serious about tracking your food and calories meal by meal for your best results, there are many amazing nutrition apps out there. But my personal favorite, one I helped craft and use daily for every single meal, is the RP Diet Coach app. It is here to help. There are links in the description. Go click on things. And why don't you download yourself a picture of RFK Jr. Here's your homework. Just stare at it. That's what a real man looks like. I'll see you guys next time.