 He'll attempt to scale one of the tallest skyscrapers in the world. Oh, no, no, no, no, no. Emily, no! He's holding on with just his legs. Hey, folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strengths. I am a former professor of exercise and sports science. I was kicked out of the academy for attempting to climb every single building that I was ever employed in. The bad news was that I'm incapable of climbing and got nowhere. The good news is I was still kicked out of the university system for trying. However, today's spotlight is a human being, in quotes, named Alex Honnold. There are two things about him that stand out. One is he is one of the greatest climbers to ever do the climbing thing. So we're going to talk about, see some of his climbing stuff, talk about some of his fitness stuff, and I'll get in my old exercise science bullshit to teach you guys the real deal about how to improve your climbing through lifting and also through climbing. And the other thing about him that stands out is every time that I read his name, I think, Arnold, Arnold, Arnold, Arnold, Arnold, it's me, Arnold Schwarzenegger. What are you doing? What are you doing? What are you climbing this for? Watch this. Bidai. I just knocked the mountain down and you can step on all these stupid rocks. You know, you're going out there and you're going to Yosemite Falls. What is there? Is there a weight room? Is there a posing gym? Is there mirrors? No. Stop it. Bullshit. Literally, that happens to my brain, Scott, every single time. I see Alex Arnold. I'm like, Arnold? Arnold? So my stupidity aside, three, two, one, begin to climb. Now. Go, go. After years of training, he put himself to the ultimate test, a death-defying form of climbing called free solo. No ropes, no harnesses, no partners. Free soloing is insane. And lots of us like to think that we're tough. And most of us are wrong because free solo climbers exist. If I screw up racking a squat, 500-pound squat, you know, I could bust up my knees. I could bust up my spine. I could never walk again. But the thing is, is that screwing up a squat rack on rack is like it's a very well-practiced thing. It's very predictable. The barbell always looks the same. The weather in the gym is identical. You know exactly where your feet are on the rack and everything. And also, if you just properly place the supports, you really like can't super get hurt unless something goes wrong. You tweak your knee, whatever. And then you tell people how glorious of a hero you were. Hurt yourself squatting. Hopefully, you get a few HJs out of it. You know? You can try this next time a woman of reproductive age approaches you. She's like, oh my God, like, what's like wrong with your knee? You're like looking. Hurt at squatting, you know? What's the f***ing price of being a warrior, man? And she's like, oh my God, you're a warrior? That's like, okay. So like, how much were you squatting? You were like, how much do you think, baby? She's like, I'm like 800 pounds for like a double like Ronnie did. You're like, that's exactly correct. She's like, oh my God, can I give you a heege? Heege and Beej. I ain't going to translate, Scott, because we all know what we're talking about. However, tough as lifters are, there are tougher people. MMA fighters, you think you're a tough lifter, but this guy gets hit in his face for a living and lives to tell the tale. But in MMA, typically there are judges and refs and lots of people around. And if someone's killing you, they typically stop or are stopped by the referee. There is no negotiating with a rock cliff. But you think, oh no worries, these guys are repelled in, they're carabinered in. If they fall, they get caught. Nope. Free soloing is composed of two things. One, solo, you're alone. Two, free, you are not belayed, is that the term? Into the mountain at all. So if you screw up once and you are above something like 40 or 50 feet, you die. Worst, best case is you're in the 50 to 80 foot range and you, Scott, you know those like softer patches of ground by the pine tree? You land in one of those and only break your femur open and the helicopter has to come pick your dumb ass up. Free soloing is insane because you screw up, you die. Ah, okay. This is just some stuff for perspective at the beginning. Yeah. I've seen that shot before, the like under the mountain overhang thing, and it disturbs me deeply. This is a nightmare of mine. Like, it's a fucking nightmare, you guys. You guys ever had this nightmare? I bet you have too. I like that he has a helmet on. Yeah, thank God. He's like, he's falling. He's like, oh, I know what to do. It turns, helmet busts through the ground. He just gets up like nothing happened. I'm glad I hit my helmet. What? How'd he get up there? Death is a terrifying thing, but... Motherfucker, what you mean, but? You mean, you plan. Stop playing. Really does kind of give you a deeper appreciation for life. You know what I'm saying? Facts. I got all the appreciation for life I need, Scott. You know what I'm saying? I don't need death. Yeah, I'm good. Folks, there is still more video to come, but if you want the extra, long, hard, juicy, veiny, veiny, pulsing, full-length edition of this video with extras we can't dare mention on public YouTube, you're going to want to be a member of this channel, and that's going to cost you a little bit of coin. It's not a ton of coin. You get tons of other amazing things with that. Click around, subscribe, and become a member, and back to the video. Ronald's next challenge is something else that's never been done before. He'll attempt to scale one of the tallest skyscrapers in the world. That's so sweet. I had a challenge before in my life that was very similar. As many of you know, I am the world's first trillionaire, and instead of attempting to climb one of the world's tallest buildings, I attempted to own one of the world's tallest buildings, and I succeeded. I actually do own the Taipei 101. Maybe people just don't know that, but it's my building. So, Alex Honnold, you're welcome for letting you climb it. You know what I'm saying? Get that paper yourself, my dude. The Taipei 101 Tower in Taiwan. When I visualize a climb like Taipei 101, I'm thinking about what I don't feel like, and it's this mental preparation that informs my physical training. Whoa. Oh, that's hard to do. He's basically doing a dumbbell fly with like a large fraction of his body weight. Very, very cool. Why is he doing straight arm flies like that? There are many aspects of climbing, especially bouldering, which is when you climb boulders, that require types of strength that you wouldn't think about until and unless you did climbing. One of them is what he's illustrating here. Sometimes you're on a rock face, and it's not just like when you're at the climbing wall and you've got little dildo handles to grab onto and it's all vertical pulling. Vertical pulling, nonetheless, is the most important physical characteristic that you exhibit when you climb. However, sometimes the only way to get purchase on what you're climbing is to literally grab it and put enough force into it such that you generate enough friction so you don't fall backwards. And so your ability to be strong enough and endurance enough to physically squeeze your pecs and your biceps and your forearms and your fingers enough to hold on can be enough to get you going. So the upper body strength required for climbing is massive and honestly multifaceted. A lot of my training for Type 0101 is different than rock climbing. It's more around simulating the feeling in my body, which is sort of deep fatigue. I have to be able to do 1,600 feet of vertical climbing kind of quickly. Oh my God. That's really cool. That is really cool. The ability to do a full pull up by grabbing vertical bars with your hands. Unbelievable hand strength. Unbelievable pulling strength. Tons of control. And so he's saying here, let's listen to this part. This is really important. On Type 0101, you're basically grabbing the same holds almost the whole way up the building. That's a good thing and a bad thing. Same holds almost all the way up the building means it's a predictable climb, which is awesome. You don't want to be climbing and a lot of climbing actually is this and be like, where the hell does my hand go next? Right? That's scary. So in the Type A 101, you're probably going to know where your hand goes. The problem that Alex is describing is that if you continue the same repetitive motion over and over, then local fatigue starts to be a huge problem. If you have a different kind of route and you navigate, you know, with actual real rock, sometimes you're pulling vertically. Sometimes you're pulling a bit to the side. Sometimes you're kind of pinch gripping with your chest. Sometimes you're actually pushing off of various objects to get to various other ones. It cycles through multiple muscles, multiple parts of your muscles, so that you're never really fatiguing any one muscle continuously for a long time. But a climb like Type A 101 is a lot of the same movements over and over and over repetitively. And that means your local fatigue is going to be skyrocketing and your local endurance has to be trained very well ahead of time. But preparation is one thing and you can practice something and it feels a certain way. But when you do something you've never done before, you never totally know that you're ready. And that fear is always there. 100%. But it's better to practice a simulation than actually just raw dog it, I suppose. Scott, do you think I'm going to be the first person that tries to climb to Type A 101 with zero training? That would be awesome. That would be nice. We'll film it. We'll take a camera. Sounds good. Quick video. I will get up about one meter, freak out that it's already too high, and then fall down. He's just going climbing. Yeah, just going climbing. I was getting anxiety pulling this footage. I was like sweating. It sucks. I don't know how he does it. If I woke up and I was there, I'd be like, I'm still asleep and this is a nightmare. I'm still asleep and this is a nightmare. I need to wake up. Yeah. I mean, I know Mark was excited being up there. Oh, no, no, no, no. Emily, no! Why? He's holding on with just his legs. Because he's got a chalk bag and he needs more chalk. But he's almost at the top. Holy shit. That's nuts. That's nuts. Guys, I have some insight here that the media wouldn't share. It looks like Alex Honnold was climbing the Taipei 101 and he used just his legs to hang on while he re-chalked his hands. He wasn't looking for chalk. As you can tell, he's quite sweaty. And he was looking for a kind of powder that has a mix of all of the electrolytes that your body needs in order to stay hydrated. And that is element powder. Now, we typically don't recommend that people dry scoop the element, but Alex Honnold is a special person. And so he would dry scoop the element powder and then absorb moisture from the air. That's how he would rehydrate. So he can't quite absorb electrolytes from the air because there's just not really enough of them floating around. Did any of this really happen? No. Is element an amazing beverage enhancer that can increase your ability to stay hydrated during and after a hard physical task in which you sweat a lot? Absolutely. Link in description, code, etc. It's not really that much different than what I do in day-to-day life as a professional rock armor. I'll probably do basically a two-month concentrated training block like leading up to it. Cool. Cool. He's not just like going in there and doing the stuff. Two-month concentrated training block is actually really intense. That's a lot of run-up time for something specific. I'm really glad to hear about this. First time I'm hearing about it. But actually, I've been kind of thinking of it like a fighter or something. I suspect it's not dissimilar to the way a boxer or somebody prepares for a fight. Yeah, except way more on the line. Way more on the line. Where it's like they're always fit and they're always practicing. But then before a big fight, they sort of train hard for, you know, think like the Rocky training montage or something. Basically, I'm doing that for the next month and a half. But basically, I'll do like two and a half months of like concentrated training for this specific project. Smart. Real smart. Generally, all elite climbers are very good at climbing. When they want to tackle a specific really difficult climb, especially when it's life and death, they're going to want to take their general fitness and sharpen the edges a little bit to make it specific for that climb. Which is why he was replicating a lot of the same grips that he would use on the Tybee 101 and training and so on and so forth. And that principle of specificity really applies to almost everything. And it's a timing issue. You want to be specifically peaked for the event that you're doing because that's the only thing that matters at the event. And it can take several weeks and it can take several months for you to peak appropriately for the very thing you want to be good at. So if you want to be good at a specific thing, anything in fitness, consider taking a month or two to really focus most of your efforts on that thing and the underlying systems that support it. And taking everything else you're doing in training and putting it on maintenance so that you can not get worse at everything, but you get really, really good at the thing you're doing specifically. And even things like neural adaptations are massive in a short time window. I haven't high bar squatted in a long time. And I recently had to do some high bar squats at a gym I was at because they didn't have anything else. And I was like wobbly and weird with 275 pounds for sets of like 10. And, you know, like I've done 405 for sets of 10 before, like smooth, no problem. And my legs are bigger and stronger than they were when I did that. But the weirdness of the movement, because I hadn't done it in years, was super, super, super intense. And so if I continue to high bar squat, every week my abilities to squat will be magnified a ton. And almost nothing of that has to do with muscle growth but nervous system training. So the nervous system can adapt radically quickly. Bioenergetics can adapt radically quickly. You can take a muscle and make it way more endurance in weeks of time. Whereas size and strength typically take much longer. So if you're going to peak for something that requires more endurance or requires a specific technique, you had better be doing it with more endurance training and specific technique training for weeks and weeks and weeks before you actually get it going to have your best result. Exactly like Alex Honnold was doing. Honnold! By pretty much any metric of finger strength, I underperform relative to my peers. Which, you know, which I manage with, you know, good technique, good footwork, like basically like good execution. You know, like I would say I'm a pretty good climber in general, but I'm not that strong of a climber. Certainly not relative to the level at which I climb. Climbing is massively technique based. Massively endurance based. Massively based in, I guess, something related to technique called strategy. And is absolutely massively based on essentially repetition strength in upper body stuff. Well, not so much legs, but definitely upper body and especially upper body pulling. And climbing also, climbing ability has a lot to do with things you can't really change. Some people just have bigger, longer, stronger hands to begin with. They have more endurance forearm musculature that's also very strong. But not necessarily big because big muscles tend to cramp out and fatigue faster. And so, when you begin climbing, like any sport, you discover that you are pretty gifted at some things. And okay at other things and maybe not so great at others. Now, compared to regular people, every single elite climber is pretty close to gifted in almost every aspect of climbing. But compared to each other, some people really stand out in one category and really don't stand out in the other. And it's the net total effect of technique and endurance and specific strength endurance and body architecture and thrapometry that really determines your overall climbing ability. And there's one other thing with climbing, balls. The good news about balls is if you have big balls, you can just throw away your notepad and your Excel sheets. The RP Hypertrophy app has all of your workouts displayed in one place with guided videos on exercise techniques and a program that evolves to better suit your needs the longer you use the app. All you have to do is follow the plan right on your phone and get the gains. Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. The bad thing is, well, the balls are quite heavy seeing they weigh you down. You know, Scott, if Alex Honnold didn't have balls that big, he wouldn't be a good climber because he would stop climbing. Because you need balls like that to keep climbing. But he could be a better climber if someone forced him to climb snow. Think about that. You don't have to be born with Chris Sharma's tendons. You know, you can just you can just be a friggin monster at training and and get there. So honestly, not even a monster. You can just stick with it for a long time. Oh, is that wisdom right there, folks? A lot of people understandably value training very hard. But some of the people who value training really hard are valuing it in the course of minutes, hours, days and weeks, which absolutely is valid. But it's training hard over months and years, especially years. And even if the training is not psychotic, it's the consistency that's going to make you better. This wisdom from Alex Honnold for climbing transfers to almost every single life activity in which you can get better at it. And good things happen when you get better at it. Every kind of fitness training, every kind of sport training, every kind of dance training, language practice, schoolwork, business, even relationship dynamics. Practicing the right stuff pretty hard, not necessarily psychotically, over months and months and months and years and years and years is going to leave almost everybody behind. The real way to craft yourself into someone who can do things well is to consistently stick with them for a very long time. Scott, you ever have people talk to you at the gym and they're like, yeah, just kind of coming back to it and been out for a while. And you have this part of your brain that's like gives up on them during the conversation. Yeah, you're like you're not serious. They're like, what do you think about like flies versus like machine flies? And you're like, you don't need to worry about that right now. You're asking me about stuff you probably will quit in six weeks. The answer is it's not worth for me to tell you. So consistency beats everything. Because I mean, so many things in climbing, like stronger tendons and ligaments, you know, connective tissue takes a very long time to adapt to stimulus. Months and years. And so, you know, I mean, you just played the long game. You just slowly like if you can consistently grind away at something and avoid injury and basically maintain like a relatively healthy lifestyle, like you will see long term gains. And it's just, you know, slow and steady progress. All right. That was fun. Scott and I are feeling real motivated by this. And we need to be able to climb a building. And so in the comments, tell us which building we're going to be climbing and we will see you there. Burj Khalifa sounds pretty tall. Right. The one in Dubai, the world's tallest building. Honestly, it's like one of those pyramidal structures which goes like this, which to me isn't a challenge because it gets easier. I want some shit that goes out that way. So any upside down pyramids you guys know about, let us know. We're going to start climbing them. Alex Honnold gets a psychotic legend out of 10 in our formal exercise science ranking system and is just at a level of ballerness that I can't even relate to. I'm going to go home and cry. I suggest you do the same. See you guys next time. All right. That was fun. This next video to my right, it might not involve rock climbing, but it might involve juicy men. What's wrong with me? We're recording from Miami. I can be excused. See you guys next time.