 He's like, I'm a f***ing millionaire, why the hell am I in the desert with a hammer? Great anterior chain training. Slight risk of, uh, heat stroke. Oh, oh, Hollywood. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. I've been a long-time professor of exercise and sports science, I've bodybuild, I do the jujitsu grappling, and I watch a decent number of movies. Typically the movies I watch suck, because I have awful movie taste. Today, we did a thing we've done once before, which is we go and we look at Hollywood movies. Ugh, your uncle invented Hollywood. But with a new twist to see what kind of fitness things they're doing in the movies. And do they like, make sense, make sense? Or are they sort of something you can try that works? Or has Hollywood just gone for the entertainment factor and is the training scene or diet stuff total nonsense? Let's figure it out. Let's stay kind and respectful, yet, um, comedically expansive. All jokes, all love and respect. Three, two, one. Hollywood. You know all there is to know about fighting. So there's no sense us going down that same old road again. To beat this guy, you need speed. You don't have it. I remember this scene completely right on, right? This next, this scene is talking about what you could possibly optimize at a given very, like, restricted age and injury status and ability level. So what can you actually crank on to make a difference? And there's tons of wisdom here. So, yeah, like, speed. Here's the thing about speed. You can train speed with technique. But speed is largely genetic and, unfortunately, largely age-based. So when you're much older and if you never had the genetics for speed, if you know Rocky Balboa, the fictional character, Scott, he was never fast, right? Oh, I take the punches with my face. Whoa. Like, he just, like, blocked with his face. He's not a fast guy. It's not what he did. And so the idea that you can make someone way faster by training them, especially later in life, is actually generally false. Especially if they're already technically skilled, which he is. So, so far, the coach is just, like, knocking it out of the park. And your knees can't take the pounding. So hard running is out. Right. So we've abandoned cardio. Okay, I will say road work is really good for boxing cardio. But there's better ways to get cardio for boxing. And the best one is limited sparring, which means people don't hit you in the head. That tends to not work out so well longevity-wise. It's limited hard sparring with multiple opponents at the same time or in sequence. So there's one of you and there's three decent guys you're sparring against. And you can even do this with pads. And so you just go, like, two minutes with one person, two minutes with another person, two minutes with one other person. Rest however long you need to pick yourself up off the floor and repeat. That kind of cardio is insanely intense, insanely specific to boxing or whatever other sport you practice for. Because the guys you're going against get triple the time to recover that you do. They're always pushing the pace. Even if you're really good after a few minutes of this kind of stuff, even not so great guys are going to out-cardio you and at least make you work. So, but, you know, this is traditional boxing training. Typically, you do lots of road work. So he's like, okay, we can't even get you into a much better cardio shape. Running is out. Facts. Respect. When you're 60 trillion years old like Rocky was in this movie or in his sky, it's supposed to be in his 70s for this, right? Like, yeah, like maybe running is kind of out of the equation. And let's remember the running is out of the equation thing for later. Okay. Running is out of the equation for later. Just keep that in mind. Okay, cool. Just keep that in mind. Okay. And you got arthritis in your neck and you've got calcium deposits on most of your joints. So sparring is out. Okay. That takes care of that one. There are ways you can spar with all that stuff, but it's tough. It's tough. What we'll be calling on is good old-fashioned blunt force trauma. Fuck yeah. Scott, have you ever heard something motivational like that in your entire life? And there's truth in this. Just making yourself way stronger is going to make a big difference. If you already know the skill of boxing, if you already know the tactics and strategy of boxing, if you have a good baseline of cardio, getting way stronger, especially if there's no weight class cap by gaining muscle and weight, absolutely makes you more dangerous in a way that almost nothing else does. That's why they have weight classes in boxing, by the way. Because if you let this... Scott, can you imagine you let the heavyweights fight the roosterweights and open boxing championships? Just be unethical or something like that? So very, very logical strategy to exploit for this fictional scene. Love, love, love. Horsepower. Heavy duty, cast iron, pile driving punches that will have to hurt so much they'll rattle his ancestors. Scott, can I hit the microphone or something? Okay, so he's running. First montage scene, he's running. But Scott... First one. Maybe they said like a lot of running is out. Okay, keep that in mind. Okay. Okay. God damn it. Yeah, weighted pull-ups. Yeah, dude, Sylvester Stallone's the man. And Rocky, the character, is the man. So we got compound heavy basic. We got incline press, compound heavy basic. Kettlebell swing. We'll take it. He didn't even like that. You see that? He hated it. He smashed his hand with it? Dog has a sweater on, which is sweet. Running. The dog doesn't seem interested. Holy shit. Okay, you know that's fake weight, but that's for filming. And he's got three plates on a standard bar doing a return from clean position. Hell yeah. Hell yeah, dude. He's benching a lot. You see that shit? That was like 300 and some odd pounds. Two plates of 35, 295. 345. 365. If he's inclining 365 for even a single, that is like legit 100% knockout power. If he's doing reps with that shit, bro, like mission accomplished. I don't even know how to train anymore. Hey, he cleaned it this time, but he's pissed because he didn't press it. One thing that I did notice, I will say. Right there. Pause. He has a traditional weightlifting belt on because he's actually doing the weightlifting moves. You guys see that the belt is thicker in the back, thinner in the front. That's a damn good belt. But the problem is it doesn't evenly distribute your intra-abdominal pressure. It would be a little better if his belt was an even height all around, like a powerlifting belt. But if he was training for hypertrophy, and he's not, he's training for strength, so all is well, he could take his shit to one extra next level. Having a belt that conforms to the body, that looks awesome, that's taller than traditional powerlifting belt, offering you even more of an aesthetic look and even more intra-abdominal pressure up and down, left to right, super adjustable. And we have just the thing for you, the Versagrips Hyperbelt. Link in description. You can buy it. It is discounted for you guys, and it is the unbelievable belt specifically for getting you jacked. You don't need the belt, but it's nice. And if Rocky had it, it wouldn't really change his training at all. But if he was trying to get more jacked, it would help. So some good stuff there, some not great stuff. Mixed bag as usual. Now, our next movie is going to be Creed 2, which I happen to love. Scott, did you know that I've seen the movie Creed like eight times? Oh, wow. I've never seen any of these movies. He's like, I'm a millionaire. Why the hell am I in the desert with a hammer? Great anterior chain training. Slight risk of heat stroke. Oh, oh, Hollywood. What? Running in the desert to exhaustion and fainting isn't good for fighting, like? I mean, if you survive it, it'll make you tough or something. Let's say from a medical perspective, Scott, like if someone in the desert is running around and then just falls, seemingly for no good reason, training camp gets on pause as you do dozens of tests at the hospital. Is the next time you go out, you could be like, oh, he's dead. So, you know, Hollywood, drama. Scott, every now and again, when I'm like, like if your girl's getting you ready to go out, you just don't really want to go out because she's like, oh my God, all my friends will be there. And you're like, oh, I just like pass out. You know, I'm like, oh, I hit my head. I think I should stay at home and just watch Netflix. It's like you only pass out on Friday nights at 8 p.m. What the hell? Do you know what my response to that would be? How I would argue back? Okay. I think he's dead. Neck. Training neck is important for boxers. It promotes stability. It's cool. You need to train anterior as much as posterior. Anterior is not as sexy. So, like you put like a towel over your forehead, you put weights on, you lay off a bench and you go like this instead of just the backwards stuff. The backwards thing, Scott, remember that one time you and I ended up at that club in Berlin for eight hours and we had to put all kinds of things like that and all kinds of weird stuff happen? I blocked that out. I'm sorry. Oh, hell yeah, baby. You feel me? That hip hop beat gets to smashing. Now we know we're in this shit. I love it. I love it. Hollywood. Scott, it get me every time. Michael Jordan got a trap situation. Yo, that's what I was going to say, bro. He's like got them Cobra traps and shit. I'm telling you, man. Black don't crack. Like Michael B. Jordan for these movies had a unbelievable physique, bro. Just unbelievable. And it's, okay, so let me say that again. Believable for a pro boxer, you know? Like sometimes you have these like back in the day, Scott, you remember like in the 50s and 60s, they made movies about athletes and it was just a regular guy playing. He was like, man, see chum, let's go for a run. And you're like, my friend, you have a beer belly. You're not a runner. I can't believe any part of this story. This, I feel on vibes a thousand percent. Yeah. Like it, that's a fine way to train your abs, I guess. And you have to prepare for punishment. I don't know how much, I'll say this. I would typically like to get my punishment in sparring. As there's only so much fatigue you can accumulate by getting beaten up and you just have to recover from that and takes away from all your other recovery. I would love to be learning something and improve my cardio at the same time while taking a certain unit of punishment. So taking the punishment, just hanging out and training my abs is probably not the way I would do it. But we do get to see him hanging out, having that fine ass body. Michael B. Jordan. What's up? You're the greatest Michael Jordan to me. Nah, I can't say that outright. But you're cool. Chain Dragon is cool. There are more straightforward ways to get bigger and stronger, like using machines and barbells and dumbbells. But the Chain Dragon with the shit is, man, it just looks so sweet. Some ups, some downs. What do we got next, Scott? Southpaw. Scott, I've seen this movie. I was in a good mood when I started watching it. And then for the first hour of the movie, it gets really f***ed up. Jump rope's cool. He's in great shape. Jake gets in shape. It's cool jump rope tricks. Part of good boxing. It's mostly a demonstration of the stuff. It does build endurance. It does build the endurance you need for good footwork. So it is very low fatigue. It doesn't involve you getting beat up. So it's an ancillary method to increase cardio. Jump rope is really good for boxing. Yeah. No debate there. Does he have a mask on? Yeah, it's the oxygen mask. Masks don't do anything. Um, beneficial at all. They don't even reduce how much oxygen you're breathing in. They reduce how much you're breathing out mostly, which is just to caps your workload for no reason. It's like making something needlessly harder in a way that doesn't make you better. It's like during squats, if you like put a spider into your shorts and it would like bite you every now and again. Does that make you better at squatting? No, it makes squatting harder, but it doesn't make you stronger. So the mask is dumb. Med ball rotations are totally cool. And if I were him, I would not be doing them slowly. I would be doing them with maximum rapidity, explosive power on each rep. Because in boxing, you want explosive power and the ability to do that over and over. Power endurance. So you have to demonstrate power over many reps. If you just kind of put the reps in and just kind of move around, maybe it's just designed to illustrate where he started or something. You really just want max power on each rep. I've never seen that. I don't have an expertise in boxing training. Hit the string. I mean, if you're trying to promote accuracy and hand speed, that seems reasonable. But I'm way out of my element for that one. No comment. A little bob and weave. Yeah. So I will say like some of this is cool stuff and it's really nice in Hollywood. Because Hollywood likes quirky stuff that will get the viewer to be like, whoa, neat. Almost all of this is so you have heavy bag, you have pad work, and you have some kind of sparring work, including limited sparring where they don't hit your head. And when they hit you, they hit you not full power. And you don't hit them full power, but you hit them full speed. Between those three training modalities is probably about 90% of all you ever need outside of weight training and cardio and good diet for boxing. And so when they do these kinds of drills as a teaching tool for people that haven't boxed before to learn how to change levels and maintain their stance and advance their position, I think it's great. Scott, this guy's a pro boxer. You know, like he knows. Imagine if I took you into the gym and I was like, Scott, I'm going to teach you how to bench press. You're going to be like, I know how to bench press. Can you put some weight on the bar and have me do sets of five? Right. Let's get to it. And so this kind of teaching tool stuff is relatable to a human, but in reality has a transfer of training that's substantially lower than actually going up against real humans that are trying to evade you and practicing different tactics and strategies and combos on them. Because that gives you all the cardio work. It gives you some even of the strength power work. And it gives you a real world integration of your technique into the kinds of three dimensional arrangements of objects you would see in a boxing ring. All the affordances are there as they would be. The directions of movement, degrees of freedom. And so you're really training for the actual thing itself. I guess an analogy would be like you want to learn how to write the English alphabet. You're like, yeah, like first we start with vertical lines. You're going to draw a hundred vertical lines on a page. Okay. Then you're going to draw horizontal lines. Okay. And then weeks later, you're going to draw like curve lines like a letter C. But it's not the letter C. You're not ready for letters yet. You're like, all right. And then eventually you can just start practicing the letters. And when you start knowing letters and words, you can just start writing essays. That is an analogy. Basically, once you know how to box, you do some boxing drills. This, not so much a boxing drill. It does look good though, huh? The Nutty Professor? You're kidding. Folks, there is still more video to come. But if you want a bigger, longer, uncut version of this video and tons of other bonus features, intellectual videos, vlogs for training for Jared and I, the member section exists. And if you click on links, you can sign up for it. It's a teeny bit of money, a huge bit of value. And I've already said too much because it's time to go back to the video. In any case, to make Jake Gyllenhaal a better boxer, it's a combination of heavy resistance training, sets of five, really heavy weights, compound pushing and pulling, sets of three, very light weights, fast, and then a ton of boxing training. Heavy bag, pads, and sparring. A couple other things in there, not a whole lot. Real sport training is often way, way simpler than many people would like to believe. And than Hollywood movies would like to believe because, you know, you want to see some new shit, some cool stuff. Scott, if you have the same training montage in every boxing movie, it kind of gets weird, right? Yeah, they got to think more than any shit to put in there. It turns out. I don't know them at all. Yeah. It turns out way crazier. Right. 100%. You know, like shocking his balls and shit. Yo, G.I. Jane, I've watched that without any sound on or jokes to her. Yeah, this one's just here to get us canceled, really. I knew this was coming and you actually got there quicker than I thought. Yes. Like before we even saw it. Before we even saw it, your boy's making sex jokes. Yo, two things. Military girls, all can get it. Warrior women, 100%. Second of all, if you have a buzz cut, front of the line. Front of the line, period. Scott, does that make me letter G? Yeah. Whatever. I know you're in the same boat, you weirdo. Scott, do you need D-sized titties to enroll in the modern military? Okay. Yeah. That's great technique. Great technique, Scott. Wow. She kills it. This is how you get killed in the real world. The chairs, Scott. Deficit push-ups. Deficit push-ups amazing. Yo, that ass. One-arm push-up. Very difficult. Mostly a balance exercise if you're strong enough. If you're not strong enough, you just can't do it at all, no matter how much balance you have. Dude, you're freeze-traving like crazy right now. My B. Oh, is that her, you know what? Okay. Great exercise. Phenomenal range of motion. Excellent control. Beautiful speed. Scott, this is like accidentally becoming our best training movie review. Mm-hmm. She's on it, bro. Good technique. Good ROM. Were they trying to make this sexual or am I just a piece of shit? Like, why do they have to have the moonlight, Scott? Them's his moonlight shots. And she's all like- Dramatic. Her mouth and stuff. Wow. Am I the bad person? Whoa. Whoa. That's intense. She did them. I mean, she doesn't have a big range of motion because of my titties. I'm done. I'm done. She's the only way down. That's all the farther she can go. Well, for a reason, Scott. Yeah. Freak of nature. This is cool. If she could really pull this off, amazing. Demonstrates a shitload of upper body pushing strength. I think they did that uncut long form intentional because she did do it. She did do it. But I could be wrong. Yeah. Huge. I think there's a reason they left these on. Yeah. Huge respect. I think she did. She was on some guest. She was a guest on some talk shows and she did a few of these shits. Dude, that's the problem. Scott, if you got in such a good shape for a movie, would you ever give it up later? I'm not giving that shit up. They'd be like, hey, you have to have a role as a retired stripper. And you're like, nah. Can I be jacked? They're like, no. You're like, okay, I'm done with Hollywood. Yeah. Like Christian Bale does Batman. And then they're like, you have to be obese in the next movie. You're like, damn it. That's true acting, man. I don't have it in me for, I can only play one role. Mike Isretel. Starring in. You want to train right to gain muscle, but there's so much complexity to it. What exercises to choose, what sets and reps to do, how much weight to lift, and how to structure your weekly plan. So much uncertainty that it's easy to get overwhelmed. The RP Hypertrophy app removes all uncertainty and makes the training process precisely defined. Choose your premium workout plan from dozens available in the app. Plug in your weights, and the app takes care of the rest for months of productive training. Ready? Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. Guys, Hollywood's entertaining, but we'll say a serious thing. A lot more people than you might think get actual training tips from Hollywood movies. Should they see it in the movie, they're going to try it at the gym. Mostly that doesn't work. And that's not an affront on Hollywood. They're doing a great job to entertain you. You wouldn't read the physics equations on the board of one of them kaiju movies, the Pacific Rim movies, and think you're going to actually make a functional portable nuclear reactor. Just the same way, you wouldn't really copy the exercise they did in movies where they train to think they're going to have a really good effect. Some good stuff in there, mostly some kind of weird stuff just for entertainment. And I totally get that. So if you're ever prone to learning some stuff, get you on YouTube and watch great evidence-based fitness content. Other than that, Hollywood is Hollywood. There's loads of fun. If you guys need a GI Jane 2, trans GI Jane, I volunteer for tribute. I could be cast as GI Jane, her coach, her confidant, her enemy, or her lover. But I'd like to be GI Jane. See you guys next time. All right. That was fun. Hey, Hollywood. Whoa. Hollywood, if you want, I'm available for this next video that you could watch of me right here. See you guys next time. Bye.