 If you have the mom pooch, pyrrhoff, if you have the mom pooch, oh, I already know what I'm gonna say. I work from home and wanted to find an easy way to stay moving without feeling like I'm exerting myself too much. The machine moves for you. Scott, it's gonna cost you more than a thousand bucks, I feel like. These are getting progressively worse. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. I've been a longtime professor of exercise and sports science, a Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu black belt and a competitive bodybuilder, and a longtime exerciser. But I've been using the wrong machines and gadgets and tools and tricks because today, in the infomercial space, we have way better things to use that'll save you tons of time and get you into even better shape. And all of what I just said, that last part is total nonsense. Because it turns out there are many, many people out there that are trying to sell you exercise gadgets that in the best case scenario are well-intentioned things that are wrong, and in the worst case scenario, just grifters trying to make money on things that don't actually work remotely well. Here's the thing. All love and respect, and everything I'm gonna say is couched in the following thing. It is my job as a publicly facing exercise scientist, I guess, to expose things that are less likely to be true and call it out as I see it. I don't mean any disrespect. It's all vibes, all jokes, all love. And if you are a manufacturer of one of these machines, I wish you the best. I hope you sell tons of machines. I just hope your machines work really well. And if I think there might be ways to improve them or if I'm gonna clown on you a little bit, it's all meant of good faith. Negativity sucks. You're about to see a whole shitload of it because some of the stuff is completely wacky. Let's review these wacky fitness machines, have some fun, and yeah, Scott, what else we got? That's kind of it, huh? Let's go. It's gonna be a ride. It's gonna be a ride. Three, two, one, ride. I had given up on squat. Pause. In the famous words of many well-known philosophers of the 20th century, and especially the 16th and 17th century enlightenment movements, God damn. Oh, that's right. The exercise machine. All right, let's find out how the sales pitch looks. I mean, yeah, I was doing it right, but the results were not giving me what I wanted to see. Girl! Now I feel like I'm doing it right, and I'm doing it right, but. But is the operating word. Scott, I promise, I will stop. And, okay, is it just me, Scott, or is her voice, like, a little bit flirty? She's like, I'm doing it right, I'm doing it better. I don't know, I just kind of like to kick back by myself, check some DMs at night, have a glass of wine, I'm like, all right, let's do science. Outfit, 10 out of 10. Body, 15 out of 1. I'm talking about out there. This exercise machine isn't terrible. It gives you a full range of motion with your legs. It also engages the pulling musculature, for sure. It doesn't engage the pushing musculature, so it's not technically the whole body. Now, maybe there's no claim to that, but it is the reality. The other thing is, the pulling musculature component of it is not necessarily difficult. It could be made difficult if you kind of start pulling from the bottom. Just pulling at the top is a very, very low resistance. So this isn't terrible. However, there is a question of progression. If you are anything beyond very beginner status, you will be able to do far in excess of 30 challenging repetitions per set on this machine. And anything that's light enough or you're strong enough for to do way more than 30 reps starts to affect your muscle hypertrophy to a very small amount. So at that point, it's a form of cardio. But because it's significantly harder than something like walking or running or using the elliptical or swimming, cardio should be something that is measured in like many, many minutes of duration, 20, 30, 40 minutes. That's how you burn enough calories for it to matter. You can't do this thing for 20, 30, 40 minutes. It's too hard for that. But you can't do it for a resistance heavy enough to be fewer than 30 reps close to failure. So it's in this weird middle zone of it's probably going to build some cool endurance in your lower body and then your pulling musculature. But it's probably not sustainable enough to burn enough calories to really make a difference in your fitness as far as body fat is concerned. And it simultaneously, for most people, very rapidly becomes not remotely heavy and challenging enough to grow as much muscle as you could. So on that, it's not ideal. And I'll tell you where you can get easily as good of a workout for your lower body. You just do body weight squats. And the force curve is perfect for body weight squats. The range of motion is even better. And you don't have to pay for a machine. And if you get some squats and you get some dumbbells or you get a little barbell to put on top of yourself, you've solved the loading problem as well. So it's just kind of like more of like a solution looking for a problem rather than like the world's best fitness machine. It's not terrible, but leaves a lot to be desired. However, Honey Girl's body here leaves absolutely nothing to be desired. Holy shit. I'm just going to shut the fuck up because anything I left out to say gets basically pornographic. If you have the mom pooch... Oh. I already know what I'm going to say. Tell it goodbye because this waist twister right here... Right here. And I tell you what, sister. I love the fucking Deep South accent. This is goals out of 10. Let's talk about why right at face value, this is not a very good fitness machine. The musculature that you use to rotate your spine and to rotate your hips and shoulders about your spine is mostly deep internal muscle that are little tiny muscles that connect your vertebrate together. And they're internal to the spines. You will actually never see them unless you get cut in half. So unless you go into the beach to get cut in half... Scott, you get cut in half and while you're still alive, you're like, guys, check out my rotators. They're like, whoa, those are big. That's good enough. You're never going to see this reflected in muscularity. Here's the other thing. What exactly are the weights for? The forearm flexors, biceps, etc. are doing an isometric contraction, which is fine. It's doing something. But what exactly is the purpose of the weights here for any of the musculature that's actually being trained, which is, again, mostly internal spinal musculature? Some muscles of the legs and some muscles of the trunk are helping that rotation, but it's, again, so light of resistance for such a small group of muscles that is so far from failure that it's just a very inferior, very time-inefficient way to burn fat, which most of these machines suffer from. If she simply did some squats and push-ups and some rows, that would do her body way, way, way more benefit in a small fraction of the time without having to buy gadgets. And that's the real thing that's going to be a consistent theme through this episode, you guys, is gadgets are awesome if they have a good main effect. But if they don't have a good main effect, then it's just not a situation that's beneficial because you buy these things, you anticipate you're going to grow lots of muscle from them or lose a lot of fat and really change your body, whereas most of these mechanically preclude themselves from even being useful to that extent. It's like a car-shaped box that you buy and think it's going to take you to Kroger. It's just a box that looks like a car. It doesn't actually go anywhere. That's unfortunate. And, you know, paying money for something like this kind of blows. Scott, does it even come with those dumbbells or do you have to pay for those separately? I think it comes. Hey, you can at least use those dumbbells for doing things like dumbbell rows and shoulder presses and actual exercises. It's going to twist it away. All you have to do, you can do 10 minutes three times a day. All you have to do is give it your time, ladies. Even in my legs, my thighs. Legs and thighs are the same thing. Continuing on. My back. Scott, did she say her back? She did. What part of your back is doing anything here? You're standing upright. Yes. Yes, like you could go grocery shopping and have just as much of a workout. Joint friendly, low impact workout. Scott, these are getting progressively worse. Oh, yeah. Imagine you find the perfect piece of home exercise equipment. Wait, hold on. The RP Hypertrophy app comes with dozens of pre-made programs from two days of training per week all the way up to six days of training with specialized programs included for shoulders, arms, chest, back, legs, abs, and glutes, each one with male and female options. You get them all and can use them as often as you like, even building off of them to make your own customized versions for only about a dollar a day. Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. Workout from my desk? How am I just now finding out about these underdesk ellipticals? Guys, when you work out, the way the workout benefits happen in their entirety is that your muscles do the work and then they benefit and so does your body. If something has to be plugged in to do the work, unless you're resisting it and breaking the servo mechanism while doing it, it's just moving your feet around. You're not actually doing any of the work. Now, unless I completely misunderstood how this piece of exercise equipment is going to work, maybe that's what's happening, but there's no way, right, Scott? No way. I work from home and wanted to find an easy way to stay moving without feeling like I'm exerting myself too much and this thing is perfect. Scott, the last thing you want to do is feel like you're exerting yourself too much. That was my favorite line. I had to leave that in. I don't want to exercise too much. Oh, no. That would get you in good shape. You don't want that. Guys, there are a few core truisms about exercise training that actually brings results. One of them is this. No matter how you get there, training that is the most effective has to be challenging. It has to be difficult. For example, you can do yoga getting into crazy positions of length and muscle, holding those positions in static contractions for way longer than you're interested in. And if you do yoga like that, you will see amazing benefits. You can do endurance training where you run for very crazy long distances. No one of those steps are hard, but there are so many steps. The totality of the exercise session is very difficult. You get amazing benefits. You can go swimming. You can do gymnastics. You can play tennis. And if it's challenging you, it is making you better. If you're in the gym, you can do sets of five reps. That's not that many reps, but they are so damn heavy that you will benefit. And if you do sets of 30 reps, neither one of those reps, none of them are actually hard by themselves, but there are so many of them. You get so close to failure every time, no matter if it's five, 15 or 30 reps, it is hard. If you find a way of training that is not hard, you have almost guaranteed yourself that you have found a way of training that does not work best. The question to ask yourself in designing your training plan is how do I safely challenge myself the most? Not how do I challenge myself the least? Because if you ask yourself, how do I challenge myself the least? You are actually answering the question of how do I get the fewest results? Now, in this nice contraption from this nice company, the machine moves for you. Folks, there is still more video to come, but if you want the uncensored version of this video, that's roughly twice as long, it is available in our member section. Click around, buy it. It's very little money, tons of value, get tons of other bonus perks, and give it a look. All right, back to the video. Yo, what's up? Scott, we are well past the point of reasonably priced things you can put in your kitchen, huh? Yeah, but this is like for sale to persons. Really? Yeah. This is like a tokamak fusion accelerator. I forgot to look how much it costs. I wish I would have. It's insane. Scott, it's going to cost you more than a thousand bucks, I feel like. Also, like some assembly required. Scott, it comes in like a regular box, like furniture. You take it out, you're like, I'm not a mechanical engineer. I wasn't expecting her to get off of the plate thing. I thought she was going to grab onto the parallel bars and just swing up and down. I'm sure that's coming. Okay. Scott, remember when I made that tokamak fusion reactor accelerator joke? Yeah. Well, she's got a fucking aura going on her leg. I don't know if that's radioactive and toxic, but I sure shall get her jacked. Okay, so what's the problem with this? It's neat. I will say that it's just not very difficult to move a completely unloaded bench. And also, like, in the stretch position, it's basically zero load in the very maximally contracted position. It's the most load, which means that it's backwards to how it would most enhance hypertrophy. Though I don't know if this nice young lady needs any more glute hypertrophy. I suppose, you know, we could all use a bit bigger glutes. Okay, so like, there's some lower back involved here. There's some abs, but like, are we getting close to failure here? Is there enough resistance to grow a lot of muscle? Can you do this for like minutes and minutes and minutes, like 20, 30, 40 minutes, and thus get good cardio? It's probably in that weird gray zone between the two of those, so it's just not ideal. I like the other devices because they were like teeny tiny toaster-sized contraptions at least. And this is like, hey, like, if you really want to make it seem like you're really working out, but you're really not, like, the ratio here is just like way out of proportion. And again, like, you need a whole room for the house for this thing. It's a gyro ball that makes your forearms bigger. Scott, are we unanimous here that we hate TikTok voice girl? Hate that. It won't die. It won't die. There's so many optional voices you could use where they keep doing something in default voice. All right. Gyro ball that makes your forearms bigger and stronger. Gyro ball. Okay, I'm not sure what that is. We're going to find out. And stronger. And you can use it anywhere. Take four-round training to the next level. What? Is that a good way to train your forearms? Is it battery-powered or is that person doing the spinning? Not sure. It kind of doesn't matter. Yeah, does it do we care? Guys, your forearms get bigger and stronger through, like, full-on contractions close to failure where you get incredible pumps and super messed up for a few days and you go back and hit it again and use more resistance. Dumbbell curls, machine wrist curls, cable wrist curls, reverse curls. You can use grippers, sets of 5 to 30 reps, close to failure, lots of volume. That's none of those things. It's just holding a ball that has its own ball that moves in there doesn't do anything more for your forearms than, like, holding your computer mouse at work. You know what would be a better workout for your forearms, Scott? Is if you were feeling like through your long and hard workouts consistently, especially in hotter environments, that you needed to be extra hydrated, but you knew that water wasn't enough to hydrate you because it doesn't bring in and replace the electrolytes that you lose from sweat. And with the ultimate blend of fluids plus electrolytes, what you can do is put an element pack into your shaker. The shaking of the shaker almost certainly would cause more forearm hypertrophy than using this device. Now, Element's amazing. I use it every day for my workouts. Link in description. But, like, is anyone getting jacked forearms from just shaking a shaker? No. And if that's harder than using the gyro ball, I don't really know what's going on. Scott, I had a quick idea while I was saying that, like, maybe if you put the gyro ball inside of yourself, something fun could happen. But then again, it doesn't even, like, it doesn't, like, rub you from the, it doesn't do anything at all. It doesn't do anything at all. Oh. Versagrips competitor? What the fuck? What the hell is the point of that? It's like you have to hold the weight and try and keep those in between your fingers at the same time. They, like, pinch your shit. By the way, guys, you're going to get calluses just the same. I already tried all the gloves. It doesn't work. I like the infomercial for this. Scott is like, hey, are you lifting your dumbbells with your hands? Yeah. Does that mean you're not paying for a pointless contraption that can exist between your hands and give us money and give you no marginal benefit? Well, yeah. Are you tired of not paying us money for a thing you never needed? Well, I am tired. Well, good news. Get out your credit card and buy this stupid thing. Okay. God damn it. We're going to get assassinated by people that make these things sooner or later, aren't we? Potentially. Potentially. Guys, the basics work the best. Some machines are amazing, but they're usually sold by companies like Prime and Atlantis, and the machines are machines that make you go through a full range of motion and get a big stretch and are loadable and progressible and train distinct muscles of your body like hack squats and pressing machines and real workout equipment. So if it's a cardio machine, it's great. If it's a lifting machine, it's great. If it's just you working out in your living room or running around the block, it's awesome. Unfortunately, a lot of machines that look too good to be true are because they're doing the work for you or they're saying there's magical benefits when there aren't. And steer clear of these. Stay tuned to this channel. We'll teach you more stuff. Learn more about exercise so you don't get ripped off. And that's all I have for today. And she's kind of depressing. See you guys next. All right. That was fun. I don't love getting negative, but it is my job to expose BS in science. It's what I went to school for. And all love and respect. We're all trying to do our best, but I got to uncork it every now and again. Hopefully that wasn't terrible. All good vibes. And the vibes in this video are probably better, to be honest. Click on it. Have some more fun. We'll see you next time.