 gumsumrsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsemsem Yes. Yes, he likes to do the presses. So why did I do overhead press? It's really for kind of just one reason. Because it was an exercise that people did. It grew your shoulders and upper chest and triceps. And I was pretty damn good at it. And the more I did it, the better I got. And after a while, you know, the ego has a special way of getting in there and telling you, hey, you're good at this thing. Just keep doing it. So for me, the overhead press turned into a how much weight can I do for reps situation. And I got up to doing 275 pounds, standing, strict, clavicle to lockout, shoulder press for eight repetitions in a row, which is like pretty unusual. The number one reason I did that is because I could. Now, that doesn't mean the overhead press is a bad exercise or that didn't give me awesome tricep development, awesome upper chest development, and great shoulder development as well. But it runs into some problems if you're trying to optimize. One of the problems with overhead press is that it requires you to stand. Now, mind you, I'm talking about the standing overhead press version. Standing overhead press is massively loading to your spinal column. Now, it's not a bad thing, but it does fatigue the musculature and really all the connective tissues that keep you upright. That takes away resources you could have spent doing a crap load of rowing training for your back, deadlifting training for your hamstrings and glutes, and for sure squat training for your legs. And so, if I just change one thing about this exercise and sit down in a chair to do it, it already reduces the amount of total squishing fatigue that I get. The other thing is I came to a sort of revelation. And that revelation is this. The vast majority of the impactful bubble-style belt size you're going to see is from your side delts, which are mostly hit with variations of upright rows and lateral raises. I started doing way more lateral raises, super-arm laterals, regular laterals, seated laterals, cable laterals, free-motion laterals, every single lateral I could for sets and sets and sets and my reps and my reps and my reps. That blew up my shoulders to where my shoulders are way bigger now than they ever were when I was at my strongest in the overhead press. So, what I would say to you guys is if you're looking for maximum delt gains, some overhead pressing is awesome. But the meat and potatoes of your training should be side-delts work with lots of lateral raises and upright rows till the cows come home. Next exercise I don't do much of anymore is the dumbbell fly. The dumbbell fly I used for a long time to increase the size and strength of my chest. Super, super low, super controlled on the way down, not a ton of elbow bend, and it hits the chest like crazy. The dumbbell fly also has a special advantage that it's maximally loaded at the stretch and almost completely unloaded at the peak contraction, which is amazing because it matches exactly the force curve that we want to see for the best, most effective hypertrophy exercises. Big tension at the stretch, very little tension at the top. Dumbbell flies are goaded. The only reason I don't do dumbbell flies anymore is because my chest gets such a big stimulus from presses, I just kind of don't know where to stick in dumbbell flies after that. This is what I like to call the... Sorry, Scott, we'll have to cut this part out. What's that restaurant? No, no, no, no. Food. I got it. This is what I like to call the cheesecake factory problem. The cheesecake factory menu is unbelievable. And there's always stuff on there that you want to order. The problem is, is after you get done with your bread and you get done with half of your main course, you ain't ordering shit anymore because you're completely full. And someone's like, hey, how'd you like the cheesecake? Or do you want to order cheesecake? And you're like, if there was any more room in my stomach, it would be used to blast a hole out of my stomach and into all the parts of my body to poison me with cheesecake. I would be dead on the table when a coroner would say died of acute cheesecake inflow from salamic cavity, which would be amazing at a ball or funeral, but I'm not exactly ready to check out yet. In just the same way, I get so much now out of my presses that flies end up being like, well, if I could recover for more, I would, but I can't. As a matter of fact, I'm now just healing up from a little pull for my chest because I just tried to do like more pressing and it wasn't even much pressing. It was like six sets of pressing on one day, later in the week, another four sets of pressing. And even that was too much. So flies are absolutely amazing. And I highly recommend you do flies. You can do cable flies. You can do machine flies. You could sure as shit do free weight dumbbell flies, which of all of those are probably kind of the best in some sense, because their force curve is so unbelievable and they adapt to every body size and every range of motion. Stick that chest up really high, pull your shoulder blades back. And as you come down, go slower and slower, get a gnarly deep stretch, one that you can't feel in your biceps a ton by pulling your arms slightly in, but you can feel in your chest a bunch. Don't rock it out of the bottom, ease out of the bottom after a second there, and then continue to do reps sets of 10 to 15 are my preferred rep range here. Not heavy enough to blast your pec off the bone, but heavy enough to do some goddamn good damage at high tension, because tension at the end of the day is the vast majority of the reason why your muscles grow. If you need extra pec work, flies are amazing to sprinkle in there. And I highly recommend you do them. You can do flies one of three ways. You could start your chest workout with flies to pre-exhaust. You can sandwich your flies between presses. You can incline presses for three sets, flies for three sets, and then deficit pushups for three sets. Or after some good pressing for your chest, you can finish a chest workout with flies, especially things like cable flies and definitely dumbbell flies as well. You can do mile reps on dumbbell flies where you do a bunch rest, do a bunch rest, do a bunch rest. Flies are amazing. And the literal only reason I don't do them much anymore is because my chest connects so well with presses, I just have nowhere to fit flies in. You know what I'm saying? It's like Scott the video guy's girl rotation for bitches he's hooking up with. Girl, I put you in on Tuesday, but there's already two identical twin strippers coming over my place. I just don't have that big of an apartment. Next up are ultra heavy barbell rows. The reason I did these was because Ronnie Coleman existed and Ronnie Coleman did heavy rows. Who the hell was I to question him? And also because I felt real good about my strength. It got great progression. I have and definitely had even more a gigantic gut. So my range of motion on rows is lower than other people's, which I also had really good hamstring flexibility and still do. So I could get real deep into a row, but still have a relatively small range of motion. So the amount of weight I could lift was already pretty impressive to start with. And it just kept adding. In addition to that, I started rowing when I was a competitive powerlifter and the spinal erector hit you get from stabilizing yourself under heavy rows transfers super well to both squatting and deadlifting alike. I absolutely adored rows and I still do. The number one reason I don't do a lot of heavy rowing anymore is because I want to manage my fatigue for my spinal erector complex to save it for stiff-legged deadlifts and other exercises like good mornings to really tax my hamstrings so that my lower back is not a limiting factor. For me, my spinal erectors fatigue like crazy. They're enormous and like purely fast twitch, which means if I go to the zoo with you after about 4,000 steps, I have to sit down and rest my spinal erectors because they literally get tired before everything else. It kind of blows. The other reason I don't futz with rows as much anymore is because of the fact that my back thickness is like maybe my strongest attribute in bodybuilding. I don't have any super strong attributes. I'm just not that good. But I'm in my 40s now. Overall general growth is still really good, thank God. But I have to start thinking about prioritizing and really focusing on the muscle groups which are the furthest behind. My shoulders and my upper back width, for example, are severely lacking behind my thickness, which is just 99 problems, but back thickness is not one of them. So I'd love to still for spirit energy do heavy rows, but I just don't need to do them because I need to take the fatigue allotment from heavy rows, do a couple sets of light flexion rows on a cable or machine rows, but then have most of my back workout be vertical pulling for lat width. I've been doing that for the last year and it has visually impacted my physique to an incredible extent. The other thing about rows is anytime you bend over and really stress your back, it is a ton of what's called axial fatigue, which bleeds you dry of systemic energy and especially hurts your deadlifting and your lunging and your overhead pressing and your squatting for later in the week. I want to save as much energy there as possible because rows are brutally effective for overall back growth, especially thickness. They're also really fatiguing because I don't need that one thing much anymore. maintenance for back thickness is the easiest thing in the world. That's really why I don't do heavy rows. So for you, if you keep the technique really strict, keep a flat back, make sure to just gently touch the ground at the bottom and touch your tummy every time with each rep, you are going to see phenomenal gains from rows. I happen to think that an average template for anyone who's been training for less than five years should include overhead, barbell pressing work, include conventional barbell pressing, squatting, stiff-legged deadlifting, regular deadlifting, and yeah, you better believe it. Pull-ups, heavy bent-over rows. This is an exercise that speaks to my soul. I love it. I've done it with barbells. I've done it with cambered bars. I love it. I love it. I love it. Just for me and my physique right now, I'm focusing on other stuff and I need the fatigue allotment of heavy rows to disappear to give to my other muscles like my lat width and my shoulders. I do not like training my shoulders, but spamming laterals just happens to work to get you bubble belts. I know, I didn't want to find that out. Next up are squats. For a long time and still to this day, I would say the exercise I like doing the most ASMR-wise feels the best for me and I love watching pictures of myself and videos of myself. Regardless, make it. Doing this exercise, I look at pictures and videos and I'm like, yeah. And pictures and videos of other people doing it right. I go, yeah. And that is the high bar squat. Weightlifting style, knees way over toes, weightlifting shoes, heels bolted to the floor, super upright posture, chest up, shoulders back. I absolutely have adored this exercise almost my entire career and it paid unbelievable dividends. First of all, you can train legs anywhere you go that has a barbell and a place to unrack it and racket. Second of all, the squat completely adjusts to your body. You don't have to look for a good leg press or a bad leg press or this hack squat slides too much. Every single time you have a barbell, you have the perfect squat exercise ahead. Because I have a long torso and relatively short femurs, I was always able to stay super upright in my squats and get a ton of quad stimulus without a lot of back stimulus and my posterior chain holding me back. The vast majority of my leg size was built originally with fucking high bar squats and more high bar squats and on another day where I did deadlifts first, lighter high bar squats after. Absolutely adore this exercise. One thing I ran into in the last several years was this. High bar squats carry a high degree of systemic fatigue and a high degree of acute injury risk when you get strong. I got to a point where I was doing my best set ever was 500 pounds on the high bar squat for a set of 10. Anything north of that is like you're really just gambling on getting pretty goddamn well hurt. And if you don't get hurt, which you probably won't, the amount of systemic fatigue, axial compressive fatigue, overall just holy shit, what am I doing with my life, the amount of time it takes to warm up for squats, and the amount of actual stimulus you can deliver starts to be a little bit wacky. As you get really, really strong, squats turn into this total body kind of tour de force as opposed to like a specific quad exercise. I was a power lifter when I started doing high bar squats and they built up my squats like crazy. But towards the latter part of my career as a bodybuilder, I realized, and IFBB pro Jared Feather really helped me realize this, like why are you still doing squats when for you stimulus to fatigue ratio wise for your quads, leg presses, hack squats, and even Smith machine squats simply outrank squats at this point. God damn it, you guys, it's like this. If you live, and a mansion at the top of one of those windy road cobblestone street towns in Italy, can you take your, cue sound effects, bald eagles, an American flag, Ford F-350, super diesel, super duty. Scott, you know the one with the three wheels in the back for extra and shit like that? A real goddamn American car. Can you take that over to the cafe to get French bread every morning, ostensibly crashing the truck into the cafe to announce that you are in fact American? You bet you can. But driving that big ass truck down those narrow streets is a lot of fatigue management in some sense because you don't want to scrape your, Scott, canary yellow paint off of your truck. Highlighter yellow paint with red stripes. Also, the shit does gallons per mile instead of miles per gallon at that point. And you got to ask like, man, is there a more efficient way to get French bread to my mansion in my Italian monastery looking house? And the answer is, you got to do like the Italians do and get one of those dumb ass little Vespa scooters. Yes, your sexuality will be questioned when you're seen by anyone, including yourself on one of those. But remember, you're very secure in your homosexuality. So no problem. Take the scooter takes 30 seconds. You got French bread. You got it all. Is it glorious? No. Does it accomplish the task with way less upfront cost and risk than taking your Tonka truck? Yeah, it sure as shit does. Just the same way. I love high bar squats and I always will. But for me, now that I'm more well-developed, that I'm much stronger, my injury risk calculus in my older age is a little bit different. And the fact that I've managed to take leg presses and hack squats and squeeze a ton of juice out of them, I'm just going to be doing lots of leg presses, hacks, lunges, and belt squats to give me the quads that I really want. And so far, I've achieved my biggest quad size ever with entire macro cycles of not squatting. For you, if you want overall lower body size and strength from your traps to your ass and all the way through your legs, high bar squats will simply make a man or Amazon woman out of you. I would do as many high bar squats as I could while they made sense. And as soon as they don't make sense from a stimulus to fatigue ratio perspective, I would still do them. And I did for years by first in that workout doing hack squats or leg presses to pre-exhaust the quads and then doing lighter high bar squats. Only recently, later, did I completely abandon, for the most part, high bar squats so that I didn't have to warm up a ton for squats. And for me, it ended up being an efficiency thing where I would look over at the high bar squat that I had programmed after my hack squat. And I thought to myself, if I just do two more sets of hack squats, an exercise I'm already warm for, a machine I already have, plates I already have on the bar, it's going to take me another 10 minutes. But if I switch to my regular high bar squat exercise, I have to rewarm up again a little bit, get used to the movement, ask the gentleman at the power rack how many more days he has in the power rack with non-exercises that he shouldn't be doing. Never mind, I digress. And all of a sudden, that's going to cost me another 30 minutes. And for the same exact stimulus, but probably higher fatigue and squats because of the extra stabilization required, that is not a thing on hack squats. So at the end of the day, for overall fitness, strength, and size, squats are undefeated. For specific quadriceps hypertrophy, which is what I need now at the lowest fatigue cost, squats do not make my list. Am I sad about that? Motherfucker, do I look happy to you? Wait, hold up. But it's reality. Next up is an exercise I rarely do, and that's the standing barbell behind the neck press. The reason I did this exercise was as a variation and an assistance movement for my standing barbell overhead press, which I just talked about. If you can get a crap load of weight over your head and touch the back of your neck with elbows pointed at least somewhat forward, you hit your triceps like crazy. Amazing growth there. You hit your delts still a ton. You hit your traps a ton. Less upper chest, and it's a bit more of a stable movement because you're not leaning back at the bottom. It allows you to get really strong triceps for that overhead lockout motion. When you transition back to standing barbell overhead press, you have a ton of carryover that over weeks and weeks of expressing that new muscle and strength build, your overhead press shoots to the moon. So I would alternate several months of lots of overhead pressing with several months of lots of behind the neck extending. Sometimes I would do heavy overhead presses and then lighter behind the neck extensions, and so on and so on and so on. The reason I stopped doing the overhead behind the neck extension is several factors. Some of them have to do with my no longer doing a lot of heavy overhead barbell work, and then it's kind of like, what the hell am I even training this for? So the assistance work stuff just melted away. It was no longer necessary. The other thing was this. With a straight bar, the amount of forward elbow flare I could get was limited. And it was really just kind of a behind the neck press instead of overhead tricep extension, and then it was just another press. It wasn't really specific to tricep work, and it wasn't really specific to delt work. It was kind of just a thing I could do lots of weight on. And it was really cool. I've done 225 pounds for sets of 10 on this exercise before, which f***s with people if you do it at a public gym, because you walk up to 225, and they're like, hey, he's going to squat it. Then you grab it in front. They're like, he's going to front squat it. Then you overhead press it, and you're like, holy shit, he's going to overhead press 225. And then you start doing behind the neck extensions with it, and then you do 10 of them, and then you rack it, and people shit their pants. At some points when I was doing this exercise for maximum weight, I didn't even know how the hell it made sense. I warmed up, I looked at my last week's numbers, and I'd be like, really? I'm supposed to do 230 for sets of eight? How the hell is that going to happen? And it kind of just did. So because I wasn't doing much overhead press anymore, this exercise fell by the wayside. And because it's not ultra-specific to triceps, if I'm going to do behind-the-neck work for triceps, I prefer cables and easy bars that lets me flare my elbows forward, really control the motion. It's less weight, but more of the tension goes to the tricep and less to everything else. That is a huge, huge deal. The other thing, of course, is axial loading. Nowadays, if I do cables, I do them standing because it's not a crap ton of load. But if I do overhead easy extensions, I do them seated so that I could get a good angle and take some load off of the rest of my body, the stimulus is largely the same, but the fatigue is substantially less. In your own programs, you can absolutely do lots of behind-the-neck pressing. What I would suggest you do is you can use the easy bar or the straight bar. When using a straight bar, take a closer grip and make sure that your elbows flare forward on the way down every time. You're reaching deep, super far back and down behind yourself at the very bottom. Pause and come all the way back up. This is a phenomenal exercise. I highly recommend. If it starts to get annoying to stand up or the variation is just boring you, the seated version is awesome. And if you've had enough of the straight bar, go to easy bar. If you've had enough easy bar, go to cables. These are all valid, awesome options. It just so happens that on the straight bar, if you can do more than two plates for reps, it just looks cool. You guys want to know a special secret? A lot of people who are big and strong do the exercises they do because they look cool and feel cool and they're good at them. That's really one of the only reasons I did behind the neck press for so long. The last lift I don't do much of anymore is the deadlift. When I was a youngster, then when I was a competitive powerlifter, I did deadlifts till I was blue in the face. I did them conventional. I did them sumo. I did them while I was swimming underneath the sea with fishes. I did them on the moon. I did them when I was awake. I did them when I was asleep. I don't like talk about this, but I have been Scott at three places in my life where I didn't feel a hundred percent safe. P Diddy's place, Bill Cosby's place. And on the safety part, I got something for you guys about deadlifts that is irreplaceable. If you want an exercise that if done correctly with good technique and progressive loading will bulletproof your back from injury, deadlift is that exercise. Scott, you ever see it when people bend over and tweak their back, picking up their groceries? Well, if you can rip up 225 for a set of 10 from the ground and put it back down, I imagine your groceries probably don't weigh that much. And if they do, then holy shit, you are on your way to legendary obesity. And I commend you. You must be from Texas or Mississippi. What up, fam? In any case, deadlifts are an amazing exercise. They develop your entire back from traps to your ass. And by the way, they're a great glute builder as well. Phenomenal for your hamstrings. Amazing for your inner thighs. They beef up your forearms and your grip as well. And they put literal hair on your chest. When I was younger, I did deadlifts and they transformed my body. However, the stimulus to fatigue ratio in deadlifts when you're bigger and stronger doesn't make a ton of sense. You'll notice most IFBB Pro bodybuilders just don't conventional deadlift much anymore because of one simple fact. If they want glute hypertrophy, behind the backstep lunges, glute machines, and various other glute modified deadlifts simply cause at least as much stimulus for the glutes, but way less fatigue and way less injury risk because putting a lot of weight on the deadlift bar is super safe, but not as safe as doing something like front foot elevated lunge, for example. So that's for glutes. What about for the back? Well, just rowing heavy gives you strong enough, big enough, thick enough back that you maybe don't need to deadlift. And if you're a big, strong bodybuilder and you've done lots of rows and you're in my position, I guess I'm not that big or strong or that good of a bodybuilder, but bear with me here. Eventually, limiting factor on your back development is your width and not your thickness. And so deadlifts are kind of one of those things where the need for them slowly dissipates into nothing. For example, a carnival clown that lives in a town comes to cheer up the children. There are two problems for that clown. He used to have a great career cheering up children and getting to birthday parties. One is most of the children in the town grew up and moved away. Now he's a sad clown. The other thing is people rightfully realize that clowns are a manifestation of pure evil and he was properly segregated away from society and permanently imprisoned with no food or water. Deadlifts aren't as bad as evil clowns. But when there's no longer approximate need to deadlift, think of it this way. You could always come back to deadlifts later, but put in front of yourself what you really need for development. If you have glute exercises that are better for the deadlift stimulus to fatigue ratio-wise, if you have back exercises that are way more worth your time than deadlifts, you're going to be winning doing those for a while and you can always come back to deadlifts. One thing I want to remind you guys of, especially in physique development, there are zero must-do exercises. So when people say you have to deadlift, they are wrong in every, every, every single case except for one. When you're a competitive powerlifter, you have to deadlift so that your deadlift can be as good as possible because literally practicing for exactly your sport, for everybody else. Deadlifting is absolutely not required. Okay, maybe for strong men, but they also do the deadlifting competition. You guys know what I'm trying to say. So for me, the reason I stopped deadlifting was objectively what to stimulate and how much stimulus to fatigue ratio to impose on each muscle group just left the deadlift in like third or fourth place behind amazing exercises that I would choose instead. Exercises like front foot elevated Smith machine lunges for glutes and exercises like stiff-legged deadlifts for the hamstrings and exercises like heavier rows for the back and eventually machine rows for the back. Once I had those exercises clued in, there just wasn't an approximate need for me to be deadlifting, and the only reason I was still deadlifting is for spirit energy. Spirit energy is dope and all, but you know, when you're trying to get judged in a bodybuilding competition like I have very poorly many times in my career, nobody gives a shit what you can deadlift. And that's the harsh truth about life. Next time you go to a party and someone asks what you do, you just tell them all of your rep range deadlift numbers. If that doesn't get you laid, I don't have any more advice. Guys, hopefully that was instructive. Remember this, it's all about being fit for purpose. If the exercises you like to do also check the boxes and what you need, and they don't come with irrational costs on fatigue or injury risk, 100% do them. Be they hardcore, soft core, or whatever else. If the exercise doesn't fit, you must acquit. Just running into all kinds of trouble today. In any case, do the things that you need to do, that you like to do. If you don't like an exercise, you don't need to do it. It doesn't matter how hardcore it is, it won't be the right exercise for you. All right, now get out there and make good choices. And wear a condom. And ladies, a lady condom. Dental dam. I'll see you guys next time.