 This is cool. I want to see what's actually going on. Holy sh**! Damn, you're going to be ready for some sh** after this. You feel me? Nobody can do this to you in combat. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength, and guess what? I have accolades. I think I'm bald, I'm 41 years old, I'm Jewish. I'm obese according to the BMI, and I'm 5'6". Huh. Are those accolades or not? I can't tell. Anyway, I've done some things in fitness. If you don't know who I am by now, that's probably for the best. But, right now, you're going to find out about really wacky stuff, because Scott the Video Guy and our crack team of, Scott, when people say crack team, what is the crack about? What is the crack about? We're on crack. Yes. Crack was consumed, and clips were found of wacky things in the fitness world that there's always a question of like, does this stuff really work, or is it all BS? So, let's put our skeptic hat on, and put our skeptic glasses on, and put on our skeptic trench coat, and go to the mall to f- no, no, sorry, different thing. Let's look at videos and see how much science there is to wacky training. Three, two, one. Wacky training. Uh. I'm going to start this one off with a bang. Oh, and the bang is an interesting use of words. I've had this done to me before. Not as much light. It was a little more of a dungeon vibe, but everything literally was identical other than that. So, let's find out what this has to do with fitness at all. Scott, you got to wonder when technicians rig this up, how many times did the guy who had this built tell him like, it's for fitness? They're like, sure, buddy. Yeah, it's fine. Yeah. Except curls. Oh my. If you're already touching yourself, it's totally cool. Oh. I thought it was going to stay on the ground and she was going to have to do like this or something, but the plot thickens. That's literally the end of that clip. So that was just a little teaser. Now here's what it is. And then we're going to dig deeper. What is Pravelo? I'm glad you asked. Pravelo is a powerful and time-tested training method designed to unlock the body's full potential through dynamic stretching. Cool. Tension-based resistance. I think resistance and tension are synonyms. And targeted muscle engagement. So far, so good. Originating in ancient Russia. We're so crazy. Pravelo. Pravelo means rights in Russian. Like civil rights. Interesting. But Pravelo maybe was somebody's name. Was traditionally used by warriors to prepare their bodies and minds for the demands of battle. I think that's vodka. JK. Enhancing physical resilience, flexibility, and mental clarity. This unique system works by stretching and strengthening the internal form of the body, the joints, the tendons, the ligaments, the connective tissues, the training, and not only promote superior range of motion and core strength, but also builds your capacity to remain calm and focused under physical and mental stress. Our clients often experience improved posture, enhance endurance, and greater overall athletic performance. Scott, did I just break the reading world record speed? I think so. This is cool. I want to see what's actually going on. Holy shit! Damn, you're going to be ready for some shit after this. You feel me? I can do this to you in combat. Whoa. Okay, real talk. That's kind of cool because especially if there's resistance that's asymmetrical, your ability to rotate your spine and your hips and create rotational forces like swinging a Russian ancient sword or anything like a crowbar at an opponent in a street fight. Good job, Mike. When you do rotational work, it is critical that much of that work be resisted. And resisted rotational works means asymmetric resistance. What do I mean by that? If you have a barbell or dumbbells, you hold the dumbbells and you rotate, each dumbbell weighs the same. And so you do have to overcome momentum effects, but then you're not really generating a ton of force because the one dumbbell moves, the other one moves. The other one moves. It's symmetrical. In real good rotation work, if you take one of those little attachment bars and put it onto a cable station, you're swinging the bar really fast and really hard against resistance that's only coming from one angle. And then you switch and do it from the other angle. That's what makes you strong rotationally. This, I don't know if there's any resistance, so I wonder what the actual net effect is going to be. Scott, you ever seen someone look more Russian in the face than that? Jeez. Come on, Hanya. There's a lot of great things going on in this video. Russian face being one of them. Russian face being one of them. Russian face being one of them. I only do three places in the world, Hanya. Miami, Moscow, and Dubai, baby. Um, Scott, did you pack me my black leotard? We'll get you one. Yeah, thanks. Okay. This is cool. This will help you get flexible because ostensibly her arms aren't pulled up full unweighted. You could loosen kind of lower her down into that position and it will absolutely stretch the adductors and all the hip musculature. If you do this in a progressive way, multiple times a week and get a little lower each time, unbelievable way to open up the hips and increase your probability of doing the splits. And there's probably less complicated ways to do that, but no doubt this is really effective. Uh, I gotta say, I think this is my new favorite form of training. I think I'm done with hypertrophy. I think I'm, I think I'm moving into this field. We're shutting down the RP hypertrophy app. Yeah. You guys, the following is a total joke. White people. You're cool, man. White women specifically. Amazing. Everyone loves you. High socioeconomic status. White women, very specifically. The best. Best. But. Fitness. Is not necessarily as complicated as you want it to be. And just lifting weights through a full range of motion and doing daily steps and controlling your diet. The RP hypertrophy app and diet coach app. Weird disease. I have. That'll get you really, really far. And if you like doing this for vibes, I legit recommend that you go look these guys up. Cause this looks like it feels amazing. But if you, among other things like this, think that you're going to be able to get away from some kind of effort. Or at least other effective things that at least clearly work. Like, Scott, don't we have other videos of white women like bouncing on BOSU balls and group classes and stuff. Can you throw some of that in there? Like, white women, get in the gym and do some shit. And again, all jokes, all love and respect. Come on, white women. Everyone loves you anyway. You can take one shot. Take one shot. Whoa. A good thing to ask about this sort of thing is what is the goal? What are the alternate ways of accomplishing that goal? And is this way of moving as far as complexity, time, effort, where does it rank in those things? Because if I tell you, you can walk to the store and it's just down the street, but you build a space shuttle and you take it around the world to the store and crash into a store. Is it absolutely another valid way of getting to the store, but might not be necessary? Scott, can you answer what the idea is behind doing this sort of thing? Sure. Let's go to the explanation. I invented and the beginning movement load theory, which I named it, is said to be discovery of various organ function improvement, including exercise device system and the breathing circulatory system. So I think this guy's Japanese and this is a translation. This is a translation. I believe it's Japanese. Okay. I'm going to exercise it for me. In 1995, I defined it as follows. Exercise to perform while using the physical change to the position where the reflection is caused and the center of gravity position change with that and promoting series movement of relaxation extension, shortening of shoe kin and preventing the co-shrinkage of the antagonist and the line to act antagonistically. That cleared it up. Okay. That cleared it up. Okay. It's kind of cool. We're getting a little bit of rear delt and then a tricep and lat sort of. It's kind of neat. It's kind of neat. If you have like a little bound up shoulders like I do, this could be something you could use. Not really like a high load, large muscle mass targeting exercise, which compound movement squats, rows, pulls, presses like that is seemingly what's most effective at changing your body. But there's like a way of seeing this in some interesting way. Whoa. Technical details. The first thing he invented was a time machine. He read exclusively Dr. Milo Wolf's work on length and partials. He went back in time and invented machines that only do length and partials. Okay. B-M-L-T. Scott, I'm hungry. It sounds like BLT, doesn't it? It does sound like a good sandwich. What is an M word that goes into the sandwich? Month of productive training. Ready? Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. It's a very specific way to say BLT. Okay. It's supposed to improve balance and shoulder and arm function. Okay. The rest actually just doesn't make any sense. Jackie Chan. I'm kidding. Julio Rodriguez from the Seattle Mariners. My man. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So what do we think about using this for a baseball player? So what do we think about using this for a baseball player? I don't know what's happening. Is Julio's time well spent there? I mean, look, I don't want to yuck anyone's yum, but maybe if your shoulders are all really screwed up, this could be like a range of motion. I like that it explores extreme ranges of motion. I mean, I would really suck at it. It would be great for me. So it might help with like pack flexibility open you up. If you're a pitcher, if you throw a lot, this could be a really interesting rehab modality. But are there like ways you can do this with barbells and dumbbells that produce probably at least equivalent results with less complexity? Yes, is my opinion. But it could be wrong. So, yeah, that's the whole thing. A lot happening, Scott. A lot happening. It's confusing to me. Oh, my God. Are those anvils? Folks, there is still more video to come, but we have a members area with tons of other goodies and an extended version of this video with jokes that YouTube would instantly cancel us for. Give that a click. Subscribe to the membership if you're interested. It's not a ton of money, but it's a ton of value. Okay. Seriously, though? Back to the video. Do you know that traditional weightlifting activates about 50% of your muscle fibers? I don't know how that's meant. Yeah. Any one movement activates an even smaller fraction if you count all of the muscles of your body as 100%. If you combine various lifts, you can get pretty much total activation of all muscles. But let's see where this is going. With EMS, you can activate up to 90%. Electromagnetic... EMS? That's the electric stimulation. Electric muscular stimulation. Which can help you activate muscles that you especially have a bad mind-muscle connection with and can make a difference. It's not a massive difference, but it can be a thing that works, especially for folks that are very elite-tier bodybuilders and have one or two muscle groups that really are lagging. You can put up the EMS system to them and get more out of it. But whole body plyometric work and stuff, I've never seen it done like that. In 20 minutes, it's like two, three hours in the gym. That's total nonsense. I just wish people had more realistic claims. It would be easier to be nice about it. But if you're saying to people that 20 minutes is like two or three hours in the gym, there's like 18 caveats to that, and even most of them aren't true. It's tough. Scott, it's tough, man. It's tough. This is tough. We're stimulating the muscle groups. Okay. What did I do to deserve this? Through those pads, which were built in the suit, I can increase everything at the same time. My dominatrix has exactly the same app. Like this, or I do one by one, like quads, glutes. Cool interface. UIU Axe Fox real hard. Really stimulate and activate your muscles on a wave, what you can't do, because it's a whole body training, not only for muscle mass, but also bone density. The thing with bone density that's going to help the most is putting a lot of heavy weight through your bones, hoisting heavy weight. And again, the suit has a marginal effectiveness, but just moving your body in space, especially with weights, can accomplish probably an even better version of that, transfers better to real-world tasks, and probably costs a lot less money than the suit. So definitely an interesting gizmo that has some effect, but I wouldn't say claims like it compresses hours of working out into minutes. That just ain't it. I don't have time for a really long workout, and I like that this kind of like, really just like compacts it and intensifies it. So usually I get a workout done in like 15, 20 minutes. Okay, now she's, they're all coming in. We got the back, we got a little bit on my thigh, starting to move into inner thighs, yeah. But it feels like vibration, and it doesn't hurt, but it definitely makes the workout harder. If it doesn't hurt, it's probably not getting you jacked. And I do mean that. Two things, two ends of a spectrum make you jacked and give you better bone density and better cardiovascular endurance and all that really good stuff. One is weights that feel crushingly heavy, but don't cause the burn. And two, at the other end of the spectrum, are light weights that cause a massive psychotic burn, but don't feel crushingly heavy. If you notice, every single part of that spectrum is some combination of awful. If they invent a method that doesn't feel awful, but gets you jacked, it's probably a drug. And then you know your boy's taking it. This ain't it. So if you don't have any discomfort, the probability that you're causing massive physiological change that's comparable to heavy resistance training, which you do experience discomfort, is a very, very low, unfortunate piece. But yeah, I'm doing so much traveling this year. I figured that this would be like a really easy. I figured I'd pack this gigantic suit in my fucking backpack and use up a ton of space where I could just go to a gym. Oh, I'm being mean. Thing to bring with me everywhere I go. Does that look like an E? Can you imagine the TSA airport security being like, what's that? You're like, it's an, actually it's an electric device with high throughput. They're like, okay, cool. No problem. When they say take your laptops out of your bag, Scott, do you think that qualifies? Hope she has a pre-check. Jesus. I found the strangest fitness class in Perth. Perth? Perth, mate. Oi. Yeah, ma. Ma, yeah. And it's the only place you can do it in Australia. Okie dokie. So this looks pretty sweet. It sure as shit looks fun. I have a piece of bad news that maybe you're new to. Gravity points down. And so if you're moving in the lateral direction, gravity doesn't resist you at all. And as you come up and hit a high angle, it resists a little bit. So this is a way to make exercise, again, substantially easier. And Scott, we go to the camera and it's strange. It's all white women again. Wild. Weird. Weird. I need to try this because it's as fun as it looks, but it's also one of the toughest workouts I've ever done. I mean, it's like, if you're having fun, great. Are there ways to make this tough? Yeah. Take the strap off. Put the strap on. I'm kidding. That was, I couldn't stop. And do the shit against gravity. Like, vertically. So you've been warned. I like to think I looked like this, but I actually look like this. Yeah, those people are highly skilled. That's actually super awesome. Oh, I love it. She's just having a fucking time. Honestly, I can't rag on this. This looks great. Scott, do you know that what I want to do with you? I want to pull you back from the wall and then just let you go so that you face plant into a trampoline. That sounds fun. Was it a good workout? Well, my abs are still feeling it a week later. Leg kicks like that will up your abs. Okay, respect. That would be tough. A week later. God damn, Scott. Can you imagine that shit? That's a lot of bombs. The benefits of vertical trampoline wall with harness. Low impact cardio. Delivers an intense cardiovascular workout while reducing pressure on joints. You could probably do some sick with cardio on this thing that would be hard. But again, if it's reducing pressure on joints, that's probably not what we want. Unless you're hurt, you want pressure on joints. It makes your joints stronger. I know, not a weird. Full body strength. Engages legs, core, and upper body as you push, pull, and stabilize against the trampoline wall. That's cool. Okay, that's definitely a vibe. Improves coordination. Yes. Develops balance, agility, and body control through dynamic movements. Yeah. In order to become skilled at this, you're absolutely going to develop some shit. So that's good. Enhances flexibility and mobility. Encourages extended range of motion with support of the harness. That's actually really good, especially if you grade it. Boosts endurance. Repeated jumps build stamina and aerobic capacity. Okay. Same as intense cardiovascular. Very good. Supports confidence and resilience. Overcoming fear and mastering aerosol movements. Helps foster a great sense of achievements while having fun. I mean, that's absolutely 100% facts. Sometimes it can be scary to work out. And if you have a supportive group of women that have you do something a little weird, because Scott, to be honest, bro, if they put me in that harness, I'd be freaking the fuck out. I'd be like, I'm going to fall. I'm going to be the only person ever to break my neck falling onto this stupid fucking harness. Yeah. Yeah. No. No. 500K. Yes. To Bangkok. What do I pay you for? Sorry, Rich. Okay. Yeah. Next time. Yeah. 500. Who are you? Ashton Hall. So looking at it, bro, we got to go ahead and get in at least 10,000. Did he do that? Oh, 10,000. He's like, no, no, let's do 10,000. Yeah. It was a workout and a half. Probably. I could have gone poorly. We did a few tricks. We did a few exercises to work the core and the legs, and we just had absolute fun. Oh, man. Was I tired after this? That's that. Listen, folks, we had some fun. This was fun. I don't mean to rag on any fitness modality. For all I know, the shit I believe is all dog shit. If you got a workout modality, it's got to have a few things for it to really help you. It's got to challenge you. It should be progressive so that it can challenge you more over time. And it should be something that you really like and that it's fun so you can do it long term. If you have all three and it's one of these wacky things that we looked at, God bless you. And if you want to join us in the physique space to really modify your body to become a god. The RPI, Perjury Fap, and Diacoch app are also made entirely of goats, which is to say goaded. Scott, do I rate this? Yeah, we always rate. White women are unstoppable out of 10. And I'll see you guys next time. God damn. All right, that was fun. Some wacky stuff in there and some also wacky stuff in there and some good stuff, but some wacky stuff. Do you want more wacky stuff? This video right here could have wacky stuff. See you next time.