As far as I can tell, there is no compelling reason for most hypertrophy oriented lifters to incorporate strength trening. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pyrridsation, and today's video is going to make an interesting claim that will maybe upset you, but don't worry we'll be friends after. It is going to be the claim that I will be making, that getting stronger won't help you get bigger. Uh-oh. Q comments. Here we go. First reaction when I wrote this PowerPoint is that I had was how could it not how could getting stronger not make you bigger, not help you make bigger, whatever ridiculous idea. And the idea that getting stronger directly makes you bigger is true. Like if you tren for strength, it's also going to help you with hypertrophy. But what we're talking about today is a more nuanced idea. It is the idea that if you tren for hypertrophy for an extended period of time months or years, going and doing a strength specific trening phase for several months or longer, and then coming back to hypertrophy after can grow more muscle than just staying in hypertrophy trening all the time. The idea that means is getting stronger potentials improves the future result of actual hypertrophy trening. Potentia is muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone later. It's like brushing your teeth before you go to the club doesn't actually get you laid. Unless you really creatively use the toothbrush and then maybe you don't even have to go to the club. But if you're brushing your teeth, that potentials you getting late at the club later doesn't itself actually physically cause you to be laid. It is not the laying. Again, unless you're creatively using the toothbrush. So no judgment and as a matter of fact, kudos. The idea that getting stronger potentials size game is very old at face value, very persuasive, and it's kind of often assumed it's like, well, duh. How have we have to examine point by point? What strength trening sets of three to six repetitions is general strength trening is defined in the sports science literature? What is it actually doing for you? And then we're going to open that up, claim by claim and see how does that trensfer into making you more jacked later? I can think of a few things that strength trening does for you. First, it helps you coordinate the recruitment of your high-end motor units so that you can produce a ton of force in a sequenced way to actually complete a lift versus stalling out. It also teaches you what technique is good to use to coordinate as much muscle as possible to actually get the lift. It's like trying to do the lifting, we're using mostly your glutes versus dead lifting and using glutes, lower back, add-onters, quads, hamstrings, everything. Strength trening teaches you how to coordinate all those muscles to work together. Strength trening teaches you how to preserve your technique even under heavy stress. If you get a good technique under three rep max, you sure a ship can have good technique under a 10 rep max, a problem. It directly strength trening directly stimulates muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, fly high tension, done, easy. So it doesn't just potentially, potentially, it actually grows muscle for sure, but that's not controversial. That we are not arguing. It does allow you to use heavier external loads later in trening. You take a power lifter versus a bodybuilder, a power lifter can for the size of their muscles. Use way heavier hacks, quite a leg press weights. And ostensibly you would think that would help hypertrophy, because usinGHeavier weights, any stimulants muscle more and grows muscle, we'll figure that out. And lastly, it provides much needed volume and exercise variation. If you just crank high intensity high volume, hypertrophy trening all the time, then at some point just having any kind of break is great, and strength trening lower volume sets of three to six versus higher volume sets of five to 30 reps, man, that break by itself could do some potential trening. Okay, let's take this clen by claim. So first, strength treninGHelps you coordinate the recruitment of the highest and motor units to produce a lot of force in a sequenced way to get the lift. Yes, this is true, but near failure high-perchrophy trening sets of five, ten, fifteen, twenty, etc. also does this. And it's not going to, the hypertrophy trening won't make you produce more force, but it'll help you get extra reps. Either way, your performance is higher, and your ability to get extra reps, push that muscle further to its actual failure point is trened just as well with hypertrophy trening, as it is with strength trening. And as a matter of fact, I would actually submit that it probably trens it more specifically with hypertrophy trening. If your goal is to try to go from doing sets of 13 in the leg press to sets of 16 by just leaking more fucking juice out of that muscle, trening in that 13 to 16 rep range is the best way to do it. Yes, of course, people who tren for sets of three to six will be able to take a lot of juice out of a muscle as well, but their ability to do so may be limited. They may be not used to the kind of lack to gas a pain, and it's psychologically they won't hold in. Their cardio may be more limited. So the trensfer of trening effect for make you able to squeeze more out of trening is actually better, or at least tied with the very actual higher reps that you're doing. Think of it something like, you know, if you're a boxer, you punch a wall, you hit the wall really hard, and if you can hit that, you could hit a human face, true. But what if you have sparring partners, isn't the most specific thing to hitting a human face, hitting a human face, the way to get better, at least directly at hitting a human face is going to the club and starting fights, I'm hitting them do that. Grappling is better. Scott, Scott, Scott, have you got to video that? Are you serious? This is so rude. Are you okay? Do you guys call it fun? COVID it turns out if you want to learn how to eat more out of the muscle, doing a hypertrophy trening itself, at least does that as well as strength trening. So on that, no advantage to strength trening. Moving on point number two, strength trening teaches you what technique to use to get as much muscle mass as many different muscles into a lift as possible from the many muscles into one group together in unison, like a deadlift that uses everything at Dr. Squad's glutes, blah, blah, blah, blah. Now, that is actually learning a technique that is directly enthethetical to what we want to do in hypertrophy trening, which is usually pick one target muscle group and develop a technique that really tries not to isolate it as much as to focus on it to make sure it's the limiting factor. When you're doinGHacksquots, you want to make sure that your quads with the limiting factor. And if you have learned to hacksquots and strength trening in such a way that uses a lot of your glutes and a lot of your lower back in tons of adductors, that doesn't really help you push thEQuads further. As a matter of fact, you're trening a skill that is a little bit of a detour away from what you should be trening. So to me, no, no dice there for strength trening, no advantage, and maybe even a small disadvantage. One thing I will say is when we tren people for hypertrophy here in RP, and they come from a strength trening background, and they will attest to this themselves, they have to kind of learn how to tren for strength trening. Like people who are from powerlifting will try to use every fucking muscle in their body to get a lift. And we're like, no, no, no, no, no, this is a skull crusher using triceps and they're like, oh, and it takes them a few sessions to really get into the groove. So maybe it's actually doing something you don't want to do. Number three, strength trening, tissue you have to preserve your technique, even under heavy stress. You have it like so does high rep hypertrophy trening. Near failure trening, sets of 12 sets of 10. Yeah, you'll learn how to preserve your technique or die trying. Same with strength, no advantage there. It's the goinGHard that does that, not the heavy lutes. Number four, strength trening directly stimulates muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone via high tension, accurate. But it misses out on much of the metabolite stimulus. It misses out on high volumes entirely. Thus it grows much less muscle than hypertrophy trening and for a higher price of fatigue. It would be very curious to be doing power lifts for sets of three or six anywhere between that, and be doing that next to a power lifter who's doing sets of five to 10. And you ask to, hey, you're getting an lifting and a power lifter. I thought you were a bodybuilder. You're just trying to put on more size and use the strength trening for it. He's like, uh, okay, and you're like, what are you doing? Why are you doing sets of five to 10? He's like, trying to get bigger because that's the hypertrophy fucking range for the love of God, backwards. So makes no sense. Number five, heavy trening, strength trening allows you to use heavier external loads, like more weight on the bar, in future higher rep trening. Right? But here's the deal. We try to have technique in hypertrophy trening to maximize internal loads. I want to use as little weight on the bar as possible, but I want to arc an architect and move my body into such a way that really hits my triceps internally to triceps, generally going to turn a force, externally not so much. Here's a really good example for thEQuads. Squatting for hypertrophy, you squat a little bit back and then down, leading your knees come forward, leading to quad stretch a ton. Now thEQuad stretched at the bottom means internally they are pushed to their limits with force production. Externally, it's such a poor leverage point for quads, then if you simply sat back and down and went just below parallel, thEQuads are better leveraged, you can lift externally a shitload more weight. Same thing that if you put the bar in a low bar position, crazy external loads, but internally your muscles are working no harder. So what exactly here is the advance? Most muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone occurs per fiber, per muscle cell. And if you just bring a muscle close to failure and you're really try hard, that really checks pretty much all the boxes. Some growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone does occur between fibers and through connective tissues. But again, if you try to arc, sorry, try to position that muscle in position those movements in such a way, as to put themselves into a mechanical disadvantage. The internal tension generated by the muscle is at least as high as it is in strength trening. But at the benefit of not having to put 500,000 fucking pounds on your back. Not a winner here again. Number six, strength trening can provide much needed volume and exercise variation. You do different movements, low bar versus high bar squats, competition benching versus incline benching, and your volumes are like a third or two thirds of what they would be in high-perature trening. That's really good. That's really good. But sets of three to six are really heavy and thus provide a lot of fatigue, specifically joint and connective tissue fatigue. And they layer in a small but notable addition of injury risk. IMean, it's just a statement of fact that liftinGHeavier will on everything else being equal, be more likely to hurt you than lifting lighter. So is it worth? Let me tell you guys about the RP high-perature fiat with over 28 preset programs already in the app. You can choose to make your own. You can modify an existing program or you can just run the programs exactly as they were written by E person on this app programs, everything for you. Exercises weights, sets, reps, frequency, the whole thing. After every single workout and every single week, the app adjusts to your unique parameters with every single input. We have over 250 exercises in the app with detailed video tutorial links to every single one. You never have to be confused about technique or form ever again. Guessing right now, you're pretty interested in the app, download the RP high-perature fiat today. Tough. Very tough. So that's all six points. Let's get to the verdict or what sort of what I finally think about all these things. We got ABC and D. I have tired of numbers. Now we're using letters. Point A. As far as I can tell, there was no compelling reason. There could be nuanced marginal reasons but no compelling reason. For most hypertrophy oriented lifters such as maybe yourself to incorporate strength trening as a matter of its own benefit to the whole process of growing muscle. Not to say that if you don't want to get just fucking strong, hey, my blessing to you. Point B. For variation and volume reduction, you can use maintenance phases and then you can use sets of five to ten reps. Few are set so that it's just maintenance and not between your minimum effective volume and maximum recoverable. So really about a third of the normal volume use for trening. And if you use those, they're superior on fatigue accumulation. They accumulate very little fatigue and much less injury risk because it's not heavy as fuck, so that's aT3 to six. It's much lighter significantly, five to ten. And if you layer in maintenance phases with some active rest phases, you're bringing down the total system fatigue like crazy in a way that is categorically better than what a strength trening phase would do. And ask any power lifter after three or four months of hard strength trening sets of 36 are they really less fatigued? That would be an insane thing to say. They're really like, what the fuck is wrong with you? I'm beat to shit. That's not really bringing down fatigue for my bodybuilding purposes and you would be completely correct. See beginners should probably spend the majority of the first year, even two, doing sets of five to ten reps. They do get lots of volume for growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, but also that five to ten five to six five to seven gets them a lot of benefits of strength trening as well. Technique under stress, neurocordination, motor unit recruitment because they might not have the technical wherewithal to do high reps close to failure. They can absolutely do low reps relatively close to failure and maintain their technique. After about a year, maybe two of trening the return on investment of just dogmaticly sticking to the five to ten range and avoiding ten plus reps, just is very low. The return on investment could even be negative where it's like why are you doing this? Compare to using the entire broad range of sets of five to 30 repetitions and finding out where you're best trening in their occurs and varying it. You're best stimulus to fatigue ratio. Lastly, point D. If you choose to strength tren, you're like, look, like, I hear you, man, but I want to get fucking strong too and the board is fucked doing a purgatory trening. No, or is it all? A few tips for you as to how to take you and take your hypertrophy trening and trensition it to a type of strength trening and doing strength trening in a way that hurts you the least of benefits you the most to hear it as a couple of tips. First, ease into the loads. If you've been squatting to 25 for sets of 15, do not just come to the gym the next day and start your strength phase and just put 275 on the fucking bar. Could it shift 45? Then 255, then 265, etc. Don't just go and say. Next, probably try to focus on exercises that will carry over to hypertrophy a little bit more. High bar squats. If you want to get stronger, but you don't want to compete in powerlifting, just stick to high bar squats for such low bar, in most cases. There's low bar beats the shit out of your body more, ask any powerlifting. High bar is gentler on the body, but we'll make you very strong and high bar so we can come back to getting an hypertrophy work. Hey, shit, you'll be high bar god. Next, take a few months so you can measureably improve. Two mesocycles at least not just one. A lot of people will say, oh, I want to do strength trening and do it for like a few weeks. They're about to just begin to make the neural and architectural adaptations to really start to get them stronger and they're like, I am done. Okay, just kind of beat up your body for a few weeks. You just take it to maintenance phase. If you want to get really strong strong, three, four, five months of strength trening, in months three, four and five is when you're going to be like, oh, we shit. IMight start to fight crime. I can bend a fucking barbell and then it snaps and part of the metal just flies and fuckinGHits the old lady in the eye and just like, ah, oh, shit, am I a villain and you lean into it. You're like, fuck it. You finish off the old lady with the other bar here and I don't even know I have any more. Shout out, Mike. Next, make sure the total volume is low. So you can at least use the strength trening time to resensitize the higher volumes so that once you're done with strength and then you take that last point of an active rest phase after to really clear at all the fatigue, specifically the joint and connective tissue stuff which will be you up a little bit. After that active rest phase and a whole bunch of very low volume strength trening, you can come back to hypertrophy trening, start at very low volumes and slowly ease up. When you will notice that your pumps and soreness and all the other proxies for growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone are incredible at very low volumes and it's going to take you months to get back up to traditional volumes and you're going to be gaining the entire way all the way through. So folks, if you havEQuestions in the comments, I'd love to address a few of them at least. Give it some thought. If you like this kind of nerdy stuff, we will see you in our members area which for more money. We'll get you more nerdy videos every week. Then guys remember I see none of this money. It goes directly to my butlers who go directly to the Lamborghini dealership and they drive back in a lambo. They all take rubbers to the dealership because it always come back with a new lambo. Kind of a official rule at my house if a butler leaves to go to the dealership and comes back without a lambo, they don't have a job anymore. I don't give a shit if they're a rattle lambo, steal them other fuck. And lastly, if you like this kind of stuff and you want to ask mEQuestions that in real life and by real life IMean in a live video chat, see you on chatterbait. I'm just kidding. Do you think we'll get flagged for that? I sure hope not. See you at the team full-romb forum all the links are below. Get off chatterbait to your channel. Get a job. See you guys next time.