 Hey folks, dr. Mike here for RP strength, I'm going to take you step by step, exercise by exercise, technique by technique, for a whole program, to get you as aesthetic of physique as possible, and the proof, wachya, wachya, wachya, is going to be in the program, because sure as shit ate me, let's get to training. Guys, we are trying to build the most aesthetic physique that we can. Now, we have to admit that aesthetics is a bit of an individual preference. Not everyone has the same aesthetic. Some people like freak nasty, some people like nasty freaky, and some people like Chris Bumstead, who's beautiful and is neither freaky nor nasty. But there are a set of universal priorities or near universal priorities that tend to define aesthetic physiques. The V taper is critical to that, as are big shoulders and arms. And if you think about the most aesthetic physiques of all the most of the most of the most! We want to make sure that we have a lot of back thickness, not back thickness necessarily, but back width. Think about all the aesthetic physiques you've seen over the years. They're characterized by wide backs, not necessarily thick backs. From the back and the front, wide lats truly define that V taper. Then, we want capped, gigantic side delts out to the side. Huge for the V taper, and big shoulders by themselves are critical for aesthetics. We want massive biceps, massive triceps, and also forearms that match. There's a reason why physiques like those of the Mike Menser are goaded. It's just that damn mechanic forearm shitty hat going on. When you hit a couple poses like that, it just hits different. And lastly, is a narrow waist. Now, the truth behind the narrow waist is that that is a combination of genetics and diet, to be completely honest. The leaner you get, the smaller your waist gets. So we're not going to train anything for the waist. But we are sure as shit going to train our upper pecs, our lats, our delts, especially side delts, laterals until the cows come home, and our biceps, triceps, and forearms as much as humanly possible. Now, what about legs? Hey, legs are great. You can have them. They take you to the store, and they take you to an even more important place, the gym, so you can train your upper body to be as aesthetic as possible. You guys know I'm saying that just because I'm coping from having small legs. In any case, let's take a look at a bit more detail what this plan of ours to get you as aesthetic as possible is going to have in it. We are going to prioritize a crapload of incline pressing for those upper pecs. We are going to prioritize a ton of vertical pulling of all kinds for the lats. We are going to do a crapload of arm work with optional forearm work if you're interested. That's at home on your own time with your cell phone in the bathroom and the fan. Even though you're not pooping, so your pants can't hear you spank. I'm kidding, of course. But am I? No, we'll have forearms for sure. And laterals of all kinds till the cows come home because there is a physique where the side delts are too big. But I can't think of it now, and I don't think it's real. How are we going to arrange this into a cogent plan? We are going to do it with a sample four-day microcycle, which means four days a week of training or four days on, a few days off, and repeat. If you like, you can do this any way you want. We have four days of training. One day is going to be chest and back primarily, push and pull. Another day is going to be shoulders and arms. Day number three is going to be push and pull again, except in a slightly different order. And that last day is going to be arms all over again. Here's the thing. Muscles like your chest and back typically take longer to recover than your shoulders, biceps, and triceps, and forearms. But the kicker here is that because we're using mostly compound movements for our chest and back, lots of vertical pulling involving the biceps as well as the back for pull, lots of pushing involving the triceps and a bit the shoulders as well as the chest for the upper body, we actually tend to stimulate the arms on every single chest and back day to a small extent. And research has shown that you do grow muscle and stimulate muscle growth from compound movements designed for one muscle if another muscle is involved. Bench presses do grow your triceps, and they will for us. And rows and pull-downs do grow your biceps as well. Not as effectively as isolations, but it absolutely counts. So in essence, we're hitting arms not twice a week. We're hitting arms four times a week in some capacity. We're hitting chest and back twice a week, and we're hitting shoulders twice a week as well. When I say hitting shoulders, we're going to span them shits. You guys ready to see what the whole layout looks like? Let's take a look at it. Movement by movement, exercise by exercise, and a quick little thing before we get to it. These exercises are great. I love them. But they're just a sample. If you get the RP Hypertrophy app, or you do this by yourself, no big deal. You can switch exercises every few months on this plan so that the structure, vertical pull, for example, something in which you pull down, is maintained in that exercise slot. But the actual exercise can go from pull-ups to pull-downs to assisted pull-ups and all the way back around. So that you're switching your exercises all the time. The exercises here are not magic. They're just samples, and they're good samples. But don't be constrained just to what I show you. Look at the structure, plug it in yourself, get you an RP Hypertrophy app, and then you'll be massive and aesthetic, and people will be your friend. And sometimes they'll talk shit behind your back, and you're like, bro, what was that? He's like, no, no, I'm just talking about someone else. You're like, okay, we're cool. But you don't really ever trust them again, you know? Let's go work out. All right. Day one looks like a bunch of vertical pulling and a bunch of incline pushing. Our first exercise slot is going to be heavy vertical pulling, which today, in this example, is going to be pull-ups. You can do these overhand. You can do them underhand. You can do them parallel grip. Do them with a full range of motion. Very good control and a big stretch every single time. Strict technique only. About two or three sets of this later, you're good to go. Exercise number two is going to be a pull-down variation. Overhand, underhand, neutral. Any way you slice it, pull-downs are awesome. Same technique fundamentally as pull-ups. Big stretch. Touch your chest or get close every single time at the bottom. No weird swinging unless it's planned to give you a better mind-muscle connection. A couple sets of those and we're done with the pulling and it's on to the pushing. In pushing, we want to do a lot of upper chest work. But in this sample of the program, and you can deviate from this if you want, we're not going to do a lot of flies. We want to do a lot of compound presses so we have extra training stress for the triceps because those are going to be growing on our pushing and pulling days as well as on our arm days and triceps can take a ton of weekly volume. Bigger triceps are always the right answer. So our first exercise is going to be the incline barbell press. This is going to be with a regular grip because later in the week, we're going to do wide grip presses. Two different exercises. A couple of sets of incline barbell with a nice arched back, big chest, slow control, touch at the bottom. And then we move on to incline dumbbell presses. By the way, all of these exercises can be done anywhere from five to about 25 reps per set. On a first set, it's really up to you. On things like pull-ups and stuff, probably not doing 25 reps of pull-ups. On things like pull-downs, probably not doing sets of five because you just did that with pull-ups just before. Those four exercises, two vertical pulls, two incline pushes, that wraps up the day for us except for one thing. We got to do legs. So here's me doing legs for you. Okay, that was fun. All right, day two, arm and delt day. We are going to start with triceps and we are going to do barbell skull crushers. Again, just an option. Keep those elbows close in towards your body, slow control to touch wherever's comfy. Come all the way back up every single time. Then we are going to do overhead easy extensions. Those hit a bit more the long head of the triceps. I like to do for this sample program, a horizontal tricep version and a vertical tricep version because that allows us to train the entire muscle and it breaks apart the monotony and it makes it so it's more fun, not boring, and awesome to get motivation. When I said we were going to spam lateral raises, I was not kidding. We are going to do multiple sets, three or four sets of dumbbell lateral raises and then a whole different exercise of cable lateral raises. Guys, exercises for the side delts in general fall into these slots. Don't be constrained to just my examples, though you can use them. You can do a lot of different stuff. Now there are just two things left in this program. Remember, this is arms, not as big of rest breaks as chest and back so you can get through more sets. For biceps, we are going to do four or five sets of barbell bicep curls. If you want to do three or four sets, you can do the myorep match system where you get maybe 12 to 15 on the first and then you do myoreps for all the other sets to fill up whatever. Let's say you got 14 on the first, you have 14 on the first, 14 with a little break on the second, 14 with two breaks in the third, and so on and so forth. You've got to crush the volume. None of this one or two sets jazz, three or four sets to begin with. And remember, as you progress week to week to week in the RP Hypertrophy app, if you're recovering, the app is going to raise your training volume. So we're going to start at three or four sets of stuff, maybe five sets sometimes. We're going to slowly rise up to five or six sets of stuff. Volume is growth. You're going to get jacked. And since we have the barbell out already, we might as well flip the grip and do some standing barbell wrist curls because why not? Bigger forms are awesome. Here, what I like to do is just a giant set, otherwise known as a marathon set. Have some weight on the bar and I do as many sets as it takes, five to 10 second breaks between sets to get to like 50 or 60 reps. Next week, it'll be 55 to 65, then 60 to 70, then 75 to 80, and all the way through. It ends up being this ratchet rep system where we keep the weight roughly the same, but the reps go up and up, pounding that volume. Afterwards, you're going to have pump forearms and really that's mission accomplished. All right. Day three, we're back to chest and back again. But remember, last time you started with back to keep the symmetry going and let muscles recover, we're going to start with chest. So I'm going to start with incline wide grip press with a barbell. Amazing exercise. Really find a place on your chest that it's comfy to put it down. If you put it too high on your chest, it can hurt your shoulders too low. It feels weird on your elbows. Find a nice intermediate spot that feels nice. Always take a pause at the bottom of this exercise. After you've done two to three sets of that, you're going to go and do some kind of machine incline press in this example program, and you're going to do another two or three sets of that. Really, really awesome stuff. Not redundant, just more volume, which is how we like it. Then we go to vertical pull. This time we're going to do underhand lat pulldowns and an entirely different exercise of lat prayers, aka straight arm lat pulldown. This is going to be technically another vertical pull, but really it's a lat isolation movement, and it's going to allow us to crush out a crap load of lats for width. Notice there is no rowing in this program. If you really want to row, you can throw a couple rows in at the end. For pure aesthetic physique, rows are not a high priority, and instead you want as much vertical pulling as possible. And of course, afterwards, you got to do legs, so we'll do some legs. All right. Day four, final day of the program. On day two, we save biceps for last because we're prioritizing triceps and shoulders. This time we flip the script completely. We start with biceps first and foremost. We're going to start with easy bar curls for biceps, three or four sets. Then we're going to do another three or four sets of cable curls for biceps. Maybe it's a good idea for these two exercises to be slightly different reps. So maybe sets of five to 10, 10 to 15 on the first easy bar curl. And then the cable curls, maybe sets of 10 to 15 or even 15 to 20 to get that high rep component. Some limited research shows that if you train high reps and low reps in the same session, or at least the same week, you might get some more growth. And from a variation and fun perspective, it definitely hits. Spamming laterals again. Here come the laterals. We're going to start with machine laterals for three or four sets. And then we are going to go do seated dumbbell laterals. Different variation than earlier in the week. Meaningfully different enough. You can do these super high, super ROM. You can do them just to regular. You can pause them. There are a million ways to cook this bird. Is that a real analogy? Or did I just make that up or hallucinate two analogies together? Who knows? Tons of laterals. Here's the thing, guys. I don't even like training shoulders. I hate it. But I want bigger shoulders. So I do it all the goddamn time. They recover a ton. Potentially in this program, you're looking at more than 20 sets of laterals per week. Good. Because if you really want to prioritize shoulders, number one, you could do 25, 30, and even 35 or 40 sets of laterals and still recover in most cases. So if you feel like it's a lot of shoulders, remember, objectively, it's not. You might not be used to it. But as you get used to it, your shoulders are going to grow more. They're going to recover better. And everything is going to set you up for even more shoulder training. Lastly, we have triceps and then forearms again. For triceps, we are going to do inverted skull crushers. I like to do these giant set style where I set a total rep number for myself. Let's say it's a 20 RM or so. You put the bar nice and low. However low is challenging for about 20 reps. Crank out about 20, close to failure. Rest about 10 seconds, maybe 20 seconds. Hit it again. Get up to about 50 or 60 total reps in that first session. Then add 5 to 10 reps every single week that you come back in. After you're done and your triceps are blown up, you can do bar push-ups right on that same Smith machine at that same height. It's where you push off with your forearms. It's an awesome free body weight forearm exercise. Same thing there. Massive giant set, 50 or 60 reps. And check this out. Your whole aesthetic part of your body is completely cooked. And guess what? You need a few days of rest, plenty of food, plenty of sleep. Come back the next week. Open up your RPI hypertrophy app. The weights are slightly higher or the reps are slightly higher. The sets have usually gone up. And then you're cranking again and again and again. You put in four to six weeks like that. Deload. Change some of the exercises. Four to six weeks. Deload. You're going to look at your body in the mirror over time. Two things are going to happen. One, you're going to look more aesthetic, which is exactly what you wanted. And two, potentially, you might also develop an erection looking at yourself in the mirror, which is both weird news, but good news because you're always there, right? And as long as you have a mirror, it's a party. Our New Year's sale is happening right very now. The Diet Coach app is for sale and the hypertrophy app is for sale. But for the first time ever, the hypertrophy app is available in the iOS app store. So either click the link in the description or just go to the app store and get those apps mega discounts. They don't last. See you next year. More Jacked. Guys, muscle takes time to grow. It's going to take months to add an appreciable amount of size to your shoulders, your arms, your chest, and your lats. Be patient. What you might want to try nutritionally is something like 16 weeks of gaining half a pound per week, chilling for about a month, eating high protein, training a little bit more for strength, and then doing a fat loss phase that lasts about, oh, I don't know, eight weeks or so, and losing about a pound of fat per week over that eight weeks. If you look at it on net balance, it's eight pounds up and then eight pounds down. It brings you back to the same body weight, but ostensibly you gained muscle and then you're going to lose fat on the other end. You do a couple of macro cycles of this. That's a lot of weeks strung together and you're going to end up looking way more jacked, way leaner, and thus way more aesthetic. If at some point you start getting kind of scary lean, then you can always gain more weight, increasing the length of your muscle gain phase, still at half a pound per week and no faster, and you can contract your dieting phase to four weeks or six weeks if you're already lean enough to go another cycle of gaining. On the aesthetic side, I'll tell you guys this. You can be at a pretty high body fat percent when you start this program, but I would recommend if you're at a pretty high body fat percent to maybe do something like 12 weeks of gaining and something like eight weeks of losing, which means you gain six pounds and you lose eight. Then over time you're losing net fat and because you're gaining lots of muscle too, the amount of fat you're losing is really quite high. After about a year, year and a half of the situation, you're going to look substantially different and way leaner. Why do I mention leaner? Because aesthetics is the thing that just happens when you're lean because you can only show off the body when it's lean and get all these cool curbs and everything like that. And in addition to that, it just so happens that your waist is going to carry a lot of your body weight. And if you want a small waist, getting lean is kind of the only way to do it. So make sure you hit in the kitchen as well as hitting the weight room. And honestly, think of stopping hitting things. Why am I always hitting it? You know, they always say like you go before you go up on stage or go to your power lifting meet or whatever. They're like, Hey, kill it. I'm like, what am I killing? Exactly. I don't want to kill. I'm a nice person. I love nice thoughts. Not about killing. I keep telling my psychiatrist this. They won't let me out. They have me wearing all white. I live at a facility. Do you want to wear all white and live in a facility and want to be mega aesthetic? Give some thought to this program. You can try it verbatim. Get into the RP Hypertrophy app. Build your own version that's even better. And just don't get too aesthetic because I'll get jealous. Guys, I hope you learned a ton. Go out there, get these aesthetics. And I leave you with just one piece of advice. If anyone ever questions your aesthetic appeal, you put this leg out. You go like this with your hips. And you do one of these shits. Am I the world's worst poser? Yes. But also, I'm friendly. Have fun. See you next time.