ненене –неacin,не – Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength, and I'm going to share with you my exact training split that I used to get into the 6% body fat range. So in March of this past year, March of 2025, I got surgery to remove extra skin around my love handles area. I have a whole video about that. Actually, a few. If you're curious, they're going to be somewhere around here. And after a few months of regaining lost muscle from the six weeks off I had to have after the surgery, I descended into a nice long fat loss diet. So a few months of regaining lost muscle, then a fat loss diet, and then I got measured to see how much muscle and fat I actually had. It was time to see how the body had changed. And also it's been a bit of a to-do of mine to do a fat loss phase and get a little bit shredded. The fat loss phase lasted, depending on how you measure it, something like 15 to 20 weeks. 22 weeks if you count the entire thing all the way through generously. Some parts of it were slightly higher calories, some lower. And during much of it, I trained in a few different styles. But in the last mesocycle that I did of this phase, that's the one that got me to a 6% body fat on the DEXA. I switched up my training in a way I found that I really, really liked. And I thought it was kind of neat. And I thought maybe you guys would be interested if I shared it with you so you could take some inspiration from it, learn a little bit from it. And actually we have that exact program in the RP Hypertrophy app, which is available in the Apple Store or the Google Play Store. And you could just use that literal program or start with it as a template because it's available as a template. Modify anything you like or don't like. Pick all of your exercises that you want and use it yourself. So here's the plan that I used. And again, if you want to see the actual plan and use it, RP Hypertrophy app is the place to go. It's a six-day per microcycle floating split, which means I did pull, legs, push. I could do pull again, but if I felt that I needed more recovery, I would rest a day. If I was really messed up, still sore, still tired, I would take two days. And then I would do pull, legs, push again, zero to two days of recovery and repeat. This situation, this setup, this floating split, not Monday do this, Tuesday do that, gives me an ability to train to healing and to convenience. So if I heal early, I don't take any extra time off and I just roll right into the next three-day half microcycle. If I heal late, I take one day or two days. And if I'm traveling for work or work at home gets really crazy and it does and I did, then I can always take a rest day when needed and get right back into the cycle without having to move around weekdays or whatever. Because the real problem is, and Scott, I'm sure you've dealt with this before, you have like a Monday through Friday training plan and then Friday you have to like fly in the morning and you're like, I guess Saturday. But then you're not healed for Monday and the whole thing goes to hell. So a floating split completely solves that problem because you're either training or recovering and it's rolling. So you train as much as you can. You take recovery days when you need to or when you're traveling and it's all really, really good to go. The big downside with floating splits is that you don't have the rigidity of Monday. We do chest. The big upside is that there's really nothing can throw you off your game. It's like you just do the next day in line after you did the last day and rested however long. So I'd say overall on most weeks, I ended up training about six days per week, sometimes five days per week, sometimes seven days per week and everything in between. All right. Let's go through each day for my own execution of this program and check out the workouts themselves. So day one, pull one, which means back, shoulders and biceps. This is the actual plan I use towards the end. So I'm just going to share with you the verbatim plan. And remember, every exercise can be altered to the one you like as long as the same functional category like vertical pull, horizontal pull, side ALT isolation, etc. So you can have carte blanche in the RP Hipertrophy app. You have exactly that. Day one, pull one. At one point in this plan, I was doing weighted parallel pull-ups for sets of five to 15 reps. That means I would start with a set of like 12 or something, one rep in reserve, do gee whiz three to five sets, straight sets, two minutes rest between, three minutes rest between, however long I took to get my strength and my breath back. And then I would do another set. And it was like, you know, 12 and then eight and then seven and then six and then five. And then, okay, on to the next exercise. That's how we get the 15 to five. So it's not like I started heavier and went lighter. It was actually started heavy and the reps dropped off due to fatigue. The next exercise I did was unweighted parallel pull-ups. This is awesome. You're in the same station. You have zero warming up to do. It's the identical exercise. You're ultra potentiated because the heavy weight wakes up your nervous system like crazy, gives you a crazy mind muscle connection. So when you do no weight pull-ups after weighted pull-ups, you feel like God and you can do a ton of reps and really connect with your back. So that was also five to 15 reps. But again, started at something like 10 or 12. And then the reps would descend closer to five as I got tired. If you aren't in that position yet in your training to be strong enough to do weighted pull-ups, you can start with regular pull-ups and then go to assisted pull-ups in the second exercise. If you're not there yet with regular pull-ups, start with assisted pull-ups and go to pull-downs with the same style grip. In that second exercise, the ultimate scalable system for back training. After that, I would do machine chest supported rows with my rep matching. Two sets. Typically, I would get about 20 reps in the first one and then a mile rep set to match that 20 reps in the second one. That's the only rowing that I'm doing in this entire day because I have a crap load of back thickness relative to back width. So I've been prioritizing vertical pulling first and minimizing just basically a little bit north of maintenance for my rowing stuff. After that, back was over. That's three exercises in. Exercise number four was dumbbell seated lateral raise, mile rep match. Typically, in the 10 to 15 rep range or a 15 to 20 rep range. So for dumbbells, 10 to 15 reps is actually quite heavy in the lateral raise. I would do, as an example, I would get 13 repetitions on a first set and then rest as long as I needed to to get my energy back. The next set was the goal was 13 repetitions again, but I might have been able to do only 10 reps, rest for five or 10 seconds and then do three reps. And then the next set, again, the goal is 13 because it's my rep match. You match your first set as many times as you do sets. And honestly, guys, I hate training delts. My delts are a huge weak point of mine. And so I've been training the crap out of them, which means I've been doing four, five and even six mile rep match total sets for this exercise slot. That means that if it's like 18 reps, that's damn near like 100 total reps, 18 reps per set over five or six sets. That's a lot of repetitions, a lot of approaches to failure, really cooking the delts. After that, I would do a little bit of bicep work. Dumbbell line curl, for example, for a mile rep set of 40 total reps. That really takes like a minute and a half. You just crank them out, rest, crank them out, rest, crank them out. 40 reps is not that much. And then lastly, cable wrist curls, 50 total reps. Again, it's just one mile rep set. So I just stand there, do wrist curls, put the bar down, look around for five seconds, do another. It would be like 20, 12, 10, 8, and I guess that is 50. So as an example, that's how it would go. That whole workout would take me about an hour and a half. So we've knocked off back with a vertical component, width component. We've knocked off delts, hit a little bit of biceps and a little bit of forms. Next up is day number two, which was the first leg day of the cycle. I would start with decline sit-ups. Just one mile rep set of 30 reps, which I take about two or three little breaks to complete. Just to check mark the abs because they're looking kind of cool and I wanted a little bit more abdominal work for my jiu-jitsu. So threw that in there. Then I would do the transformer bar, which is an incredible bar, best safety bar in the world. Good morning for a few sets of five to 15 repetitions, relatively heavy. But remember with good mornings and stuff like a deadlift, if you go much above 15 reps, your back fatigues and your hamstrings don't even really feel much because the weight's not enough for your hamstrings to get super challenged. It would if you can get closer to failure, but you can't get close to failure because your back starts to round because it's the limiting factor. So sets of around 10 good mornings are usually much better than sets of 15 plus. After that, I would get on the leg press and I would do a leg press my rep sets for 10 to 20 reps each. So like a set of 15, a set of 14, a set of 13, each one would have two or three approaches to failure in it where I lock out and breathe. You guys might have seen this before on my Instagram and stuff like that. I would finish with the sissy squat machine. Super crazy, basically bodyweight leg extension. I would typically add weight with a weight belt and get about 20 to 30 reps in one mile rep giant set that I did. So get in, get the weight on to 15, rest, do five, rest, do four, rest until I get something like 30 reps. And that would cook my ass. That workout really took only about an hour and a half, which for legs is really good. Sometimes even less because the sissy squat machine situation, I mean, the whole set takes like a minute and a half and it's just one set. So that exercise takes a minute and a half, maybe 30 more seconds for putting on a belt and putting weights on it. So super, super economical there. Day three is an example of push one. Okay. So the first pushing day, start with calf raises. Just check the box, get them out of the way, get into cambered bar flat presses, sets of five to 15 reps. Love big time hit for the chest. Then I would do overhead, easy cable extensions, which I've been doing lately. And I love, I used to do them all the time. I got a little bit inflexible. I worked, um, work through that problem recently flexible enough to do them. And then I would superset every set of those overhead extensions to deficit pushups, which cooks the triceps like crazy. And it was a little bit more pec stimulus, massive pump. Amazing. And not a very long time for training because of the superset style. Then I would do full send biceps, dumbbell incline curl, do a mile rep match for sets of 10 to 15 reps. So again, sets of 12, but it's like four sets of 12. The first one's 12 close to failure. The next one's maybe 10 and two. Then, you know, then nine and maybe three, then eight and then two. And then two all completed to make sure it's 12 every single time. Brutal. That really screwed up my biceps and would finish that specific day with dumbbell seated lateral raises again. But this time, one big ass giant mile rep set. So it's like 50 to 60. At the end, I ended up going to 75 total reps. Instead of using the 25 pound dumbbells, which are pretty heavy for me, I use the 20s, which are very light. So I got like 25 reps on my first little run at it. Rest a little bit, get eight, rest a little bit, get six or seven. So on until I filled the cup up to a sum total of 50 to 60 reps and sometimes even higher than that. It doesn't take a lot of time. Like it probably took about five to eight minutes to do the whole thing. But I'm literally in a chair the entire time. Either the dumbbells are sitting on the floor in front of me or they're on my lap or they're in my hands and I'm doing them. So 10 seconds rest at most. Get the VersaGrips tightened back in and go tons of delt volume all in a short time. Again, hour and a half work out there. So that's how those first three days looked. Take a rest day, maybe take two, come back and I would do the pull day number two. Same microcycle, but it's the second half of the microcycle now. Weighted overhand pull-ups this time, not neutral grips. So the difference in grip position means more variation, less wear and tear on the same exact site. So the injury risk is lower. After that, unweighted overhand pull-ups. Same style as last time. Weighted first and unweighted five to 15 reps. That's on both. Smith machine row for 15 to 20 reps. Nice little rowing to tie everything in. Again, thickness is not a huge priority. Then I'm going to go to lying cable front raises. My rep match. Very many sets. Four, five, six sets of that. It's like up to and over 100 reps per workout. That would switch to cable curls. But the just my rep set there, just one. Because remember, on my push days, I have a lot of biceps, a little bit of delts. On my pull days, I have a lot of delts, a little bit of biceps. That's a really cool symmetry that lets me check a bunch of boxes. So I'm either slightly gaining slash maintaining or really gaining in a big way while dropping fatigue for the other muscle. Super, super big. Lastly, I would finish with dumbbell wrist curls. My rep set of 50 total reps. Nothing crazy there. Legs number two was up next. Same decline sit-ups. Every few months, I'll change the exercise and do some hanging leg raises or something. This is just really box checking to make sure my abs are getting some kind of stimulus. I would move into lying leg curls for a my rep match, multiple sets of 15 to 20 reps. This is awesome because it takes some load off of lower back. In my experience, for athletes that are larger and stronger, doing two hip hinges a week, like if I did good mornings on day two of this program, and then on day five, I did stiff-legged deadlifts, it would screw up my lower back in the sense that it just wouldn't heal fast enough. My strength would depress and my probability of injury going up. So what I really like to do, and you can take this or leave this for your own program, is I train hamstrings twice a week almost always. One of those days, I will do a hip hinge typically, and the other days, like good morning, stiff-legged deadlift, et cetera. And the other day, I will do some kind of leg curl, be it lying or seated. It allows me a ton of variation because there's multiple hip hinges, multiple different kinds of leg curls, and it prevents me from getting too stale on the hip hinges. And it's awesome because hip hinges really, really stress the hamstrings, but not all of the hamstring muscles because some of the hamstring muscles just really function at the knee joint and not the hip joint. So you're really checking all the boxes. The functional groups of muscle are all getting trained really well. After the lying leg curls, I would do belt squats. I'm still doing these. I love these. These are my rep style, 15 to 20 reps. The great thing about belt squats is my reps are unbelievably easy. So all you have to do is lock out your knees and just kind of stand there, hips locked out, knees locked out. You can breathe for a few seconds, and it's not draining you the entire time. Absolutely adore this exercise. And then Bulgarian split squats with a transformer bar. Also, my rep match on these. Sometimes I would just do my reps. These are pretty brutal, but not in a bad way. They're brutal like for the glutes and nothing else. I happen to like them. Scott, do Bulgarians really, quote-unquote, mess you up in a systemic way? No, but… Local way. Target muscle gets screwed. Yeah. Amazing. Yeah. Same for me. The systemic component is not that big of a deal. It's actually not that much weight on my back in this case. So lastly, day number six, push workout number two. I would do calves again. Any kind of calves works here. I did a whole bunch of different stuff. Really what was convenient when I was traveling for me, a good calf machine. And then I would do typically when I was at home, the incline machine chest press from Atlantis, which is amazing. Not only is it converging and coming together, which I'm not a huge fan of, but at the bottom, it really pulls you out and down, stretching the pecs like crazy. I would go flat bench after sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of 15 reps. Again, starting closer to 15 and going all the way below sets of 5 to 10, basically, as I got tired. Then I got back into actual barbell skull crushers. For like years, I've been doing Smith machine skull crushers because they're awesome. I got into barbell skull crushers, and even though it takes a little bit more control to keep my elbows safe, I absolutely love the movement. My rep match sets here. Man, I got up to doing six sets of barbell skull crushers, 15 to 20 reps. That's a lot of my rep matching. Really intense. Loved this. Loved this exercise after a long time in the Smith. Then second to last exercise, biceps. Free motion cable curl my rep match. I love the free motion curl. You stand way in front of the machine. Take your elbows. Push them way back. Let the machine pull them way back, rather. And then you have an amazing angle to maximize that exposure of the biceps in the deep stretch. Phenomenal. So that's a 10 to 20 reps there. I never train biceps too heavy. I want to tweak anything, and really, my biceps respond a ton to volume anyway, so higher reps win that one. And then lastly, lying cable front raises, but just one giant my rep set of those, 50 to 60 reps. Sometimes I'll just lie on the ground and do the raises. And in between, I'll just sit up a little bit, retighten my verses, lie back down, and go back to work. Kind of strange for people to walk by, and I'm kind of sitting on the ground and lying down on the ground. But the gym's for training, damn it. And whatever works, works. Also, I'm a lot dirtier than the ground, so I'm not really so worried about it. All right. That's my plan. What can you get out of this insight? Because we're different, you and I. That's right. You're a better person, and I'm weird. But we can learn some stuff. First, you want to choose a training split. The architecture of your week of training, which you're excited about. This helps a lot in fat loss phases because you get really psychologically and physiologically beat up at the end. And if you're really psyched about your split, it's just that extra bit that can help you get into the gym and get good workouts. You don't want to hate your split because in a fat loss phase, man, you hate enough stuff at that point. Next, you want to pick exercises which will keep you safe when energy is low, especially ones that let you get a great stimulus from no fewer than 10 reps per set in most cases. You can go in the 5 to 10 rep range for sure, but that is maybe a recipe for underperformance and potential injury risk when you're in a fat loss phase. Because higher reps are categorically safer than lower reps, in the high fatigue environment, all the fat loss phase, I just buy a little bit higher. So I don't typically go much below sets of 10. And in this case, I did a little bit with pull-ups, but remember, that's not on a first set. So my rep maximum weight is still way above 10, more like 15, and I would go from there. Not a single time in this plan did I lift my fresh 10, 9, or 8 RM, or for sure my 5 RM, because that would be way too heavy for a fat loss phase. Next recommendation for you guys is to pick exercises which you like to do so that motivation stays high. Here's an example. In any one phase of training, you can pick from, let's say, four chest flat press exercises. Flat press machine, dumbbell flat press, barbell flat press, and then you have a Smith machine press, right? And all of those are fine answers. When you're especially in the tail end of a fat loss phase, remember motivation is low, everything is drained, your pumps aren't as good, you might want to pick the exercise there or two exercises for your plan that you really like the most. So if you've really been vibing with dumbbells and Smith machine lately, man, pick those shits, because if you're doing the barbell, technically on paper it's good, you're not so excited about it, you don't love it that much, it's just making your fat loss phase needlessly more difficult. In the fat loss phase, you really want to butter yourself up with your favorite exercises and your favorite split so that you're going in there and getting it, because then the fat loss phase doesn't seem as bad, and you have all this momentum behind you instead of making everything harder on yourself all the time. As usual, according to our quote-unquote RP methodology, it's really just pretty well vetted science at this point, you can start every set of your first week, about two or three reps shy of failure on all exercises with perfect technique. And here's my big recommendation, only increase week to week to week during a fat loss phase by the smallest fractions you can of load on the bar or reps added to the set. Honestly, if you can get a 1.25 pound increase per week, you're winning. 2.5, amazing. For huge exercises like hack squats and leg presses, add 5 pounds total to the machine every single time. Going up by 10 pounds is fine in a mass phase, in a maintenance phase, but in a fat loss phase, man, that's just cranking up the fatigue a ton and asking for underperformance or injury in addition to that. If you do a whole fat loss phase and by adding 1.25 or 2.5 pounds to the bar or a rep here and there, you're able to maintain and even slightly increase your performance, you're winning all around. What you don't want to do is take the fat loss phase and also make it a make mega PRs on purpose phase. That's what muscle gain phases or maintenance phases are for, not fat loss phases. Fat loss phase, just do a little bit better than you have to and you're totally good to go. It's like, what's a good analogy offhand? If you are at a really important function and there's CEOs at this table on this desk and they're looking at appraising a new product you've brought to them that they'll buy your company or something and you have to throw something away, you probably don't want to take like a fadeaway J jump shot into the garbage eight feet away and hit the head CEO guy in the face with this. It's too much on the line. Just walk over and put it in. Take the safe route. The garbage went in the basket. No one was upset. Whereas if your friends hanging out, you feel me and someone's like, hey, I bet you can't make that shot, you little bitch. You're like, what the fuck? I tried out for the NBA, baby. They would have taken me if not for my arms were too big. And so you hit that shit. Of course you miss. All your friends make fun of you. No love lost. So in a muscle gain phase, yeah, man, put some weight on the bar. You feel me? Put five more pounds. You feeling your swag a little bit? You feel safe? Good technique. Put 10 more pounds in the bar. In a fat loss phase, don't get crazy because fatigue is very limited. 1.25, 2.5 are the very most five pounds of weight to the bar. Your ego is not going to like it. The results will love it. And remember, we're here for results. Your ego just say, nice. Scott, do we have any ways of improving our egos? That's the other channel. That's the other channel. Progress channel. Check that out. All right. Here's another recommendation. Train often. At least two times per week per muscle group during a fat loss phase keeps the muscle from melting off of your body. If you train every muscle group once a week, it forms some muscle growth for a few days, prevents muscle loss for a few days, but then the last two or three days of the week, you really, it's been so long since you've trained that your body looks at that muscle and goes, hey, we're not using that. Go ahead and burn that for energy. If you don't use it, you lose it. And that absolutely applies. I recommend at least two sessions per muscle per group, sometimes three or four, depending on the muscles. Better to train a muscle with a lower volume, but three times than with higher volume once, especially during a fat loss phase. And big recommendation, try to keep your sessions to under an hour and a half. If you go a lot longer, you're going to run out of gas, especially dieted down. And then you're doing junk volume, not stimulative volume. You're adding mostly fatigue and not adding much muscle. Nothing's getting done there. Here's another tip, big one that people make a mistake for this all the time. Don't prioritize any muscle. You guys saw my program. Everything is really kind of in the mix. There's nothing being super prioritized, nothing being super detrained. My mid back, my pulling musculature for my rows is being totally stimulated enough by those four sets per week that I do. Because for me, that's like the genetic freaky muscle group I have. It would stay around damn near no matter what happens. So I'm not actually prioritizing and deprioritizing that. I'm just making sure not to train it too much because I just don't need that fatigue expenditure. But everything else, I'm training biceps. I'm training delts. I'm training everything. Checking those boxes. If you say, oh, I'm going to really train arms during this fat loss phase, I'm going to really not hit my chest and back much. You might lose muscle on your chest and back. And you probably won't gain much on your arms because remember, where are the calories coming from to actually build the muscle that is going to be your arm specialization stimulus? Well, they aren't coming because you're in a fat loss phase. So that's a non-starter. Lastly, and I've had to learn this lesson a few times myself, painfully so in many cases, only ramp your volume, the number of sets you're doing slowly if you're recovering well. Start doing with two to three sets of everything in this program. And if you are for sure easily recovering and barely getting pumped, getting sore, add a set. But if you're like, damn, that was a pretty good workout. Man, I barely healed from last week. Should I add a no? Do not add. Because remember, the fatigue constraint of dieting is really gnarly. What you need is a great stimulus. And to recover on time for next time, you have another great stimulus. You don't want to do too much because the benefit won't be muscle growth. Because remember, there's not a food for muscle growth. The benefit has to just be enough to grow muscle, quote unquote, in proportion to how fast you lose it from a catabolic stimulus. Way too few calories, way too many steps of that fat loss diet. If you can crank about 15 to 20 sets per muscle group in a typical week like this, you're really golden. You don't have to go for 25, 30, 35 sets per muscle because that would be so many sets that it would accomplish almost nothing because you don't have the food to actually grow from those sets. This whole program that I've shared with you guys is a template that you can now use in the RPI Petrophy app, which is now available in the Apple Store and the Google Play Store and everywhere else you get your apps. It is called Mike's 2025 Transformation Template. It's male, six-day-a-week program. So find it there where you find all your other templates and give it a look. And if you want to give our apps a try, the RPI Petrophy app, RP Diet Coach app, we think they're amazing. If you want to do this yourself, just with our insights about how to do stuff, we wish you absolutely the best. Go out there and get your fat loss and muscle growth on. And when someone asks you about, hey, why do you work out so much? You just don't say anything. Walk away. It doesn't matter if they're your boss or your family. Relationships are overrated. If you're jacked enough, you need no one, including yourself. Think about that one. See you next time. Bye. Thank you.