 Hey guys! I'm at Cornerstone University! I'm at Cornerstone University! because last time we did some DEXAs, the results were absolutely wacky! It's saying 14! You're fat! You're fat! Plus a percent and a half! And 12 weeks of dieting! Man! This is the first major DEXA flub I've ever seen! So we came here! It is the state of Michigan! It is an awesome institution! With a phenomenal lab! Amazing people! And they were like, Hey! Get in here! And just take every body comp test known to man! Except for the MRI! But we're working on that! on that. Let's get started and see how bad I am using every test ever invented. First up is the bod pod. Your body has a certain density, and we know roughly what the average density of lean mass is, that is your muscles, bones, all the fluids, everything else, and roughly what your density of fat mass is. And we can get your density by weighing you and then throwing you in the bod pod, and the bod pod just really measures one thing, how much volume you take up. If you guys know about density, it's just a relationship of volume to mass. We'll have both, so it's actually a very, very accurate representation of body composition in a two-compartment model. We're going to get body fat percent off of this, and we can infer body fat amount and lean mass amount. It's a little claustrophobic in there, but I like it because every single bod pod is also a time machine and teleportation device. Just bonus stuff that comes with the machine. All right. That's all we needed. You're good to hop out. All right. See what the numbers look like. What year is it? The moment of truth. 4.4. Whoa. That's generous. I wish. You know, there's levels to this. That ain't me. That's a little optimistic, I think. Had a DEXA just a few days ago. Got me at 6%. I kind of believe more of that a little bit, you know, although this is cool. Amazing reference standard. I'm really curious to see how this compares to underwater weighing. Instead of just pure assumption on the air cavity situation, you are allowed an ability to kind of breathe out as much as you can. Indeed, yes. And then it references that bottom end volume everyone is left over with. Right. Correct. But I'm with you. That's low and I would say generous, but yeah, but it seems more accurate than a 12%. Yeah, it sure does. And 14 is what we got a few weeks ago. Yeah, definitely more accurate than that. Yeah. Yeah. So you're going to sit right on that platform. The platform moves. Yeah, it does move because that's what's weighing you ultimately. And the platform breaks. Uh oh. Not your fault. We'll figure it out. Are you sure? Well, I'm so sorry. No, you're all right. I'm too fat for the machine. It's a 14. You're fat. You're fat. You're fat. You're fat. Shut up, man. Your whole body has to be on the platform and you're going to blow out all your air, like as much as you physically can and then duck under. And the biggest thing is staying still and then just stay under for five seconds. Come up and we'll see how the data looks. Ready? Yeah. All right. We're ready when you are. Get it all out. Get it all out. Get it all out. So we got live data on the screen. This green line is measuring his weight underwater. So it's truly literally a scale that's just communicating with the computer wirelessly. And you can see a lot of fluctuation in the scale because that's a lot of movement. How I find body fat is by highlighting over that flat area and it averages the three to five seconds that he was underwater the most still and had the least air inside of his system. Well, then it says his body fat percentage is 3.9. Damn, you're getting leaner and leaner, dog. Do I need a cookie? I need a cookie. All right. Ready, Mike? We're going to do another one. Go ahead. I don't know. 2.9. All right. You ready? All right. Let's do it. How much air you have? That was way more comfy. He's always laughing. I don't know what it is. We've got to start drug testing. I got 3.4 when I look at the full data set. Beautiful. Yeah, good. Pretty consistent. Well done. Allie's got a towel for you. I was just filming in case you ate. The most important thing is to dry your hair on your head. Hair on your head? It's a joke. No, I don't know. I don't know. All right. What's next? We're going to do skin folds now. Okay. I love it. We're going to go through all the nine sites. As I mentioned, the nine site formula is not near as validated as the seven site, but we'll at least compare them both to be most inclusive, but at the same time, most validated equation. And then I am going to do a couple trials per spot. One of the error reasons with skin folds is it is going to have naturally occurring variation between repetitions. So four. I'm going to have you help me a little bit and find your iliac crest. All right. Let's start with the nine site because that is all the sites plugged into an equation. With that, we got 5.9%. So slightly elevated from some of the other two more accurate measures. However, when we dropped it down to seven site, I got 8.3%. What can play a role in that is the two that it eliminates is bicep and calf. Those are my latest ones. Well, exactly. So that's where it could be a little inflated because, yeah, we're eliminating two sites and which sites will matter for people's results. Same thing with three site. Down to three site, we got 4.13-ish percent. That is actually closest to the other two methods. Definitely the site selection is going to play a role in that, but you got three different ones. You're ultimately, you've done this before. I'm just going to hold it out in front of you. It's going to throw you a number. So it'll think and then it will give you your response. Oh, yeah, baby. 20.5%. 20.5%. 20.5%. When I say the BIA is kind of not a real test, there's a reason I say that. Okay, go ahead and step on and see what it gives us. I got my numbers. You can step off. 32.8%. Body fat. High, high, and obese. We started real good. Wait, what did you say? High, high, and obese? That's what his categories are. For weight, it says high. For BMI, it says high. And body fat, it says obese. Yes. That's crazy. That's crazy. All right, we got one more. This last one's a relatively new one. Whoa. It's an AI technology. Yeah. It's going to take a picture of you. It's called Spren. I love it. And they claim also on their website to be just as valid as Bod Pod. Okay. So we'll see if we can prove them wrong. I want you to, let's us move back. I'm going to push this table backwards, Scott. Still wants us to go back further. Maybe this one's just not going to work. Still wants us to take steps back. Move back so that your body fits into the frame. Well, that's really interesting. All right. We'll scrap it. All right, guys. So our next test is something that I insisted upon. It is just taking a tape measure and doing waist and hip and all that stuff. It's cool because they used to use this test all the time before you had enough people formally trained in anthropometry to do skin for old assessments. And for masses of people, this does beat the BMI as an inference for body fat, but not by much because two measurements just tells you almost nothing about the human body. They use this kind of stuff for mass insurance purposes. They use it for military purposes back in the day. And so what I just want to tell you guys is do not assume this tells you your body fat percent, but we're going to get all science-y and put all this in cool charts and graphs for you so you can see how all the measures compare. And this is just for vibes. So thank you for doing it. Yeah. What did you say? 0.74? 0.79. 0.79. That's low. So that's what they're giving you. Low health risk, low body fat percentage, which is good. And you are the shape of a pear according to this chart. Uh, okay. Huh? That's an odd pear, but I'll take it. I wouldn't eat that pear. I wouldn't. I wouldn't. I would. I would. I had a pretty big fat loss phase recently. I took like two and a half months to recomp after recovering from surgery and three and a half months to get way leaner over this last half year. My look and my strength changed like crazy. I got some DEXAs at the end and there was controversy. I got two DEXAs showing me at 14-ish percent body fat and showed that I had lost like 20 pounds, but apparently only 1% fat, which means I lost like a bajillion pounds of muscle. Then we used another different brand of DEXA and that had me at 6% fat and 222 pounds, which vibed way better than the 14% fat original estimate. But it left me thinking, what if that 6% was just as much of an exaggeration as the 14%? Like what if I was actually about 10% fat after that fat loss phase and not the 6% that I had hoped? We doubted that the 14% was true because it clearly wasn't, but then why would we just accept the 6% as true? Nah, we're a science-based, we don't do that sort of thing. I'm not going to go on just one DEXA scan, you know? Like we literally showed the DEXA could be erroneous and massively so, and then I'm all like, well, one DEXA showed I'm 6% fat. So I wanted to get some other body fat measures in there that weren't just DEXAs to make sure I wasn't smoking the rose-colored copium pipe too hard. Scott, the video guy, in his infinite wisdom, reached out to a colleague of mine, Dr. James Sackett at Cornerstone University. Dr. Sackett leads the kinesiology program at Cornerstone University in Grand Rapids, Michigan. Him and the team there are super experts, and they have a new, unbelievably well-equipped facility with like almost every body composition test. And honestly, short of an MRI, they had it all. For these tests, I was 217 pounds measured on the day. For the DEXA, I was 222, all body water, all in the mix. All right, so let's go in order of least valid in the overall literature, like which of these tests probably doesn't say much, all the way to the most valid. First, my waist-to-hip ratio was 0.79, 34-inch waist, 43-inch hips. Girl! Girl! This is citing the Bergman et al. 2011 relative fat mass calculations would give me a 10-14% body fat estimate, which is a trip. Maybe that 14% was right. Best case scenario, 10. Uh-oh. Now don't worry, it gets worse. Because on the standing scale of the BIA, Bioelectrical Impedance Analysis, I scored an earth-shattering 32.8% body fat. Okay, good news, better news, on the handheld BAA, I got 20.4% body fat. So we started at 10% being optimistic, and now we're in the mid-20s again on average, which is strange with glute details and veins, but who am I to critique? I'm just the guinea pig here. Now, the skin folds started to tell a different story. On the three-site skin fold, I had a 4.13% body fat estimate. On the nine-site, the most comprehensive, I had a 5.9% estimate. And on the seven-site, which has the most data on it, so it's technically the most valid, I had an 8.3% estimate. Here's the interesting part. On the BOD pod, I had a 4.4% body fat estimate. On the DEXA, which is the next most valid, as you guys know, I had a 6%. And the gold standard in the research literature has been and is underwater weighing, in which I scored a 3.2% body fat estimate. Oh my God. So what does this mean? Let's interpret every single one of these results. The average waist-to-hip ratio in position was, oh, 12% body fat. The thing is, this is such a rough test that it's more or less noise. But it's not crazy, crazy far off from what my body fat probably is. The big problem with tests like this is that no actual tissue was measured. Like, my hips, and thus my butt, could have been super lean or almost all fat, and it would have gotten the same exact result. Think about that. How could that be super valid? Genetics for wider or slimmer waist are almost entirely missing from this determination. So it probably doesn't mean much. The standing scale BIA had me at 32.8% fat. Now guys, I can self-deprecate till I'm blue in the face, but this is just comedy. I mean, look, I'm not 3% fat. I think we can all agree to that. And maybe I'm not even 6% fat in real life. But anything much over 15% with grainy hamstrings and quad veins is kind of a bit absurd. The handheld BIA had me at 20.4%, and it's almost as absurd as the scale. By the way, the scale and for sure the handheld have a different button you press to choose athlete mode versus regular mode. Anything with a button in which you have modes are highly unlikely to give you actual outputs because it's all make-believe. Humans don't come in two modes. There's no such thing as athlete and regular person. It's all a gradation. Skinfolds. 3-site had me just over 4% fat. I'm almost certainly not that lean. 4% of shredded face striations. Freaky. I might get there someday, but I'm sure shit not there today. 9-site at 5.9% as possible and the most comprehensive, which means it measured more parts of my body, which gives us a very good assessment. So very reasonable. The 7-site has the most research support for it. It's the most valid. Had me at 8.3. Now, it didn't include my calves, which for me are super lean, but otherwise seemed very, very realistic. The bod pod had me at 4.4%. I'm probably not this low in real life, but because my bones, according to every dex I have ever taken, and the older I get, seemingly the more dense they get, are incredibly dense, like 5 standard deviations above the average. Because my bone density is so high, my overall body density is way higher. And because the bod pod and the underwater weighing system of determining body composition rely heavily, actually exclusively on density, heavier than average bones can make someone like me look substantially leaner. And that's probably why my bod pod had me lean as it did, because I'm not actually 4%, but I got heavy, heavy bones, which makes me seem leaner than I actually am. The dexa, 6%. It seems optimistic, but within the realm of reasonable. Underwater weighing at 3.2%, almost certainly not this low in real life, and it's the same situation as the bod pod. Because my bones are like off the charts dense, this will skew to lower percents for me than is a thing in reality. Now, for the coup de gras, what do I think my actual in real life ground truth body fat was at the time of these tests? I'd throw some money at about 7% to 8%. Very reasonable, sure as shit not 14%, definitely not 32.8%, but in my most optimistic fever dream, not 3.2%, like the underwater weighing says. I have some insights for you about how to interpret your own various results from these tests, should you ever get them. Here's my spiel for you guys. Take it as you will, always with skepticism. First, waist to hip ratios are not body fat estimates. But, measuring your waist every 3 weeks or so during a fat loss plan is an amazing way to track fat loss progress, and choosing a top end measurement for your muscle gain plan can make it so that you don't get too bulky. If you're at your leanest at 34 inches in your waist, and you tell yourself, my bulk ends at 38 inches, you can't get delusional and be up to 42 inches and be like, oh God, I got too fat. As soon as you hit 38 inches for two weeks in a row or two measurements in a row, then you cap it, you go to maintenance, and then you do a fat loss phase again. Really good way to use this system of measurement because all you need is a waist circumference tape measure for this test. It's incredibly simple and easy for you to do at home. As a real indicator of body fat, it is almost completely useless. As a relative indicator of body fat for a single person, it is an incredibly powerful, cheap, and effective tool. Next, the BIA works pretty well for a 65-kilogram 20-year-old male undergrad on who most of the validation work for these machines is done. But if you're remotely more not in that demographic, if you're older or female or jacked or lean, the test is fundamentally kind of a random number generator, and I just wouldn't put any stock into it at all. Skin folds are awesome and valid and precise if administered by a professional, ideally somebody certified in anthropometry, which is a real thing. If the skin fold is administered by a not professional, you're kind of just gambling and it's not reality. It's also best for skin fold not to actually estimate what your body fat is, but to track changes. If every three weeks or every month you have a pro do your skin fold, you can see how your progression is, both in gaining fat on a muscle gain phase to make sure you don't gain too much, and in losing fat in a fat loss phase to see how you compare to the last time you did it. The bod pod is usually great and will get you within about 3% of your actual percent fat in most cases. So in this case, my bod pod was about 4%. I think I'm actually 7% to 8%. That makes total sense. If you have a bod pod around, feel free to use it at the end of every fat loss phase. And the great thing about the bod pod is this. You don't have to get underwater and get wet and cold. You don't have to shoot x-rays literally at your face like you do with a dexa, which is super safe, by the way, but hey, one less x-ray and $100 is some good savings for you. Bod pod is amazing, very precise, very accurate. It has its error rate, but it will absolutely give you a reasonable estimate of your body fat. The dexa is great, but the algorithms are classified firmware. Sometimes the algorithms are wrong, as we have seen in our huge dexa controversy. Bad firmware update can screw the whole thing. So using a dexa is totally fine. It's totally awesome if you want. But remember, the dexa still has a 1% to 3% error rate on average. Sometimes it can be higher than that. So using a dexa at the end of every fat loss phase is great, but don't squid too hard at the results and don't use it every three weeks because you're just measuring noise at that point. Use it for percent fat, by the way, and not too much lean body mass calculation to infer muscularity because that LBM number depends on hydration like crazy. If you're similarly fed and hydrated and glycogen loaded with every scan, that helps a ton. With muscle mass tracking, because if you have different variables, if once you were carb loaded and bloated, and once you were super dry and super depleted, you're going to look like you're losing or gaining five or 10 pounds of muscle, and it's really just body water. If you use rep strength calculations, if you use the RP hypertrophy app or any other great app to track your progress, and your rep strength is increasing or stable, and the dexa showed that you've maintained your muscle through a fat loss phase, you're good to go. Don't just use the dexa by itself for muscle mass because body water is such a huge confounder. With the fat percent, that tends to be valid and very precise either way. The underwater weighing system of measurement is literally the scientific gold standard, so if you have one, absolutely use it. Unfortunately, you probably don't have one because these systems are tough to maintain, water destroys everything around it, including the room that it's stored in, and all that stuff, and even underwater weighing is going to have a 1% to 2% error rate on lung volume calculations and bone density assumptions. If you have very, very frail bones or very, very thick bones, if you're really good about blowing all of your air out underneath the water, or if you hold a bunch of air in, it's going to change the results big time. By the way, if you ever get underwater weighing, the more air you can blow out of your lungs, the heavier you appear on the underwater scale, and the leaner the machine is going to think you are, but not just leaner, more accurate. So if you are really bad about blowing your air underneath the water and you have a lot of air in your lungs yet because you're too scared to blow out all your air or as much of it as possible and wait just one or two seconds, you're going to look fatter, which is actually a great motivation for blowing out as much air as possible. Is it weird to blow out all of your air underwater? Yeah, hell yeah, it's weird, but the more you can do, the better. However, again, all of these have their error rates, so don't go mortgaging the house on the results. Otherwise, I would tell people I'm 4% fat, be delusional, be made to feel like a clown, and that would in fact be the case. All right, lastly, my future plans. If my health holds up, from March to July, I'll be dieting to try to get to that next level of lean which scientists describe as Tristan Lee, and maybe getting some more measurements to see how lean I can get. Major, major shout out to Cornerstone University, Dr. Sackett and his amazing teams. Dr. James Sackett, PhD, and his amazing team hooked us up like crazy. If you're going to be an undergrad and you want an amazing exercise science undergrad program with one of the best body composition labs in the whole world, and trust me, I've seen a lot, I'd highly recommend considering pursuing your education at Cornerstone University in Grand Rapids, Michigan. Guys, the professors here at Cornerstone University, an unbelievable setup, they're phenomenal people, utmost professionals. Humongous thank you to you guys for letting us get in here and get all over your equipment. And yeah, we learned some stuff. It turns out that some of the body fat tests come from wacky results, but the real good way to do body fat analysis is to take a bunch of tests and see which ones reasonably cluster together. You have a few odd tests out, those are probably not the right ones. And then you go from there and you try to just cope with living your life as someone with really high body fat like me. See you guys in the next video. Yeah. Yeah.