 Hey guys, dr. Mike here for RP strength. Here's my DEXA scan. I lost over half of my body fat in under half a year and I'm going to show you exactly how. Let's go. I am at Black Mamba Barbell in the Detroit metropolitan area because your boy needs a DEXA to see how ridiculous things have gotten from my six week layoff after surgery. I think I'm going to be somewhere around 15% fat. I think I'm going to be somewhere around 15% fat, but the most important thing about your DEXA is to make sure that the penis outline gets seen and that the DEXA operator knows that it's your cock. I have 15.6% body fat and I am in officially class two obesity. Right there, Scott, you can zoom in. I'm going to come back here in about four months or so and I'm going to see if I can get close to or below 10% fat. All right, what you guys just saw was me getting my post-surgery 15.6% fat DEXA result and then I went and did something about it. So let me tell you what I did to put on a ton of muscle and burn off a crap load of fat over the next several months. Here's how this all began. You see, in 1984, no, just kidding. I had surgery, as many of you have seen, and if you haven't, a video right here somewhere of my surgery on March 26th of this past year, 2025. And I had surgery to remove excess skin and fat cells from my love handles and lower back from being a purposefully fat piece of crap during my powerlifting slash Megham dreamer bulk era. And that stuff, you actually can't diet away. So I was like, I've had enough of this crap. Cut it out. That surgery went super well. But after that kind of surgery where they literally, I mean, if you guys see the pictures, like I sort of got cut in half low key. I had to take five weeks off of training, which for the first two weeks, I was like, thank God, because I was really messed up. For the second two weeks, I was like, I could maybe 50-50. And for the last week, I was like, ha! And then two weeks after that, my training was still incredibly low volume, super, super light, one to two sets per exercise, like 15 reps in reserve, a joke. We call it in sports science, a fitness return phase. So you're returning to the point where you can actually train. It doesn't really look like training. And so at that seven week out point from surgery, again, having not lifted for five weeks, barely lifted for two, I got a DEXA scan on May 13th, 2025. And it had me at 235.82 pounds and 15.6% body fat, which I looked like this. Anyway, like that. And that's the really high looked. So I cried a lot. I had about 36.8 pounds of fat tissue on me, according to this estimate, which is plus or minus a few percent. That's probably pretty close. And about 199 pounds of lean tissue, some muscle, some body water, some organ stuff, some bone, lean tissue. Because remember, lean tissue does not mean muscle. Part of it is usually muscle, but not the whole thing. So that was my composition. And then I did two phases of dieting. My first phase, I started basically right after that DEXA scan and went all the way to like mid to late-ish August. And so it was like about 11 weeks long. And what I did was I ramped up my training back to normal and then like kept the training churn going. I ate a high protein diet at roughly maintenance calories and kept it pretty loose, but healthy foods. And I kept my testosterone replacement therapy at the usual 150 milligrams per week, which is what I was taking. Been on TRT for a while. Obviously, your boy layers some shit in it now. I'll talk about that in a little bit. But I didn't escalate my drugs at all during that time in the summer because I was like, why? I can just get back a crap load of muscle, drop a bunch of fat just by eating clean and training and getting like 10,000 steps a day or so. That's a huge deal, you guys. And I'll come back to that is training consistently, eating a high protein diet, healthy, at roughly maintenance even and getting plenty of activity is if you're off of training or out of training for a while going to be like the number one thing to do to get the easiest gains of your life and the easiest fat loss of your life. Then I was like, OK, like I had gotten sort of homeostatic level. My body was kind of more stable and I could have been continuing to get the easy gains. But I was, you know what, it is time for me to shed a whole bunch of body fat. And so my plan then was to diet for about 13 weeks, but I ended up extending it to about 15 because it was going so well. And I did that fat loss phase and got a DEXA at the end of it. So about 15 weeks later, I got a DEXA on December 12th and that DEXA scan had me at 222 pounds of body weight and exactly 6.00%. Scott, it's not every day that you get the right on the nose. Right on the nose. It's almost like we faked it. Yeah. I will say from a theory of information theory perspective, I think information theory, it is exactly as likely that you got 6.00 as any other decimal. Exactly. Right. But sure does fool the human mind. So we paid the DEXA guy to fake the results. Scott, can you imagine doing that? He's like, I don't have an algorithm access to the machine. He's like, he opens up like a terminal. He's like, I don't know how to code. You're like, well, do something. So we did that and we got the results we wanted. And so that DEXA scan had me at about 13.3 pounds of fat, about 208.7 pounds of lean tissue. And I looked super different. Like at this point, I knew the results are going to be different. You guys probably seen some of the Instagram pictures of like Christmas tree in my back and all this weird crap, veiny stuff happening in my chest. So I was like, okay, I'm probably not 15% body fat anymore. And it turned out I was like pretty close to six. So that's a big transformation. And I want to dive in with you guys by the numbers to see what I did, what the results were, and what I did to lose close to two thirds of my body fat and gain over nine pounds of lean tissue at the same time. So real quick, by the numbers for my transformation. I lost 13.8 pounds on the scale. I lost 9.6% body fat. I lost 23.5 pounds of fat tissue. And in retrospect, I had a lot of fat tissue to lose. You know what I'm saying? That's like actually one of my typical pickup lines. Yo, what's up, girl? You look like you have about 23.5 pounds of fat tissue on that body. And she's like, I probably prove it. And I'm like, well, I sure can't do that in public. I'm like, ma'am. And the lost fraction of my fat from what I had at the end to what I had before is somewhere between five eighths and two thirds of my fat. So I lost between five eighths and two thirds of all of my body fat, which like one of the first insights here I can give you guys is if you lose a huge fraction of your fat, that's how you're going to look the most different. I did gain 9.7 pounds of lean mass. That is not all muscle. It is body water in a huge fraction. Some of that is for sure muscle. I don't know how much that is beyond our scope. But I say it is some because I will inform you later. I did get substantially stronger, which is a real good sign of muscle gain. All right. So what was this actual fat loss diet that I did that did most of this work of digging out the fat? How does this diet work? Let me tell you by the numbers what I did. I ate an average of approximately 2,800 calories per day. Some days were closer to and even a little bit below 2,600. Some days were closer to and a little bit above 3,000. But on average, it was about 2,800. So the rough size of the deficit to me is about 700-ish because I typically I think my maintenance is roughly 3,500 calories-ish. That does depend on what kind of pharmacology I'm taking, how much I weigh, how much activity I have. Those are all factors. But about 3,500 calories. So 700-calorie daily deficits, like what? Meat and potatoes. And that right there, you guys, explains how I lost the vast majority of, let me scroll back to make sure I say the right number, 23 and a half pounds of fat. Right? That vast majority of fat was just crunched out by a 700-calorie daily deficit, which over the week was predicted to get just under a pound and a half of fat tissue off of your body, assuming you don't lose any muscle. That's how you dig. That's 100% the case. In previous fat loss diets, the last several ones that I've been trying, I was purposefully trying to eat substantially more to see how much churn I could get. And I got some, but I always knew that I had to go lower in calories to get much leaner. And so 2,800 calories, I already knew from tons and tons of data I collected about myself through the RP Diet Coach app and other metrics that that was going to be the thing. And it worked super, super charmingly. I loved it. My average protein per day was about 320 grams, substantially higher. I took a hint from Menno Henselman's one of our conversations we had last year. Menno was an amazing person, a great colleague of mine, a great friend. And he had suspected that people on anabolics especially could just use more protein more productively. And there are some data on even non-anabolic users that maybe a gram and a half of protein per day could be advantageous in some cases for extreme top-end level muscle growth. Also, by the way, guys, as you'll see in a bit, I really ramped my amount of androgen exposure, how many, you know, special sports supplements, wink, wink, hint, hint, I was on. And so that's like forms a big sucking sound for tissue into your muscles and might as well hypothesize that that could allow for more protein to be assimilated and thus eaten. And so I tried 320 grams daily, which is like, you know, about a gram and a half per pound per day. I think it worked great, again, because so many variables are changing. I can't say for sure the protein worked great, but it didn't seem to not work and it kept my hunger lower. And I really like the diet. 265 grams of carbs daily on average, though that changed depending on training and activity and if I was eating a little more or a little less. And then 50 grams of daily fats, just enough to get the hormones going and all that stuff. Probably not enough for natural trainees to get their hormones going. I would recommend for them, if they were my body size and rough leeness, more like 75 grams of fat per day as a minimum. But I have hormones coming from needles and stuff, so I don't need all of them to be coming from my internal endogenous production as mediated by my diet. So I'm able to cut my fat substantially lower, thus create a big calorie deficit, eat more carbs, have better pumps, retain better muscle. So I usually ate about five meals per day during this time. And just a typical schedule of how and how I ate my meals is laid out for you guys. Typically, I'd wake up at about seven in the morning and I would drink water and take my pills and do my shots and all this crazy shit. And then I have this machine that gives me AI'm just kidding. Scott, I need that machine. Don't you feel me soon? Soon. Instead of the machine, what I would do is from roughly 8 a.m. to 10 a.m., I would do my workout. Typically, my resistance training workout. If it was a non-workout day, then I would do cardio during that time, walking cardio, dedicated walking cardio. And then that workout shake, I typically have 45 grams of protein, 30 grams of carbs and one packet of element in about two liters of water. It keeps me hydrated. I sip it between sets. I have about a third of it left at the end of the workout. I smash it on the car ride home, come home and have my first meal. Post-workout meal was almost always for MegaFit meals. I recently I would like to tell you guys that I signed up with MegaFit meals. But that's true in the literal sense. I just pay them money. They don't that I'm not sponsored. So I would have one of the meals that I custom designed was the same meal every day. Chicken, veggies and rice. Surprise. They're like, ask guys, a bodybuilder. Scott, because they have some like exotic options. They have like fucking sirloin. This and that. I'm like, what's that for? Pineapple, rice. Yeah. Like, what? I just try to have a good time, man. Just go to a restaurant. I'm kidding. MegaFit. I'm sure they sell some of those meals as well. And so my macros for that meal were about 70 grams of protein, 65 grams of carbs, 10 grams of fat. And at 2.30 p.m., so four and a half hours later or so, four hours later, I would be working typically a lot of times with Scott. And I would have four pure protein protein bars or a couple of different kinds of protein bars. Pure protein are my kind of gold standard. And those macros are about 80 grams of protein, about 60 grams of carbs, about 20 grams of fat for those four protein bars. A lot of times I have that with a decaf coffee and Splenda that I make in a shaker. And I use the hot water out of my sink. That's a fine meal. And then around 6 p.m., because I do work and all that stuff, about 6 p.m., I have another MegaFit meal. Typically, this one would be ground beef, veggies, and fat-free cheese. I do buy fat-free cheese. We do have that at the Kroger's, the grocery stores in Michigan. It's phenomenal. You got to really look for it. But when you find it, I just buy a trillion slices, and they last forever because they're not really made of real food. Scott, you know they don't really have, like, a functional expiration date on those in any, like, normal sense. They're like, this doesn't go bad because there's not anything in here to go bad. Like, these chemicals, like bacteria doesn't eat them and shit. I'm fine eating them, I think. But they're actually great. They have 4 grams of protein per slice, 3 grams of carbs, and 0 grams of fat. Phenomenal. So that meal is 75 grams of protein, 25 grams of carbs, and about 20 grams of fat. And then at 8.30, depending on the day, this meal is kind of variable. I often would have Twin Peaks brand protein puffs, which are amazing, and the macros are amazing. You guys, they're like puff chips, like cheesy poofs, but they're made of, like, mostly whey protein, and the macros are phenomenal. Like, it's, like, 22 grams of protein, less than 5 grams of fat, and way less than 5 grams of carbs per serving. And so I'd have a few servings of them shits, and that would give me about 50 grams of protein. I'd have some fruit as well, fresh fruit, super healthy, super awesome for you. 60 grams of carbs from fruit, 10 grams of fat from that whole meal. That adds up to roughly the macros I shared with you earlier. I would go to sleep at about 9.30 p.m., which I know is super early. But you guys see in Michigan, when winter starts, the sun just doesn't come back ever. 4. Keeping track of my diet, because I would travel during this time. I had this whole work trip to London at one point where I dieted through the whole thing. I can't say enough good things about the RP Diet Coach app. Yes, I am paid to say that, though. I'm paid by myself to say that, I guess, so that's kind of strange. But you guys, real talk, I'm never going to bullshit you. You don't ever need the Diet Coach app. That's a bunch of crap. I'm not to sell you nonsense. Is it a huge advantage? Yes. Yes. Because it's designed for hardcore lifters, bodybuilders, fitness people. It goes meal by meal. You can recalibrate your macros every time. It's total control. And I love that part. Because when I was traveling, I'd have to move some shit around, and I still hit almost the exact macros I wanted every single time. In any case, I'll shut up about that. It was hugely empowering. So that is my diet. And let's talk about my training. So I did a few different splits, because I'm always experimenting with stuff. And, you know, the body changes, adapts, adjusts. You get hurt in some place. You have to change the split. But towards the end, I really consolidated in a split I really, really love. And I think I'm going to use this one for a little bit of time. My split was roughly like this. A pull day, a leg day, a push day, and then a rest day. So that's four days. And then I would do another sequence of that with different exercises. And I would rest again after that. So it's an eight-day split. And then recycle, recycle, recycle. So each microcycle is eight days long. And I usually do four to six microcycles before taking a nice long week or week and a half deload. So that's the situation. Let me explain to you guys each day what happened here. By the way, when I say moves, I mean exercises. That's another term for exercises. For the exercises, each exercise typically, when I say exercise, each exercise typically has about two to five working sets in it plus warm-ups. And I typically start them as a cycle with about two to three working sets per exercise. And I finish with about four to five, sometimes six working sets per exercise. All in the RP App, Herchophy App, link in the description, link somewhere around here. RP App, Herchophy App, I'm never training a day in my life without it. It's fucking unbelievable. Day one, I would typically do three back moves, usually two vertical moves and one rowing move because I'm prioritizing lat width. I kind of have a lot of thickness. If you've seen my pictures, thickness is definitely something I can improve, but probably the thing that I have like the best thing of in my body and don't need as much of it for balance. And then I would do one delt move, serious move, multiple sets with tons of my rep mattress. So typically I would do one set of delts, like say lateral raises for a set of 20, like, you know, very close to failure, you know, as close as I get anyway. And then I would do the next move or sorry, the next set, I would try to hit 20 and it would, I would have to get like 15 rest and then five. So these are my rep match system. Sometimes the total reps were anywhere between 80 to 120 repetitions. That's like the converts to a standard. And the number of times approaching failure was, you know, like way higher than you would get for five sets, more like 10 sets or 15 sets of failure approaches. So it translates roughly to the anabolic stimulus of more like eight sets than it was five sets. So keep that in mind. It's a lot of delt work in that, in that situation and that exercise. Then just a little bit of work extra because volume adds up for the biceps. So one my rep giant set of biceps, you know, go like 50 or 60 or 70 total reps, put in my 20 RM, 25 RM, do the first set close to fail, rest five or 10 seconds, do a set of 10, rest five or 10 seconds, do a set of eight until those reps add up to 50, 60 or 70 like that. I don't stop. Great pump, great extra volume. Here's the best part. Doesn't take a lot of time. That whole thing might take five minutes. That's like a lot of decent work. And then I would finish those pull days with a my rep giant set of form. So forearm curls, cause you know, forms are like goaded. Like a lot of the best bodybuilders ever had to just like wacky, wacky forms and the super underappreciated. So I have to hit the forums leg day. I typically would start with one set of abs for warmups. Got to get the abs in some point. I'm trying to train them a little more, just a little bit more athleticism, bullshit and balance and some crap like that. But just one exercise, one my rep set of abs, good part of the leg warmup. And then I would do an exercise for hamstrings, an exercise for quads and an exercise for glutes. And some days I would do two quad exercises, but usually it would be quad then glute ham, quad and glute. And I used when I did glute exercises, I almost always did glute exercises that would also hit the quads. So like Bulgarians, split squats, walking lunges, things like that. I typically wouldn't do like glute isolation because I might as well get more quad work out of my glute work. To be completely honest with you guys, my glutes are kind of like shelf looking and I would like them bigger. But I can't imagine that that is going to take away from my priority of trying to make my quads and hamstrings bigger. Hamstrings first, just to get them out of the way. I would either do a hip hinge or a leg curl depending on the day it was. Lastly, for push calves as part of the warmup, I typically only really train my right calf hard because it's smaller genetically than my left. Now it's actually the same size, which is cool. So do really easy work for my left, hard work for my right. Doesn't take a long time, usually like stair calf raises or something. So that takes like two or three minutes during the warmup. Then I would typically do about two chest moves and one to two tricep moves. I would focus on incline work for the chest, though not exclusively. The tricep moves typically one exercise, but sometimes two exercises. But it's one exercise is a lot of my rep matching. So if I had overhead extensions, for example, I would do a first set of 18 close to failure and then another four or five sets of 18 total reps. That's like 12 approaches to failure really cooks the triceps. And remember, the triceps also get a really good stimulus from pushing on your chest training. And so the total amount of tricep volume starts to get pretty decent if you count all that volume. After that, I would do one move, one exercise of biceps. Many my rep matches, serious work, two, three, four, five sets of biceps. A lot of time in a stretch position, lying dumbbell curls and free motion behind the back curls really torch my biceps. And remember, I'm already getting some easy bicep work on the pull day. Now I'm getting some hard bicep work on the push day. And then I would finish with one my rep giant set of delts. So the same exercise that I would use on the pull day, let's say incline laterals, I would use much less weight. Instead of 25 pound dumbbells, I would use 20. And then I would just do one giant my rep set to get to a certain number of 50, 60 or 70 reps. That if you guys can see it, that structure is on in every three day, four day period, right? Where I do push day, pull day and leg day. I'll hit my shoulders hard once and moderate once and my biceps hard once and moderate once. So they get really good stimulus with high frequency, but in a way that I can recover from. So that really, really works super well for me. I absolutely love that split. And then in the next half of the micro cycle, the next three days of training, the split look almost identical, just different exercises, slightly different rep ranges, and you're good to go. Speaking of rep ranges, I typically trained in the 10 to 15 rep range. For me, five to 10, I do go to sometimes, but like a little bit more injury risk than I'm interested in at 41 years old. If you're younger and you feel good in that range, that's a great range to train in. And I did some stuff in the five to 10 range, not a ton. And some in the 15 to 20 range as well, depending on the exercise for things like shoulder work, laterals, you know, 10 reps on a first set for laterals is actually really heavy. And it makes my shoulder joints not love me. 15 reps on a first set, 20 reps on a first set actually works really well. Relative efforts and progressions wise, the standard RP stuff started most mesos about three-ish reps in reserve. And I added two and a half to five pounds per week or a rep on my lifts for multiple weeks until it was time to deload and re-architect the plan. Yes, I did say two and a half pounds, which means sometimes what happened is I was on like Smith machine presses and I would have 255 pounds on the bar total, including the bar counted as 45 for simplicity. And if I don't know if you guys saw this in any of my Instagram videos, I would slide one two and a half pound weight on the side because with a Smith, it doesn't really much matter. That thing auto balances anyway. And if I did that with a barbell, I would grab like half a pinky or half a finger length different on the side. So I was able to progress by two and a half. Here's another big insight that I want to share with you guys that I think is going to be super helpful in your own training. What you need in a fat loss phase is to provide just enough of a stimulus to not lose muscle and just enough of a progression to continue to have your strength hang in there or get a little bit better. A huge mistake is in a fat loss phase trying to get a lot stronger because the catabolic nature of the fat loss phase, the very low nutrients and high fatigue really crap on your ability to add strength. If you try to add strength all the time, which I have before, you keep hitting the same wall and having a deload, getting hurt, all that stupid crap. So what I would say is just set your sights lower and more realistically, but still have a progression psychologically, physiologically. That progression is awesome. So if you have to progress by two and a half pounds every week for four weeks, bro, that's just 10 pounds over four weeks. That's like very reasonable, especially as your nervous system is learning the new exercises. If you try to progress by five pounds every time, that's 20 pounds of progression. That could lead to too much fatigue, stalling, not hitting performance. I really love this new thing that I'm doing. It's new for me, though. It's technically been in the literature a long time and a lot of people use this really well is just using a little one extra rep or two and a half pounds extra on leg movements like, you know, let's say belt squats or regular squats, Roger squats, leg presses, just add five pounds every time instead of 10 or 15. The little micro progressions, especially on a fat loss phase are everything. It's a huge unlock. I highly recommend them. Deloading. During this fat loss phase, I did differently. Here's the typical deal that I would use. I would take one day of total rest. Then I would take one day of full body, super, super easy, like moving around, deload workout, and then one day of total rest. I would eat at maintenance or a slight surplus that entire time and get crap load of sleep and try to lower my overall stress a ton. And during that time, I would drop a ton of fatigue. It would basically give me about three weeks of manageable low enough fatigue to continue productively training and losing fat. So every three weeks or so, I had to take one of these three-day periods. A three-day period for every three weeks is amazing ratio of accumulation to deload. And I love doing it. I picked up this tip again from Mano Henselman who does something called reactive deloading. When you feel like you're not kicking it in training anymore, you take a quick deload, drop the fatigue, and then go instead of taking one week for everything or a two-week active rest phase. Those are still important. And every few months, every four to six, you need to take at least a week of deloading, if not longer. And I still did that. But the whole phase for me was four to six months. And now in a little bit here, I'll be doing a really normal deload and all that stuff. Cardio and activity. As I want to give you guys the whole breadth of everything I did here. The number of steps that I had to do was 10,000. I have experimented 8,000 before I can do more. I've experimented 10,000 before I really liked it. I've experimented 12,000 and 14,000 before in various preps. 12,000 is doable, though pretty fatiguing. 14,000, my feet hurt at some point after three weeks of that shit. And the fat loss does not match the fatigue. And so just 10,000 for me was this amazing unlock. And something I'll be telling you guys what to take home from this for yourselves later is quick preview is moderate high levels of activity that can be sustainable are undefeated. Super high activity is great if you can do it. Super low is no good. Moderate high, 10,000, 12,000 steps a day for many of you guys is just the golden take it on a fat loss phase. And that's all I did for cardio. I got my steps sometimes walking on the treadmill, but most of it was walking around just like the neighborhood and stuff and taking little walks. And if I go to the grocery store or have to walk around getting food, that also counts into the steps. I have a step tracker that I just keep on at all times. It works super well. And so a lot of times I would just talk on the phone about work or talk on the phone with friends. And I would also listen to YouTube lectures. Shout out to Ryan McBeth, a huge fan of the channel. AI Copian, man, I listen to your shit all the time. A16Z, the podcast for all the super smart investor people on it. I love that one. Many, many other great channels. I can't shout out, but I'd love to in the future shout out a ton of channels. I'll probably do that in the progress channel thing. And a bunch of audio book stuff. I've been reading The Singularity is Nearer by Ray Kurzweil, which is phenomenal. I can't recommend that book more than it is possible for a human recommended. I didn't do any Brazilian jiu-jitsu, which I typically do a few times a week because I'm trying to really focus on my physique right now. And not doing BJJ is two things. Unlocked a huge amount of fatigue for me that I just use for bodybuilding, which makes my results much better. And also it's just really painful for my soul because I love doing jiu-jitsu. So in a few months here, I'll probably find a way to wiggle jiu-jitsu back into my life and never, ever stop doing it again. It's been super psychologically not so fun, but physiologically it just works because competing demands turns out make your physique not as great as it could be. Let's talk about the elephant in the room. Scott, at this point, the elephant's like pushing fluid out of a trend needle. You're like, yes, that elephant. He's like, wow, that's not for me. That's for my coach. My coach said that this is a vitamin. So in the summer of 2024, when I said I had to put a stop to my bodybuilding for a while, took some time off bodybuilding, focused on work, got the surgery, and now I'm back, I was at my biggest all-time and leanest too. It's about 227 pounds at about 6% body fat. And to put it in perspective, now I'm about, you know, on the DEXA, like this is 227 in the morning, so on the DEXA, I'm probably about like 10 pounds lighter than I was and at roughly the same body fat, right? So I was substantially more muscle back then. But I was at about a sum total at the peak of that prep, injectables plus orals at a testosterone milligram equivalent of about 2,500 milligrams per week, which is a lot. And I was not having a fun time. Now, for this fat loss phase, I increased throughout. At the very end, at the tip, comparing top for top, my total androgen load, and I did take some SARMs this time, and so those are rough conversions, was around 750 milligrams of testosterone equivalent of anabolism. So that's like three times less gear. And man, did that feel super way, way better. And I also, I looked really great. And so my lesson from this is taking a ton, ton of gear is overrated. You can get almost the same results taking way less gear and save your health and save your sanity and actually continue with a diet instead of burning out. And it's all good all the way around. So kind of a neat little insight there. And I always second guess telling you guys about gear that I use. But look, I think transparency is the ultimate teaching tool. So if you feel like doing steroids, I have a ton of educational videos right on the RP Strength channel here for you guys and probably a lot of those videos, Scott.  aut autopoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppo already have a few of these. Let me just give you my quick super top tier stuff. Our New Year sale is happening right very now. The Diet Coach app is for sale and the Hypertrophy app is for sale. But for the first time ever, the Hypertrophy app is available in the iOS app store. So either click the link in the description or just go to the app store and get those apps mega discounts. They don't last. See you next year. More jacked. Detraining like I did for five to seven weeks of no training at all during the time that I had surgery recovery and retraining caused massive shifts in muscle and fat. I absolutely could have tried to sell you my new program diet. Scott, can you imagine if we just didn't tell people that I didn't live for basically take any drugs for months and then be like, oh, look like how I changed my body. New program. Like we're not going to do that for the Facebook ads. Yeah, that's right. Yes. And so I could have left out the retraining parts. I'm not going to do that because I'm saving my being a piece of shit vibes for some other stuff. Not for you guys. All jokes aside, like there's enough people like telling a bunch of lies and you know, I grew up with all that advertising and I'm never doing that shit ever. So this is a real thing that happens. And so a bunch of the reason I got these results was because I wasn't training much and taking many steroids. And then I started taking many more steroids and training a lot is a really, really straightforward. And that's the second point. Drugs are real. So going from 150 milligrams ish to 750 milligrams of androgen exposure, uh, is, uh, going to cause massive muscle growth and massive, uh, body water shifts into muscle. Uh, especially if you train and eat super well, which I was, this is real life. I'm not leaving that out. Now here's a tip you guys can really use in your own situation. I used a combination of terzepatide and a new drug that fell off the back of a wagon. Scott, remember you and I were walking in a bunch of retatratide just fell off that one truck. It's a really expensive, uh, fine, really expensive. For the record, not stealing it. Okay. It's gray market, uh, whatever the fuck it's called. Um, the totally legal, but it's kind of question mark on if it's, uh, it's not approved yet by the FDA, but it's in phase two trials. It's going to get approved soon. It's unbelievable. All the other phases are infinite. Amazing. Here's the deal. I use these substances to ease, uh, steroid induced hunger for me is a huge thing. When I'm not taking a whole lot of steroids, I'm not really hungry, but I'm taking more steroids. I can eat my own hand, which makes sense because it's anabolic and it makes you try to eat a bunch of food. So it eases that gear induced hunger and I lose way more visceral fat on these drugs. My actual, my dexa came up with no detectable visceral fat, visceral fat's the fat between your organs. That is the worst fat for your health of every other fat in your body. These drugs specifically target that first. It, these, these drugs massively improve my sleep, which makes everything else on a fat loss diet go better, reduce inflammation like crazy, reduce neural inflammation. You guys, these are miracle drugs. Most people are better off taking drugs, appetite than not taking drugs, appetite. I've said that before. I meant to talk to your doctor. Don't ever do shit by yourself for the love of God. These are miracle drugs. I'm never dieting without advanced pharmaceuticals ever again. Here's a big takeaway. Another one, nothing beats consistency in a high protein, healthy calorie deficit diet with moderate to high activity, 10,000 ish steps and weight training regularly. This is the formula for transformation period. You can use all the drugs in the world. If you do this either by itself or on top, that's what really does the thing. Yes. Anabolic drugs help, but they also you up to zapatide, retatratide, et cetera, help a ton. And I think people should consider those, but people should consider them in a context of high protein, healthy, calorically constrained, but not like crazy diet with weight training regularly and moderate to high physical activity. That is the interlocking formula that gets you from much fatter and much less muscle to much less fat and much more muscle every single time. My next move, I'm not sure what it's going to be, but I think I'm going to gain like over the winter here, maybe like five total pounds of weight or something like that. I'm trying to stay very lean. And if I'm healthy and everything goes well, I'm going to take, oh geez, a few months really to like, see if I can get super, super lean. Cause I'm starting at six ish to eight ish percent body fat. I figure, I don't know where I'm going to get, but I'm going to give it a shot. If everything goes well, uh, we shall see. That's my story. Uh, hopefully learn something and boy, do I sure. Yep. You guys want to hear more yapping. See you next time. Bye.