 buzzietsa, buzzii, your steroids quickly. You're going to get a shitload of weight. Almost all of it will be body water. And I was even at the time on a hundred milligrams per week of trend, which was not fun. Actually, your organs are like the floor of a party with gum and beer and cigarette butts and people stepping on it. If you haven't used steroids yet, I highly encourage you to never use them. Steroids have absolutely shortened my predictive lifespan. Is it really worth it? Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength, and I'm going to tell you about what taking three times less total steroids did to my body. Let me start at the beginning. In the summer of 2024, I did a show prep. I was doing competitive bodybuilding back then, and I'm getting back to it very soon. I was doing it not so great, but, you know, insert excuse here. I got tons of them, all of them. I was hurt. My back, my psychology stuff, social support, genetics, the tan, other people, whatever. In any case, I was taking at the time kind of the normal amount of gear, which is slang for steroids and growth hormone and all that stuff, for somebody my size at my level of muscularity, which for me at the time was at a peak total steroid amount per week. Very important unit measurement here per week of about 2,000 total milligrams. Remember that number, 2,000 per week. That was my peak in 2024 and one of my lifetime peaks. I was taking a combination of testosterone, primobolin, aka Primo, which is like a very similar testosterone, but it has a bit fewer side effects, and so you can take more of it to gain more muscle and slightly less side effects. Anavar, oxandrolone, it's an oral drug, and I was even at the time on 100 milligrams per week of Tren, which was not fun or good for my health or good for my psychology, but 100 mg is not a lot of Tren, which is still too much Tren. At that peak, I got a Dexa done just after my last show, and it had me at 233 pounds at 6.3% body fat, which yields a lean mass, fat mass subtracted away from total mass of about 218 pounds. It also measured me as having 0.4 pounds of visceral adipose tissue, intra-abdominal fat, and I had a bone density T-score, like how my bone density compares to other people, a 4.8. The higher, the better on that. The higher that score, the more dense your bones are. All right, those are the stats. Maybe we'll have them up here somewhere. We'll compare them later to what actually happened when I took one-third the amount of steroids. For a year after this, I had a low gear phase. Why? I took a break from bodybuilding for half of 2024 and the first half of 2025 to do two things. First was to go on a bunch of podcasts and all that other stuff. I went on a Diary of CEO podcast. You can check it out somewhere. Maybe we'll link it. Peter Atiyah, all these big shows, and on a lot of gear, Judgment's a little cloudy. I tend to be a little aggro, and it was like these super important podcasts to increase the whatever the fame popularity bullshit social media. I was like, ah, this seems like I can always do a bodybuilding show, but I can't always be invited on Diary of CEO, so I got to cork it down. I went on trigonometry. That was a great podcast. That was super swell success. I lowered my gear for that. Also, I had to take some time away from training because I was in thus high steroids. If you're not training hard and really pushing your body forward, taking a lot of steroids is stupid and even worse for your health than taking it if you're training hard. I had to take some time to get my love handle and lower back skin and fat cut out because I had just stored a bunch of fat there and a bunch of skin over the years. When I got leaner, it would just hang, and I got really lean. It would just hang, and it was terrible, so I got it cut out. You guys, there's videos about my surgery somewhere around here. I had a bunch, so that was why I reduced my total steroid dose. During that entire year of reduction, my total angrile load, remember my peak, it was 2,000 milligrams per week. During that time when I did lower steroids, it was somewhere between 150 milligrams and 500 milligrams. We're talking about a teeny tiny fraction, at most a quarter. Usually, through that year, it was between 150 and 250 milligrams. Very, very, very low amounts compared to my high amount. 150 milligrams to 250 is very well within TRT territory. During this time, much of the year until my surgery recovery, I trained the crap out of my arms and delts, but stopped doing all overloading training for legs because after that show in 2024, I realized my arms and delts can get bigger, which is true for everyone always. But my legs were way, way, way the biggest part of my physique. There's no way to say like my legs were a weak point in any capacity. They were just like massive. And so it's cool on vibes. I'm like, my legs have always responded well to training. I love training legs. And when something grows well, you just kind of keep going. And I realized like, this is not like my maximum aesthetic physique and it won't let me either look as good as I can or place as high in competition as I eventually want to try placing, which is as high as I possibly can. So I purposefully for a year stopped training my legs other than body weight, kind of mobility movements. Set a 10, my typical workout was this during this time. Once every five days or so, I would do stiff legged deadlifts for a set of 10, a set of 10 with 135 pounds. My typical stiff legged deadlifts are in the 300s, 400s, etc. I would do a set of 10 body weight squats on my tippy toes. So sissy squats. And I would do a set of 10 unloaded, by the way, lunges, just literally 10 lunge steps. That was it. Like my whole leg workout, quote unquote, that I did every roughly five to seven days through that year took a literal sum total of approximately two minutes. Like I, and I mean two minutes, like however long, 10 stiff legged deadlift takes, which is about 45 seconds, 10 sissy squats, which is another 30 seconds or so. And then 10 lunges and then voila, roughly two minutes later, they're done with a workout. And so my legs shrunk substantially, which was exactly what I want. After my surgery recovery, so in March of 2025, I had surgery. Seven weeks later, I was back to doing some harder and harder training. So after my surgery recovery was well along enough for me to train with weights again, basically seven weeks after I began a six month phase of recomp and dieting two and a half months of that at first were recomp, which means my body was roughly the same. I was eating super healthy. I didn't take any more androgens, but I started training hard again and eating well. I was always eating well, but training is a big deal and doing more physical activity because for the first few weeks of surgery recovery, like even walking was something that like couldn't do for too long. And for that 2.5 months, I was on only 150 milligrams of total androgen per week, very TRT. And then for the next three and a half months during that six month period, I brought my calories down and weight trained like an animal and went to 10,000 steps a day from like eight to 10 that I was doing during the 2.5 months, mostly 10, but sometimes eight and cranked my androgens higher through that three and a half months. Every month or so, I would add more androgen into the mix. So it was a fat loss phase while at the same time training like crazy for muscle gain and taking way more androgens than 150 milligrams. So how much gear was I on at this new peak, which happened just recently? At the peak of this recent climb, I climbed to about 750 milligrams total in weekly androgen exposure. So which is literally about like one third of what I had peaked at back in the summer of 24. And if you count orals and stuff slightly differently because they're a little bit more powerful, it was less than a third. But I'm not going to believe at that point, roughly a third of the total gear was used. During the summer of 2024 versus during the fall of 2025. Summer of 24. It doesn't quite have the same ring. It just doesn't have the same ring. Mike was fat. Mike was trying to get lean, going on a diary of CEO. I was never gifted in the song. I feel like you have that. You feel like you can sing, but then you sing and you can't sing. Scott, you wouldn't know that because you can actually sing, huh? You mostly play the guitar, don't you? Yeah. What is it? Every other person in the band really just wants to be the lead singer, but can't. So they have to like learn how to do drugs stuff. Yeah. So. My recent peak physique at roughly one third of the total steroids that I took to get my last peak looked like this. Got a DEXA 750 megs of gear. And I was DEXA at the exact same location with the exact same machine. But basically a year later or sorry, good God. Yeah. Year and a half later. I was 222 pounds at 6% body fat, which yields a lean mass of about 208 pounds. So I was 11 pounds lighter. Point three percent fat leaner. Ten pounds less lean body mass, which we're going to dig into real hard in a second. But this time I also had an undetectable amount of visceral adipose tissue as compared to the 0.4 pounds that I had before. Less overall fat, way less visceral fat and substantially less lean body mass. Also, I had a bone density T score of 5.0, higher than the 4.8 I had before. So my bones got even denser, which is really sweet. Let's talk more about the difference between these two peaks. So the one peak was 2000 ish. The other peak was 700 ish, roughly a third difference between the two. And what was the result? Well, in 2024, during the 2000, I had 10 pounds more lean body mass. But I had a little bit more fat mass, way more visceral adipose tissue and less dense bones. I was in roughly the same amount of ancillary drugs like growth hormone for both peaks. I was at roughly three to six units of growth and no insulin. I hadn't been taking insulin in years. But for this last peak, I was on terzepatide and retatratide, which both made me way healthier and zapped almost all of my visceral adipose tissue away. So a huge shout out to those two drugs. They're amazing. And let me tell you, psychologically, from an anxiety perspective, anger perspective, etc., being on a third of the gear felt much better, incomparably so. One of the biggest differences in my body composition, of course, was that 10-pound LBM difference. But it turns out that the vast majority of that is actually body water. How do I reason through this? My strength in my 2024 peak, and I have all those numbers in my RP Hypertrophy app, which remembers all of the strength PRs you've ever hit, and just one click of a button on any exercise, you can scroll and has the exact date. Sets and reps. Amazing feature. Huge shout out to our engineers for building that out. My strength at a peak of 2024, roughly 2,000 milligrams, was almost identical for my upper body as it was in 2025 at a third of the gear. In fact, recently, my upper body has set a couple of PRs, which I couldn't set in 2024. So I'm actually a little bit stronger in my upper body on one third the steroids, which is kind of a big deal. My legs are still substantially, though it's a not crazy amount, weaker. Substantially, notably weaker. But like I stopped training them for like a year, and the strength is coming back up real quick. It's just not there yet. So a few pounds of muscle difference is definitely accounted for by my now smaller legs. It's visually apparent. It's apparent through strength. When the visuals, the DEXA, and the strength line up, it's a muscular difference for sure. Maybe two to four pounds of something like that. Maybe up to five pounds of leg mass is the difference. And I will be regaining pretty much all that size here in the next couple of, well, gee, I could do it in a couple months, but I got to do more show prep dieting. So next couple of years for sure, next year, I'll probably regain all that leg size. I actually have my numbers for strength to hit to know that I've regained all the size, and I'm like, not that far off, which is really sweet. And we can confidently conclude that because rep strength is almost the same, in fact, a little higher now in my upper body, that upper body musculature really hasn't changed much. If anything, I have more now. I'm not so confident in that, but like it's basically the same. So leg size is probably two to five pounds smaller. Upper body is the same. So, but we have 10 pounds of LBM to explain. Where the hell is there five pounds of muscle somewhere in my body that? Well, no, we accounted for all the muscle already. That's a five pounds of muscle or five pounds of something lean body mass that is explained seemingly by the difference between 2,000 plus milligrams per week and 750-ish milligrams per week. What is that? And there is an answer from tons of research, tons of consulting with people, tons of coaching, and tons of visual analysis. On my end, I have a hypothesis that I'm pretty confident in. It's water weight. And that is one of the most predictable things, one of the most predictable effects of taking higher intakes of anabolic androgenic steroids. Higher androgens store more water both inside the muscles, which looks sweet, and outside of them, which makes you look, and me look, more bloated and raises our blood pressure. So when you take more androgens, your total body water goes up substantially. And when you take three times more androgens, it goes up by pounds and pounds and pounds. But that's not muscle. It's body water. And it's transient. As soon as you stop taking a lot of gear, it goes away. And you're like, oh, my God, he lost so much lean body mass. But it's not muscle necessarily. It's actually just body water. So just to recap, upper body, same. Lower body, definitely lost a few pounds of muscle between those two. But that's not because of the 750 versus 2,000 milligrams intake. That's because I stopped training legs for a year. It only just recently restarted. And I restarted training legs for two and a half months. It was during the caloric maintenance. But then for the rest of the time up till now, it was like during a deficit. And you can gain muscle during a deficit. That's absolutely possible if you are really detrained and taking plenty of gear, which I was in both cases. But if I had been massing or maintaining, my legs would have grown back even faster. So it sounds like I didn't get much more actual muscle growth from 2,000 milligrams than from 750 milligrams, which means that steroids and high doses give really diminishing returns. And that's mostly true because I was simply not on either amount long enough to grow lots of muscle. Let me explain what I mean by that. If I had stayed on 2,000 milligrams for like six months, and by the way, I was on this for like two weeks. And the two weeks before, it was like 1,800. And the two weeks before that was like 1,600, et cetera. So it was a climb. If I was on 2,000 milligrams plus for six months, I would have grown plenty more muscle, pounds and pounds, than staying on 750 milligrams or so for six months. For sure. But getting to 2,000 or getting to 750, even for a few weeks is long enough to do almost all the body water increase. So the body water was there, but the muscle wasn't really there. And the gain would be a few pounds more and not like dozens of pounds or something like that. Let me make that very, very clear. And this is something we see from tons of other folks. There are differences in how people respond, but generally speaking, when you get between 500 milligrams of androgens and 1,000 milligrams of weekly androgens, you will gain more muscle going from 1,000 to 1,500. Not a ton more, but more. If you go from roughly 1,000 to 1,500 to roughly 1,500 or 2,000, you grow even more muscle, but a lot less than you would expect. And anything above 2,000 milligrams for most people who are jacked, super pro, et cetera, the diminishing return curve hits really, really hard. And in my case, I'm already older. I've been training for more than 25 years diligently. I've already used plenty of gear in the past. And I'm already dieting well. Adding in more gear doesn't help that much. And kind of the big myth in bodybuilding is just the more gear you take, the better things go. And that is not true. You will add muscle. Most of it is going to be just water weight. You will add LBM. Most of it is going to be water weight. Some is going to be muscle, but you've got to crank that gear for a while to add it as muscle. And it's just not as much muscle as most people think. So if you're running roughly 750 milligrams of weekly gear, like, man, I get up to a gram and a half, right? 1,500, I'm just going to be massive. Up, up, up, up, up, up, up. That might not be the case. If you're young, you start a gear way too soon, and you're still gaining the preponderance of your natural muscle mass, yes, you will gain tons of muscle between those two. But that's mostly you would have gained the muscle anyway had you stayed at 750. There's just not that big of a carryover. As you go higher and higher in steroids, there's a curvilinear effect. If I had ramped up to 2,000-plus milligrams recently for just a few months, I could almost certainly get as much lean body mass as I could in my July 2024 peak. Shit, if I did it for a few weeks, I could probably hit that 233 at 6% body fat. Most of it would be body water and not muscle. But the side effects, the health downsides, the psychiatric downsides, psychological downsides are way higher with three times the gear. My health was good in both respects, and I'm getting some blood work done at some point soon. I'll match those numbers together. My health is always pretty good, which is nice. That's why I'm still doing the thing. But my health now is at an all-time high, and the lower steroids absolutely help in a massive way. Psychologically, I feel like a completely different person. And for, like, just several pounds of muscle, is it really worth it? Well, let's talk about that. Let me give you my insights from this experience that I've had with cutting my steroids by a third and seeing still unbelievable phenomenal results. 95% of the results I would have received with triple the steroids. First, I just wouldn't use gear if I hadn't yet. If you haven't used steroids yet, I highly encourage you to never use them. Why? If you need a baseline of androgens, if you're older, if you have low testosterone, if you want a stable androgen baseline as you lose lots of weight and fat, testosterone replacement therapy is way safer than running grams of gear. And nowadays, there are SARMs like Ligandrol, a few others that are way not super safe, but way safer than gear. And you can layer in SARMs for a few months here at a time within recommended dosages to make great gains. And you just don't need to touch high-dose steroids ever. However, here's another thing. Non-androgenic anabolic drugs, drugs that grow muscle and do not much else, are just a few years away from today. So if you're thinking, ooh, eventually I want to kind of get really saucy and jacked, wait. Don't start using steroids. Maybe start TRT, maybe futz with SARMs if you like. Ideally, just neither one of those. But it just might not be worth the health and psychological and life-shortening downsides because steroids have absolutely shortened my predictive lifespan. No debate. When the non-androgenic anabolics come out, which could be like two years from now, you kind of feel silly having cranked two years of high gear and be like, I could have just gotten here with these magic pills and paid almost none of the downsides. Like if this was the 2010s, it was a different tradeoff. Now that it's late 2020s, it's the time to wait a little bit because it could be in a situation where almost nobody does high-dose steroids because we have these new drugs that are way better. Now, if you're already using steroids and kind of need to be moving up or you're going to use no matter what and I'm not going to stop you, I highly recommend that you start super low and take lots of time in each dosage range because here's the thing. If you increase your steroids quickly, like you take a month to go from 500 milligrams to 1,000 milligrams, you're going to get a shitload of weight. Almost all of it will be body water. However, the way steroids help you gain actual muscle mass is months and months and months of exposure while training really hard, eating really well, and gaining very slowly. That's muscle muscle that you keep. So if you start super low, because everyone should start low anyway and take lots of time in each dosage range, the total amount of cumulative exposure to the very high toxic ranges of steroids is much smaller. Let me give you an example. Start. You can do this. Hypothetical. This is not medical advice. Someone in a fictional universe could start at 150 milligrams of total androgens, which for me currently is 100 milligrams of testosterone and 50 milligrams of primobolin because at 100 mg of test, I produce way enough estrogen to be wearing normal range and I just need more anabolism with no estrogen conversion. That's what primo gives me. Most people will take 150 milligrams of pure test, super fine. 150 total androgens. And every three months, check your blood work. And if your blood work is good, you can bump your androgens by 100 milligrams total. Personally, in this fictional universe, I would bump by adding in something like primobolin, which has fewer side effects and roughly similar main effects, and not just more testosterone, as that will probably just cause more side effects, even though it'll make you nice and jacked. On the blood work that you're getting every three months, make sure your estrogen is in the normal range, which they give you a normative range. If your estrogen is too low, of that bump, take more testosterone and less primobolin. And if your estrogen is too high, take more primobolin and less testosterone. Really simple formula. Recheck blood work every three months. If your blood work is good, and only if, you can think about adding another 100 milligrams in the next three months. I recommend trying this for two total bumps, which would look like this. First three months, 150 milligrams. Second three months, 250 milligrams. Last three months, nine months total, 350 milligrams, mostly coming in additions from Primo, but the Primo testing is basically how your estrogen responds and how you feel and how your blood work looks, health markers. After this nine months, where a few things have happened, one, you never took a lot of gear, but you increase the gear and your muscularity and strength is going to linearly just keep going up. And because each phase was three months long, that is enough time to do two things. One, grow an appreciable amount of muscle because muscle growth takes long terms. And two, really feel the effects of each dosage range and getting a ton out of each range instead of just skipping through all the ranges and getting to the end. And also, one quick one is it allows you to get really good estimates of your health at every dosage range. So, you know, if you're still kicking or if I got anything north of 400 milligrams and it starts to be really toxic for me, my blood work goes to hell. That ain't me. I'm just going to cycle between 150 and 400 for a while. After this nine month phase, take at least three months, go back to 150 milligrams TRT levels. To maintain your muscle size, still eating well, still training, improve your health. Your health is going to go up like crazy during this phase in most cases, or at least if it was good, it'll maintain very good. And this is a good time to do more extracurricular stuff, train a bit more for strength and size because it's not really a good time to gain size. If you're just on TRT stuff and you're using most of your size gains during your kind of blast phase. So you just maintain size for three months at 150 milligrams. And then you take three months at 250 milligrams total. So you bump by 100 and take three months to cut down on the body fat you gained for those last nine months of gaining. Because remember, you went gaining maintenance, body fat didn't change. Now you take three months at a little bit of a higher androgen dose. You go from 150 to 250, right? So we went 150, 250, 350, 150. Now you're back up to 250. You've cut your calories down and you're going to cut down on body fat and see how much muscle you built. So good time is at the end of this phase of three months, 250 milligrams. You get a DEXA going, see how the results are. And then later when another one of these phases come in, you'll get another DEXA. If your health is good, and remember every three months blood work, and you're making known grown-up decisions with the help of a medical professional and a coach, what you can do is restart at 250 milligrams, right? So you're 250 for the cut, and then 250 for this next phase, and then you go for those three muscle gain phases again and up 100 each time. So you did that fat loss of 250 for three months. You go to a bulk at 250. Three months later, check your blood work. If it's all good, go to 350. Three months later, check your blood work. If it's all good, go to 450. So you have a nine-month stretch of slow muscle gain, aiming to gain half a pound per week, even more like a third of a pound per week. And the androgens will add tons of body water, so that should happen no problem. And that'll give you nine months of amazing gains. After that, you go down to 150 milligrams, wash out. The next thing you do is your fat loss phase. This time, you go to 350 milligrams. Because you want to take more gear and see how the other side lives. 350 for that fat loss phase instead of 250 last cycle. 350 again for muscle gain one. Then you go 350, 450, 550. That's the template. It will take you years to get way above 500 and into the gram range. And you will have gained an unbelievable amount of muscle using what in bodybuilding circles is considered very low-dose cycling. Because you did it smart. And you took the drugs for long enough to actually have a big effect. Instead of being my dumb ass and going up to two grams to get all bloated for no reason for a few weeks, burn out on psychological effects and then abandon ship. Here's the big one. Once the side effects, psychological, not having a good time, health side effects are really impinging you. Stop raising that first cycle androgen number, that fat loss phase where you go to 250, then 350, then 450. If at 450, it's no bueno anymore, just go back to 350. Because you can rerun the same cycle and get tons of muscle growth out of it. You don't always have to go up. For many people, for most people, starting cycles at most at 500 milligrams and only upping by 100 is way better for a combination of look, physical health, and psychological health, and long-term probability of death, by the way, than starting at 1,500 milligrams with a YOLO attitude. This way, by doing things slowly in a measured way, you can always check in on health stuff because every three months you're getting blood work. And if you think that's too often to get blood work, just don't do steroids. Because if blood work is annoying, it's kind of like if someone's like, I want to get really jacked. You're like, well, you have to buy a gym membership. They're like, gym membership? Now you're going to tell me I have to go to the gym also that just buying a membership doesn't get me jacked? You're like, okay, this isn't for you.  guriazion, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, guriaz, floor of a party with gum and beer and cigarette butts and people stepping on it. Awesome. Would recommend out of a hundred. That was a joke. Please don't go to the moon on a thousand milligrams of trend. You know, what's funny, Scott, this whole moon thing, NASA just cleared like the moon base project for like 2027 or whatever. And like SpaceX is going to be launching rockets to build a moon base. I'm just wondering, like, why don't they take a couple of pros on thousands of milligrams of trend and just have them lift the moon base onto the moon? That's an easy solution. It's like, you're going to go to the moon anyway. Might as well take some useful shit with you. All jokes aside, here's my plan for my future, pending that my health doesn't go down the shitter, which is a big if. I'll probably compete in bodybuilding again soon, but I'm unlikely to ever exceed a thousand milligrams at my peak. We're talking about half of the steroids that I did in my prior history in my late thirties. And when I don't think it's if, when non-androgenic anabolics come out, they're going to be 10 times plus safer and as or more effective than steroids. When they come out in a few years, I'll be on them shits like white on rice. And to be honest, fellas, I'm probably never going to take anything other than a hundred milligrams of TRT testosterone replacement therapy ever again. And I'm going to do the same layering process I just described, except each one of those little stacks is not going to be primobolin. It's going to be non-androgenic anabolics. The second renaissance of muscle gain is almost upon us. Until that happens, I do have the RP Diet Coach app as my friend, link in description, and the RP Hypertrophy app. These are apps, look, no joke, bro. You guys, real talk, I use these apps every single day. Yes, even the hypertrophy app, because I don't train every day. I train about six days a week, but on my off day, I, in the evening, usually on the shitter, not that you guys needed to know that, but I've been accused of too much transparency. Why not? I will, I don't know if you guys ever do this, look up my workout that I have like tomorrow and get really excited about it. So pretty much I log into my hypertrophy app every single day. I use my Diet Coach app every single day for every single meal. I love it. I'm inseparable from those apps. And I will never tell you that you have to buy anything ever. I'm the worst advertiser of all time. But if these apps can be useful for you, I would give them a thought. There are all the Google, Apple, Play stores, find them there, links in the description, all that stuff. We have discount codes. Other than that, that's my plan. Yay. Guys, I'm going to see you next time. And until I see you, and also during me seeing you, and after me seeing you, please continue to make safe, legal choices. And to quote Lieutenant Dan from Forrest Gump, don't do anything stupid getting yourself killed. See you next time. Bye. Bye. Bye.