 When you hit the gym, how many exercises should you be doing per muscle group? Is it half an exercise or a million infinity exercises? It's probably somewhere between the two. Let's find out where, how many exercises you're going to do to get your most jacked in the gym. Well, actually, on that note. Alright, so how many exercises per body part do you actually need? First, I'm going to tell you guys how I think about this, in a mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage that you're just like cashed out and, oh, you're doing stuff, but the stimulus isn't really that big of a deal. Imagine hooking up with someone in the first 30 minutes of the S word that you do with your P word to her V word is really fun. But then the last 30 minutes, you guys just doing it in and out and staring at each other and being like, why the hell are we here? Yeah, it's technically supposed to be fun, but no one's having any more fun. So after about 10 or 12 sets per session, if you were planning on doing five exercises, each with five sets, you just might not make it that far. And so that's another constraint that when we think about how many exercises we're going to do in a session, if we have, oh, I don't know, 12 sets to do, and we have three exercises that we already like, and that's probably going to be the most you do that session because if you're trying to do four, you just kind of needlessly load rotating around exercises and burning through variation. The next constraint is a real world constraint. And that's if you train in a gym with other people, and even if you're training by yourself at home, having to do lots of exercises in a session is amazing for variation and keeping things fresh for the same muscle. But having to get to a new machine, click in the seat and the chest pad, feel out the weight, replace the handle for another handle, potentially wait for other people that are already working on the machine and wonder if, damn it, I should have just done more sets on the original machine, walking across the gym to even find if that machine is free, realizing it's broken, et cetera, et cetera. Every time you switch exercises and you switch machines or setups, there's a little bit of a delay that's thrown in there and a little bit of a question mark. And also, I mean, that delay is a big deal because if you're in the gym for two hours, because you did four exercises versus if you just plugged in hard to two exercises and you were in the gym for an hour and a half, that's 30 minutes. You could have been at home relaxing or 30 minutes. You could have been training hard, but you were really just walking back and forth between machines and warming up and setting up for those machines. So if you're already warm and cranking out an exercise, and this is a big deal, and your stimulus to fatigue ratio, your mind muscle connection is amazing for that exercise. I would say in most cases, just keep going on that exercise until you're like, ah, okay, I still need to do more sets, but I need to do another exercise now for functional reasons, because it hits a different component or because the staleness is now a thing. So if you have a back workout where you have three back exercises and they hit everything that you need, but you'll want to do five exercises, think about how much transition time and nuisance, for lack of a better term, that costs you. And here's another thing. I said it just a second ago that if you're cranking out an exercise and you're feeling great, don't change. A lot of people will feel their best on set number three of an exercise. Set number four would have been also phenomenal. You guys know when you're grooved in, you found your foot position, you found your hand position, you're connecting with the muscle, you're learning the technique a little better each time. So you're every second actually feels better. And then as soon as you get that way up out three sets in, you're like, okay, time to change exercises. That doesn't make any sense. And again, a stupid analogy from the bedroom is like, you got a position, he loves it, or she loves it, or love it. And everyone's having a good time. And then like three minutes later, you could still be having an amazing time in that position, but you're like, let's switch. Like, it's cool. Your first three times when you're trying to do the World Series. But after that, it's just like, wait a minute, we're actually costing ourselves the thing we want, which in the bedroom thing is pleasure. And in the gym is muscle growth only to do what now to like do different stuff. Well, that doesn't make a whole lot of sense. Remember exercise number only serves to fill in your sets, which grow you. That's it. If you're doing exercise numbers randomly at an inconvenience to yourself, it doesn't make any sense. And then lastly, weekly frequency matters. If you train a muscle three times per week, that can mean that you can split up your volume a lot. And then one to two exercises per session are amazing because that gets you to five to 10 or 12 sets per session, three sessions in a row. That's that volume that's going to get you growing all the volume you need. But if you only train a muscle two times per week, you got a lot of volume to put in each time, maybe you need two to three exercises per session in that case. So when you're looking at answering the question of how many exercises should I do? I get this question a lot. You know, I'm in elevators, I'm in the back of Rolls Royces. I'm in the engine room of my own dirigible that runs exclusively on uranium and coal, places like that that normal people occupy. I'm in a shopping mall because I just bought the shopping mall. And then people come up to me and they're like, Hey, Mike, you know, how many exercises should I do per session? My next question to them is usually like, well, how many sessions do you do per week? Because imagine if your answer was like, well, I do five sessions per week of biceps. There's no way I'm going to have you do three bicep exercises per session because that's taking maybe eight sets total and splitting them in three exercises. Why would you do that? That's two exercises for sure. Four sets of one, four sets of the other. But if you train biceps twice a week, hey, maybe three exercises is a good thing to split into. So that's another big constraint. Taking all of that into equation, those five constraints, where does that lead me to conclude the likely resultant? And thus, where does that, good God, where does that leave me to conclude where the likely best recommendation is for how many exercises to do per session per muscle? Here's the deal. If you are doing three sessions or more per week, my recommendation is starting just with one exercise per session. Like if I do biceps Monday, Wednesday, Friday, then I do one kind of bicep curl on Monday, one kind on Wednesday, and one kind of Friday, because I have potentially five to seven sets to do. And like, gee whiz, that's getting up there in the volume. I could always do more for sure, but at least it's a really good start. If you need more volume per session than five to seven-ish sets, or the muscle has distinct parts, then even if you train it three times a week or more, the two exercises are a great idea. If you train a muscle one to two times per week, lower frequency training for legs, for back, sometimes for chest, and the muscle recovers well, so that you can do 10 to 15 sets per session, then yeah, three exercises per session are absolutely an option. No big deal. But there are some buts. Let's get into these. Four exercises or more per muscle per session is unlikely to be worth the time and the variation burn. What the hell is variation burn? Well, you might only have four, five, or six good high stimulus to fatigue ratio exercises that you have access to in your gym for a muscle group. For back, you might have pull-ups, pull-downs, barbell rows, dumbbell rows, and maybe your gym's not super equipped with maybe one back machine that you have. So if you do four exercises in one session, you could have gotten the same number of sets by just doing more sets for three exercises. But you would have saved an entire exercise for two or three months from now to be super novel variation to inject into your program so that you're not burned and staled out. The thing is, if you do all of the exercises you know for a muscle group in a given session, two questions. What do you do in your next session? Okay, you train once a week. What do you do in your next mesocycle? It's the same exercises over and over. You don't want to be in a position where for years you've been using the same exercises. Three of the five exercises are stale on you. What the hell are you going to do about that? You got to do five exercises every time so the staleness never goes away. Just split up the workout into the week or do more sets per exercise or a combination of both. So if you really need to hit six back exercises, just do two back days a week and hit three and three. That's a much better idea than trying to hit them all at the same time. Next, and this is a big one, super common problem that even elite trainers commit on occasion. Watch out for exercise redundancy. Sometimes you really do need two rows or two vertical pulls, especially if they are very different grips, very different loading, or very different rep ranges. So if you're doing super close grip pull-ups and then super wide grip pull-ups, no big deal, or wide grip pull-downs, no big deal. If you just need more volume and you need to do 10 sets of something and one is pull-ups, one is pull-downs, same grips, no problem, then the loading is substantially different. If one is for sets of 5 to 10, another is for sets of 10 to 15, no big deal. But workouts in which you do four different types of rows or four different types of vertical pulls in roughly the same rep range for each one, it's just probably best to split that sort of thing throughout the week because you'll be fresher when you're hitting your exercises, fresher when you're getting the sets, you'll have more stimulus and less fatigue. And those last few exercises won't just be like, yes, I technically did them, but I offered no new angles, didn't address any new muscle group components, burned through a ton of variation, and it was really pretty much junk volume at that point. So you can do, for example, in a back session, one row, one type of lat prayer, and one type of vertical pull, or two vertical pulls in one row, or two types of lat prayers, and one vertical pull, and so on and so forth. So you're checking multiple boxes and you don't need to do multiple redundant exercise. I've seen this, you know, workouts people post online and they're doing their best, but, you know, one set of bent rows, another set of dumbbell rows, another set of machine rows, and then finish off with cable rows. It just begs the question at the, what the hell does the other workout of the week look like? And maybe you could have just done two or three of those with more sets, had to burn through less variation, could stay in the same place, maximize your effort and technique and mind-muscle connection. On the few exercises you did, you didn't just randomly do the rope-a-dope where you walk around the gym and see what kind of workout can I put together where I only do rows until it's 8 p.m. and then it's 12 a.m. and then they have to kick me out of the gym. Lastly, this is a big one. Just remember that the way you make gains is about the quality of your technique, the intensity of your effort per set within that good technique. So as long as you have good technique and you're trying really hard, few reps shy, failure or harder, the number of total sets per week like that, good technique, hard sets, is really what determines growth as long as you're checkboxing every part of that muscle. Remember, main parts, there's two or three of these parts, not eight or nine of these parts, that you're doing that per week, that that's what really matters for growth. You don't even need to train every single component of the muscle or functional capacity per session. Like for example, if one session for hamstrings is hinges and the other session for hamstrings is hamstring curls, within a given week, your hinge component that doesn't hit the curl component doesn't mean the curl component, that part of the hamstring that only crosses the knee, completely atrophies away. It's actually just maintained and then grown on that one day and vice versa. So you don't even need to hit all the functional components. You guys have seen what I call the freshman year of college chest workout, incline press, flat press, decline press, dips, and then cable crossovers. And then pec deck. Why not? There's not that many parts of the pec spokes. Two different movements for the pecs would be just fine. And even one kind of movement once in the week, and another kind of movement from a different angle during another part of the week is so totally fine. It's not just fine. It's probably a better idea. There is nothing magical to doing more exercises. As long as you have plenty of sets through the week, and as long as the total number of exercises you do is getting all the functional components of the muscle through the week. And sometimes even you can put a functional component like upper chest on the back burner for an entire mesocycle or several months, and then come back to it, you're good to go. The number of exercises you do exists to serve mostly the number of sets that you're doing. By analogy, it's not the size of the plate that you eat off of if you want to make gains in the kitchen. It's the size of the food on the plate. If you use a bunch of little tiny plates and be like, see, I'm spilling over on these plates, brother. That's cool. But then you have to like wash way more plates. If you get a nice big plate and you put all your food on it, you gain the exact same amount of size, but you only have one plate to wash. So by analogy, if you keep your exercises to mostly one, two, or three exercises per muscle in a session, one exercise or two exercises, if you're training that muscle pretty frequently, three times per week or more, and potentially two or three exercises if you're training that muscle once or twice per week is just a really good idea because it takes all of those concerns, those five constraints we discussed earlier, and make sure that on every single ground, you're checking every single one of those boxes. If you do that, you'll probably grow your best. It doesn't make for the best Instagram reels where your back workout has every single back machine and one reel, but you're training for size and not just InstaFame. And let me tell you about InstaFame. It's a lonely place, you guys. Just saying. All right, folks, hopefully we got a little learning going. Remember, these are just basic principles that when they layer into your own plan, you decide how many exercises and there are no super right science-based optimal answers. And there are no super wrong bro-based stupid people answers. Everything is based in nuance, but it's usually going to be one exercise, two exercise, or three exercises for any given session. The rest is determined by how many sessions you do through the week. That's the big question. Awesome. All right. Uh, hold up before I let you guys go. Yeah. Yeah. I'm just going to do poses that aren't even poses. Ready? T-Rex pose. See you guys next time.