 asylum? Let's find out. I start pretty much every morning out with supplements. Creatine, NMN, and CBD gummies to manage the side effects on the brain from taking special support supplements will not be shown in this video for illegal reasons. And then I have one of these. I make three of these at a time. So I get 21 days of supplements. I had all kinds of stuff in here, but fish oils and stuff, blood pressure medications, metformin, things like that, that, you know, enhanced folks use to stay alive slightly longer to make better gains. So all I do is I take all these supplements in the morning and then I go and do bathroom things. After that, I will be making my workout shake because I don't actually eat anything in the morning first thing. I make my workout shake after I take my supplements and then I drive over to the gym to go train. That workout shake I will consume during the gym, a little bit after, and then my first actual human food meal is going to be after the gym. So yeah, I train sort of fasted, even though I do start sipping my shake right when the workout begins. Next up, we will make a workout shake together and I will take it and go train. This isn't always the protein I use. Sometimes I use it pretty good. I'd recommend in most cases using a fruit-based protein or a vanilla protein if you're going to make a shake out of it, something that doesn't have a lot of oomph to it. But I am a savage. So today I'll be using this whey protein, Gatorade, got my element salt for hydration. I make it all in this one giant container and really fill it up pretty damn close to the brim. So this is multiple liters of water, 45 grams of protein, 30 grams of carbs from the Gatorade, pretty close to zero fats, and a whole element packet. What that does for me is it gives me a drink that mutes muscle wasting, mutes catabolism because of the protein and carb presence during a workout. As you guys know, workouts are a little bit catabolic during the time that they happen. The anabolism or muscle growth scoots up afterwards. This shake gives me energy because of the carbohydrates. It primes anabolism with the decent amount of protein that I have put into my gut during the time that I drink it. It also provides me with fantastic hydration. I, in fact, put so much fluid in the shake and have such a good, well-calculated dose of electrolytes that I usually finish about half or two-thirds during the workout. As soon as that's done, take the last swig on my ride home, come back, and then have my first actual post-workout meal. So this is a really good shake combo I like to use, and I think it works decently well. I've done a ton of stuff over the years with shakes, a little too concentrated, a little too watery, XYZ ingredients missing, XYZ too many ingredients. I've been on this for a while, and I really, really like it. Of course, with the RP Diet Coach app, it's just a swipe away from checking it in. I'm on to the next. All right, got my coat, got my stuff, got my shake. Time to go train. All right, back from the gym. Good workout in. Time to make the post-workout meal. I am maintaining slash slow gaining after getting down to about 6% body fat in this diet. And so I'm eating more or less almost the same thing I did on the diet, except buffered in with extra carbs. Mega fit meal. I have chicken breast, veggies, and rice. Cup of water. I'll usually refill that a bunch or have it out of a bigger shaker. And then precisely five slices of dark rye bread, bringing the overall macros on this meal to 70 grams of protein, 10 grams of fat, and 150 grams of carbohydrate. Big post-workout meal for them big gains. And it tastes like anything better than anything I would make. So it's good enough for me. Mega fit, no affiliation with RP, but check them out. I've been using them for months. They are amazing. All right, guys, done with eating. It's like noonish or so. Trained, ate. Now it's time for me to do work. I usually do some kind of intellectual sit-down computer work. Most of my work looks like that, unless I'm doing exactly this. So I'll do three, four hours of work, and I'll have a meal at the end of that stretch, and then I'll probably go back to work. So let's get in there and do some work, and then see you guys for the next meal. All right, so for this meal, I am having a nice solid swig of decaf coffee because it's too late to be taking caffeine anyway, and I also typically just don't take in caffeine, but decaf coffee tastes amazing and actually has health benefits. I'm having decaf coffee with le chocolat, as the French say, which for me means pure protein chocolate-flavored protein bars, precisely four of them for 80 grams of protein, 20 grams of fat, 60 grams of carbs, but I'm adding bread to that equation because I'm currently bulking a little bit. So that adds five grams to the fat, bringing it to 25 fats, and adds 90 grams of carbohydrate from the bread. So the critical part of this meal, as you can see, is like a savage. I make my coffee, I know decaf's not coffee, by taking the hot water setting out of the faucet and just zapping in water. I get so much crap for this practice, fresh, for all the coffee people. I just don't understand why. It's hot water. Sure, it's not actually hot, and it's really kind of lukewarm, and I have low expectations for myself and everything around me, but why does that matter? Coffee's coffee. Am I right, people? Let's go make an amazing midday snack. Plenty O decaf. It's decaf, so it really doesn't matter. To taste. The only reason, by the way, guys, nutritionally do this is liquids, and it tastes great. That's it. There's no magic. Splenda. Pure protein. Love them. Cheese bars are amazing. And that's going to be my snack. So I'm going to chow this down super fast and get back to work. Spent another few hours working. Work is done for a little while. Cardio time. I typically do lots of steps during my workout. Between sets, I walk around the gym and do steps. I do steps going shopping, into and out of the car, the whole thing. And so I typically have about 4,000 steps a day out of my 10,000 daily step goal that I need to crank out one way or the other. A lot of times I walk around, actually, in the hallways in my apartment building. A lot of times I walk outside, though right now it's winter in Michigan, so there is no outside functionally. And sometimes I go on the treadmill, kick it into about three miles an hour on steps, and kick out the 4,000 steps. I'll listen to my headphone sometimes. I'll scroll on the phone, do whatever, get the cardio done. And then after that, I come back, and it's going to be my second to last meal of the evening. All right, folks, it is getting to be close to about 7 p.m., which means it is time for me to eat my second to last meal of the day. This meal is going to be another mega fit meal, this time with some ground meat, some veggies, and my extra special edition of Bat-Ree Cheese. That's right, it makes everything better. Add in some whole grain bread, and we get a meal that is fitting the macros flawlessly. 75 grams of protein, 20 grams of fat, and about 100 grams of carbohydrate for this meal is definitely going to be my last higher-calorie meal of the day, as the last, last meal is really just a high-protein, low-carb, low-fat snack. All right, I'm going to make this meal, sit down, eat it, and think about where I screwed up in my life to be like this, hopeless and alone and eating containerized meals. No, no, wait, I love this lifestyle, right? All right, guys, I'm going to be finishing this meal, off to do a little bit more work in the office, take some calls, walk around a bit, finish my steps, and then I will see you guys for my evening wind-down routine and my last meal of the day. Last meal of the day for me begins when my chill time begins, usually I take about an hour in the evening on most days, to watch, honestly, my favorite reruns of Justice League and Batman on Amazon Prime, and my favorite YouTube stuff, which usually includes military technology and AI strategy and other things that people don't want to watch with me, and so I have no friends. But I do have a new friend who doesn't know that I'm friends with them. It is the Twin Peaks Ingredients company that makes this unbelievable product, protein puffs that are nacho cheese flavor, and you guys, they taste good. But wait, every serving, which is plenty of puffs, gives you four grams of fat, okay, two grams of carbs, whoa, not bad, 21 grams of protein. We have at RP, or through my own private channels, zero, absolutely zero affiliation, take zero money from Twin Peaks. You guys, that's most of the food I eat. It's just shit I buy, because it's fucking great. I need three servings to get me roughly 65 grams of protein. So I take these protein puffs, and you'll never guess how I eat them. Come over to the couch, where I will watch television and explain to you exactly how strange my life really is. So here's how messed up I am. I have a spoon in here, and I eat these like a cereal, except there's no milk in there, because they're cheesy puffs. So that might not be that bad. Never tried it. How are they so cheesy? I'm not smart enough or educated enough to figure that out. But what I do know is I can track all of this with the RP Diet Coach app, watch my favorite TV shows, and kind of my body gets in shape for me, other than the steps and the lifting and the organization and all that stuff. But it makes it way, way easier. All right, guys, I'm about to hit the shower. Pack up and go to bed. Let's do a quick day in review. Five total meals in my RP Diet Coach app, all logged in for a sum total today. And on most days of his current phase, 3,685 total calories, 335 grams of protein, 65 grams of fat, and 440 grams of carbohydrates. The calories get me right into a very slow gain mode. My maintenance is around 3,500. So at just over 3,600, I'm getting very, very slow gains, fatigue reduction, because I'm planning on doing another major, major cutting phase. Oh, gee whiz, as of the filming of this video here in about eight weeks. Very slow massing, nothing crazy, no 4,000 or 5,000 calorie days for the most part. For protein, I'm eating about a gram and a half per pound of body weight because I'm absolutely on special sports supplements and experimenting with this much higher amount of protein. An idea I got from Menna Henselman's, my very good friend, an amazing person to check out on YouTube and social media. And that amount of protein is unlikely to help most people. But if you're enhanced, right now I'm gaining lots of muscle, could be a really good idea. For the fats, 65 grams of fat is at the low end. But remember, I don't need a ton of fats for hormonal production because my hormonal production probably occurs in a laboratory somewhere where they make exogenous testosterone for injection. And enough fat to satiate me and keep everything running, but not so much. And then 440 grams of carbs is a decent hit to the face of carbohydrates, keeps my glycogen levels full and refilled, keeps my insulin-mediated anti-catabolism and myelinabolism really good, gives me tons of training energy. All around, I am loving, loving, loving this diet. Keep track of it all on my RP Diet Coach app. And shit is good, homies. So I'm going to go and shower and go to bed. If you guys want the video of me showering and then going to bed with other men in a production studio and an 8-cam live stream setup, I'll see you on my other site that we also have. Give it a Google, but not at work. See you next time.