You're busy. I'm busy. But we still need You're busy. I'm busy. But we still need You're busy. I'm busy. But we still need macroofriendly physiqueb buildinGHigh macroofriendly physiqueb buildinGHigh macroofriendly physiqueb buildinGHigh protein food. And today on the go, we protein food. And today on the go, we protein food. And today on the go, we are going to go to a few restaurants for are going to go to a few restaurants for are going to go to a few restaurants for fast casual dining and see if we can fast casual dining and see if we can fast casual dining and see if we can macro our way to success. 3 2 1 macro. macro our way to success. 3 2 1 macro. macro our way to success. 3 2 1 macro. There are only two important women in my There are only two important women in my There are only two important women in my life currently. One is my mom. The other life currently. One is my mom. The other life currently. One is my mom. The other one is of course Wendy. What's up, girl? one is of course Wendy. What's up, girl? one is of course Wendy. What's up, girl? This is for sure extra meat. Holy crap. This is for sure extra meat. Holy crap. This is for sure extra meat. Holy crap. We're about to go to Sweet Green, which We're about to go to Sweet Green, which We're about to go to Sweet Green, which is a healthy place full of white people. is a healthy place full of white people. is a healthy place full of white people. Supposed to be sour cream on there, some Supposed to be sour cream on there, some Supposed to be sour cream on there, some other kind of cream sauce. That's right, other kind of cream sauce. That's right, other kind of cream sauce. That's right, two cream sauces. Thanks, Taco Bell. I two cream sauces. Thanks, Taco Bell. I two cream sauces. Thanks, Taco Bell. I eat at Kudoba all the damn time. So, am eat at Kudoba all the damn time. So, am eat at Kudoba all the damn time. So, am I going to be biased about this? Yeah, I I going to be biased about this? Yeah, I I going to be biased about this? Yeah, I think I will. We're going to be going to a few We're going to be going to a few We're going to be going to a few restaurants and we're using a three restaurants and we're using a three restaurants and we're using a three tiered scoring system on a 1 to 10 tiered scoring system on a 1 to 10 tiered scoring system on a 1 to 10 scale. If you saw our last video, we scale. If you saw our last video, we scale. If you saw our last video, we kind of flubbed the scale. Not so good kind of flubbed the scale. Not so good kind of flubbed the scale. Not so good at math. Number one is macros. You know at math. Number one is macros. You know at math. Number one is macros. You know what I'm saying? We out here to get that what I'm saying? We out here to get that what I'm saying? We out here to get that shit, baby. And if you don't have enough shit, baby. And if you don't have enough shit, baby. And if you don't have enough protein, girl, I ain't trying to get protein, girl, I ain't trying to get protein, girl, I ain't trying to get your number, which is another way of your number, which is another way of your number, which is another way of saying the macros need to be beast. Then saying the macros need to be beast. Then saying the macros need to be beast. Then we have, of course, taste, which is we have, of course, taste, which is we have, of course, taste, which is super important cuz your boy, you know super important cuz your boy, you know super important cuz your boy, you know what I'm saying? I was raised rich. Many what I'm saying? I was raised rich. Many what I'm saying? I was raised rich. Many people don't know this about me, but my people don't know this about me, but my people don't know this about me, but my grandfather was a uranium tycoon. You grandfather was a uranium tycoon. You grandfather was a uranium tycoon. You get used to that sort of life. So, if get used to that sort of life. So, if get used to that sort of life. So, if there's nothing champagne or caviar there's nothing champagne or caviar there's nothing champagne or caviar flavored, I'm leaving. And lastly, on a flavored, I'm leaving. And lastly, on a flavored, I'm leaving. And lastly, on a 1 to 10 scale as well, we have the most 1 to 10 scale as well, we have the most 1 to 10 scale as well, we have the most important thing to my people. Hey, important thing to my people. Hey, important thing to my people. Hey, price. Because if it doesn't have value, price. Because if it doesn't have value, price. Because if it doesn't have value, it hurts me deep down. My peoples. Gh. it hurts me deep down. My peoples. Gh. it hurts me deep down. My peoples. Gh. Let my people go. Is that cool to make Let my people go. Is that cool to make Let my people go. Is that cool to make jokes like that on YouTube? We're gonna jokes like that on YouTube? We're gonna jokes like that on YouTube? We're gonna find out. We got a scale. We got find out. We got a scale. We got find out. We got a scale. We got restaurants. We got Scott the video guy. restaurants. We got Scott the video guy. restaurants. We got Scott the video guy. We got Max the editor boy. You know what We got Max the editor boy. You know what We got Max the editor boy. You know what I'm saying, man? We out here, man. You I'm saying, man? We out here, man. You I'm saying, man? We out here, man. You feel me? IMight be IMight feel me? IMight be IMight feel me? IMight be IMight be pulling my You IMight be pulling be pulling my You IMight be pulling be pulling my You IMight be pulling shit out. What? Why would I say that? shit out. What? Why would I say that? shit out. What? Why would I say that? God. Gail Forester here for Channel 5 News Gail Forester here for Channel 5 News Gail Forester here for Channel 5 News Chicago. A new tren has hit the Chicago. A new tren has hit the Chicago. A new tren has hit the bodybuilding scene. On top of dumbbells bodybuilding scene. On top of dumbbells bodybuilding scene. On top of dumbbells and steroids, bodybuilders are now and steroids, bodybuilders are now and steroids, bodybuilders are now enticing themselves with the macros at enticing themselves with the macros at enticing themselves with the macros at none other than Taco Bell. How is this none other than Taco Bell. How is this none other than Taco Bell. How is this new sociological phenomenon being new sociological phenomenon being new sociological phenomenon being formed? Find out with me right now formed? Find out with me right now formed? Find out with me right now tonight. News at tonight. News at 11. folks. We're at Taco Bell. We got a folks. We're at Taco Bell. We got a folks. We're at Taco Bell. We got a cantina bowl, but IModified the crap cantina bowl, but IModified the crap cantina bowl, but IModified the crap out of it for two reasons. One, we're out of it for two reasons. One, we're out of it for two reasons. One, we're trying to get better macro, so it's easy trying to get better macro, so it's easy trying to get better macro, so it's easy cheese, easy rice, none of the sauces, cheese, easy rice, none of the sauces, cheese, easy rice, none of the sauces, so it's not going to be as delicious. so it's not going to be as delicious. so it's not going to be as delicious. There's supposed to be sour cream on There's supposed to be sour cream on There's supposed to be sour cream on there, some other kind of cream sauce. there, some other kind of cream sauce. there, some other kind of cream sauce. That's right, two cream sauces. Thanks, That's right, two cream sauces. Thanks, That's right, two cream sauces. Thanks, Taco Bell. The other reason IModified Taco Bell. The other reason IModified Taco Bell. The other reason IModified it is because I have many, many it is because I have many, many it is because I have many, many different kinds of autism. I don't mean different kinds of autism. I don't mean different kinds of autism. I don't mean allow to eat uh very many things. One of allow to eat uh very many things. One of allow to eat uh very many things. One of them really, if you zone in on it in them really, if you zone in on it in them really, if you zone in on it in most context, is guacamole. They still most context, is guacamole. They still most context, is guacamole. They still put it on there, though. So, what I'm put it on there, though. So, what I'm put it on there, though. So, what I'm going to do is demonstrate to you the going to do is demonstrate to you the going to do is demonstrate to you the real depravity of mental illness by real depravity of mental illness by real depravity of mental illness by siphoning the guac off of this avocados siphoning the guac off of this avocados siphoning the guac off of this avocados in there, which I love, but the in there, which I love, but the in there, which I love, but the occasional little tomato and onion piece occasional little tomato and onion piece occasional little tomato and onion piece is an absolute non-starter for me is an absolute non-starter for me is an absolute non-starter for me because it makes me feel like my world because it makes me feel like my world because it makes me feel like my world is coming to an end. And I begin to is coming to an end. And I begin to is coming to an end. And I begin to screech violently. Now that we've done screech violently. Now that we've done screech violently. Now that we've done something about this, had a little something about this, had a little something about this, had a little cheese, a little beans, little bit of cheese, a little beans, little bit of cheese, a little beans, little bit of rice here, a little chicken. This is rice here, a little chicken. This is rice here, a little chicken. This is what extra chicken looks like a Taco what extra chicken looks like a Taco what extra chicken looks like a Taco Bell Cantina bowl. So, buy or beware. Bell Cantina bowl. So, buy or beware. Bell Cantina bowl. So, buy or beware. This is roughly 30 g of protein, which This is roughly 30 g of protein, which This is roughly 30 g of protein, which tracks 50 g of carbs or so. And now with tracks 50 g of carbs or so. And now with tracks 50 g of carbs or so. And now with the guac removed, probably about 20 g of the guac removed, probably about 20 g of the guac removed, probably about 20 g of fat. All right, get a little stab of fat. All right, get a little stab of fat. All right, get a little stab of little cheese. I'm quite hungry. little cheese. I'm quite hungry. little cheese. I'm quite hungry. M. Yeah. Yeah, Yeah, Yeah, >> look completely honest with you. Taco >> look completely honest with you. Taco >> look completely honest with you. Taco Bell is an American institution, but Bell is an American institution, but Bell is an American institution, but it's an institution that's probably it's an institution that's probably it's an institution that's probably better at getting you food inside you better at getting you food inside you better at getting you food inside you when you're drunk or high as shit Friday when you're drunk or high as shit Friday when you're drunk or high as shit Friday night at 4:00 a.m. This healthy option night at 4:00 a.m. This healthy option night at 4:00 a.m. This healthy option isn't bad, but it's not good either. I isn't bad, but it's not good either. I isn't bad, but it's not good either. I love Taco Bell. Never say a mean thing love Taco Bell. Never say a mean thing love Taco Bell. Never say a mean thing about it. But this has limits. Luckily, about it. But this has limits. Luckily, about it. But this has limits. Luckily, it was only like $10 or some shit. 11 it was only like $10 or some shit. 11 it was only like $10 or some shit. 11 bucks. So, let's go through our scale. bucks. So, let's go through our scale. bucks. So, let's go through our scale. On macros, it gets like a seven. Plenty On macros, it gets like a seven. Plenty On macros, it gets like a seven. Plenty of protein, not a ton of fat. 67. 67. of protein, not a ton of fat. 67. 67. of protein, not a ton of fat. 67. 67. 67. 67. I did it. I have young nieces 67. 67. I did it. I have young nieces 67. 67. I did it. I have young nieces and nephews and they continue to berate and nephews and they continue to berate and nephews and they continue to berate me with 67. Scott, am I allowed to do me with 67. Scott, am I allowed to do me with 67. Scott, am I allowed to do 6.5s? 6.5s? 6.5s? >> Absolutely. >> Absolutely. >> Absolutely. >> 6.5 on the macros. The taste is um a >> 6.5 on the macros. The taste is um a >> 6.5 on the macros. The taste is um a five. I don't hate it. Would not go out five. I don't hate it. Would not go out five. I don't hate it. Would not go out of my way to eat this. And the value for of my way to eat this. And the value for of my way to eat this. And the value for 10 bucks for this many calories and 10 bucks for this many calories and 10 bucks for this many calories and macros, I would say is probably like uh macros, I would say is probably like uh macros, I would say is probably like uh an eight. Really, really good value. So, an eight. Really, really good value. So, an eight. Really, really good value. So, all right, Taco Bell. I'm feeling that. all right, Taco Bell. I'm feeling that. all right, Taco Bell. I'm feeling that. As a matter of fact, cuz your boys got As a matter of fact, cuz your boys got As a matter of fact, cuz your boys got protein macros to hit. protein macros to hit. protein macros to hit. M. Yeah. Let's go to the next place. Ready? Oh. Yo, there are only two important women Yo, there are only two important women Yo, there are only two important women in my life currently. One is my mom. in my life currently. One is my mom. in my life currently. One is my mom. Mom, I love you. The other one is of Mom, I love you. The other one is of Mom, I love you. The other one is of course Wendy. Yo, what up, Wendy? Damn, course Wendy. Yo, what up, Wendy? Damn, course Wendy. Yo, what up, Wendy? Damn, my girl, you fine as hell. Feel me? What my girl, you fine as hell. Feel me? What my girl, you fine as hell. Feel me? What are all them nuggets for? She's like, are all them nuggets for? She's like, are all them nuggets for? She's like, "Yo, Poppy, I got nuggets." All right, "Yo, Poppy, I got nuggets." All right, "Yo, Poppy, I got nuggets." All right, Poppy. Cool. I don't know why Wendy's Poppy. Cool. I don't know why Wendy's Poppy. Cool. I don't know why Wendy's Hispanic, but what's up, girl? We out Hispanic, but what's up, girl? We out Hispanic, but what's up, girl? We out here and we're trying to get somethinGHere and we're trying to get somethinGHere and we're trying to get somethinGHealthyish, maybe, but with high protein healthyish, maybe, but with high protein healthyish, maybe, but with high protein at Wendy's. Let's get in here. See what at Wendy's. Let's get in here. See what at Wendy's. Let's get in here. See what my old girl Wendy's up to. folks. Wendy's. We got chicken wrap. folks. Wendy's. We got chicken wrap. folks. Wendy's. We got chicken wrap. It's got grilled chicken in it. It's got It's got grilled chicken in it. It's got It's got grilled chicken in it. It's got cheese. It's got rash dressing. And it's cheese. It's got rash dressing. And it's cheese. It's got rash dressing. And it's got lettuce. And the wrap. I opted for got lettuce. And the wrap. I opted for got lettuce. And the wrap. I opted for no ranch. So, the macros on this are no ranch. So, the macros on this are no ranch. So, the macros on this are about 25 gram of protein, about 40 g of about 25 gram of protein, about 40 g of about 25 gram of protein, about 40 g of carbs, and about 10 gram of fat. And carbs, and about 10 gram of fat. And carbs, and about 10 gram of fat. And that's not bad. So, one theme we've got that's not bad. So, one theme we've got that's not bad. So, one theme we've got here, fellas and lady, if um you want here, fellas and lady, if um you want here, fellas and lady, if um you want good food on the go, you're going to good food on the go, you're going to good food on the go, you're going to have to modify the menu a little bit, have to modify the menu a little bit, have to modify the menu a little bit, which they're super cool with. At least which they're super cool with. At least which they're super cool with. At least they didn't punch me in the face when I they didn't punch me in the face when I they didn't punch me in the face when I tried to do it. They used to call me Big tried to do it. They used to call me Big tried to do it. They used to call me Big Mouth Bass Girl in high school. Why? H how do people do that in the movies? Not bad. So on macros, probably like 8 Not bad. So on macros, probably like 8 Not bad. So on macros, probably like 8 out of 10. It tastes appropriately dry out of 10. It tastes appropriately dry out of 10. It tastes appropriately dry for me to believe that. It's like a for me to believe that. It's like a for me to believe that. It's like a seven on taste, but it's not bad. Wendy seven on taste, but it's not bad. Wendy seven on taste, but it's not bad. Wendy Wendy doesn't mess around. And this was Wendy doesn't mess around. And this was Wendy doesn't mess around. And this was $646, $646, $646, I believe, the whole thing, taxes and I believe, the whole thing, taxes and I believe, the whole thing, taxes and all. And for like the amount of protein all. And for like the amount of protein all. And for like the amount of protein that you get with this plus calories or that you get with this plus calories or that you get with this plus calories or whatever, man, that's like a that's an whatever, man, that's like a that's an whatever, man, that's like a that's an eight out of 10 value, um, maybe even a eight out of 10 value, um, maybe even a eight out of 10 value, um, maybe even a 9 out of 10 to be honest, bro. So, let's 9 out of 10 to be honest, bro. So, let's 9 out of 10 to be honest, bro. So, let's go with 8.5 out of 10 on that. So, go with 8.5 out of 10 on that. So, go with 8.5 out of 10 on that. So, that's how the cookie crumbles. That's that's how the cookie crumbles. That's that's how the cookie crumbles. That's not a bad rating at all. Like, if you're not a bad rating at all. Like, if you're not a bad rating at all. Like, if you're in a pinch, Wendy's got you as she in a pinch, Wendy's got you as she in a pinch, Wendy's got you as she always did. >> Go to the next place. >> Go to the next place. >> Go to the next place. >> Shut the fuck up. I'm eating. Should I >> Shut the fuck up. I'm eating. Should I >> Shut the fuck up. I'm eating. Should I put my fake YouTube personality on now? put my fake YouTube personality on now? put my fake YouTube personality on now? >> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> All right, guys. Now, let's go to the >> All right, guys. Now, let's go to the >> All right, guys. Now, let's go to the next place. YouTube. YouTube. YouTube. All right, folks. We are next to one of All right, folks. We are next to one of All right, folks. We are next to one of my absolute favorite types of places and my absolute favorite types of places and my absolute favorite types of places and also a Panera Bread. Panera Bread also a Panera Bread. Panera Bread also a Panera Bread. Panera Bread exists. Gone in there a few times. I exists. Gone in there a few times. I exists. Gone in there a few times. I don't know what it is about me. I like don't know what it is about me. I like don't know what it is about me. I like bread. I like sandwiches, but Panera bread. I like sandwiches, but Panera bread. I like sandwiches, but Panera Bread never really hit. Let's see if we Bread never really hit. Let's see if we Bread never really hit. Let's see if we can change that and pick up something a can change that and pick up something a can change that and pick up something a little healthy, too, with some macros in little healthy, too, with some macros in little healthy, too, with some macros in it. Oh, and my favorite place, if it. Oh, and my favorite place, if it. Oh, and my favorite place, if Scott's gonna pan over with me, is an Scott's gonna pan over with me, is an Scott's gonna pan over with me, is an electrical substation. electrical substation. electrical substation. You guys ever wonder about how it works? You guys ever wonder about how it works? You guys ever wonder about how it works? The fact that almost everything good in The fact that almost everything good in The fact that almost everything good in this world depends on this kind of this world depends on this kind of this world depends on this kind of technology and we just take it for technology and we just take it for technology and we just take it for granted. Shit is real, man. Goodbye. granted. Shit is real, man. Goodbye. granted. Shit is real, man. Goodbye. Let's go to Panera. Amazing. The next Michael Jordan. The next Michael Jordan. The next Michael Jordan. >> I am Michael Jordan. >> I am Michael Jordan. >> I am Michael Jordan. >> Oh, sorry. >> You know what I'm saying? He was 6'5. >> You know what I'm saying? He was 6'5. >> You know what I'm saying? He was 6'5. I'm 5'6, babe. He was black. I'm white. I'm 5'6, babe. He was black. I'm white. I'm 5'6, babe. He was black. I'm white. He was good at stuff and I exist. >> Out of here. I hit that B though. That's >> Out of here. I hit that B though. That's >> Out of here. I hit that B though. That's athleticism. You feel me? athleticism. You feel me? athleticism. You feel me? >> Damn. >> Damn. >> Damn. >> Damn, bitch. >> First things first. You guys know why >> First things first. You guys know why >> First things first. You guys know why crocodiles are dangerous? Cuz you'd be crocodiles are dangerous? Cuz you'd be crocodiles are dangerous? Cuz you'd be swimming this shit, right? Here's one of swimming this shit, right? Here's one of swimming this shit, right? Here's one of your limbs. And this mother like your limbs. And this mother like your limbs. And this mother like it. No more limb. it. No more limb. it. No more limb. >> Tell them about what you ordered. >> Tell them about what you ordered. >> Tell them about what you ordered. >> This is a turkey sandwich with extra >> This is a turkey sandwich with extra >> This is a turkey sandwich with extra meat. I tell you what, Panera, you guys meat. I tell you what, Panera, you guys meat. I tell you what, Panera, you guys are awesome. This is for sure extra are awesome. This is for sure extra are awesome. This is for sure extra meat. Holy crap. Easy on the cheese, meat. Holy crap. Easy on the cheese, meat. Holy crap. Easy on the cheese, easy on the mayo, just greens. This is easy on the mayo, just greens. This is easy on the mayo, just greens. This is dope, man. Let's crack it now. 30 gram of protein, 25 grams of now. 30 gram of protein, 25 grams of now. 30 gram of protein, 25 grams of carbs. I think that's overestimate. This carbs. I think that's overestimate. This carbs. I think that's overestimate. This is not that much bread. It's a half is not that much bread. It's a half is not that much bread. It's a half sandwich, by the way, and 15 grams of sandwich, by the way, and 15 grams of sandwich, by the way, and 15 grams of fat. On macros, that's an eight. That's fat. On macros, that's an eight. That's fat. On macros, that's an eight. That's damn good. It's a lot of protein. Very damn good. It's a lot of protein. Very damn good. It's a lot of protein. Very low carb, pretty low fat. Not bad. low carb, pretty low fat. Not bad. low carb, pretty low fat. Not bad. Taste. Hold on. Let me not let me not Taste. Hold on. Let me not let me not Taste. Hold on. Let me not let me not rush to prejudice. I don't know if you guys think like I don't know if you guys think like I don't know if you guys think like this, but if I can make something at this, but if I can make something at this, but if I can make something at home, I just don't value it as much out home, I just don't value it as much out home, I just don't value it as much out in the street. We out here, babe. Scott, in the street. We out here, babe. Scott, in the street. We out here, babe. Scott, you feel me? Look, I can't make a you feel me? Look, I can't make a you feel me? Look, I can't make a chicken nugget. I don't know how that chicken nugget. I don't know how that chicken nugget. I don't know how that works. I don't know how to do breading, works. I don't know how to do breading, works. I don't know how to do breading, but I can make a turkey sandwich. On but I can make a turkey sandwich. On but I can make a turkey sandwich. On taste, this is definitely an eight out taste, this is definitely an eight out taste, this is definitely an eight out of 10. It's It's good, you guys. Am I of 10. It's It's good, you guys. Am I of 10. It's It's good, you guys. Am I like going to go to a restaurant to eat like going to go to a restaurant to eat like going to go to a restaurant to eat it? No. But if I need macros, yes. And it? No. But if I need macros, yes. And it? No. But if I need macros, yes. And on price, this whole thing was what? N on price, this whole thing was what? N on price, this whole thing was what? N bucks or some shit like that. About 950 bucks or some shit like that. About 950 bucks or some shit like that. About 950 950, man. Like, for everything you get 950, man. Like, for everything you get 950, man. Like, for everything you get for those macros on price, 7 out of 10. for those macros on price, 7 out of 10. for those macros on price, 7 out of 10. 887. That's the ranking. And I'm going 887. That's the ranking. And I'm going 887. That's the ranking. And I'm going to tell you something else. It tastes to tell you something else. It tastes to tell you something else. It tastes really fresh. Like the turkeyy's cold, really fresh. Like the turkeyy's cold, really fresh. Like the turkeyy's cold, the cheese is crisp, the veggies are the cheese is crisp, the veggies are the cheese is crisp, the veggies are incredible, and the bread isn't like old incredible, and the bread isn't like old incredible, and the bread isn't like old bread or some shit like that. Like, it's bread or some shit like that. Like, it's bread or some shit like that. Like, it's it's good, you guys. This is good. it's good, you guys. This is good. it's good, you guys. This is good. Panera, way to come back from behind, Panera, way to come back from behind, Panera, way to come back from behind, man. I had you guys in last, but uh-uh. That's Panera's dope. Going to finish That's Panera's dope. Going to finish That's Panera's dope. Going to finish this. Then after that, we'll go to our this. Then after that, we'll go to our this. Then after that, we'll go to our next place. Two things to share with you next place. Two things to share with you next place. Two things to share with you guys. Bit of insight here. I don't know guys. Bit of insight here. I don't know guys. Bit of insight here. I don't know if it's insightful, but I'm sure we're if it's insightful, but I'm sure we're if it's insightful, but I'm sure we're going to try. I think over the last going to try. I think over the last going to try. I think over the last about 20 years or so, what we've seen is about 20 years or so, what we've seen is about 20 years or so, what we've seen is a shift in restaurant options at fast a shift in restaurant options at fast a shift in restaurant options at fast food restaurants in the inverse food restaurants in the inverse food restaurants in the inverse direction of what we'd expect for direction of what we'd expect for direction of what we'd expect for health. But I think on a an economic health. But I think on a an economic health. But I think on a an economic sense, in the grand scheme analysis, it sense, in the grand scheme analysis, it sense, in the grand scheme analysis, it actually it does compute. What I think actually it does compute. What I think actually it does compute. What I think we've seen is a reduction potentially in we've seen is a reduction potentially in we've seen is a reduction potentially in the number of like healthy menu items the number of like healthy menu items the number of like healthy menu items that there are fewer salads, grilled that there are fewer salads, grilled that there are fewer salads, grilled chicken. Scott, you remember that shit, chicken. Scott, you remember that shit, chicken. Scott, you remember that shit, Max? Like they they didn't have it at Max? Like they they didn't have it at Max? Like they they didn't have it at McDonald's. Wendy's didn't have a McDonald's. Wendy's didn't have a McDonald's. Wendy's didn't have a grilled chicken sandwich today. And I grilled chicken sandwich today. And I grilled chicken sandwich today. And I was just like, what the hell is like was just like, what the hell is like was just like, what the hell is like what I used to eat at Wendy's all the what I used to eat at Wendy's all the what I used to eat at Wendy's all the time. And so you think like, oh man, time. And so you think like, oh man, time. And so you think like, oh man, like our societyy's becoming fatter, but like our societyy's becoming fatter, but like our societyy's becoming fatter, but actually it's not even true anymore. actually it's not even true anymore. actually it's not even true anymore. We're starting to lose weight and people We're starting to lose weight and people We're starting to lose weight and people are incrementally like by the millions are incrementally like by the millions are incrementally like by the millions every few years becoming more health every few years becoming more health every few years becoming more health consscious. I think the fraction of consscious. I think the fraction of consscious. I think the fraction of people eating at fast food restaurants people eating at fast food restaurants people eating at fast food restaurants is falling. And the fraction of people is falling. And the fraction of people is falling. And the fraction of people that are health conscious is really that are health conscious is really that are health conscious is really falling. So it's just like not a place falling. So it's just like not a place falling. So it's just like not a place you go to get healthy food. Whereas you go to get healthy food. Whereas you go to get healthy food. Whereas maybe in the 90s, early 2000s, like maybe in the 90s, early 2000s, like maybe in the 90s, early 2000s, like people who are doing a healthy thing people who are doing a healthy thing people who are doing a healthy thing right now, they were like, "Oh, I'm in right now, they were like, "Oh, I'm in right now, they were like, "Oh, I'm in Taco Bell, might as well get something Taco Bell, might as well get something Taco Bell, might as well get somethinGHealthy." Nowadays, you know, you go to healthy." Nowadays, you know, you go to healthy." Nowadays, you know, you go to Wendy's, you go to McDonald's, and Wendy's, you go to McDonald's, and Wendy's, you go to McDonald's, and you're like, you're just there to eat you're like, you're just there to eat you're like, you're just there to eat like a good tasty meal. You don't care like a good tasty meal. You don't care like a good tasty meal. You don't care about macros, which is totally dope. But about macros, which is totally dope. But about macros, which is totally dope. But it kind of makes sense from the it kind of makes sense from the it kind of makes sense from the perspective of these restaurants that perspective of these restaurants that perspective of these restaurants that they're just kind of like, we're not they're just kind of like, we're not they're just kind of like, we're not going to do macro stuff. Like, it's just going to do macro stuff. Like, it's just going to do macro stuff. Like, it's just nobody no one's buying it anymore. And nobody no one's buying it anymore. And nobody no one's buying it anymore. And the other thing I wanted to say is this the other thing I wanted to say is this the other thing I wanted to say is this is really important. Do you guys ever is really important. Do you guys ever is really important. Do you guys ever look up into the sky and you're like, oh look up into the sky and you're like, oh look up into the sky and you're like, oh my god, like that one cloud is so my god, like that one cloud is so my god, like that one cloud is so beautiful. It looks like my dog that was beautiful. It looks like my dog that was beautiful. It looks like my dog that was like a really big part of my life until like a really big part of my life until like a really big part of my life until I was six and he tragically passed in AI was six and he tragically passed in AI was six and he tragically passed in a car accident. Do you ever wonder like car accident. Do you ever wonder like car accident. Do you ever wonder like how other clouds think about that? Like how other clouds think about that? Like how other clouds think about that? Like you're augling this one cloud and the you're augling this one cloud and the you're augling this one cloud and the other clouds are like IMean I'm like other clouds are like IMean I'm like other clouds are like IMean I'm like I'm also here like IMessed up but I'm also here like IMessed up but I'm also here like IMessed up but whatever. No, I'll just be on my phone. whatever. No, I'll just be on my phone. whatever. No, I'll just be on my phone. Think about that. All right, let's go to Think about that. All right, let's go to Think about that. All right, let's go to the next restaurant. Yo in it, bro. We out here in Birmingham front of a parking structure because front of a parking structure because front of a parking structure because we're weird like that in it. So why am I sittinGHere in front of a So why am I sittinGHere in front of a So why am I sittinGHere in front of a parking structure in Birmingham, parking structure in Birmingham, parking structure in Birmingham, Michigan? Two reasons. One, we're about Michigan? Two reasons. One, we're about Michigan? Two reasons. One, we're about to go to Sweet Green, which is a healthy to go to Sweet Green, which is a healthy to go to Sweet Green, which is a healthy place full of white people. Also, I got place full of white people. Also, I got place full of white people. Also, I got to kind of be on the DL. Got into a to kind of be on the DL. Got into a to kind of be on the DL. Got into a little bit of gang bullshit in little bit of gang bullshit in little bit of gang bullshit in Birmingham. You feel me? I rep my set. Birmingham. You feel me? I rep my set. Birmingham. You feel me? I rep my set. I'm out here on these streets though. I'm out here on these streets though. I'm out here on these streets though. You're just not like out in the open. You're just not like out in the open. You're just not like out in the open. Gunshots around here. If you know about Gunshots around here. If you know about Gunshots around here. If you know about Birmingham, Michigan, you know gunshots Birmingham, Michigan, you know gunshots Birmingham, Michigan, you know gunshots 247, baby. It's dangerous out here. 247, baby. It's dangerous out here. 247, baby. It's dangerous out here. Let's go get some sweet green. Try not Let's go get some sweet green. Try not Let's go get some sweet green. Try not to get shot before someone run up on us. to get shot before someone run up on us. to get shot before someone run up on us. You feel me? Open carry state. So, this is a custom bowl from Sweet So, this is a custom bowl from Sweet So, this is a custom bowl from Sweet Green in Birmingham, Michigan. It's Green in Birmingham, Michigan. It's Green in Birmingham, Michigan. It's ritzy. Very nice place. Smells very nice ritzy. Very nice place. Smells very nice ritzy. Very nice place. Smells very nice in there. Very friendly people. I got in there. Very friendly people. I got in there. Very friendly people. I got kale bedding. I got cucumbers on the kale bedding. I got cucumbers on the kale bedding. I got cucumbers on the side. And I'm not going to touch them side. And I'm not going to touch them side. And I'm not going to touch them cuz they look a little gushy and my cuz they look a little gushy and my cuz they look a little gushy and my autism doesn't let me eat that. And then autism doesn't let me eat that. And then autism doesn't let me eat that. And then blackened chicken times two. So, the blackened chicken times two. So, the blackened chicken times two. So, the good news is this is like 60 g of good news is this is like 60 g of good news is this is like 60 g of protein, 5 to 10 g of fat, and less than protein, 5 to 10 g of fat, and less than protein, 5 to 10 g of fat, and less than 5 g of carbs. This is a 10 out of 10 on 5 g of carbs. This is a 10 out of 10 on 5 g of carbs. This is a 10 out of 10 on macros, period. It just doesn't get much macros, period. It just doesn't get much macros, period. It just doesn't get much better than that. On price, with tip, better than that. On price, with tip, better than that. On price, with tip, and I always like to leave a nice tip and I always like to leave a nice tip and I always like to leave a nice tip cuz folks, you're working really hard cuz folks, you're working really hard cuz folks, you're working really hard and it's nice. Without tip, it was like and it's nice. Without tip, it was like and it's nice. Without tip, it was like $18. With tip, it's like 21. Man, $21 $18. With tip, it's like 21. Man, $21 $18. With tip, it's like 21. Man, $21 hurts hurts my Jewish soul. So, on hurts hurts my Jewish soul. So, on hurts hurts my Jewish soul. So, on price, this gets a man, this gets a four price, this gets a man, this gets a four price, this gets a man, this gets a four out of 10 on price. I don't want to get out of 10 on price. I don't want to get out of 10 on price. I don't want to get it too high because it is double it too high because it is double it too high because it is double protein, so it's good. A lot of protein, protein, so it's good. A lot of protein, protein, so it's good. A lot of protein, but you're paying for it. Four out of but you're paying for it. Four out of but you're paying for it. Four out of 10. Four out of 10. Four out of 10. Five 10. Four out of 10. Four out of 10. Five 10. Four out of 10. Four out of 10. Five out of 10. Five out of 10 on price. out of 10. Five out of 10 on price. out of 10. Five out of 10 on price. That's my final offer. Now, let's look That's my final offer. Now, let's look That's my final offer. Now, let's look at that middle category of taste. I like at that middle category of taste. I like at that middle category of taste. I like kale a lot, so we're just going to taste kale a lot, so we're just going to taste kale a lot, so we're just going to taste the kale by itself. >> I love kale. >> I love kale. >> I love kale. >> I hate kale. >> I hate kale. >> I hate kale. >> Shut the up. >> Shut the up. >> Shut the up. >> We're looking for a new editor boy. Max >> We're looking for a new editor boy. Max >> We're looking for a new editor boy. Max the editor boy is fired due to a the editor boy is fired due to a the editor boy is fired due to a disagreement he had in the office with disagreement he had in the office with disagreement he had in the office with kale. Let's try the chicken. Oh yeah. kale. Let's try the chicken. Oh yeah. kale. Let's try the chicken. Oh yeah. Man, chicken is good, bro. Wow. That's Man, chicken is good, bro. Wow. That's Man, chicken is good, bro. Wow. That's really good. On this relative scale so really good. On this relative scale so really good. On this relative scale so far, I got to be honest, bro. That's a far, I got to be honest, bro. That's a far, I got to be honest, bro. That's a 10. The chicken's really good. You can 10. The chicken's really good. You can 10. The chicken's really good. You can tell it doesn't have a bunch of fat in tell it doesn't have a bunch of fat in tell it doesn't have a bunch of fat in it, but it's not dry. Macros 10. Taste it, but it's not dry. Macros 10. Taste it, but it's not dry. Macros 10. Taste 10. Price five, you guys. It's 20 bucks, 10. Price five, you guys. It's 20 bucks, 10. Price five, you guys. It's 20 bucks, man. You know what you can get in man. You know what you can get in man. You know what you can get in downtown Detroit for 20 bucks? I'm not downtown Detroit for 20 bucks? I'm not downtown Detroit for 20 bucks? I'm not even going to say it. M m. Anyway, it's nice here in Birmingham. How the it's nice here in Birmingham. How the it's nice here in Birmingham. How the other side lives, you know. Oh shit, the other side lives, you know. Oh shit, the other side lives, you know. Oh shit, the police is coming. We got to get the out police is coming. We got to get the out police is coming. We got to get the out of here. Let's go to the next place. of here. Let's go to the next place. of here. Let's go to the next place. Next up, Koba. A fine place for families Next up, Koba. A fine place for families Next up, Koba. A fine place for families and stuff. I don't know what Kdoba and stuff. I don't know what Kdoba and stuff. I don't know what Kdoba means. Not really a Hispanic word. It's means. Not really a Hispanic word. It's means. Not really a Hispanic word. It's kind of sort of Hispanic, but they do kind of sort of Hispanic, but they do kind of sort of Hispanic, but they do have amazing burritos, amazing bowls, have amazing burritos, amazing bowls, have amazing burritos, amazing bowls, and from what I understand, macros. And and from what I understand, macros. And and from what I understand, macros. And I eat at Kudoba all the damn time. So, I eat at Kudoba all the damn time. So, I eat at Kudoba all the damn time. So, am I gonna be biased about this? Yeah, I am I gonna be biased about this? Yeah, I am I gonna be biased about this? Yeah, I think I will. Let's get to Kdoba and see think I will. Let's get to Kdoba and see think I will. Let's get to Kdoba and see what's going on. I'm not a violent person. Never been in I'm not a violent person. Never been in I'm not a violent person. Never been in a street fight. Never been in a real a street fight. Never been in a real a street fight. Never been in a real fight except for one time. I was just fight except for one time. I was just fight except for one time. I was just minding my own business walking around minding my own business walking around minding my own business walking around the city. You know how I do. And this the city. You know how I do. And this the city. You know how I do. And this young man came up to me and he was like, young man came up to me and he was like, young man came up to me and he was like, "Excuse me. You're Dr. Mike from the "Excuse me. You're Dr. Mike from the "Excuse me. You're Dr. Mike from the internet." I was like, "Of course I am, internet." I was like, "Of course I am, internet." I was like, "Of course I am, sir. What can I what can I do for you?" sir. What can I what can I do for you?" sir. What can I what can I do for you?" And he said, "I think Chipotle is And he said, "I think Chipotle is And he said, "I think Chipotle is glorified cafeteria food. I'll tell you glorified cafeteria food. I'll tell you glorified cafeteria food. I'll tell you guys something. The second fastest guys something. The second fastest guys something. The second fastest object in the solar system just passed object in the solar system just passed object in the solar system just passed through. Astronomers were talking about through. Astronomers were talking about through. Astronomers were talking about it. The first fastest object is that it. The first fastest object is that it. The first fastest object is that guy's head popped off his body by yours guy's head popped off his body by yours guy's head popped off his body by yours truly. You'd ever disrespect Kudoba in truly. You'd ever disrespect Kudoba in truly. You'd ever disrespect Kudoba in my Did I say Chipotle? my Did I say Chipotle? my Did I say Chipotle? >> I was waiting. >> I was waiting. >> I was waiting. >> Keep that in. >> Keep that in. >> Keep that in. >> People say it about Chipotle, too. And >> People say it about Chipotle, too. And >> People say it about Chipotle, too. And they say it about Kudoba all the time. they say it about Kudoba all the time. they say it about Kudoba all the time. And they're not people to me. So, what And they're not people to me. So, what And they're not people to me. So, what I'm going to do is prove all y'all I'm going to do is prove all y'all I'm going to do is prove all y'all motherers wrong by eating this in front motherers wrong by eating this in front motherers wrong by eating this in front of you. Now, let me give you a couple of you. Now, let me give you a couple of you. Now, let me give you a couplEQualifiers. There's rice, beans, qualifiers. There's rice, beans, qualifiers. There's rice, beans, chicken, and queso in this. If I was chicken, and queso in this. If I was chicken, and queso in this. If I was targeting optimal macros, I would have targeting optimal macros, I would have targeting optimal macros, I would have done double chicken and beans only with done double chicken and beans only with done double chicken and beans only with some greens. That would have given us a some greens. That would have given us a some greens. That would have given us a 10 on macros. This is going to give us 10 on macros. This is going to give us 10 on macros. This is going to give us an eight on macros today. On price, the an eight on macros today. On price, the an eight on macros today. On price, thEQueso is extra. And I got some water, so queso is extra. And I got some water, so queso is extra. And I got some water, so it's like 14 bucks. Without all the it's like 14 bucks. Without all the it's like 14 bucks. Without all the extra stuff, it would have been like 10. extra stuff, it would have been like 10. extra stuff, it would have been like 10. That gives us a nine on price. It's a That gives us a nine on price. It's a That gives us a nine on price. It's a damn good deal. And on taste, without damn good deal. And on taste, without damn good deal. And on taste, without thEQueso, it's a nine. With thEQueso thEQueso, it's a nine. With thEQueso thEQueso, it's a nine. With thEQueso is a 10. It doesn't matter which way the is a 10. It doesn't matter which way the is a 10. It doesn't matter which way the nines and tens go. Either way you slice nines and tens go. Either way you slice nines and tens go. Either way you slice it, it's nine, 10, it, it's nine, 10, it, it's nine, 10, eight. Let's get into it. Let's um Maybe eight. Let's get into it. Let's um Maybe eight. Let's get into it. Let's um Maybe I'm wrong, guys. Maybe this isn't good. I'm wrong, guys. Maybe this isn't good. I'm wrong, guys. Maybe this isn't good. >> You should eat and then give the >> You should eat and then give the >> You should eat and then give the >> Yeah. Yeah. Since it's biased. Hey, I >> Yeah. Yeah. Since it's biased. Hey, I >> Yeah. Yeah. Since it's biased. Hey, I called out my bias early, didn't I? I was wrong. Eight out of 10 macros cuz I was wrong. Eight out of 10 macros cuz I was wrong. Eight out of 10 macros cuz of the cheese. Nine out of 10 price. of the cheese. Nine out of 10 price. of the cheese. Nine out of 10 price. It's a damn good price. 13 out of 10 It's a damn good price. 13 out of 10 It's a damn good price. 13 out of 10 taste. taste. taste. This is me meeting the CEO of Kudoba. This is me meeting the CEO of Kudoba. This is me meeting the CEO of Kudoba. Sir, Sir, Sir, I'm such a huge fan of your work. I just I'm such a huge fan of your work. I just I'm such a huge fan of your work. I just I can't believe this is happening. I've I can't believe this is happening. I've I can't believe this is happening. I've been eating your stuff a long time. been eating your stuff a long time. been eating your stuff a long time. How'd you smell good? God, just what's How'd you smell good? God, just what's How'd you smell good? God, just what's it like to be you? I'm sorry. Can I get it like to be you? I'm sorry. Can I get it like to be you? I'm sorry. Can I get an autograph on my genitals? Anyway, an autograph on my genitals? Anyway, an autograph on my genitals? Anyway, cool. Hey, it was great meeting you. Don't leave me. You shut up cuz I'm powered by Koba, You shut up cuz I'm powered by Koba, You shut up cuz I'm powered by Koba, baby. Koba is the overall winner. I baby. Koba is the overall winner. I baby. Koba is the overall winner. I don't even know. We need an outro in don't even know. We need an outro in don't even know. We need an outro in this video. We're out here. Royal Oak, this video. We're out here. Royal Oak, this video. We're out here. Royal Oak, Kudoba, gunshots, Detroit. What? Kudoba, gunshots, Detroit. What? Kudoba, gunshots, Detroit. What? Yeah. Hey, am I hood yet? Let's tally up Yeah. Hey, am I hood yet? Let's tally up Yeah. Hey, am I hood yet? Let's tally up the final results. In last place with a the final results. In last place with a the final results. In last place with a 6.5 average, macros taste and price out 6.5 average, macros taste and price out 6.5 average, macros taste and price out of 10, that's a D. 65% is Taco Bell. And of 10, that's a D. 65% is Taco Bell. And of 10, that's a D. 65% is Taco Bell. And I know what you're thinking. Taco Bell's I know what you're thinking. Taco Bell's I know what you're thinking. Taco Bell's specialty is not macroofriendly food. specialty is not macroofriendly food. specialty is not macroofriendly food. And you're right, Taco Bell, you're And you're right, Taco Bell, you're And you're right, Taco Bell, you're great. But maybe this isn't your show. great. But maybe this isn't your show. great. But maybe this isn't your show. Next up, Panera Bread. It was really Next up, Panera Bread. It was really Next up, Panera Bread. It was really good, but like it kind of cost a bit of good, but like it kind of cost a bit of good, but like it kind of cost a bit of money and the macros were good, but not money and the macros were good, but not money and the macros were good, but not great good. And so maybe I was a little great good. And so maybe I was a little great good. And so maybe I was a little stingy in the rating, but you know, it stingy in the rating, but you know, it stingy in the rating, but you know, it was totally fine and I can't hate on was totally fine and I can't hate on was totally fine and I can't hate on Panera, but not winning today's overall Panera, but not winning today's overall Panera, but not winning today's overall challenge. Wendy's next up at a 7.8. challenge. Wendy's next up at a 7.8. challenge. Wendy's next up at a 7.8. Just barely inching out Panera Bread. Just barely inching out Panera Bread. Just barely inching out Panera Bread. Not bad, Wendy. What's good, girl? The Not bad, Wendy. What's good, girl? The Not bad, Wendy. What's good, girl? The thing is, we had to modify pretty thing is, we had to modify pretty thing is, we had to modify pretty heavily at Wendy's like we did at heavily at Wendy's like we did at heavily at Wendy's like we did at Panera. No big deal. But if you want Panera. No big deal. But if you want Panera. No big deal. But if you want somethinGHealthy, the Wendy's chicken somethinGHealthy, the Wendy's chicken somethinGHealthy, the Wendy's chicken wrap is a thing. The thing is, the rest wrap is a thing. The thing is, the rest wrap is a thing. The thing is, the rest of the stuff at Wendy's, ah, not that of the stuff at Wendy's, ah, not that of the stuff at Wendy's, ah, not that great. They do have a few salads that great. They do have a few salads that great. They do have a few salads that are pretty good. So Wendy's is tenable are pretty good. So Wendy's is tenable are pretty good. So Wendy's is tenable option. Definitely not the best. If option. Definitely not the best. If option. Definitely not the best. If you're made of money, our runner up 8.3 you're made of money, our runner up 8.3 you're made of money, our runner up 8.3 out of 10 is Sweet Green in Birmingham, out of 10 is Sweet Green in Birmingham, out of 10 is Sweet Green in Birmingham, Michigan. That Sweet Green is what you Michigan. That Sweet Green is what you Michigan. That Sweet Green is what you can be paying for that shit, too. That can be paying for that shit, too. That can be paying for that shit, too. That was 20 some odd dollars for the shit. was 20 some odd dollars for the shit. was 20 some odd dollars for the shit. But the macros were absolutely stellar, But the macros were absolutely stellar, But the macros were absolutely stellar, and the food was incredibly high quality and the food was incredibly high quality and the food was incredibly high quality and really, really tasty. Sweet Green is and really, really tasty. Sweet Green is and really, really tasty. Sweet Green is a great place. If you literally raised a great place. If you literally raised a great place. If you literally raised by African warlord billionaires, you by African warlord billionaires, you by African warlord billionaires, you could give a fuck about what kind of could give a fuck about what kind of could give a fuck about what kind of money you're spending on your food. money you're spending on your food. money you're spending on your food. Undefeated heavyweight champion of the Undefeated heavyweight champion of the Undefeated heavyweight champion of the world. Eight. The last runner-up world. Eight. The last runner-up world. Eight. The last runner-up heavyweight champion of the world is heavyweight champion of the world is heavyweight champion of the world is Quudoba. 10 out of 10 because somEQuudoba. 10 out of 10 because somEQuudoba. 10 out of 10 because some combination of price, macros, and taste combination of price, macros, and taste combination of price, macros, and taste is going to punch you in the mouth and is going to punch you in the mouth and is going to punch you in the mouth and wake that ass up. And yes, that is an wake that ass up. And yes, that is an wake that ass up. And yes, that is an official line from Quudoba. And there's official line from Quudoba. And there's official line from Quudoba. And there's people racing on Woodward Avenue. people racing on Woodward Avenue. people racing on Woodward Avenue. Welcome to Detroit, baby. Kudoba goated Welcome to Detroit, baby. Kudoba goated Welcome to Detroit, baby. Kudoba goated as usual. If you're ever on the go and as usual. If you're ever on the go and as usual. If you're ever on the go and you see a Kudoba, you better run up into you see a Kudoba, you better run up into you see a Kudoba, you better run up into that mother and get you some goddamn that mother and get you some goddamn that mother and get you some goddamn macros. And if you're really on that macros. And if you're really on that macros. And if you're really on that macro macro, get you a plate of veggies macro macro, get you a plate of veggies macro macro, get you a plate of veggies or a little bowl of veggies. Throw some or a little bowl of veggies. Throw some or a little bowl of veggies. Throw some chicken in there. Throw some beans in chicken in there. Throw some beans in chicken in there. Throw some beans in there. You'll save money and the macros there. You'll save money and the macros there. You'll save money and the macros will be even better than 10 out of 10. will be even better than 10 out of 10. will be even better than 10 out of 10. How is that possible? But it is. Ah, How is that possible? But it is. Ah, How is that possible? But it is. Ah, that was fun. I got a full stomach of that was fun. I got a full stomach of that was fun. I got a full stomach of partially eaten fast food and an partially eaten fast food and an partially eaten fast food and an excitement about what other videos we excitement about what other videos we excitement about what other videos we might do in this category. Let us know might do in this category. Let us know might do in this category. Let us know in the comments. Should we get to just in the comments. Should we get to just in the comments. Should we get to just all the fast food places to eat the all the fast food places to eat the all the fast food places to eat the worst macros possible? Maybe. Until then, maybe I'll do a Maybe. Until then, maybe I'll do a Maybe. Until then, maybe I'll do a little dance. See you next time. This is the best part of the video. This is the best part of the video. This is the best part of the video. >> In slow-mo, it's going to be like I >> In slow-mo, it's going to be like I >> In slow-mo, it's going to be like I think you can dance kind of think you can dance kind of think you can dance kind of >> slow-mo. It's hilarious. It just makes >> slow-mo. It's hilarious. It just makes >> slow-mo. It's hilarious. It just makes it great. it great. it great. That was the best part of the last That was the best part of the last That was the best part of the last video. video. video. >> Oh yeah.