 naringin,liśmyumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumum Good job. All right, guys, let's talk about eight tips I have for you to consider that will send your shoulder training to the moon and back and then establishing a regular ferry route from the moon and back and allowing us to put data centers on the moon and exploit its natural resources. For delts, that is. First thing, I recommend experimenting with the 10 to 25 rep range for delts. Why? Sets of 5 to 10 for delts are totally fine, but a lot of people report that as they get stronger, it's just kind of a lot of weight for their shoulder joint and it gets a little finicky. If you can tolerate it, no big deal. Just know it's something you might get into and maybe not love. Anything over about 25 reps is also totally fine, but it's a crazy burn. It's really hard to estimate reps in reserve at that point. And usually you can do the job with heavier loads, get a really good stimulus and not have a bunch of question marks to stay if you're trying hard. That means sets of 10, sets of 15, sets of 20, sets of 25 are all really awesome for the delts. And you should move in and out between those ranges. And also it'll depend on the exercises you're choosing. Some exercises are great for sets of 20. Some are better for sets of 10. Next point. Good technique is a must for training delts if you want to hit your delts in a safer way and in a more effective way. And one of the critical elements of good technique is eccentric control. Being able to slowly, maybe not so slowly, but under control, lower the weight down to where it started. So if you're doing lateral raises, hey, listen, you can bro it up a little bit, shmig them up on the way, use a little body language to get the weights up. But on the way down, make sure you are tightly contracting your side delts and riding out that stimulus. You got the weight all the way up there. You might as well use that humongous eccentric stimulus to grow more muscle. If you just kind of move around with delts, sometimes you have to do way more sets and reps to get the job done than if you have proper eccentric control with a full deep range of motion every single time. Next, try to get to one or two reps in reserve on most of your working sets. How can you tell this is the case? One, the implement, barbell, dumbbell, cable, whatever, starts to slow down. You're trying to move it as fast as ever, but it's not moving as fast as ever. That's a real good sign that you are closer to failure. Another one is it's not slowing down, but it's perceptively feeling heavier. Like you're using the 15-pound dumbbells for laterals. I swear to God, by the end of the set, them shits weigh about 30 pounds. Those two things in combination, or at least one of those things, can inform you that you're getting really close to failure. Now remember, it has to be good technique. If you are trying to just get as many reps as you can and you're like, YOLO, I got to get 15. Once the technique goes to hell, I don't even know where you are in terms of failure because failure is specific to that good technique. If your technique starts to warp into get-it-done mode, I'm not sure how close to failure you are, nor are your muscles sure about it. Lock in the technique, and when the muscles are really screaming at you, when the weight starts to slow down or feel really, really heavy, now you're getting close to one or two reps shy of failure and you're good to go. As you progress in loads and weights over time and in reps, you're going to realize like, I was actually four reps shy of failure when I started the cycle, but inevitably, if you keep challenging yourself, you're going to get close to failure and even to failure, and over time, you're going to calibrate on how close to failure you really are. Point number four, I highly recommend on delts especially, on side delts especially, is micro-loading and rep progressions. Think about it this way. If you're doing laterals with the 15-pound dumbbells for sets of, well, I don't know, 16 reps per set, and then you decide that, oh, I don't want to do 17, 18 reps, that's too many, I'm going to go up to the 20s. That is the equivalent by ratio of squatting 150 pounds for sets of 16 reps, and then deciding you're going to go to 200 pounds in the squat. Like, if you can do sets of 15 or 16 reps with 150 in the squat, sets of maybe five or six are possible with 200 for many people. It is an enormous jump. It is a quarter of the weight on at the same time. Totally takes you out of the rep range you wanted. Totally takes you out of maybe even a safe loading range for your joints at that point. It's absolutely no good. So what do you do? You have two options. One is you can use micro-loading. There are magnetic plates you can buy from a bunch of different companies that you can slap onto dumbbells and add one and a quarter pounds every single week that you're doing the dumbbell. Now, that's a really good progression. It's 15 pounds this week, 16.25 the next week, 17.5 the week after that, and so on and so on. That makes a ton more sense, allows for smooth progressions, hitting the same reps every time, but the weight's a little heavier. Or you're not fancy, you don't have microplates around, you can just add reps. So if you're doing sets of 13 on the lateral raise with 15 pounds, next week, try 14. The week after, try 15. The week after, try 16. I was actually involved in a study directly, which we have published, which compared rep progressions versus weight progressions on hypertrophy. And the result was the same amount of hypertrophy as long as you're challenging yourself every single time. Don't be afraid to progress in reps because sometimes the dumbbells are just way too big and heavy for you to progress in any sense of the word and load unless you have microplates. Next, on the number of exercises per session. Typically, you want to do one or two delt exercises per session, but within numerous sets. A lot of times, this is because when we say at RP, training delts, we usually mean mostly side delts and a bit of rear delts because those are the components of your delts that don't get trained a lot in other things. But front delts, you shouldn't be training too much because they get trained in every single chest move. And rear delts, you can train somewhat, but they get trained in every single back move as well. When we say delts, we mean side delts, and your side delts can get an amazing stimulus from just one or two exercises, somewhere between five and ten sets per session. Now, today in these demonstrations, we are going to give you guys a look at a workout plan to smash your delts into the sky that has four exercises. I typically don't recommend that you actually do this. This is just for inspiration and lols to see how many exercises you can step in and still have a good time with. A lot of really good angles, good movements, that sort of stuff. But if you really wanted a good delt program, we have a sample for you in a second, and it's only got two exercises per session. Volume per session, again, is five to ten sets. Why five to ten sets? Fewer than five sets, and you could probably just do more and recover. Many more than ten sets, especially of side delts, gets really stale, really boring, get really weak, and you start doing what's called junk volume. Yeah, you're training, but the actual stimulus is super low, and the fatigue is super high. Something like five to ten sets of delts per session is a big deal, and it'll grow tons of muscle. But here's the big unlock, point number seven. Frequency. Your side delts, in most cases, are unable to get a massive stretch under tons of tension. The shoulder joint, not a big tension joint. It's not like your hip joint that the hamstrings can do with hinges. And, just like your hamstrings can get pulled into extreme stretch with huge tension, your shoulder joint kind of just ends right here, and you can't pull past your pec. So the reality is that shoulders recover rapidly. Your side delts can be trained hard every other day, sometimes every day. So the frequency for a serious attempt at bigger shoulders should probably be like three or four sessions per week. Remember, with just one or two exercises at a time, five to ten sets total. But hey, if you think about it, four sessions a week with ten sets each session, that's 40 sets. That's what research shows is probably at least close to the upper limit of hypertrophy that you can get. So if you're really serious about high-volume delt training and getting the biggest delts you can, high frequency is indispensable. I currently train delts basically four times a week, and I've made this quite public. I just don't like training my delts. It's the least interesting muscle for me to train on my body, damn near, versus, I don't know, forearms, calves, and some shit like that. But high volume for me and high frequency has been working like a charm. I don't love it. It just happens to be something that's super effective. If you want bigger shoulders, you can't pretend that training them once a week is going to be enough. Twice a week at least, but really three to four sessions a week, two exercises at a time, maybe one, five to ten sets at a time, that's going to get the job done. Now you're thinking, holy crap, ten sets of delts, that's a lot of sets. You don't have to be in the gym for two hours training delts because you can use point number eight here and exploit the mile rep advantage. Here's the situation. You got lateral raises, and you did a set of 18 reps with the 10-pounders. The next set, you can start after a normal break, but you don't have to just do a set close to failure and get 14 and then another set and get 12 and then 10 and so on and so forth. That degrades how much volume you're doing per set and is only one approach to failure per set. Delts are kind of cool, side delts especially, because they tax the local musculature a lot, these exercises, but they don't tax the system a ton. You do some laterals, you're not exactly out of breath for three minutes after. So here's what you can do. Take only about a minute between sets. So you do one set of 18 reps, take a minute rest. The next set, what you're going to do is do as many reps as you can until you get one, two, or zero reps shy of failure. Note how many that is. Let's say it's 10 reps. Put the dumbbells down. Breathe for five to 10 seconds. Do more laterals. Let's say you get another four reps. That's 14 reps total. Breathe for five to 10 seconds. Do another four reps of laterals. That's 18 reps total. That's two sets. One regular set. One mile rep match sets. As many mile reps as it takes to match that first set. What I've been doing in my program lately is four, five, or six total sets per session. But everything but the first is a mile rep match set. That means I get a set of 20 on machine lateral raises. Pretty tough. And then I have to do another 20 and another 20 and another 20 and another 20. I've been doing something like 80 to 120 repetitions. Hard reps in hard sets per every single Delt workout. I do those four times a week for the last half year or so. My Delt's have gotten notably bigger and way stronger. Do I love it? No. Does it save me lots of time because a lot of the rests are five to 10 seconds? Yes. Is it hugely stimulative? It's massively stimulative because you get so many approaches to failure. I might only do five sets, but the last few sets are three or four approaches to failure per set because that's how many mile reps it takes to get to 18 or 20 reps again. That means for every time I'm doing five sets, I'm really doing, man, maybe eight, maybe 10 approaches to failure. In some sense, that's a little bit of the vibe of eight to 10 working sets. If the reps add up to what you would get, eight to 10 working sets, and the failure proximity, number of times you get close to failure also adds up to like eight to 10 working sets. Then even though you did five myra match sets and took basically the time it would take with rests and the work that it would take for you to do, well, only five sets, you get 10, maybe a little bit shy of that equivalent muscular stimulus, which for Delt's, because you have to train them all the time and you got to be in the gym all the damn time, but you don't have to rest long between sets because your system isn't affected. You might as well take that advantage and use the mile rep match system. And one last one. Yes. Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go. And then slow control. Amazing. Amazing. Rack. Good. I think you got five at least. Bitch, let's see. And then slow control. Amazing. 10 seconds here. And then three final ones. Two. Good technique. Chest up, chest up, chest up. Finish. And then slow. Control. Amazing. Amazing. One last one. Slow. Straight arms. From the bottom, straight arms. One more. For Scott. For Scott. For daddy. For daddy. One more. One more. One more. Let that arm come back. Use only shoulder power to come back. Yes. Stay upright. Don't curve your spine. Don't bend. Good. See how much harder that is. Yeah. Reach back behind you. Don't bend. Reach back far. Yes. Yes. Three more. Bullshit. Good technique only. Let's go. Rack. Damn it. Good job. Good job. Don't be hard on yourself. Good. Stay good. Stay good. Stay steady. Yes. Slow. Get ready for one last one. Strength. Yes. Now control. As if another control. Control. You're doing great. Yep. Fuck. Straight arms. Two left. No bouncing. Control. Control and one rep all by itself. Yes. And then slow. Slow. Slow. Let go of the machine. Arms out. Arms up and out. Arms up. Up. Like you're pouring a glass. Like you're pouring a glass. Up a little bit. Up a little bit. Stay. I hate you. Stay. Thank you. Up a little bit. Up a little bit. Good. Good. Good job. Good. My man, it's getting really hot in here. Hey, say something, talk that shit in Greek. Say something about Pac in Greek. Oh. I don't know what to say about Patroclus. I don't know, I love Patroclus. Dr. Pac. But you're ellipses. That's right. Hey, Pac, ellipses and shit. Whatever my girl said. We're out here, baby. We're out here, baby. Now you've seen some good lifts. You've seen some good samples. Let's give you guys an actual workout sample to implement that you can use right now in your RP Hypertrophy app or any other kind of app or even just your own notebook and even just the ideas in your own head. So this is going to be three days a week of training delts. Something like Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Again, I don't love training delts any more than zero days a week. You just got to get them in because they don't take much stimulus. They don't take much damage. You've got to fry them. Every single day is going to have two exercises on it. The first day is going to have seated laterals for my rep match. Again, brutal. Tons of volume. Tons of approaches to failure. And then finish with a cross body rear slash side free motion lateral situation on the cables. Amazing for the side delts and the rear delts especially. Day number two would have behind the back cable laterals. You got to flip around on a machine a few times, but it really stretches the delts kind of like nothing else. And then an Atlantis machine. Probably the best lateral raise machine I've seen ever made. Drop set, which is really cool because it's a select rise machine. You do one 40 for 10. You do one 30 for 10, etc, etc, etc. Three to six of these sets is probably good enough to fry you. Start with three over many weeks, work up to six. And then for day number three, try barbell upright rows for multiple sets. My rent match is great for these, especially if you have Versa grips because your grip is out of the equation. And then finish with cable face pulls. Now for cable face pulls, you can take an overhand position on the cable. You can take an underhand thumbs up position on the cable. You can put the cable real low to the ground or bring the cable up closer to your face. The lower the cable goes, the more side delts it is. The higher the cable goes, the more rear delts it is. And on the grip, it's a dealer's choice for what you find more comfortable and where you feel it the best. Give this workout a try and shit. After a few months, if your adults aren't bigger, well, you get the RP 1 trillion percent I don't know. I don't know. I just don't know. Maybe you ain't eating right. Maybe you ain't sleeping right. Maybe you need to eat sleep and sleep while you're eating. We'll get back to you on that. By the way, today's color is camouflage green. I don't know if you guys know, but that's how we're doing it out here. Maria, you did great. How does it feel to have huge delts? It feels amazing. It feels very huge to be huge. I love it. And that's all you need to know. in our mortgage mortgage mortgage in our mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage tea