 Hey guys, dr. Mike here for RP strength. I have 14 exercises for you for basically the whole body, which I think are kind of underrated in the current lifting environment. If you try them, you're probably going to get some decent gains. So let's get to go and get some ideas and trying some exercises. Oh, I have to try them. Fuck. our first massively underrated exercise is gonna be for the chest. And it is as underrated as it is difficult to find in a gym. It is the cambered bar bench press. It's underrated for two reasons. Once nobody has a cambered bar, but they're not that expensive. And if you know your gym owner well, ask him to buy one. You won't regret it. The other reason is nobody wants to stretch that deep. You can't use as much weight. Sally has titties and is looking at your lifting technique over in the corner. She's going to turn around because she thinks you're weak because Sally doesn't know biomechanics. When you get a massive stretch, you get a massive stimulus for growth. This exercise is goaded. You don't have to go all the way down. Just go as low as you can to get that baller deep stretch. Take a nice little pause. No crazy reactive movements down there and come all the way back up. Sets of five to 10 are okay here. That's a little heavy. Sets of 10 to 15 are probably best. And remember when you start this exercise, one or two sets and then take a few days off because your chest will get that ass beat. Exercise number two, also for the chest, because the two most important muscles in the human body are the chest and then the chest again, is the deficit pushup. Unlike the cambered bar bench, the deficit pushup is ubiquitous. You can do it anywhere that you can set up two blocks and that your cock's not in danger of anything hurting it on the way down. I don't know why I said that, but I thought maybe an army of miniature dachshunds were going to run out and try to bite your cock. Why am I mixing a lot of cock reference into this? Here's the deal with deficit pushups. You want to go low for a super deep stretch and there's no wrong answers on grip. You can do wider grip. You can do narrow grip. Choose a grip that's comfy and the one that really lets you feel your chest being pulled apart. Spend some time down there too. I recommend one second for most people in that ball or deep stretch just to get those fibers pulled apart even more. This is an exercise you can do for any rep range. If you're really strong, do some other chest work before. Use this as a later exercise or even as a final exercise so you're nice and exhausted and then the reps don't have to get much over 25 or 30, which is going to cause less growth. Another quick tip for this exercise is to just stack the reps back to back. Take five or 10 seconds between sets, breathe it out, do another three or four reps, another five or 10 seconds, another three or four reps. Keep cranking like that. Stay close to failure. You build a ton of reps like that. You're going to have a huge chest. A lot of people don't do this exercise because pushups again are not super impressive to do and people give a lot of smack to folks that do body weight stuff. I get all those memes made about me, rightfully so, that I have a trillion dollar gym and I'm doing pushups. Guess what, motherfuckers? Pushups work. Deficit pushups work even better. Number three most underrated exercise in my view for the back is a good old-fashioned pull-up. You guys, pull-ups were always goaded. They have looked at the molecular structure of pull-ups and it turns out it's made of just the regular stuff your body was made of on some tests, but on other tests, it looks like miniature goats all the way down. Wait, wait. It's always the female goat and the male goat communicating. What are they talking about? We have deciphered goat language using AI and they're just talking about different kinds of pull-ups. Weighted pull-ups. Pull-ups where you push your head way far above the bar and slowly control the eccentric. Wide grip. Close grip. Underhand grip. There is no limit to pull-ups. And because you can progress both on repetitions and with two and a half pound increments on a weight belt on load, it's just a limitless exercise. In my current mesocycle, I do pull-ups on both back days of my week because they're so goddamn good. Why underrated? Because people are always looking for that turn around in bullshit exercise, which is great. Cables are awesome. One-arm versions are awesome, but they kind of forgot about pull-ups. I'll tell you what, I'll get an analogy for pull-ups. Imagine going to a high school dance and you kind of look around and all the popular girls over there, all the guys are talking to me. And there's a fine-ass bitch with like 18 trillion curves standing over there. She's like six foot one, hips and shit, all kinds of titties and shit. And you're like, yo, hey, Frank, my best friend from high school, not a really high school name, is it? What's up with Stacey over there? And he's like, nobody talks to Stacey, man. I think she was big in like the eighties when people actually had really awesome backs and aesthetic physiques, but actually, I don't know, man. I just know one ever talks to her while I'm going over there. I'm getting on my knees and I'm doing some fucking weighted course. Next up is the cable flexion row. Just like in the seventies when they used to have ball or seventies, big physiques, and they did a shitload of pull-ups. They also did a bunch of cable flexion rows. I didn't invent the cable flexion row like almost everything else in my life. I stole it and then named it after myself. From now on, it will be called the Israel row. The cable flexion row is badass because it allows you to hit your biceps, your forearms, your lats, and your spinal erector muscles, which remember are a big part of your back. Get a full big stretch at the bottom, get a nice peak contraction at the top. Don't use a ton of momentum. Use your actual back. Think of your back as curling forward and then arching all the way up every single time. I like to do these for sets of 15 to 20 and a bunch of sets. This exercise will you up in the best way possible. Something my rabbi told me before that one time I'll never forget. Even though the psychotherapist said eventually the pain won't feel like pain anymore. Next up, biceps. The free motion dual cable cross machine curl, which has a lot of stuff to say, is so amazing. Most people don't do it because they just don't know it exists, but you get them shits way behind your back. It stretches the crap out of your bicep. And if you put the supports up so that the cable angle is higher, it can generate the most tension in the stretch and the least of the peak contraction. That biomechanically makes this exercise amazing. If you don't think biomechanics is real and science-based training is overrated, then try these shits. Full range of motion, deep control. Do not bounce out of the bottom, and that'll be the last time you're bouncing anything with a non-torn bicep. This is an amazing exercise. I use it all the time. I love my matching on it too. Hit about 20 of them. Shits close to failure. Take a two-minute break and do as many, many sets as it takes to get to 20. Again, two-minute break and again as many as it takes to get to 20. But only try a few sets because they will light that ass up. Your biceps are going to be on fire. This is absolutely my favorite bicep exercise, period. Another bicep favorite of mine, which is underrated, mostly because it's just kind of an obscure exercise from like the 1950s, and because I have renamed it the clown curl. Because there's a contingent of the internet that's upset that people aren't always lifting the heaviest weight they can be through a short range of motion. If you have this curl and you're laying down, when you have a nice deep bench, that the angle is so disingenuous to you. You can't use much weight. 20 or 25 pounds for most people is a load of weight. I did this exercise for weeks and weeks with the 15s, and I got a ton of growth. Very similar exercise to the free motion curl. Just mind your manners at the bottom and reverse super slowly, ideally having a big stretch. And one quick pro tip here, arch your back and point your chest up. It'll pre-stretch your biceps that much more. One of my favorite tricep exercises that's incredibly, incredibly underrated is the behind-the-neck standing or seated easy bar extension. It's like a skull crusher, but standing up. You touch the back of your neck. You can use a wider grip. You can use a narrow grip. You can use some bars that allow you to have almost a neutral grip. Anything in between. You can do this with barbells or easy bars. You can even do this with cables. But the easy bar version is just really easy to flip into that position. Remember, you're reaching back and down at the same time, stretching the shit out of that long head of the tricep. The thing is, because it's a posturally difficult exercise, you have to maintain an upright posture. My reps and stuff probably won't work here, so it's straight sets all the way. I like this exercise for sets of 10 to 15 reps. Plenty of rest between sets. Building strength over time. Throw the two and a halves on every few weeks. Keep building up your strength and your triceps will thank you for it. Not a lot of people do this exercise because, again, you got to stand up for it. It's really hard. Most people just want a cable or machine, which isn't wrong, but sometimes the shit that's really good is the shit you haven't tried yet. One of my favorite tricep exercises is good old-fashioned dips, but done a little bit differently. In this dip situation, what you want to do is envision the fact that your elbows are going to be traveling as far backward through the movement as you can. Instead of having your shoulder travel forward over the bar, you are going to have your elbows travel backward, which means you might want to kick your legs down or forward in front of you and make sure that as you are descending, your upper body stays roughly vertical. How the hell is that possible? It's only possible if your elbows go really far back, all the way down for that deep stretch and all the way back up. Guys, these are brutal. Most people won't be able to do, but 10 or 15 of these fresh. Don't save these for the end of your workout unless you have massive Kevin Lebron-style triceps. These exercises, these dips, they're really tough. And if you have elbows that aren't so great, I would ease into them. Today when I'm demoing them, I'm probably going to demo them on an assistance machine. And if you need to use assistance, don't you ever be ashamed about it. You are exactly as strong as you are. The rep rangers are what they are. And so you got to do what you got to do. If you got to work with assistance, no big deal. When you get nice, big, and strong, you can work without assistance and realize that no one ever gave a shit about either way the entire time. For quads, belt squats are super underrated. But these aren't your traditional belt squats. The big problem with most belt squats is they don't allow you a full range of motion. You go halfway down in the squat and the belt kicks out. For these, I want you guys to set up some platforms. Sometimes some plates work in many machines. And if you have a really good machine like the Pit Shark, sometimes you don't even need to do this. That means that you get a super full range of motion. And the best machines are the ones that give you the most tension at the bottom and then the least tension at the top. I would descend nice and slow and take every opportunity to pause at the bottom to sit in that deep stretch and watch your quads absorb growth stimulus. Here's another tip on these. They're ideal for myoreps because when you stand up and grab the handles, lock out your knees, lock out your hips, you can kind of stand there for a while and your legs recharge a little bit. So do about 10 reps of these with two thirds reps, not quite locking out each time. Lock out, rest five seconds, do another five reps, rest another five seconds, another three, another two, another two, so on and so forth. Get into that 20 to 25 rep range. It's not a load you could do for 20 to 25 reps. It's really closer to your 10 rep max. But because of the magic of myoreps, you can squeeze that shit in. There are two bonuses from this. One, you get a massive metabolite stimulus and that causes extra growth. The other thing is that because you clip into that fucking chain and it takes forever to get into position, you don't have to spend a lot of time clipping and unclipping and walking around the gym. Two or three sets of about 20 reps of this exercise split into myoreps. Man, that shit will cook that ass. Max, what do you say? A few more sets? No. Got it. Got it, bro. Next underrated exercise is this sissy squat. You can do this free or you can do it with a machine I love doing that with machine and it's really kind of just like a roller pad because it allows me to get an unreal deep stretch and push my hips forward at the bottom, which gets the middle part of your quad really stretched out and tense and hypertrophied in a way that almost no leg extension machine can do because when you're bending at the hip, this front part of the quad, it runs through the hip, it loses a ton of tension and it no longer grows from leg extensions. This is a brutal exercise and an amazing exercise to do as the last quad thing in your program. If you get nice and big and strong, you can even use a weight belt and you can use these with weight. They're brutal and they're perfect for myoreps. Do a bunch, rest a little bit at the top, do a bunch. You only really have to do one set of like 20 to 30, maybe 40 of these. You will be cooked out of your mind. People will be confused because most people don't see this exercise a lot, but after their confusion wears off, they're going to look down at your legs and be like, holy shit, you have big legs, which is nice for people to say. Hamstrings, tons of great machines and stiff-legged deadlifts exist. But a lot of people don't do good mornings, mostly because they think they believe that good mornings are a back exercise. And they're right. It is also a back exercise for your spinal erectors. But if you properly hinge at the hips, push your tummy out, keep your chest up and reach your butthole back up to the ceiling to keep your knees from bending a ton, it stretches the hamstrings under tension like crazy. It is the identical technique to the stiff-legged deadlift, except the bar is on your back instead of in your hands. You can do this with a transformer bar like I'm demonstrating. You can do it with a regular bar. You can do these high bar. You can do a low bar. Shit, you can even do them at night, maybe sometimes in the morning as well. I guess that would make sense because they're good mornings. Sets of 5 to 10, maybe 5 to 12 are typically good here. Much more than 12 reps in my experience, the lower back starts to be the limiting factor. These are exercises to be progressed on load. So get nice and strong in them as long as you're feeling your hamstring. If you're feeling your hamstrings, especially painfully at the bottom, and you're progressing in load over time, big hams and bigger glutes and a bigger mid-back, and the entire spinal rector column are damn near guaranteed. They're painful, but they're worth it. Yep. Slow, controlled. Last one. Gotta be good. Yes. Walk it in. I sort of can't believe I'm saying this, but the underrated exercise for glutes is the barbell walking lunge. Like, yeah, you guys, it's still an exercise that you can do. A lot of people don't want to do it because it's crowded gyms and they don't want to walk around. That's totally cool. There's a lot of people that train in gyms that either have lunge lanes or turf or aren't crowded at all, and they still don't do this exercise because for a lot of folks, it's much easier to plug in and do some hip thrusts. Also, this exercise hits that cardio. It hits your quads. It hits your adductors. It hits everything. Nice, big steps. Gentle knee touching to the ground and leg all the way through each time. Stay nice and vertical. Keep super straight. Be very careful. Progress in reps and load. Sets of 15 to 25 reps because each rep is counted as just one step are really, really awesome here. Multiple sets, especially at the end of a workout, especially if you've done some glute isolation already, can really kick that ass. If you haven't been doing these, try them. You can also get them done really quick because you just do a whole bunch of mire reps of them, rack the bar, and get the out of the gym. You can do them with dumbbells as well or just your body weight, but the barbell version, not so common, but will cause giant glutes as a massive side effect. Cross body rear slash side lateral raises. This is where you put the cable attachments fairly low and you come across your body and go out to the sides. A lot of times using Versa grips for these are awesome. You just wrap them around. It doesn't hurt your hand. And I prefer these mile rep style where I just do a bunch rest, do a bunch rest, do a bunch rest. I don't have to reset and it's never a ton of weight. So you can rest a lot. I would say sets of 15 to 20 on a first set are good because for me, when I do sets of eight or something on rear laterals and laterals, I lose the mind muscle connection entirely and it just kind of becomes a weird back exercise. But if you can feel your rear delts and your side delts at the same time, because remember you're pulling apart for the rear delts, but you're also pulling up for side delts. This is one of my favorite exercises, super underrated because it gives you an amazing one shot aesthetic treatment of your delts. You can never have a rear delts that are too big or side delts that are too big. Why not an exercise that does both? For abs, our last exercise that I think is underrated is just the traditional decline reaching sit-up. You don't even have to do the reaching part, but if you get nice and strong reaching up at the top, stay reaching up at the bottom can give you some extra whatever the opposite of leverage is so that you have a really difficult time. It's a good idea to be mindful of curling and uncurling yourself so it's not just all hip flexors, but a substantial amount of abdominal activation. If you can do more than sets of 20 on these, multiple sets of 20, try some my reps, try holding weight. This is an awesome exercise. It's one of the best bread and butter exercises for abs. People still do this, but again, people are always looking for newfangled bullshit, which sometimes works out well and you keep it in your gym bag. Sometimes going back to basics is what it's all about. I guess this is a lot of back to basics today, which just means we have really cool, already well-vetted exercises that we can get into. Fucking awesome. All right, guys, none of this is gospel. These are exercises that if you like, give a shot. And if you can use them for a few weeks and really get the technique that you like out of them, they're going to get better. Give them a fair shake. And if you like them, awesome. Tag me on Instagram. If you hate them, awesome. Tag me on Instagram. Have fun, guys. See you next time. The RP Hypertrophy app has dozens of pre-made workout templates to help you build a plan faster than any other training software allows. But you can customize each plan exactly to your needs by prioritizing and deprioritizing any muscles you like to train, choosing the exact exercises you'd like to use, and customizing the volumes you employ at every single step of the process. If you're looking to bring up lagging muscle groups, look no further than the RP Hypertrophy app. Click on the link in the description of this video to get started.