 What are the best chest exercises for you? I have a formula by which you can figure this out, and we're going to talk about it right now. Is there really a best chest exercise for you? The answer is yes, but it's the best chest exercise for you right now, and it's for you right now. It's very individual, it's very time-specific, and it's not just one exercise, it's you right now. It's very individual, it's very time-specific, and it's not just one exercise, it's you right now. It's usually a group of about three to five exercises. But the way to find out what the best exercise is for you, or that three to five top exercises, is by SFR. You want an exercise that stimulates your pecs as much as possible to grow, while at the same time fatigues them as little as possible, given that the stimulus is as high as possible. That means every time you do multiple hard sets of that, exercise, you are getting a ton of exercise, you are getting a ton of growth signaled, and that means because the fatigue isn't as high, you can repeat more of those sets in a single session, more sessions in a single week, and more weeks in a single mesocycle, a single training program before you have to deload and switch exercises. That's a good way to think about how to crunch as much growth as possible into whatever unit of time that you have. Because fatigue is the ultimate timeout button. You accumulate enough fatigue, enough wear and tear, and you got to cut off the hard training to let the body recover. If your stimulus is massive and your fatigue is low, you're just going to be able to grow a ton of muscle before that fatigue timeout accumulates and tells you, hey, you have to take a break. But here's the thing. Theoretically, it's all super sound. Practically, though, how can you tell when your stimulus is really high and your fatigue is really low, or if those aren't lining up and maybe it's not your best chest exercise? Well, I have a checklist guide for you guys that I'm going to start yapping about. Right now is good. Right now. If you feel the tension in some other muscle, like your triceps, like I do with close grip bench, or even, not so great, in a joint, like your elbow. If you're doing some kind of hard compound pressing move and your body's like, hey, man, you feel that on your chest, and you're like, to be honest, man, it's really just my wrists and my elbows that are getting hammered. Well, man, I don't know. Ideally, if you're doing exercises that smash your chest, your chest should feel smashed by perceiving a crap load of tension in that muscle as you are contracting it on a heavy load. It's not the whole part of the story, but it's a big first part. Next checklist item. If you're doing higher reps, especially sets of 12, 15, 20 reps, you might never feel a ton of tension in the target muscle, though at the last few reps you should. But you're almost certainly going to feel a burn. Where you feel the burn matters for three reasons. Reason number one, if you feel the burn in your chest at a high rep set of, say, like hoist presses, which is one of my favorite exercises, hey, man, it's your chest that's working. It's the limiting factor. It's getting the metabolite summation. It's getting the growth. But if towards the end of a set, you're doing some kind of exercise, maybe like a floor press or something, and you feel the higher reps in your triceps, well, that's cool. You get a good tricep growth, but you can't possibly be getting a chest growth or it's just not as likely because your chest is clearly not the limiting factor because it's not burning towards the end. That's point number two. And point number three is if you feel a burn when you go to the bathroom, you know, guys, you really should be wondering who you're hooking up with. Probably go to the doctor. The next checklist item is how that muscle feels, the target muscle feels, after a whole bunch of sets. If after a normal number of sets, three sets, four sets, five sets, hard training for that muscle, if that muscle is what feels really weak and depleted, you're clearly stimulating that muscle. But if it's other muscles and other joints that are feeling weak and depleted, and that muscle kind of feels okay when you have a bit of a problem. For example, on the hoist machine press, I feel like such crap in my pecs after in a good way. But like if I try to do dumbbell flies after, I'm like so weak. I'm like 50% the strength I typically am on dumbbell flies because like there ain't no more chest left because the hoist blasted my chest into the moon. But if I do close grip bench presses, then afterwards my dumbbell flies are pretty good. It's just my skull crushers are really off. And it's like, okay, if my triceps got really tired from an exercise that I say is for chest, but my chest still feels pretty fresh, is it really likely that I stimulated the crap out of my chest? Because stimulus doesn't necessarily mean you're going to get fatigued because there's a ratio there. But a real solid stimulus means that at least your ability to lift heavy acutely shortly thereafter is going to be degraded. How do you know you got a good leg workout? You can't walk up the stairs all that well. That direct fatigue is a thing. If you said some squat workout blew your legs into the moon, but then you hop skip up the stairs, people have to wonder like what the hell is going on. But if you do a crap load of deficit pushups and after that you can't even do a real pushup to get yourself off the ground and you feel your pecs are the limiting factor, yeah man, all things being equal, your pecs probably got stimulated like crazy. Next checklist is the pump. Pump. Pump. Look, the pump isn't everything, but all things being equal. Exercises that tend to stimulate a lot of growth usually cause robust pumps for a certain given number of sets. Yeah, you can do 80 sets and everything will get a pump at that point. What if you do just about four sets close to failure of an exercise for chest? For me, four sets of incline dumbbell presses, my pecs are pumped into the moon. But if I do floor press for four sets, my pecs aren't really that pumped. And I got to wonder, did I do a huge job stimulating my pecs with floor press? And for me, the answer is probably not. So don't take it as a full indicator or the only indicator. But if you got a really good pump going on, man, that means it's probably a damn good exercise, all else being equal, and all of the other checklist items getting checked off. The next one is soreness. For any given number of sets, enough sets to just make you sore typically. Especially if these are exercises you're already doing and well used to. Which exercises make you have more delayed onset muscle soreness in a given muscle probably do more stimulating on average than exercises that don't. So if you do an exercise you like, like for me, the hoist press, the camber bar bench, the deficit push-up, the incline dumbbell press, I do a few sets of those and the next day I am sore to the touch in the target muscle, which is the chest. If I do a lot of close grip work, if I do some machines that don't really fit me, I end up in a situation where I do five sets, but then the next day I'm not so sore in the pecs. Could be sore in the triceps or the front delts, that's not the target muscle. It can't be my best chest exercise. And the not-so-great kind of soreness is when your joints and connective tissues are sore. So when your elbows are sore and your shoulders are sore the day after some bench pressing, but your pecs feel right as rain, oh, that's not great. On the other hand, if you did some chest exercises that you really love, maybe a camber bar bench, maybe a machine bench like the hoist that gives you a big stretch, the day after your pecs are toast, but your shoulders and your elbows feel pretty goddamn good. And that's probably a really good high-stimulus exercise. And the lower fatigue, because your joints don't get messed up, that's a real good sign. If you're checking a lot of boxes with a so-far on exercise, whatever exercise that is, checking the green boxes for all these, that's probably a really good exercise for you to focus on for an extended period of time. Now we're in the bottom of the equation, the denominator. This is the fatigue part. If your joints feel pretty damn good, given that the exercise is stimulative, like for me, deficit push-ups, my shoulders feel amazing, my elbows feel amazing, my pecs are ruined. But if I do some super wide grip incline presses, my shoulders feel not so great. My elbows feel really not so great. And my wrists are like, dude, I thought we were friends. What are you doing? Do I have to call the police? And then no one's cooperating. And the thing is, it's not just a one-off. This is the trick. If an exercise was totally cool on your joints once, but after two or three more sessions a couple weeks later, the joints are really starting not to have a good time now that you're training harder and getting more used to the exercise, that's not a good sign. You want sustainability. On the other hand, you could have tried an exercise in which the joint feel is a little bit funky. After doing it a few more times, the joints feel better every rep that you get used to it, every set that you get used to it, from warm-ups all the way to working weights, and session after session after session, where it started as a little bit of joint irritation, has now, after three or four weeks, basically descended into no perceptible joint irritation while the muscle is getting cooked. That's an unbelievable circumstance. And obviously, the best circumstance of all is, it starts out being awesome on your joints and real bad on your muscles, and it just keeps going like that. That's how you know you have a true winner, one of those top three to five exercises that you're always going to have in your arsenal and want to deploy in most of your training mesocycles. Our new year sale is happening right very now. The Diet Coach app is for sale, and the Hypertrophy app is for sale. But for the first time ever, the Hypertrophy app is available in the iOS App Store. So either click the link in the description, or just go to the App Store and get those apps' mega discounts, and they don't last. See you next year. More Jacked. How much you like to do the exercise versus how much does it take out of your soul. So if you love to do the exercise, but it really beats you up and makes you tired, that's pretty good. If you love to do the exercise, and it really just doesn't beat you up a ton, man, that's awesome. But if you just don't really like to do the exercise, and it drains you systemically like crazy, then all of a sudden you're like, man, how sustainable is this going to be? Accumulated psychological stress is no good. You start to hate the exercise, hate the gym. Shit, you might even hate yourself. Wait, are you me? In any case, you want ideally for an exercise to be something you love to do, and it not beat you up too bad on a how hard you have to try with your whole body to get it done perspective. That's the ultimate winner. If an exercise takes a lot out of you, but you still love to do it, and the stimulus proxies, the pump, the soreness, the tension are awesome. Amazing exercise. If the pump and soreness and tension are not so great, the burn's not really there, the joints kind of hurt, and the exercise is just a pain in the ass to do, and you just don't connect with it, you hate it, and you're not excited about it, man, that's probably just not going to be your best bet, even if the biomechanics on paper line up really, really well. And that brings me to my last point. The ultimate arbiter of good stimulus to fatigue ratio relies on the idea that growing meaningful amounts of muscle only ever happens over numerous sessions in sequence. Here's how to get jacked. You put together a good program, and you run that thing. And if you put together a good program for two weeks, and then you can't run it because it doesn't work past two weeks, it does not matter how good the program was. It's just not going to add up. It's consistency that wins. So if you have an exercise that is a good stimulus to fatigue ratio, lots of tension, lots of burn, big ass pumps, tons of soreness, your joints feel great, you like to do it, and that is a fact. Week in and week out, as you progress in relative effort, getting closer to failure, progress in load, or in reps, or in both, and especially progress in sets, slowly adding volume over time, which is the really core driver of muscle growth. If that exercise is still damn good four, five, six, eight weeks later, never seven, then you're good to go, man. And that's really a good SFR exercise. Oh man, this analogy is going to suck, but here we go. How do you know someone's a good girlfriend? It's not because you hang out with them once and have a good time. You could have a good time with almost anyone once. Shit, my neighbor still misses his dog and we just hung out once. I just needed the skin is all. What? On a serious note, if you hang out with one girl once and it's a dope vibe, cool, but that doesn't mean she's going to be a good girlfriend because time number two and three can kind of degrade where it kind of blows. But if you've got someone who's just an awesome hangout day after day, week after week, man, you might call her that one girl I know, that's your girlfriend, big homie, and she's telling her friends and family and making pin cushions of you in case you go awry so she can stab you in the balls with the Scott. You know what I'm talking about? The voodoo doll stuff, which I've never been involved in ever, but I've been one incident still haunts me to this day. Consistency. Get you a good high SFR exercise. That makes sense. And if it works week in and week out and you can overload it with volume and with reps and with weight slowly and gingerly, and it's still good until six or eight weeks later when you need to deload, man, that is a true winner. For me, for the chest, it's cambered bar bench presses of various kinds. Awesome chest machines like the hoist, which is my favorite because as science has shown numerous times, the hoist makes them moist. Chest, deficit pushups, incline dumbbell presses. I live on that shit. Does that mean these are your best chest exercises? Absolutely not. Does that mean you should try a few of these to see if your SFR is actually really good for these? Absolutely. Every single fitness influencer and science person on social media is to be used for inspiration only. Try the shit they're saying, including me, maybe. And then if it works for you, amazing. But if it's another exercise that tickles your fancy and checks the green boxes for you, that is the true answer to this little puzzle. So go out there, try a bunch of different exercises, really try to learn and master a good technique. Give all of them a fair shake. Unless they're just really ripping your joints into pieces, try each one of them three or four weeks in a row. Try to progress and load. Try to make your technique as perfect as possible. You'll learn very quickly which exercises for you are high on the SFR ranking, which ones aren't that great. Pick the top three to five. Use them in a single mesocycle for your chest. And as soon as some of them, after a few weeks or a few, let's say you go up and deload, go up and deload, as soon as one of them's not feeling great, joints kind of starting to irritate it, the pump's not as good anymore, your tension can't really feel in the pecs, take it out, replace it with another good candidate exercise. Keep all the ones that are still moving in and keep going. You just delete, replace, delete, replace every few months. That way, the exercises that you have, maybe you have six really good chest exercises. You only use three at a time. You rotate in the ones that aren't stale anymore. Rotate out the stale ones. When you rotate the stale ones out, you don't use them for a few months. Your body refreshes to them. They're probably going to be really awesome again when you try them again. That rotation of top candidate SFR exercises is exactly the way to pick your grouping of your best chest exercises. And that's going to be a thing that works for you for literally years. And you will build the vast majority of your chest mass doing just that. And every now and again, every six months, every year, every two, you're going to see something on the gram or see something on YouTube, see an exercise, see a variation. And you're like, damn, that looks pretty goddamn good. You're going to try it. And five times out of 10, it's going to fail. It's going to be like, oh, that sucks. That influencer really made it look awesome. But I hate it. I don't feel any of the proxies for stimulus. But every now and again, you try a new exercise, a new variation, it's going to go amazingly well for you. If that's something you take, you put it in your pocket. And when, you know what I'm saying, the old debt collectors for muscle growth come around, you pull that out and you go, well, gee whiz, mister, I got this old coin. And he's going to say, hey, kid, you know, not all the analogies make sense. I'll see you guys next time. All right, folks, hopefully you saw the checklist. Hopefully you're looking at all the stuff that makes sense. Maybe thinking about some stuff that doesn't make sense. The ultimate answer is go out there, use good technique, try every exercise for a few weeks, give it some thought, feel out the proxies, see how your joints feel, how your muscles feel, how you feel the day after, how the pump is. Integrate all of those together. The RP Hipertrophy app does that for you automatically. With ratings, by the way, but who am I to say it, except for the inventor and the person, money that goes to my accountant, then my lawyer, and then my accountant, and I should never see any money. What? Guys, use some of these exercises I recommended. Go find your own. You have the formula to figure out what exercises work well for you. And low key, this works for all the other muscle groups too. See you next time. We'll see you next time. Yeah.