 There are three drugs, in my opinion, in my opinion, that as a man over 40 years old, you should consider taking. Each has its own major benefits to your health, psychological state, your fitness, muscle growth, and fat loss efforts. But the benefits don't end there. These drugs taken together are more than the sum of the individual effects. A lot of wealthier folks, connected folks in the know, celebrities are already doing much of this. You can take these drugs and multiply your shit to where your 40s are really like a better version of you than you were in your 20s. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Here's how, here's why we're doing that. Bombastic titles get way more people into the funnel and let us help more people because they actually watch the informative video where nuance is king. And I promise you, my entire reputation rests on us always giving you the real deal in the videos, never bullshitting you ever. Thumbnails and titles, if you don't use shit like everyone should, end up getting like a tiny fraction of the video. And we help fewer people. Is that a trade-off that's weird to make? Yeah. I'm not comfortable with that trade-off. Do we make that trade-off here at RP to just help more people? Yes. So it's a pretty little gift wrap. And inside the gift is like a Lego set. Like, yay, fun. Oh, I have to build this. This sucks. I have to think. We're bringing you here to think. So every and should are just absolutely not true because the reality is every single recommendation is individualized and nuanced, but should very many men over 40 highly consider taking these three drugs with the consultation of their doctor? Absolutely. So the core claim is 100% factual. Now, this video is not medical advice. It is very important for me to say this. Don't go run, tell that, and get a bunch of drugs yourself and start pinning yourself in the eyeball with trend needles, which is fun as a separate hobby, but does not enhance your health, longevity, vitality, muscle mass, or any of that stuff. And I guess, Scott, pinning trend into your eyes probably wouldn't grow you muscle in the grand scheme because you'd have to go to the hospital. And I can't train if you have needle marks inside your eyeballs. Sounds hardcore to me. Very hardcore. Worth. This is not medical advice. Everything you do with these drugs should be prescribed and approved and monitored, monitored regularly by your doctor and your doctor only. These are just ideas that I'm sharing with you that I think are better than not. You want to talk to your doctor about them by all means. And if not, no big deal. I'm not a medical doctor. I have a PhD, not an MD, not a DO. Even if I had an MD or DO when I was a licensed medical doctor, I still can't give you advice on what drugs to take and you just go and take them because your relationship with your own healthcare provider is the number one only way these things can happen. That being the case, got it out there. I'm sure all the stuff I just said, Scott, is going to get clipped right out and it's just going to be me saying crazy shit. That's how the internet works. So let's get down to business. There are three drugs, in my opinion, today as of the filming of this video in late 2025, that as a man over 40 years old, you should consider taking. Each has its own major benefits to your health, psychological state, your fitness, muscle growth, and fat loss efforts. But here's the really cool thing. When taken in combination, that's where the synergistic effects kick in. And these synergistic effects, these collaborative effects of these three drugs are actually really cool and give you a bunch of benefits, which I'll talk about kind of right now. So first, let's look at each of these drugs by themselves, talk about their benefits in isolation, and then bring it all together with if you take all three, what are the bigger synergistic benefits that you're going to get? So the first one is testosterone. If you are producing less than a moderate high amount of testosterone, the young virile male average, which is actually an amazing adult film title, young virile male average. And Scott, the average is crossed out with a red X, and it says extreme volume two. I got the two DVD starter pack. That's all I needed. If you get your testosterone up into the high normal range as a person in their 40s, and if you're a male in their 40s, it's probably not there right now. Only blood work can tell. You're going to probably have a number of benefits. Here are some of them. These are not even all. You're going to get a jump in libido and sexual activity. You're going to be a bit more like a rabbit, shown time and time again in testosterone replacement trials. Your erectile function is going to be better, which is dope and really helps the libido part. Libido without erectile function is called decadick. It's actually a term for that. Nandrolones will do some weird things to your boners. They make you really horny, and then you can't use your boy down there. Not from personal experience, of course. Your amount of red blood cells can go up, which can increase your endurance, especially if you're anemic. It's unlikely that you are, but this will 100% help. Your lean mass, your muscle mass will go up, and your fat mass will go down, especially over time. Your muscle strength and power will go up, and if you train, and I sure hope that you train, the amount of improvement you see with proper levels of testosterone is way higher than if you have low to moderate levels of testosterone. Testosterone supplementation can also markedly reduce depressive symptoms, elevate your overall mood and stability of your mood, so it makes you happier, more chill, more excitable, rather than anxious and depressed all at the same time. The metabolic tilt of TRT therapy goes closer into more glycemic control, blood sugar control, out of control. Blood sugar is a really bad thing, prediabetes, diabetes, etc., so this reduces diabetic outcomes. And it improves your body fat distribution. Not only does it make you leaner, but it makes you store less fat in your visceral compartment inside your guts, which is really bad for your health if you have a lot of fat there, and also really bad for your appearance. See any picture of me with my gut out. Scott, can we get one of them classic Mike is a fat pictures going? The internet loves them so much. Hell yes. Yes. Like, this guy doesn't know what he's saying, me and my absolute worst on purpose with compared to bodybuilder and contest condition. Although I do have a few shows where all of the most of the shows I've been at, I really suck. Growth hormone is our number two drug. So we got testosterone. Now we have growth hormone. In folks that have lower growth hormone levels, especially over 40, growth hormone supplementation can have a host of really legit benefits. It's going to probably increase your lean body mass. This happens over months. It's going to reduce fat mass, especially visceral fat mass. If you're dieting on growth hormone, your ability to burn fat and retain muscle is altogether different than if you're dieting without proper growth hormone levels. Your exercise capacity goes up. Your VO2 max goes up. Your ventilatory threshold goes up. So you can do more work, more sets, more reps, better cardio, more using the libido from testosterone to have more sex with hot, young, or older girls or whoever. Growth hormone supplementation. Growth hormone supplementation in folks that need it also increases bone mineral density, which is dope, especially for older folks. It improves your lipid profile by reducing LDL bad cholesterol. HDL is usually unaffected, but lower LDL and the same HDL is just categorically better for your health. Your disease-specific quality of life, well-being, energy, daily functioning, all improve on growth hormone if you are deficient to some extent. You do get small gains in strength and muscle over the course of a long term. If you combine that with training, you're on a totally different planet. Another interesting thing you see with growth hormone is a huge improvement in the quality and duration of your sleep. Growth hormone supplementation, especially in the evening, makes you sleep like you did when you were a child. And it is a magical thing because sleep, remember, is the ultimate recovery mechanism. And I think the sleep enhancement effects of growth hormone are kind of worth the price of admission by themselves. Many users of growth hormone report notably better skin and hair quality. It gives you like a glow. Many users report way better joint and connective tissue health. It actually increases fluids in the joints, which makes them just work better and less painfully and recover better. This especially happens after months of long-term use. And there is a net metabolic improvement over time. If your body composition improves, if you're training and eating and dieting, growth hormone can give you so much more muscle and so much less fat that your net glucose dynamics improve, even though growth hormone has some not great effects directly on that, which I'll address in a little bit. All right. We got testosterone. We got growth hormone. What's number three? Terzapatide. Terzapatide is our third horseman of the over 40 anti-apocalypse. Terzapatide – Terzapatide – extra lean or some shit. Yeah. The testosterone guy's horse is like pissed. The growth hormones horse likes to fall asleep half the time, but it's super jacked and veiny. And then the trisepatide horse is just like you give it food, but you know, when it's riding and it's like, ah, I'm good. Like, you know, it doesn't need food. Very weird. Trisepatide is one of the quote unquote GLP drugs, though. It's a GLP GIP dual agonist. I don't like to say the term GLP. It is a fourth generation. Incretin mimetic, which means we had, oh, let's see. Exenatide gen one. I'm probably getting these wrong. Loraglitide gen two, as an example, semaglitide gen three, trisepatide gen four. And then currently in the approval process with the FDA, retatratide is gen five. I'll make another video about that when it comes out, because holy shit. Trisepatide gives you unbelievable benefits as a male over 40. It gives you near total control of your appetite. Take less of it or eat tastier foods. If you want to gain weight, take more of it or eat less tasty foods. If you want to lose weight, and it's a turn dial for just doing whatever it is you want with your body weight. It makes fat loss a completely different animal with it than without it, because you have near total control of your appetite. Imagine dieting, but you're not concerned about hunger because you just don't feel hunger anymore. It's that big of a deal, but the benefits don't end there because this is a weight loss drug of which weight loss is actually a decent benefit size, but a massive amount of benefits are non weight mediated. You just take the drug and you get the benefits, even if you don't lose any weight. Here are many of them. Trisepatide exerts powerful glycemic control all the way down to beta cell effects, not just weight mediated across multiple, very high specific measurement trials, measuring things like HOMA-2B. They were measuring pro-insulin, insulin, pro-insulin C peptide ratio, reduced fasting glucagon. All of these are consistent with better processing and beta cell rest, so to speak. It makes the beta cells of your pancreas healthier and able to control blood sugar way better at a fundamental qualitative level. To reflect this, improved glycemic quality is observed, not just the lowered A1c, which is a big deal, but sub studies show a variety of enhanced basal insulin responses, which means that this is an anti-diabetic drug at a total next level. Liver health markers go just beyond ALT-AST. The histology tissue analysis of livers on folks and animals using trisepatide come out deeply beneficial to liver health if you take this drug. Lipids that are atherogenic that can cause blood clots trend better. For triglycerides and LDL fall, HDL nudges up in a dose-dependent fashion with trisepatide. We have a drug that lowers LDL and raises HDL without hardly any of the side effects that old statins used to do. Here's the one effect of trisepatide, which I think may be the biggest. In any case, I think incrementally will be shown as one of the most important. Trisepatide radically reduces markers of deep, systemic, chronic inflammation. It reduces deep, systemic, chronic inflammation. If you talk to Chachypti or Gemini or Claude, you may ask them, hey, what kind of disease conditions are caused or made worse by chronic, systemic inflammation? It's going to give you a list that basically never ends. Chronic, high-grade, systemic inflammation, low-grade actually, is an insane disease causative state that tears up your entire body. It causes joint wear and tear. It causes your heart to malfunction. And trisepatide reduces it so much, it also reduces it in the brain and nervous system. Brain inflammation causes, in part, things like Alzheimer's. Trisepatide radically reduces that in a dose-dependent fashion. I kid you not when I say this, trisepatide is a longevity drug, and it is a quality of life into older age drug writ large, one of the most powerful drugs we've ever seen. Just in case you were curious, it also lowers 24-hour blood pressure. It radically improves insulin sensitivity. It reduces your addictive drive. People on trisepatide report quitting smoking, quitting drinking, quitting gambling. I kid you not. In record numbers, just because that noise of, do the thing, is something trisepatide lowers a ton, which is crazy. Trisepatide empowers your brain and your mind to make you more consistent at your fitness goals and your organized lifestyle. It encourages you to be able to do better habits. What? And, bonus round, it's also super health-enhancing in the long-term for your kidneys. They haven't found an organ system yet, you guys, and I mean this, that trisepatide doesn't seem to help. Now, those are the three drugs, testosterone, growth hormone, trisepatide, that men over 40, if they take all three, can see incredible effects, just because each drug by itself has incredible effects. But what about these synergistic effects? Because it turns out, these drugs together add up more than the sum of their parts. What are those additions? Let me go through a few, and these are just a sample. There's many more that I leave out just for time purposes. Weight loss on trisepatide can cause muscle loss. Testosterone and growth hormone combat this. The result is, you lose weight on trisepatide, testosterone and growth hormone, but almost all of the weight is fat. And if you train with weights and eat a high-protein diet, like I sure hope you are watching these videos on this channel, you lose fat and gain muscle at the same time, which means you lose radical amounts of fat and your health and visual appearance just completely transform with all three of these, plus diet and training in the mix. And I'll get to the diet and training in just a bit. Growth hormone by itself helps you grow a bit of muscle. Testosterone by itself helps you grow plenty, but them together have a synergistic muscle boosting effect. So if you take growth and test, you grow way more muscle than just each one by themselves or even each one added together, which you can see as evidence for the entire IFBB Pro League and every bodybuilder that's taken growth and test for the last 30 years. Here's a kind of downside. Growth hormone can raise blood sugar levels and make you pre-diabetic in some cases, which is a real gnarly thing. But terzepatide lowers blood sugar like crazy, more than making up for any realistic amount of growth hormone you could take, certainly in supplemental dose. So terzepatide completely zaps that effect out. And that's such a big deal. So growth hormone used to have a bunch of positive effects and a bunch of side effects. And terzepatide is X-ing out some of those bad side effects. That's true synergy. Supplemental testosterone for many folks can make them much hungrier, which if you take that and growth hormone and you're feeling all slowly in the gym, you can start to eat lots of food. You gain lots of muscle, but you gain lots of fat too. And that might not be so good for your health. With terzepatide in the mix, it is the most powerful hunger modulator of all time so far. That's FDA approved. And we'll zap this problem out of existence. You just go from two and a half milligrams of terzepatide, just an example, to five milligrams of terzepatide per week. And whatever amount of weight gain you thought was going to happen, age is just not going to happen anymore. Now, higher doses of testosterone and in some context, growth hormone as well, can be pro-inflammatory, especially if you're eating lots of food and can make certain cardiovascular disease markers go in the not so favorable direction. Terzepatide contracts both inflammation and the CBD markers directly. And that makes both the testosterone and the growth hormone categorically safer than if you take them without terzepatide. There are many more of these synergistic effects, but let me just say this. These drugs taken together are more than the sum of the individual effects, both in maximizing benefits and in minimizing downsides. Now, for completeness and maximum educational throughput, there's just one big fourth variable that I have to talk about here that make these drugs really work their magic. That variable is lifestyle, which as amazing as all these drugs are, and you guys might not know this or maybe you do, I'm the most pro-drug person in the world. I look forward to a future in the 2030s where we take a few pills and they just handle all of our health and fitness for us. I really do believe that it's coming and I hope to God it is. That's how pro-drug I am. But we're not there yet. And for now and for a long time to come, lifestyle is still the undefeated champion of the world in terms of all of the benefits these drugs augment. Lifestyle does the meat and potatoes work. And if you're a male over 40, you take these three drugs, testosterone, growth hormone, or trisepatide on top of a good lifestyle, then you are going to have one hell of an awesome time. Without lifestyle and you only take these drugs, and I do know people that do this, you are likely to have some real gnarly side effects that are not good for your health and you won't be having a good time. So when I say men over 40 need to be on these three drugs in many cases, I mean in the context of a healthy lifestyle. And if you're like, what about just the drugs? My answer to you is that is a very bad idea. So before you even consider taking these drugs and talk to your doctor about them, get the following things squared away. Make sure you're training at least two days a week of five to 30 rep sets and each set is hard. Many more details in many of our videos. If you really need guidance, the RP Hypertrophy app is absolutely available for download anytime you need it. It'll just guide you all the way through. Diet. Eating mostly healthy foods, high in protein, three to six times evenly per day is going to get you squared away on diet. If you really need help on diet, we have the RP Diet Coach app. You can download that anytime. Link's in the description. It's on the iTunes store, all that stuff. You don't need these apps, guys. Yes, in RP, we're in the business of selling apps. But we're really in the business of giving you guys the best education that you can have with a few odd colored jokes and swear words mixed in. That's just me doing a bad job. But the apps are like optional. They're 100% optional. I'll never tell you any otherwise. Like our investors right now are like this idiot's burning away our money. But we're never going to lie to you. Not a single time. They're great apps, but like you can do this shit by yourself. The apps can help if you'd like. I use both apps legit every single second when I'm awake. But that's the thing for full transparency. Sleep. Scott, we need to get a sleep app. Can you imagine this is the simplest sleep app in the world? You just set your timer and it pops up a screen that says go to sleep, mother. And you're like, that's sweet. Damn. It's $19.99 a month for this? Worth every penny. Seven to nine hours a night, sleep is a magic medicine that makes you healthier and makes you leaner and makes you stronger and makes you bigger. It's just the best. Sleep is a non-negotiable. And something I have to take a page out of my own book here, stress management. If you overstress long-term, you can kiss your health and fitness goodbye. It's going to whittle you down to nothing. And lastly is physical activity. At least eight to 10,000 daily steps as a baseline. When you're bulking, when you're maintaining more like 10,000, when you're cutting 10 to 12,000, then here, as long as you have the energy, the more stuff you do, dancing, sports, hiking, et cetera, the better physical activity is big. If you do all of these lifestyle things as well as you can and you take testosterone, growth hormone, or trisepatide as a male over 40, you're going to have one hell of a time. Now, before we talk about what kind of time you're likely to have, let's talk about side effects. The reality is, guys, all of these drugs have side effects. I'll list some of the most extreme ones as examples right now. Testosterone supplementation can give you bad blood work, can make you have pimples, and make you go bald. I wouldn't know anything about pimples or being bald, but my blood work's good. Scott, I'd rather have good blood work and baldness and pimples than the other way around, right? Yeah. You're like, I don't know if that's true at all. Yeah. You're like on a cruise ship, you've got like Elvis hair and your skin is perfect, and she's like, oh my God, you're so sexy. You're like, yeah, but my LDL is technically eating my HDL. She's like, I don't give a f***. You could technically eat me. Whereas if you're bald and pimply, I wasn't allowed on a cruise last time because I tried to walk on and they were like, oh, sir, you're too pimply. And I was like, but I'm also bald, and they got physical with me, Scott. I've seen you get turned away at the door before. I know how that goes. What did I get turned away for? Having the wrong kind of dress code. Yes. They don't just let you in with a tank top and Crocs into fancy London restaurants. And it's their right. It's funny, Scott, because I remember the doorman at that restaurant was like, oh my God, Chris Williamson. And Chris was like, can my friends come in? He's like, oh, no, Mr. Chris Williamson, they can't. He's like, I'm sorry. I could ask someone. No special or anything required. I suck. You guys are dressed great. All right. Growth hormone can increase blood sugar and can elevate cancer risk. If you already have cancer, it can make the cancer worse. 100%. Terzepatide can, in extreme cases, cause gastroparesis, which is the freezing of your stomach and intestines to just stop doing anything and then send you to the hospital to get your stomach pumped. The thing with these side effects is they are both real and so require you to be on your P's and Q's, staying in touch with your doctor about dosing adjustments at all times and living a healthy lifestyle because it reduces all these side effects by a factor of 10. But these side effects are also very manageable and if you do things right, often they're not present at all. Right now, I'm on testosterone and growth hormone and terzepatide and my blood work's amazing and my side effects on the GI front are like as long as I don't eat a whole pizza all in one sitting, I'm totally good. But it did not start like this and I've had many follies and foibles in my drug using times and I've paid the price. Bad blood work, very rarely for me, luckily, just have good genetics on that but boy, oh boy, the pimples in the ball there, tell you what. And the GI distress from semaglutide back in the day, absolutely a real thing. Guys, drugs have side effects. All drugs have side effects. So we're not promoting a panacea here. I'm just asking you to ask the question, is this something I can talk to my doctor about trying? Are these drugs something that my doctor might say, you know what, maybe we'll do some blood work and that maybe is a good idea. And so to the last part here, what can you expect? This is super caveated part here because everyone responds differently. There's a huge range of responses to all these drugs. But if you take all three of these drugs in the right dosages as prescribed by your doctor and you are following the fitness and health lifestyle that we preach here every goddamn day on the channel and in many other excellent channels across the internet, you can expect something like this over the course of months. Pounds more muscle. Pounds less fat than you carry right now. Almost all blood markers moving in the right direction on health. Better energy, better mood, better sleep, better progress in training so that you can turn those initial few pounds of muscle and fat change and multiply them over the years. You guys know, there's a, hopefully, is this Alex editing these? Alex, feel free to bring up any kind of meme of like TRT dad. There's always that guy at jiu-jitsu that's like 45 and you're like the hardest role of your life and he's like just a blue belt and you're like, why are you 215 pounds in the ab veins? And he's like, oh, it's just TRT. You're like, you. He's like, and growth hormone enters appetite. So TRT dad is in great shape and if he trains and does a lot of really good lifting and diet, you can take these drugs and multiply your shit to where your 40s are really like a better version of you than you were in your 20s. In addition to that, just like the teleportation back to the 20s, you get less joint pain, less inflammation and loads of other benefits. So yeah, guys, this is like a real thing. A lot of wealthier folks, connected folks in the know, celebrities are already doing much of this. So give it some thought. You don't want those bastards to get ahead of you in life. I guess that's a very nasty framing. Just remember one thing. Healthy lifestyle is the base of all of this and that your doctor is a 100% the person that should be making these decisions and the only person making these decisions. This is just food for thought. All right. That was it. See you guys next time.