 We flubbed, it's our bad, folks very understandably assume that Jared and I are pro-slow, that we think this is the way to train for everyone. Was I wrong about this? Or is this going to be a video of 20 minutes of copium? Light your pipes, let's find out. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength, and today I'm going to admit that I was wrong about something. And since I'm an insanely egotistical, not nice person, shouldn't be swearing in the first XYZ seconds of a YouTube video, admitting that I was wrong is incredibly hard for me, because I was born perfect, and I was never wrong. No, I mean, I am wrong, because I'm not perfect. Where am I? Rep speed for muscle growth. Was I wrong about this? Or is this going to be a video of 20 minutes of copium? Light your pipes, let's find out. So, if you've been on the internet in the training side for just a little teensy bit, you know without a shadow of a doubt that me, myself, and I, quote unquote, Dr. Mike Isretel, is a huge advocate of super slow training. Five-second eccentrics and all that jazz. But am I, though? I'm actually not. But Mike, you say, why not? I'll take it from here. The slower is better idea got going on the internet because of one big thing. Two big things. Myself and Jared Feather, IFBB Pro. That's his full legal name. Jared, as you may know, is an IFBB Pro Bodybuilder, classic physique division, an owner of gigantic shoulders, and a lover of all of the brown women of this world. If you happen to be Latina or Southeast Asian, Jared Feather's Instagram DMs are open to you, as are his arms and as are other parts of his body. Ladyboys, you can get it, too. But Jared and I, that long tangent notwithstanding, have been telling pro bodybuilders and a ton of other athletes on the channel that we've been training every Monday that they should be going slower during our actual training of them. We're always cueing them to go slower. Slow, slow, slow, slow, slow, slow, slow. And then slow, slow, slow, slow. Especially on the eccentric phase, the lowering phase of the movement, and especially towards the bottom of that phase. So on the bench press, we'd say slow on the way down, especially slow down closer to the chest. And that's how we coach. And because of these constant cues to control the eccentric and go slower on the eccentric, especially towards the bottom pause, folks very understandably assume that Jared and I are pro slow, that we think this is the way to train for everyone. But we flubbed, it's our bad. We do not think that that is the case. And we totally understand how it can be perceived to be the case. But we never meant for the overall recommendation for everyone to be to go super slow. In fact, there are only three-ish reasons why we cue almost everyone on the channel to go slow, especially towards the bottom of the eccentric. Here are these reasons. One, going slower is safer categorically. Almost anything you do at a low velocity is going to be safer than at a high velocity because the kinetic energy is lower. It's just really that simple. And kinetic energy is like literally what causes injuries to occur. Most of the folks that we train are gigantic, strong, oftentimes on bodybuilding drugs that make your muscles grow real big, real fast, but your tendons kind of lag behind, increasing the chance for injury even further. And they earn their living from their bodies. Scott, you like that? Scott, the video guy, now earns his living from his fingers, his ears, and his hands. That's what video editing, I think, is. That's true. Yep. But... Well involved. Scott, you also used to earn your living from your body, didn't you? Mm-hmm. College bills just don't pay themselves. My body is a wonderland. She's like, so what am I to you? And you're like, you're putting me through audio engineering undergraduate program. Melissa. Melissa. And I pop out of a cake. So people that make their living off their bodies are really, really big and strong and maybe don't have the strongest tendon integrity related to their muscle size. You just don't want to get them hurt. And so automatically, when you're training them, often for the first time ever, you're going to want to err on the side of safety. And slower is absolutely safer. So that's reason number one. We've been training people slow a lot. Reason number two is an even bigger one. Going slower can let you connect with the target muscles more. Making sure, for example, that you're using your quads more than your glutes for something like the squat. Because of that, we want people to connect with the target muscles. I mean, we're there for a quad workout, for example. If we get folks to go slower, there's a higher probability that they can form a better mind-muscle connection with their quads and use their quads. And here's another huge one. To that point of using your quads better, if you're going slower, you can alter your technique from cues from us on the fly. If your squat takes a quarter of a second to do and we cue you knees out, by the time we've cued you, you're already back up to the starting position. And then on the next rep, maybe you can adjust. But if you're going a little bit slower, especially on some of the reps, and we cue a correction, you know, as you're going down on the bench, we cue you, hey, elbows out, flow your elbows, and you do it, you're going to feel it right away. So there's a teaching opportunity inside of every rep, not just between reps. And that means going slower can make you more amenable to altering your technique on the fly and rep after rep after rep, you're improving your technique, which makes more of a stimulus to the target muscle, which is what we want, which is amazing. And we do a lot of this slowing down and cuing our correctionals because almost always the folks we train on the channel, that's kind of the first time they've ever trained with us and with our quote unquote training approach. And so these sessions that you're seeing are as much instructional session as they are live, hardcore, beat you to death workout. Because you'll notice we also take people really close to failure and pound them with a bunch of volume, but we're also making sure they go slow on the eccentric so that they're safe. Also, anytime you do something new, being a little safer is probably better. Your body gets hurt more often doing shit it's not used to than shit it's used to. It's an opportunity to have better mind-muscle connection from that slowness and an opportunity to make technical adjustments on the fly because it's just as much an instructional session as it is a regular session. And here's the thing. Once folks pick up on that mind-muscle connection on that technique, they can potentially go a lot faster and there's not a damn thing wrong with that. So if you can do a rapid eccentric and stay safe, connect with your muscles, and use proper technique, you're totally good to do rapid eccentrics no problem at all. Which is exactly what the direct experimental literature on muscle growth and eccentric speed actually shows. Basically, all the studies taken together, and this has been true for a long time and just more data keeps accumulating to say it's still true, that anything between a roughly one-second eccentric phase and a six-second, I know that sounds crazy, six-second eccentric phase, if you match these sets, like let's say classic study design would be to do one-second eccentrics on one leg in the leg extension on one quad, and the other quad is six-second eccentrics. And the standardization is both quads get the same number of sets, three sets, three times a week, and both of the legs are asked to go to muscular failure. So everything's identical except for the fact that some of, one side of the body takes six-second eccentrics and the other side of the body, the other quad, takes one-second eccentrics. And studies like that continue to find and have for like a decade that the growth is pretty much the same no matter how long or short your eccentric phase is. So if you're trying to stay extra safe, if you're learning to feel out which muscles are active, or if you're learning a new technique, or all of the above at the same time, going slow and slowing it down quite a bit can be a humongous benefit for sure. And if you just want to do some slower eccentrics for the vibe because it's a great variation, it just breaks up the boredom but is equally as effective, it's like replacing your rice with pasta. Same amazing complex carbohydrate, but it's just, it's not boring because it's not rice for the 50th week in a row. So if you want to do some slow eccentrics because you're learning a new technique, or trying to stay safer, or trying to find a good mind-muscle connection from your regular technique, or if you just want to do it for vibes and variation, that's absolutely, totally cool. But just the same way, if you're confident that you won't get hurt, you can connect just fine with your muscles and your technique the actual pattern of movement is rock solid, not just a free-for-all, feel free to go as fast on the eccentric as you like, so long as the muscles are actively resisting the weight and not just letting gravity do its thing. Which means, on the eccentric, just dumping the bar into yourself, let's say you're not getting hurt, let's just get that out of the equation, dumping the bar on yourself misses the eccentric phase and some of the unique muscle growth benefits that it connotes. But if you go down quick, you guys like that sound effect? Meaning the muscles are still actively controlling, even though it's fast, they're still controlling the weight, then you're going to get all of the same hypertrophy benefits from that one second of control as you get from six seconds of control. Now on the concentric, on the ascent, honestly, as fast as you can is totally cool if you're down with a little bit of risk. And if you're down with a little less risk, then a one to two second concentric is totally dope. You can technically do five and six second long concentric phases and they probably cause just as much muscle growth. But honestly, you guys, controlled concentrics that are intentionally slow kind of just suck the life out of you. They're not fun. Scott, you feel me on that? Like, controlled eccentrics on the belt squat is like you feel like you're really like putting the pain into your quads. But controlled concentrics is kind of like, I just want to get this over with. This sucks. Yep, exactly. It's such a real, real different feel there. So, intentionally slow concentrics kind of slap the effing life out of training. So, F that. And by F, I mean the Far P Hypertrophy app, yes, which has built in demonstration videos for every single exercise that show you how to do the exercise and show you how your first reps of you practicing that exercise should look from a cadence perspective a little slower. And as you get good at that exercise, whichever one you're using the R P Hypertrophy app or however else you train, you can go faster and faster and faster until the eccentric phase is as short as a one second in length. And as long as you're controlling it, you are 100% good to go. So, if you're feeling safe, your technique is good, your mind-muscle connection is dope, feel free to go nice and fast on the eccentrics and you'll be totally good to go. And if someone tells you you're wrong, hey, tell them Dr. Mike sent you. Don't tell them that, that's weird. Also, they didn't really send you. Also, they'd be like, sent you to do what? Like, I don't know. He just told me to say that. Well, he didn't tell me, I guess I just watched a video where he just ends a video with a weird rant that goes nowhere. See you guys next time. Bye.