ненене, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden Milliarden, Milliarden Milliarden, Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden for RP Strength and today we are going to check nine boxes about why you might not be growing the muscle that you want. Here is our troubleshooting guide. We are going to do five reasons for training, two reasons for nutrition, and two reasons for recovery why the vast majority of people in my view aren't getting the muscle gains that they want to be getting. Let's do this troubleshooting exploration together because when you're not growing there could be very, very, very many reasons why you're not growing. One of the reasons could be that you were a bad person in your past life and God's just not a big fan of yours but it could be these nine reasons so let's get into the nine reasons. If you uncork your growth by addressing one or several of these nine reasons then you have clearance for growth. It doesn't mean you explode automatically but then you're going to make great gains. If you're still not growing after these nine unlocks or if you watch this video and you're like I'm already doing all that really well I would highly recommend considering hiring a coach or doing some deep dives in your own knowledge talk to AI or check out one of my favorite video series that we've ever done on this channel the advanced hypertrophy concepts and tools series. Scott how's that for a deep dive huh? 32 videos or something like that each one of them is 30 minutes to an hour long on every single super nitty-gritty detail of hypertrophy training that'll teach you something that you might be able to wiggle through and get great results. Now in case that doesn't work you can always run out into the street collapse down onto your knees and scream cry why so that the police and the neighbors can console you but we're going to keep that one my favorite in our pockets for a while and see if we can't actually address real limiting factors. All right let's start with training. Number one limiting factor these are not ranked in order by the way they're all inclusive is exercise technique. Good technique means you are stable means your joints are aligned properly to tax that muscle and it means that you're moving in a way that taxes that muscle as much as possible usually through a full range of motion especially one that puts a lot of tension onto that muscle in a deeper stretch. That's not a requirement but it's generally a good thing. If you don't have great technique technique then you could be lifting quote unquote but the stimulus going to the muscle you want especially might not be ideal. Sometimes it looks like you have good technique but if you sharpen up your technique in a specific way it can make one of the muscles you're training train less and the muscle you really want to be hitting train more. For example if you're benching with a medium grip but you tend to be tricep dominant you're wondering why it's not growing your chest. Arching, retracting, widening your grip, and pausing at the bottom might actually lead your chest to be limiting factor for the first time and cause you to grow. So exercise technique is huge we have a massive technique library through the RP Hypertrophy app if you ever want to download that. A ton of those videos are available for free on YouTube and a bunch of different places and we have technique breakdowns for a bunch of common lifts and a ton of other great channels do this. So if you're not growing in your legs and you think I'm squatting look at some hypertrophy squat technique videos and you might be like oh holy crap you implement those tips that's right. And then again growth starts happening. Next is a relative effort. Relative effort is that within the 5 to 30 repetition maximum loading range basically weights you can use for as heavy as 5 reps to failure or as light as 30 reps to failure relative effort is how close to failure are you getting? Going to failure, just shy of failure, one, two, and three reps away from failure on the long-term average all cause roughly about the same amount of growth. But if you're not coming even close to that, you're absolutely leaving gains on the table. Relative effort internally and externally has a few different judgments. For some people internally, well, actually, for all people internally, the last few reps before failure tend to feel heavier. The weight feels like it got, who turned up the gravity is the joke. If you're moving weight around and it never feels any heavier in rep number one than rep number 10, rep number 10 is probably not even close to your last rep and you should try 11, 12, and 13 reps. You can also use velocity. That's an external cue. If your reps never slow down at all, you might not be getting close to failure. Now, there's a fiber type thing there. There's a strength thing there. There's a nervous system thing there. Some people, the reps look damn near the same, and then they fail. But all of those people experience a much more difficult time moving the weight. It's just their external velocity doesn't clamp down. It's not about making sure your external velocity is super grinding. And it's not necessarily about feeling that the weight gets heavier. But if you're experiencing neither of those, and if you ask yourself, okay, I got set of 10. Gone to my head, could I do 11? And you just do 11 as easily as you did rep number 10. Ah, man, you could probably be going harder. It's an unlock for gains because as you get closer to your repetition maximum, closer to failure, your biggest, strongest, most growth-prone motor units, those parts of the muscle, tend to be stimulated more than they would be earlier in the set, especially with higher reps. Sets of 10, 15, 20, and so on. Getting closer to failure may also offer advantages for metabolite sequestration, which means some of the chemicals that your muscles release internally to themselves cause growth if they're around for a while. If you never get close to failure, they just don't summate to a high level. If you get close to failure, they summate like crazy and probably cause a lot of really, really good gains. The next unlock is volume. The way we typically measure volume in hypertrophy training is a shorthand for number of sets close to failure that you've taken. We call them working sets or hard sets. And the number of sets close to failure in any given session from the empirical research unequivocally is the most direct correlate that we know of for gains. It's like, what's a crap analogy? Volume to growth is like the number of chicken nuggets you eat to hunger. You can squash any amount of hunger by just eating more nuggets. And it doesn't matter if they're big or small. Just increasing the number eventually squashes hunger. And just the same way, if in a single session you want to deliver the most hypertrophy stimulus you can, doing more sets is the most direct way to get there. It's just more stimulus. And if you want to add more stimulus, if you think you're not doing enough, consider this. Anywhere between, in most cases, three and eight working sets per muscle per session is kind of a big green checkmark. So if you're trying to get your quads to grow and you're doing one set of quads twice a week, ah, man, you might not be growing your quads a lot. You might be. But if you might be, you're probably not watching this video. With two sets, okay, fine. But if you're doing three, four, five, six, seven, eight sets of quads every time you hit quads, you may have 99 problems. But per session volume probably isn't the one holding you back. And the way to add volume isn't just to be like, oh, I'm doing three sets for quads every workout. I'm going to do 16. Oh, that's too many. I'll do nine. No way. Don't triple it. Don't double it. Every time you seem to be very, very easily recovered during your program for next week, just add a set. You start doing three sets of quads Monday and Thursday. Next week, you feel really recovered. You do four. Next week, you still feel recovered. You do five. Week after that, you do six and so on and so forth. That easy gradation helps growth. It also prevents you from getting hurt. Radical escalations really quickly in volume lead to injury as one of the most empirically predictive variables of injury. Not a ton of super conclusive research there, but the research that is there is really, really, really good for showing us like you probably don't want to double your volume. And it's not just from lifting. We have this. We have this from running and from soccer players and a bunch of different sports. Don't go slamming volume. Just grade your way into it one weekly set edition at a time per session. Before you go adding volume, this is a huge public service announcement and it's going to help you make gains. If you want the experience of drinking a lot of tasty orange juice, you need two ingredients, but in order. First, you need tasty orange juice because you want to drink tasty orange juice, not disgusting orange juice. If you take tasty orange juice and you dilute it five parts with water for every part orange juice, oh, you'll be drinking more something, but it's like orange juice that feels like a ripoff. It isn't exactly orange juice anymore. If you want to drink a lot of tasty orange juice, first you get the tasty juice and then you get more of it. And in very much the same way, which is getting to be a trademark phrase of mine, I guess, in very much the same way. First, you want to clamp down on the quality of your sets, then the quantity, which means what? Every single rep needs to have good technique. Every single set needs to have a high relative effort close to failure, at least not super far away. And once you have those set in place, that's that really good orange juice. Then you pour more OJ out of the bottle. Then you add sets, add sets, add sets. Do not do it in reverse. Don't radically escalate your volume with really crappy technique and really far away from failure sets and be like, I added volume, but nothing happened. Scott, you ever see those comments? I tried a high volume program and it didn't do anything. You see the guy squatting. You're like, you did zero squats. None of those counts as a squat. And none of those sets counts as a working set. You didn't actually raise your volume. You can tell me you drank, you know, you know, 10 gallons of the best wine, but it turns out it wasn't wine. You never drank anything. First quality, then quantity. So there's a sequence to this and there's a reason these first quality variables came first. But then once your quality is good, more quantity is going to cause you to grow more, nine times out of 10. There's a problem with quantity, which brings us to our next variable frequency. If you want to drink a lot of orange juice, there's only so much you can drink in one sitting until you get sick or start to throw up or just pee yourself and then your bladder explodes. And you're the first medical patient to have more orange juice in their blood than blood, which is kind of cool. It'll keep you safe from vampires, but it's probably bad for your longevity in some sense. If you try to add a lot of sets per session, you run into a problem. Much past 10 sets per muscle per session, like I'm training biceps and I'm in set number 11 of biceps, working set. The quality of the successive sets starts to degrade. What you're doing there, the volume you add after, the 12th set, 13th set, 14th set, that's called junk volume. It doesn't mean it's pure junk. Junk food still has nutritional quality, just a lot less. And so now you're using way more volume. You're getting way more fatigue. Fatigue scales linearly, actually exponentially. The more volume you do, the more crazy fatigue you get. But the quality is such crap at that point that the stimulus starts to peter off. So you're essentially buying more fatigue and the cost is more fatigue that the benefit is field full of crickets. That's a problem. We know that ramping volume causes bigger gains, but we know that much further north, with especially well-trained people who are doing high-quality sets, much more than 10 sets is not ideal and much more than 15 sets per muscle per session is really probably starting to be a very questionable use of your time. How are you supposed to add volume? The answer is you add frequency. So if you're doing three sets of bicep curls per session, work your way up to seven, eight, nine sets, no problem. But after about 10, you want to do biceps no longer twice a week. You want to scale back to maybe five sets of biceps per session and three sessions a week. And then you slowly build volume one set at a time per week until you get to, well, like nine or ten sets of biceps three times a week. That is a cap of 20 for twice a week training, 20 high-quality sets of biceps, to now a cap of 30. And holy crap, you're going to grow more. Frequency is our entry to volume. Ask any strongman competitor or someone who's gained a ton of weight. And you go, hey, like, why do you eat six times a day? And the number one answer is usually like, because I can't eat all the food I need to maintain my size and gain it with one meal a day. And so how do you expect your pecs to get as big as possible with one pec workout a week? When you could do two or three pec workouts a week as long as you're recovering from them, and you are going to be so damn golden because it's a great way to add tons of volume. What you also want to do is make sure that the sessions are spread out so you have enough time to heal from any injury risk and also the muscles get their anabolic sensitivity back. So instead of training chest like Monday, Tuesday, train chest Monday, Thursday. So you heal, stimulate, recover, adapt, stimulate again. Stimulus, recovery, adaptation, SRA. It's the whole principle of training. And you want some variation. You don't want stale unless high-frequency training can drive you stale like crazy. Monday squats, Tuesday squats, Wednesday squats. After Thursday, you're like, my knees don't work, and I hate the gym. I'm never coming back. So instead, use different exercises. You might use some barbell curls on Monday, on Wednesday cable curls, and then dumbbell curls on Friday. That keeps it fresh. It hits the muscles from slightly different angles, hits its motor units a little bit, doesn't irritate your joints in the same way every time. And that allows for long-term success. You can even play around with cadences. Monday, you do normal reps. Wednesday, you do slow eccentrics. And then on Friday, you do my rep match with drop sets and stuff like that. Using those different modalities on different sessions can mean that, yeah, you're now training your chest or your biceps three times a week where you were training at one, but you don't run into the problem of staleness because you're always changing something. Now, every Monday, every Monday, every Monday is the same. So you can still do progression, but every Monday and every Wednesday and every Friday can be very different and probably should be, including changing rep ranges. Sets a five on Monday, sets a 12 on Wednesday, and sets a 20 on Friday. Great idea to try. Lastly for training is progression. This is where a lot of people screw up. If you're always hitting two reps in reserve and you're never increasing your weight or your reps, you're just coming to the gym and cranking. What used to be your two reps in reserve, now that you're so much stronger and better adapted neurologically to exercise, is actually low-key six reps in reserve. But you didn't know because you're just in there cranking. Scott, have you run into people who are like, my weight on the bench press is 225, my working weight? That's just like something they're attached to? We'll go like, last year it was like, uh-huh. What is it this year? Like 225, man. That's my shit. You're like, very well. You will remain a person with a chest of a 225 for reps guy your rest of your life. You don't want that because you want a 275 chest, 315 chest. 600 for reps chest would be ideal, but that's magical. What you want to do is make things harder over time predictably, but not by much because radically escalating the difficulty week to week leads to injury risk going super high, fatigue, stalling, and having to deload early. So my humble recommendation to you is to try one simple system, either add a small amount of weight, two and a half to five pounds in many cases. Like if it's leg presses and you're leg pressing 400 pounds, you can add 10 pounds total to the bar. And or, usually or, adding one repetition, especially with higher rep sets. So if you've got the laterals for 20s for sets of 18, like you're not going to just do the 25s. It's like going from 200 pounds in the squat to 250. That's crazy. That's a totally different rep range. You can't progress on weight, so you progress on reps. So it's 18 reps one week, 19 reps the next, 20 reps, and so on. These tiny increases multiplied over many weeks is where the growth magic happens. It's weird, you guys. Like I did earlier today, I did belt squats, and I had two and a halves on them shits. It's like five plates and then two and a halves. Like it's a little bit of a clown show. Like what are those two and a halves really doing? They're doing hardly anything. But a lot of hardly anything multiplied over many, many weeks is a whole lot of stuff. And so in a few months, I might be belt squatting 25 more pounds on a side than I was, and my quads are that much bigger because I was just investing little chips all the time. Two and a half, two and a half, two and a half. That's how you do it safely. That's how you do it in a way that doesn't burn out. It's cool because you get to hit PRs all the time, and it builds that capacity, keeping your relative effort high. Progression is a big deal. That's the training side. If you're not doing anything like that, you know where to work. Let's talk about diet because you could be training really well, but maybe your diet's holding you back. Diet's real simple, you guys. There are two big limiting factors that people don't hit that really hold them back nine times out of ten, protein and calories. With protein, it's the literal building block of muscle, like your muscle contractile proteins, actin and myosin, that actually do work are made of protein. They're made of amino acids, which you get in by eating protein, broken down into aminos. Aminos go into your blood. They go into your muscles. Your muscles rebuild those building blocks, the amino acids, back into your muscle protein. It's really just that simple. And you need about a gram per pound, sometimes less, sometimes more, roundabouts every day. And ideally, you want to spread them into about four to six meals. Four is totally fine, by the way. Six is, you know, you just like eating six meals. And you want the protein to be roughly the same in each meal. So if you're, you know, if you need 200 grams of protein per day because you weigh about 200 pounds, you can have 40 grams of protein in one meal and 60 in another. No big deal. I just wouldn't be going to having 20 grams of protein in one meal and then, you know, 80 grams of protein in another meal. Stick around that 50-ish plus or minus 10, 15 grams and you're good to go. And also make sure they're evenly spread through the day. So when you wake up within a few hours, have some protein. Four to six hours later, have protein again. Four to six hours later, have protein again and so on and so forth, even sometimes three to six hours. So that like your body is consistently getting fed protein. Your body loves consistency, especially from nutrition. If your body detects that you're getting amino acid spikes in your GI tract four times a day and it's lots of protein, it kind of goes, might as well grow some muscle. This is really good. If you don't do that, your body is kind of stingy and it's like, I don't know if I'm going to grow any muscle. This guy is starving me every now and again. Lastly, so consistency there is huge. Red flags about protein quality. Make sure you're counting complete or high quality protein sources for the most part. That means animal sources and complete plant sources only. Don't just let diet apps like MyFitnessPal, which is a great app, sometimes it counts all the protein you're eating as the same. And so you had a whole lot of whole wheat bread sandwiches with peanut butter and it's like, dude, you got 900 grams of protein today. But the quality proteins are like 100 grams. So you're still 100 grams shy. The 900 wasn't a comedic exaggeration. But you guys get my drift. Don't just like eat gluten and collagen, which are not complete, not high quality protein sources and have a big problem with that. Make sure you're shooting for lean animal products or very complete protein vegan products. Next up for diet, calories. There's this thing with calories. It's a conundrum that illustrates as a physics problem how calories matter. Scott, I'm going to ask you a question. How is it possible to be 150 pounds big looking weighing 130? Be shredded. Yep. What about after? Let's say you want to get even bigger, but you don't want to go over 130. Good luck. Cut off your legs. Yeah, I guess. But then it's leg day and you're like, shit, I didn't think of that. Put them back on. You can't get enormous unless you're enormous. You can't get a 7,000 square foot mansion house out of 3,000 square feet. And you're sure as shit can't get jacked unless your body weight climbs over time. Every single person you know that's jacked gained weight to get there. The only way you can gain weight is that your calorie input has to be higher than your total daily energy expenditure. It's the only physics way possible to gain actual tissue weight over time. In addition to that, because your body at an evolutionary level knows this, the hormonal and autocrine and paracrine environment, the biology of your body changes when you're in a caloric surplus to be incredibly permissive of growth. It doesn't stimulate growth so much. Training does that. But it allows growth to happen like crazy if you're having a few more calories, about 250 calories a day extra than you need. As soon as you draw a deficit, your body's like growing. Nah, I'm good, man. I don't feel like growing. And technically it can grow at a deficit, but it does it way worse at a deficit because that chemical signaling environment of the surplus does a ton of messaging to tell our bodies and our muscles, hey, it's grow time. Oh, and by the way, here's all the protein and calories for you to grow. That's a huge deal. If you try a giant surplus like extra 500, 750, 1,000 calories a day, you're going to be gaining weight really fast and most of it's going to be fat. So I would say make sure you're gaining during your gaining phases a half a pound of body weight roughly per week. If you do that, you are so golden. That's the answer. Later, you can have a fat loss phase to bring down the fat, the extra fat that you gained, and you can recycle the process. Probably you shouldn't do any less than three weeks of gaining. Much after 16 or 20 weeks of gaining, you could be getting too fluffy for your tastes, so I would back up there. But anywhere between about four weeks of gaining and about 16 to 20 weeks of gaining is an awesome amount of time. On the higher end is better because you build momentum. Awesome habits, awesome protein, awesome calories. Your training is stronger, stronger, stronger. That progression is going. You're feeding the body. Look, you know, you gain for 16 weeks. That's only eight pounds. You can lose six pounds or five pounds of fat in like, I don't know, a month and a half of dieting, and then boom, you got three or four pounds of muscle on your body, and you get to keep that, and then you go back through the cycle. Lastly, let's talk about recovery. Sleep. Sleep is such a big deal on a recovery level from hard training, and sleep gets so little love relative to what it needs in the culture of gains because people treat not having enough sleep as like a heroic thing. Like, yeah, man, doing pretty good, kind of shredded, gaining a little weight. Not sleeping, though, either. Like, whoa, holy shit, congratulations. You could be even bigger if you slept. Sleep is a rocket fuel for your gains. It is literally anabolic. Look, they've done numerous studies where the amount of muscle you gain is tied incredibly tightly to how much sleep you're getting. If you're getting enough, you're good. If you're not getting enough, you may be gaining only fat in some of these studies. That's been shown. And sleep is also fat catabolic. It prevents fat gain to a huge extent, and it allows you to lose fat on a fat loss diet so that you can prime your body for more gains later. Sleep is one of the ultimate drugs that you can take, and there is no drug that replaces sleep. If your sleep is chronically low, there's no drug that's going to fix that problem. How much to sleep? The recommendation is seven to nine hours, but it's incredibly individual. You can tell if you're getting enough sleep as if with no stimulants, you're like plenty awake all day long. As soon as with no stimulants, you have a real slump several times a day and your eyes are red, you can't keep your wakefulness going, you need more sleep. I would recommend starting with seven, seven and a half hours, seeing how that feels. And if you have some free time, it's a low stress period in your life, you really need gains. Try nine hours of sleep per night on for size. If you can pull it off, because some people get groggy, it's too much for them. Sometimes that is a huge unlock for mega gains. I've been trying recently to sleep kind of eight, nine hours, and man, I can feel the shit. I bet Scott, like I'll get sore and then I'll heal in like a day and I'll be like, what? How the hell did that happen? Right. Like nine hours of sleep later is going to heal a lot of shit. And quality is as important as quantity in many respects for sleeping. If you have crap quality, it's not good. If you're drinking alcohol or consuming lots of marijuana before you go to sleep, it screws up your quality. If you're having caffeine too close to bedtime, which really any time after a little bit afternoon, if you have a lot of caffeine, you're going to be sleeping. Oh, yeah. But the quality is lower and high sleep quality. Deep, deep, deep sleep is what actually primes your body to grow the most muscle and burn the most fat and drop the most fatigue, heal the soreness so you can train hard again. And lastly, our final piece of the puzzle is overall stress and doing too much in life. Psychological focus and breathing room is important for training and diet if gains matter to you, which means you have to have a pretty clean slate of I'm doing gains. I'm training hard. I'm getting all my meals and I don't have a lot of clutter in my brain and my nervous system for a lot else. The overall impact of chronic stress on your hormones is to make them catabolic to muscle, radically escalating your fight or flight hormones, which break muscle down for fuel because they're like, oh, shit, we got to fight. Break the muscle down so we can punch people. And there's no one to punch because you're just mad at your boss. That is no good. Also, such high stress levels can impact your sleep quantity and quality, which is like doubly screwing you over. You want to avoid super stress. I have two rules for this, which I sometimes follow myself. No drama. Right. So you're getting pissed at Instagram comments. Stop reading them. If you've got people in your life you don't have to have in your life and they're toxic, talk to them less or not at all. Think about how pro bodybuilders do it. When they're dieting for an important show and offseason for an important show, they got horse blinders. I don't do drama. You can't get Mr. Olympia off off his frame weeks before the show because he's like, it's not my job is to ignore all this. This is a person who takes their muscle growth as seriously as humanly possible. So if you want more gains and you haven't had them, think about how much drama you have in your life. If you reduce it, you're probably going to get better gains. And drama aside, there's another kind of stress. Overloading yourself with too many tasks. Scott, should we put out the Elon Musk hypertrophy program where it's a blank sheet of paper because you don't have time to do anything except run 18 corporations and speak five hours a night? Elon is a modern hero in my eyes. But his life is completely antagonistic to making the best gains. Not what he's trying to do because he's got a ton of things going on. You want your life to be a little bit more constrained than it currently is if you're prioritizing gains. Guys, notice how I said that. If you are prioritizing gains, you can't go do all the stuff. You can't take Brazilian salsa dance classes. You can't go take an America tour of roller coasters. You can't adopt two dogs, but they were adorable and they were at the shelter. You can't have three extra side gigs and two jobs and five girlfriends. I mean, you can do all that stuff. It's fun stuff. It's good stuff. But you won't be as jacked as you want to be. And there'll be a reason for that because you're doing too much. Training does not have to be number one in your life. You guys, we all have real jobs and stuff like that. But damn, it's probably got to be like top four to really uncork. So what you got work slash school one and two family slash friends three and four training needs to be right below those. Right. There's not much else. If you want maximum gains, I'm never going to tell you stop talking to your family and friends. I'm never going to tell you don't go to school or don't go to work. But you got something in the middle of there that's got a couple of notches down on the training. You're like, hey, man, I really need to gain. Okay. I got work. Cool. School. Okay. Family friends. Okay. Flack football. Okay. Band practice. Okay. I do this fine arts class Monday, Wednesday, Friday because I really just like it. There's this one girl that I like. I actually hate the art, but I like the girl. My game's really tight there. It's really working out. Pause. When do you lift? Like, oh, yeah, man, sometimes I get to the gym, but it's not as often as I'd like. Do you have any tips for gains? My tip for gains is tell that girl, hey, I'll be getting jacked in the weight room. And that's real art, girl. You know what I'm saying? You want to do sculpture? You feel me? My bathroom at night is, where am I? What am I saying? This is a family channel. Art. ненене, Milliarden,нене – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – age – If you're still not getting gains and you're checking all the boxes to your due diligence, it's time to reach out to an online coach and consider things like what they can see that you're doing wrong that you can't see. Potential hormonal stuff, the coach might say, you should go and get your blood work or talk to a doctor. And you're like, oh, crap, my testosterone is incredibly low or something like that. And also, a coach can enhance your accountability to your habits and processes to make sure the things you think you're doing are things you're doing consistently. We have a great team of coaches at RP Strength. Give some clicks and links and stuff like that. You can find them. There's tons of other great coaching companies. It's really about having someone you trust to keep you on the straight and narrow and see what in your plan isn't working and fix it for you. Listen, do your damn best. I think in the next 10 to 15 years, we'll have crazy cool AI, drug and genetic engineering advances that make us all jacked. But I think a lot of us can get really, really jacked on the way to that. And the key is to be patient, consistent and work that ass hard. Hard ass something something sex joke. See you guys next time.