Kettle bells are one of the best tools for full body workouts. They're time efficient, plus they're going to train your strength and conditioning at the same time. Now, they come in many shapes and sizes, but today we're going to be talking about the competition kettle bells from Kettle Bell Kings. I hope y'all are ready cuz we got a lot to talk about. Let's get right to it. What's up y'all? It's Jake back in the bar and garage gym. In this video, I'm going to tell you everything you need to know about this kettle bell. From the price, the features, some of my pros and cons, most importantly, who should or maybe should not scoop one of these bad boys up. Now, before I start doing all that, got to let you know we've reviewed a ton of kettle bells on barb.com. And since we're so nice, we went ahead and did the hard part for you and compiled a list of the best kettle bells that are on the market. So if you want to check that out, all you got to do is search barbin best kettle bells. Our list is going to pull up. You can find out for yourself which one cracks that number one spot. Okay, so what exactly is a competition kettle bell? Well, just, you know, summarize it really quick. Competition kettle bells are standardized in sizing. All right. So, actual bell is not going to be determined by the weight like it is with a cast iron bell. So, we have a 35lb bell right here. That 9 lb bell, it's going to be the same size as this one. And the same goes, you know, as you go up in weight. Now, the handle diameter is also going to be thinner than with the cast iron bell. And it's also closer to the actual bell. So, with the cast iron one, it sits up higher, if that makes sense. Now, because of the standardized sizing, you're really able to focus on your technique and perfect that technique, which is obviously a crucial aspect because you don't want to be doing your lifts the wrong way and potentially injure yourself. Now, because of that, you know, higher standard of quality and everything, you are going to have to pay a higher price tag, which is something, you know, just to keep in mind. Now, enough of that. Let's talk about what I like about these competition kettle bells. All right, so in addition to the uniform size of these competition kettle bells, I also really like how they're colorcoded. you know, based on their specific weight. It's just a really nice touch. Kind of takes, you know, the thinking out of everything, you can just grab your kettle bell once you know what each weight represents and get straight to your workout. I really like how they're legal for kettle bell sport competitions. So, you know, if you are competing in that or maybe you want to, you know, you're able to really train from home with these, which is a nice touch. And then also, I like how they have the hollow core right here, which is really going to, you know, lead to a perfectly balanced kettle bell. Now, when it comes to those cons, we got to talk about money. You know, as I mentioned, competition kettle bells are more expensive than cast iron kettle bells. Something, you know, you definitely want to keep in mind if you don't want to spend as much money as you want to on this one. This one's about 120 bucks. You know, you can definitely go the cast iron route and save you some money. The bare steel handle might not work for everybody. I personally like it. It feels pretty good in my hands. You know, I'm able to get a good grip. But I say it all the time. I'm going to say it again. You texture is personal preference. So, you know, what works for me just might not work for you. You know, definitely just keep that in mind. There's actually six kettle bells here that are not technically competition standards. So, the 4, 6, 8, 36, 40, and 44 kilogram bells, they actually have a smaller window size right here, which, you know, prevents them from being competition standard. So, definitely keep that in mind. And then lastly, you know, the packaging wasn't the best. Now, it's tough, you know, to ship a kettle bell in general. They're always just in, you know, a cardboard box. But, you know, with this one specifically, that box was kind of destroyed whenever I got it, which led to, you know, a lot of chips in this kettle bell right here. Now, I personally don't mind. You know, it it's still going to work the exact same. I'm still going to get the same amount of usage out of it. it just might not be as aesthetically pleasing as it would be if you know that packaging was a little bit better. So definitely just keep that in mind. You know, it might not be as you know brand spanking new looking as you would like. All right, now I want to touch on pricing again with the Bells of Steel Competition Kettle Bells. And these are going to range from 50 bucks up to $470. I'm not going to list every single one of them out, but this 35 lb bell we have right here is going to cost you right around 120 bucks. And remember, you know, with all products, you know, that price can definitely fluctuate over time. So, definitely keep that in mind. Now, these are arguably the most expensive competition kettle bells that are on the market, but that's because of that shipping is included in that base price tag essentially, right? So, they don't actually charge for shipping, but you know, when you compare to a company like Rogue and you go and check out their competition kettle bells, you know, they're cheaper with that base price, but then you got to pay for shipping, which winds up making it a little bit more expensive. So, at the end of the day, you know, compared to competition kettle bells, these are actually, you know, a pretty nice price tag considering the overall quality. Of course, you can find some cheaper ones. I can't, you know, attest to the quality of those like I can with this bad boy right here. Now, 120 bucks, still a good amount of money. If you don't want to spend that much money on one single kettle bell, I would suggest going after a cast iron one. You can get one from Onet for around 70 bucks, I think, right now. So, definitely, you know, keep all those things in mind. All right, so I want to break down the build really quick with these kettle bells and let's talk about the handles and the window size right here. All right. So, the 10 through 32 and the 48 kg bells have a window of 60 mm and a handle diameter of 35 mm. While the 4, 6, and 8 kg bells have a 58 mm window and a handle diameter of 34 mm. Now, that's, you know, those smaller sizes, you know, that's perfect for beginners. It's going to allow you to, you know, really learn proper hand placement and technique before you, you know, go up in weight. And it's not too far off, which is, you know, really nice. It's not like you're going to have like a massive learning curve or anything like that, which is pretty cool. Now, Bells of Steel uses a dual cast process that involves two molds. Now, there's not any welding or any plugs or anything like that right there. But this kind of leads to this hollowedout core, which is really nice. It's going to eliminate the possibility of kettle rattle, which you know happens when other companies will, you know, take scrap metal basically and weld it within and that kind of comes loose after you repeatedly drop the bell, which tends to happen a lot whenever you're doing kettle bell workouts. Now, the actual bell is uniform in size all across the board, which is really nice. You know, you can keep that same technique across all of your lifts, which is just a really nice thing right there. They're also colorcoded depending on the weight, which is, you know, a nice touch. you're able to, you know, just grab and go with your weight. And then once again, you know, you do have this bare steel handle right here, which I personally think gives you a really solid grip. All right, so I just want to show you guys, you know, a few things up close with this competition kettle bell. Now, once again, you know, at the top, you do have your bare steel handle. I like it. It gives me, you know, a really solid grip. Some people may prefer cast iron, but this really gets the job done for me. This handle diameter is 35 millimeters and the window right here is 60 mm. So, this does in fact meet, you know, those competition standards. It's really nice and you're really able to, you know, get your hand in there and stack your wrist the way you're supposed to across all of your kettle bell workouts, you know, which is a really nice thing. You get that identical hand placement and everything. Now, this is yellow to, you know, identify, signal, you know, whatever you want to call it. 35 pounds. You know, every single one of these kettle bells, you know, is in fact colorcoded based on that weight, which is really nice. And the actual, you know, size of the bell is not going to change across the board. It's another really nice thing right there. You know, allows you to continue to have that, you know, identical hand placement, identical technique. That way, you're able to get that perfect technique, which is, you know, something you definitely want. Now, in terms of aesthetics, you know, as you can see, you know, as I mentioned, you know, there's some chipping right here. It's really bad on this other side right here. You know, it's not that big of a deal. It's not going to change anything with the kettle bell. It's still going to work the exact same. Still going to be able to do all the same workouts. It's just not as aesthetically pleasing maybe as some people might like. It's going to be okay though. And then as we flip it over right here, I like this, you know, wide base right here. It's going to keep it nice and flat and balanced, should I say. Now, also once again, you know, you do have this hollowed out core. Now, a cast iron bell is not like that. you know, some competition kettle bells of lesser quality aren't like that. This is really nice. You know, it's going to allow you to have that, you know, perfectly balanced weight, which is, you know, a really good thing specifically with these workouts. Now, I think this is an ideal purchase for anybody who, you know, a, you know, competes in kettle bell sport or maybe wants to compete in kettle bell sport and you're looking for a nice way to practice at home. This is going to be a really solid option for you because, you know, these do meet competition standards. Other than a few of them, obviously, but the majority of these kettle bells meet competition standards. And then also, you know, if you're just wanting to have, you know, that proper technique and identical hand placement across all of your lifts, you know, regardless of the weight size, I think you're really going to like the fact that these are all, you know, standardized in their sizing, which is the case with all competition kettle bells, but just a really nice thing right there. Now, however, you know, the texture might not be the best for everybody. You know, some people prefer the cast iron kettle bells, just the grip that it provides you. And then also like if you don't care about size staying the same, you're probably going to be better off going with a cast iron kettle bell. And that's, you know, certainly true again with cast iron kettle bells with the pricing because they're going to be cheaper than a competition kettle bell. And then lastly, you know, if you're tight on space and you don't have enough room to have, you know, multiple kettle bells laying around all over the floor, you might be better off going after an adjustable kettle bell system, which Bells of Steel actually has one that you might want to check out. That's all I got for y'all today on the Bells of Steel Competition kettle bells. You know, they're going to be more expensive than a cast iron bell. If you don't have enough space to, you know, house multiple of them, might be better off with adjustable kettle bell system like I mentioned a minute ago. At the end of the day though, you know, I really think the uniform size, you know, all across is really nice. I like the bare steel handles right here. Gives me a pretty pretty solid grip. And also, you know, this hollowed out core just leads to a perfectly balanced product. Thanks for watching, y'all. Hope this video was helpful. I was able to answer any questions you may have about these kettle bells. As always, keep your eyes peeled for my next video. For now, why don't you head over to barbend.com cuz we have a full written article just waiting for you to read it. All you do is search barbells of steel competition kettle bell review. You'll find all the details and everything we discussed here today. I'll catch youall next time.