 naringin, aurin, aurin, aurin, aurin, aurin, aurin, aurin, aurin, aurin, aurin, aurin, aurin, aurin. So, let's explore some of the concepts. We've always been taught the concept that to lose weight, one needs to eat less and move more. In short, it's a simple concept of calories in minus calories out. But how simple is that concept in real life? With more obese people now worldwide, why then are we gaining more weight? And why is the world becoming heavier? So let's so let's The simplicity of the concept of calories in and calories out model implies simply that all calories that we take in are created equal. It is this concept that allows one to eat more bread, pasta, or sugary drinks because simply carbohydrates have lesser calories at 4 calories per gram.!. So nothing has changed. And instead the world became more and more obese. So why is this so? Now if we lower our fat in our diet, then we simply substitute it by increasing carbohydrates. But what we know now is that having a high carb diet do raise your insulin levels. It triggers the pancreas to produce insulin and then drives calories inside our fat cells, which then hoard these calories, as many calories as possible, thereby leaving too few calories to be used for the rest of the body. Our body then responds by triggering hunger in order for us to eat more for the needed calories intended for the rest of the body. Now at the same time, it slows down the metabolism to conserve energy. This is therefore simply global jeopardy. Since as long as the fat cells are in a state of calorie storage overdrive, the extra calories we eat as a result fuel further deposition of more body fat. So calorie restricted diets, which we want to do in a fat diet, especially if you want to lose weight rapidly, will not work long term since it can only make the situation worse. By putting the patient in a state of under nutrition, it can further trigger the hunger hormones in overdrive. What happens? The body adapts with a vengeance by adapting to a stress of under nutrition, slowing down your metabolic rate and allowing your hunger hormones to creep up, making you eat a little more extra calories with the biological body's mechanism via a set point that works. Simply trying to return your weight back to where it started. It is for this reason that it can be pretty frustrating to lose weight and then to gain back again. So how then can we conquer hunger? It is best to directly target the root cause of weight gain. But how? Now prescribing a diet that specifically lowers insulin levels, preventing more fat being deposited in the cells, reducing the risk of chronic inflammation caused by rapidly expanding fat cells can be the start. It is the specific diet that is low in carbohydrates that we now strongly recommend. insulin as we know is simply stimulated by the processed carbohydrates in our diet that includes the sugar, the favorite staple food for Filipinos during meals in Irlanda, like bread, pasta, white rice, potato products, and even fat free cookies and crockers, and assorted yummy high sugar desserts. We replace them, therefore, with foods that's high in fat, like nuts, olive oil, avocado, of course, fish, and one simple tip, dark chocolate, among others. By avoiding foods rich in carbohydrates, fat cells then begin to release excess calories back into the body, reducing the fat storage overdrive and allowing the brain cells a more abundant and stable fuel supply. Clinically, therefore, hunger decreases, and as a result, your metabolism speeds up and weight decreases without necessarily being hungry. However, a word of caution, if you plan to overhaul your diet, it is best to talk to your doctor about the concept of a diet that allows you to feel fuller without getting hungry, but also allows you to stabilize your weight to a level that's healthier for a better you. It is pretty clear nowadays, and don't despair, it's really not you. Everyone's weight is controlled more by biology than willpower. Again, this is Dr. Jerry Tan. Stay safe, stay healthy. See you again soon.