 The COVID-19 vaccine soon is likely to become an annual shot that gets updated each year just like the flu vaccine. As to how and why, that's about this. It is said that as long as there will be no significant different variants to come, we are likely to start a vaccination campaign similar to that of the annual influenza vaccine, wherein we are going to get an annual updated COVID-19 shots that will match to the currently circulating strains for most of the population. Now, this plan is to simplify as needed schedule, which apparently has confused many as to when to get vaccinated and with what. Now, it is believed that with the annual COVID-19 shots similar to the annual flu shot, this new guideline will result in many more people getting vaccinated, as primary care physicians can easily remind everyone to get their annual shots both for COVID-19 shots, both for COVID-19 shots. Now, this recommendation is based on the fact that at present, two-thirds of the eligible adults do take the flu vaccine, versus only one-third of the adults over 50 who have been taking COVID-19 shots. Now, this plan, therefore, will be a big public health initiative as we are moving to a point where a single annual COVID-19 shot should provide us a high degree of protection against serious illness throughout that year. However, it is expected for others, especially those categorized as being at the highest risk to develop COVID-19, like our elderly parents who are in their 80s or friends and patients with major comorbidities like diabetes or cancer. Individuals like these patients may actually need more than annual protection. Now, the world is starting to roll out the first updated COVID boosters which can fight both Omicron BA.4 and BA.5 variants, as well as the original strain of the virus. This was discussed in my previous video. Definitely, before the year ends, we already have the know-how, the infrastructure, the logistics, and the means that can easily be capitalized to get their flu and COVID vaccines together, whether of an updated COVID-19 flu shot or whatever strains there will be that will probably dominate the population for that year. It is therefore expected that more people will get their updated shots potentially together with their flu shots that will provide better protection against these two deadly viruses. Now, this new booster formula, the BA.4, BA.5 bivalent vaccine, will keep the great protection of the original strain, but will also offer important protection against other strains should another variant arise. So, it definitely gives us the hope of better protection that we might anticipate if and when another variant will come through and affect majority of the population worldwide. I do hope, though, that our government will also soon provide the citizenry of these new doses of new updated vaccines and should be made available to all Filipinos aged 12 and up while younger kids can get their vaccine previously authorized for their age groups. Now, of course, there are still a lot of unknowns. However, questions regarding how effective will the bivalent be at preventing infection for both BA.4.5 and Omicron and the original variant, how long will it last and will a new immune-evasive variant come along? But for now, it is our hope that if plans do materialize that as part of our annual maintenance shots will be the annual COVID-19 shot, as we expect that COVID-19 will definitely not go away soon, but we should accept the fact that COVID-19 will be here with us for a long time. Again, this is Dr. Jerry Tan. Stay safe always. See you again soon.