 and gportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportport your metabolism, making it easier, therefore, to maintain and lose weight. But remember, eating or taking too much of them will also not help, but instead, use them to complement your balanced, low-carb diet to promote weight loss. Let's watch this. The first on the list will be protein-rich foods, such as meat, fish, eggs, and dairy, including nuts, which could help increase your metabolism for a few hours. We all know that protein-rich foods require your body to use more energy to digest them, and therefore, these foods will tend to increase your metabolic rate by as much as 15% to 30% compared with only 5% to 10% if you eat carbs, or 0% to 3% if you consume more fat. Plus, remember, protein may also help keep you feel fuller for longer periods of time, which can therefore prevent you from overeating. Second on the list would be coffee. We know from several studies that people who consume at least 3 cups of coffee burn up to an extra 100 calories per day. I would therefore suggest that it should be blocked coffee without milk or sugar. Third is tea. Tea works in tandem with caffeine to boost metabolic rate, in particular, both oolong or matcha, green tea. They have been shown to increase fat oxidation by increasing your fat burning ability by as much as 17%. Fourth on the list would be beans and legumes. Now, legumes and beans, including chicken peas, black beans, including peanuts, are particularly high in protein compared to other plants. Legumes, for example, contain dietary fiber, which your body can use as prebiotic to feed the good bacteria living in your large intestine, which in turn can produce short-chain fatty acids, which can help your body more effectively use stored fat as energy and maintain normal blood sugar levels. Fifth on the list would be ginger. Research have shown that dissolving 2 grams of ginger powder in hot water and drinking it with a meal can help you burn up to 43 more calories than simply drinking hot water alone. Plus, drinking it has been shown to decrease levels of hunger and enhance feelings of fullness or satiety. Sixth on the list would be cacao. Cacao or cocoa are tasty tweets that may also benefit your metabolism, as animal studies have shown that cacao or cocoa extracts may promote the expression of genes that stimulate fat burning. Seventh on the list would be apple cider vinegar. They may help you lose weight by slowing the emptying of your stomach and enhancing the feelings of fullness. So if you decide to take apple cider vinegar, make sure to limit yourself to 1 to 2 tablespoons per day and dilute it in at least 1 cup of water per tablespoon of vinegar to limit the risk of tooth erosion damage to the lining of your digestive tract. And of course, the best on the list would be water. We know that drinking water is a great way to stay hydrated. Additionally, some studies have shown that drinking water may also briefly boost your metabolism. Plus, studies have shown that 2 glasses of water before each meal has been shown to reduce the amount of intake of meals by as much as 20 to 22%. So the bottom line is certain foods do really help slightly increase your metabolic rate and how many calories you burn. So consuming them regularly may help in a way make it easier for you to maintain your weight and keep it stable long term. However, these foods will not negate the high calorie or the poor quality diet. And therefore, always seek help with your primary care physicians, with your endocrinologist as to the best way to help you lose weight. Again, this is Dr. Jerry Tan. Stay safe. See you again soon.