 constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants constants basically decrease your risk of developing neurological problems later in life, especially dementia, which is what we're dreading all our lives. So what are some of the foods that you can start eating now to help make our brain remain healthy? Let's watch this. So the number one of the list is actually the blueberries. Now, blueberries may not be readily available in our country, but you can actually get some frozen blueberries, for example, in Japan and bringing them here. And these fruits contain a compound that has been shown to be both anti-inflammatory and antioxidants. And they contain a lot of benefits, including the prevention of heart disease and including cancer. But likewise, since blueberries can reduce inflammation, it means it can reduce brain aging and neurodegenerative diseases and therefore prevent long-term complications like dementia. Furthermore, antioxidants have also been shown to aid in the communication between brain cells and therefore it is touted to be a brain healthy food. Number two on the list would be eggs. Now, who don't love eggs, no? Eggs are actually rich in vitamins, including vitamin B and a nutrient called choline. Now, we all know that vitamin B has been shown to help slow down cognitive decline and deficiencies of vitamin B has been associated with both depression and dementia, including nerve damage. It is said that the body actually uses the choline from eggs to create neurotransmitters responsible for mood and memory. So, one egg a day will definitely be helpful. How about fatty fish? My recommended protein source instead of red meat. Fattish fish, such as the trout, the salmon, and the sardines, do contain large amounts of these omega-3s, which has been shown that 60% of your brain is really composed of fats containing omega-3s. That omega-3 is an essential component in the production of brain cells and nerve cells. So, any deficiency in omega-3s can therefore cause learning problems and depression. Now, of course, what we also recommend, and that's fourth on the list, would be fruits. Remember, my recommendation is a fruit per meal, specifically among my patients with diabetes. But remember, when we take fruits, fruits are healthy, but they should be eaten in moderation. Now, the fruits that actually have been shown to be healthy for the brain are the citrus fruits, oranges, the guava, the kiwi, tomatoes, and strawberries. They contain very high levels of vitamin C. In fact, this is the vitamin C. The vitamin C has been shown to help prevent the development of dementia and Alzheimer's by preventing the brain cells from becoming damaged and therefore support overall brain health. Fifth on the list would be green leafy vegetables. This is the go-to healthy food for every patient, whether you have a disease or not, or for preventive measures. Leafy greens such as broccoli, spinach contain various nutrients such as vitamin K, lutein, folate, and beta-carotene. Vitamin K, for example, has been shown to help with the formation of fat inside the brain cells and has been shown to improve memory. You cannot therefore go wrong by incorporating green leafy vegetables in every meal that you have and every day. Now, of course, my favorite snacks to go to snacks would be the nuts. Now, they contain healthy fats, antioxidants, and vitamin E, found to be beneficial for both the brain and the heart. Studies have shown that nuts, specifically walnuts, do contain also omega-3 fatty acids that can further improve brain function, improve cognition, sharper memory, and slow mental decline. Tea and coffee, which is also my go-to snacks, is what I do for alertness. Now, no one can argue about it, but both tea and coffee do contain caffeine, which can boost brain function and improve alertness. Now, green tea also contains antioxidants and an amino acid, L-thianine, which can cross the blood-brain barrier, has been shown to increase neurotransmitter activity. Therefore, it's time for you to enjoy your cup of coffee today. But, of course, one of the major foods that have been touted to be healthy is the turmeric. Touted to be helpful not only for brain, but also for conditions, dreaded conditions like cancer. It is a strong antioxidant and has anti-inflammatory properties that it can pass through the blood-brain barrier to enter the brain directly. In fact, studies have shown that this turmeric improves memory, improves depression, and likewise, increase the growth of new brain cells. You can actually take it as fresh turmeric turmeric or as a turmeric tea. Last but not the least would be the whole grains. I think in every video that I've shown, whether it's for cancer, whether it's for diabetes or cholesterol, whole grains would actually be included in the list. Now, we all know that Filipinos are carb eaters, but it is always recommended to resort to a healthier kind, especially whole grain variety of your bread, pasta, barley brown rice, oatmeal, and wheat that contain also vitamin E, used to protect and preserve healthy cells. Before I end, I would just like to make a very cautious statement that remember that taking tablets or supplements, because they contain omega-3, because they contain vitamin E, they contain vitamin C, touted to have anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties, these supplements in a form of tablets don't do the trick. The studies have shown, for example, that the vitamin C in fruits or the omega-3 from fish are not the same as what is present in your tablets. So please, these vitamin supplements are not recommended. I hope these simple tips to a healthier you, specifically to a healthier brain, will be helpful. Start now, before it's too late. This is Dr. Jerry Tan. Stay safe. See you again soon.