 kadeuracin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin,глийacin of cancer. Let's watch this. Remember always that there is no single food that can prevent cancer. The foods I'll be mentioning all contain substances that have properties known to have the potential to fight against cancer development and foods that should in fact be part of a whole healthy meal plan for everyone. One thing that we always advise to everyone is of course eating whole grain foods because they are rich in fiber and has been shown to reduce the risk of cancer specifically bowel cancer. It is therefore recommended that whole grains should be the choice for each meal. Second is what I enjoy most in terms of veggie options that has the potential to fight cancer cells is broccoli. Broccoli has been shown to contain a product called sulforaphane which is found in cruciferous vegetables known to have potent anti-cancer properties. Now studies have shown that eating more cruciferous vegetables is associated with lower risk of developing cancer especially colorectal cancer. But also lest we forget the really old and reliable carrots. Carrots as we know do contain beta-carotene which is an antioxidant that can protect cell membranes from toxin damage. We in fact do have studies to show that carrots have the potential to slow the growth of cancer cells. Now it is best to incorporate carrots into your diet as a healthy snack or delicious side dish just a few times per week or as part of a healthy vegetable dish that your family can also enjoy. One other food that I usually also recommend is cinnamon which on the other hand aside from its effect in improving sugar is also a natural component showing a wide range of pharmacological functions including antioxidant, antimicrobial, and anti-cancer activities. Now there is increasing evidence to indicate that cinnamon as a therapeutic agent has anti-cancer effects via its numerous affecting numerous apoptosis related pathways in cancer cells. One other popular product which a lot of my patients are already using is turmeric which has been touted as having anti-cancer properties. Now curcumin which is a substance found in the spice turmeric has long been used to treat a variety of illnesses. In fact it is thought to have antioxidant properties which means it may decrease swelling and inflammation and presently being explored as a cancer treatment in part because we all know that inflammation appears to play a role in cancer development. In fact lab and animal research studies have suggested that curcumin may prevent cancer known to slow the spread of cancer and can make chemotherapy more effective and protect healthy cells from damage by radiation therapy. It is therefore recommended that for best results aim for at least one to three grams of ground turmeric per day. But of course we should not forget to aim to eat more fruits especially citrus fruits. You already know that a diet rich in fruits and vegetables is good for you but when you're going through cancer treatment or trying to keep cancer from coming back some fruits may be better than others. Now eating citrus fruits such as lemons, limes, grapefruits and oranges has been shown to be associated with a lower risk of cancer in some studies. In fact one large study done in Japan found that people who ate citrus fruits or juices three to four days a week were less likely to get cancer than those who had them two or fewer days a week. Though the research results aren't clear yet they showed that citrus may actually have the potential to help fend off several types of cancer. Now another food that is always part and I always recommended it as part of a healthy meal plan is the tomatoes. The red coloring of the tomatoes is really intriguing but what we know is the more color the more antioxidants which make them a potential weapon against cancers like prostate and even heart disease. Now the red hue comes from a phytochemical called lycopene which is a powerful antioxidant which is most concentrated in tomatoes. Though these carotenoids act as antioxidants and stimulate the body's own antioxidant defenses decreasing pre-radical damage to DNA that can lead to cancer development. It is always best for everyone to use tomatoes therefore as part of a healthy meal plan. Now one other food that our family loves to eat is eating spinach. Now spinach which is rich in lutein and xanthine. Carotenoid has been shown to remove unstable molecules called free radicals from our body before they damage it. Likewise, spinach as we know contains other important substances such as beta carotene which is used to form vitamin A as well as vitamin C, another antioxidant. Both we know beta carotene and vitamin C are important nutrients that can serve as protectors against developing cancer cells. And lastly, and of course everyone loves garlic. It is a sulfur compound that gives the garlic its distinctive scent along with many of its health benefits. But each clove of garlic is crammed with a variety of phytochemicals such as flavonoids which are compounds well studied for their anti-cancer properties as well as inulin and saponins. Well the evidence that garlic lowers colorectal risk is the strongest this pungent veggie is also being studied for its role in reducing for other cancers as well. Now so far the list I am presenting here may not be complete. But these are some of the common ones that have studies to show potential benefits that we can also do prepare in our healthy meal plan on our daily life. So I do hope that this video helps you in one way or another in helping you achieve a goal of a healthy meal plan for you and for your family. Again this is Dr. Jerry Tan, stay safe, see you again soon.