 So ideally, when I see a patient with diabetes, we establish first a goal on how we should avoid the disease to progress. And the patient has to be explained that one main goal in a treatment of diabetes is how can we avoid complications associated with poor control of blood glucose. And to do this, we need the help of two ways to achieve that goal through medication and medical treatment. So in a treatment of treatment of hypertension and medical treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment treatment foods one should avoid if you have high blood sugar. Let's watch this. First, the starches. We know that our body needs carbohydrates because carbohydrates actually gives us the energy to sustain our daily activity. But it's very critical that we have to choose wisely. Try to avoid white rice or white bread. Breakfast with cereals with little whole grains and lots of sugar. We know a lot of cereals that we give to our kids we think are healthy, but instead they are filled with sugar. Definitely the most staple of all food in terms of snacks among our teenagers, a french fries, and of course to avoid fried white flour tortillas. And remember, potatoes and corn do not count as veggies, but they count as carbs and not as healthy options of vegetables. Now talking about vegetables, these are definitely a must in one's diet. So load up. It is rich in antioxidants and high in fiber. Importantly, veggies have little fat or salt unless you add them. We always advocate the intake of fresh vegetables, eaten raw or lightly steamed, roasted or grilled. And of course to go for a variety of colors. But definitely try to avoid the following options, especially those vegetables that are canned with lots of added sodium. Veggies that are cooked, especially if you go to buffet tables, you're going to see vegetable options, but with lots of added butter, cheese or sauce. Of course, we love to eat pickles. Remember pickles should try to be avoided, especially if you have diabetes, because you need to limit sodium. Limit them specifically if you have also concomitant high blood pressure. Now how about fruits? We all know that most of my patients think that fruits are healthy and therefore they should be served in unlimited amounts. Unfortunately, that's not true. The problem with the intake of fruit is the quantity. Remember, fruit is another source of carbohydrates and therefore too much of fruits can increase your blood glucose because fruit is made up of fructose. But we know fruits are rich in vitamins, minerals and fiber, and most are naturally low in fat and sodium. So for me, fresh fruit is the way to go. I limit it to one fruit after each meal. And try to avoid the following, especially those which are processed or prepared as canned fruit with heavy syrup made of sugar or any forms of regular jam, jelly and preservatives made of fruits. And worst for me are the options of fruit punch, fruit drinks and fruit juice. Usually I tell my patients, if you want to do something about the fruits, a whole fruit is better than puree. Puree is better than juice. Again, go for the whole fruit. Protein, as we know, is very important. Protein is the one that builds up muscle and strength. Okay, it gives you the endurance. Now white meat like fish and seafood is the best as well as plant-based proteins. I usually recommend my patients to increase their protein intake to 20% of the whole proportion of calories for the day. Specifically, plant-based protein like the beans, the nuts, the seeds, and especially tofu. Watch out for my video on the benefits of tofu as a very good source of protein for muscle buildup and muscle strength. Likewise, in terms of protein, I usually ask my patients to avoid the following, specifically fried meats, including processed canned meats, or higher cuts of beet, such as ribs, or pork, bacon, or anything that is deep fried, including deep fried fish. In terms of dairy, it's really okay for my patients to take dairy, but I always advise them to keep it low in fat. And if you want to splurge, keep your portion small. If you need oil for cooking, all I can advise is to avoid anything with trans fat in it. It's bad for your heart. Check the ingredient list for anything that has partially hydroxinated, even if the label says zero grams of trans fat. Also, try to avoid anything with big portions of saturated fats, which mainly comes from animal products, but are also coming from coconut or palm oil. And lastly, for drinks, when you down a favorite drink, you may get more calories, sugar, salt, or fat than you bargained for. My favorite drink is usually coffee. I have a cup of coffee prior to the afternoon snack, black, or with added low-fat milk, and sugar substitute is perfectly okay for my patients with diabetes. But remember, I will also be talking more about the benefits of coffee in my future blog, specifically for my patients with diabetes, high blood pressure, and other comorbidities that put you at increased risk of heart disease. So in short, my simple advice to my patients with diabetes, specifically in terms of food, is you can eat anything you like. Talk with your physician in terms of the amount of carbs, protein, and fat in your daily meal. Likewise, try to leave the labels so you know what are being served. I always advise my patients to avoid, number one, regular sodas, regular beer, fruity mixed drinks, dessert wines, or any sweetened tea, specifically the fad nowadays, milk tea. Flavored coffees and chocolate drinks, especially offered in coffee shops, cappuccino or whatever, are added with it some cream and sugar and caramel. So in short, I always advise my patients to eat a very well-balanced diet, a plate full of carbs, meat, serving of fruit, and vegetables in a plate method for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. And for snacks, I usually advise my patients to either take nuts or meal replacements, which I will also again discuss in the future in detail about the benefits of really the important updated diabetes-specific formulas among my patients with diabetes. I hope these simple tips can help you navigate your choices for a better and healthier you. These tips are also important even if you don't have diabetes or even if you just have a risk for diabetes. These simple tips will really help you be a better you. Again, this is Dr. Jerry Tan. See you again soon.