 aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin ar recurring in up to 40% of men and 47% of women. Now, we all know that inflammatory arthritis come in second, and that includes rheumatoid arthritis or gouty arthritis. Now, what then are some of the dietary interventions that can potentially help reduce symptom severity among my patients or people with joint pains to hopefully improve their overall quality of life? That's what's this. Let me share you some foods and beverages that I usually ask my patients to avoid if they do complain of some joint pains. So with my predominant patient population, which is with diabetes, of course, the number one of the list to avoid is added sugar. Now, added sugars usually include sugars coming from candies, ice cream, soda, sweetened beverages like milk tea, including juices, as studies have shown that they can really worsen joint pains. Furthermore, sugary beverages like soda actually can significantly increase your risk of arthritis, such that studies have shown that drinking fructose, sweetened beverages five times per week were three times more likely to have arthritis as a symptom than those patients who only consume few to no fructose, sweetened beverages. As with my previous blogs, foods you eat should, in general, be part of a healthy meal plan for whatever conditions you're trying to avoid. But there are also certain foods that are in common to most of these chronic conditions that we should avoid. And one of them would be red meat. Red meats, as we know, are common foods that we always advocate to avoid, as in general, they're not really truly a healthy food. Now, some research have also linked that red meats has been shown to be associated with inflammation. And we all know that inflammation may increase arthritis symptoms. Furthermore, studies have shown that a high red meat intake can be an important risk factor for you to develop inflammatory arthritis. Conversely, if you do plant-based diets that exclude red meat, they have been shown to improve arthritis symptoms. Third on the list would be highly processed foods. Now, these are due to demands of our times and busy schedules. Most of us have resorted to ultra-processed foods for easier access during mealtime, especially breakfast. So these ultra-processed foods include breakfast cereals and baked goods. And we all know that there are plenty in the Philippines. But they are, remember, typically high in refined grains, added sugar, preservatives, and other potentially inflammatory ingredients that have been shown to worsen joint pains. The fourth on the list would be alcohol. Now, especially if the joint pains is due to high uric acid. We all know that alcohol should be avoided as studies have shown that alcohol intake may increase the frequency and severity of gouty arthritis by increasing your uric acid. Likewise, as alcohol in general may worsen arthritis symptoms, anyone, therefore, with inflammatory arthritis should restrict or avoid it. Moreover, we have new data to support that chronic alcohol consumption is also associated with increased risk of osteoarthritis. Therefore, if you start having symptoms of joint pains, refrain from alcohol. If on the list would be certain vegetable oils, what we know is that diets rich in omega-6 fatty acids and low in omega-3 may worsen symptoms of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. So diets high in omega-3 fatty acids include diets that contain fatty fish like salmon. So the two servings of fish per week should provide you with enough omega-3 fatty acid for health. It is more of the imbalance between omega-3 and omega-6 that we see in most western diets that have been shown to increase arthritis symptoms. Bottom line is, it is best to reduce your intake of foods high in omega-6, such as vegetable oils, while increasing your intake of omega-3 foods, like fatty fish, to improve arthritis symptoms. Six on the list would be high salt foods. Now, this includes any canned goods. You usually like canned goods for breakfast, canned soup, pizza, certain cheeses or processed meats like bacon, tocino, or luncheon meat. Now, studies have shown that arthritis symptoms do get worse when fed on a high salt diet than those on a diet containing normal salt levels. And those fed with low salt diet had also less cartilage breakdown and bone destruction, as well as lower inflammatory markers, suggesting benefit to arthritic changes. Lastly, is to avoid foods with high advanced glycation end products. So what are these? Advanced glycation end products are the molecules that naturally exist in uncooked animal foods that are formed through certain cooking methods created through interactions between sugar, protein, and fats. Now, high protein, high fat animal foods that are fried, roasted, grilled, seared, or broiled are among the richest in dietary sources of advanced glycation end products. Examples include bacon, pan-fried or grilled steak, roasted or fried chicken, or broiled hot dogs. They are culprits for high AGEs that may increase the risk of arthritic symptoms. Of course, there are other foods that are also high in AGEs and they include French fries, American cheeses, margarine, and mayonnaise. We therefore advise patients to try replacing high AGE foods with nutritious whole foods like vegetables, fruits, legumes, and fish to hopefully reduce the total advanced glycation end products in your body. So the bottom line of my talk today is that just like any other diseases like diabetes or high blood pressure or high cholesterol, if you happen to have arthritis, a healthy diet and a lifestyle may help improve your symptoms. Make sure also you exercise. Lastly, to help alleviate your risk of developing arthritis, it is also best to always include lifestyle factors like your activity level, body weight, and smoking status, as they are also vital in managing arthritis. Again, this is Dr. Jerry Tan. Stay safe. See you again soon.