 arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc arc resulting in some minor symptoms. So what do you do if you develop COVID-19 symptoms of cough, body malaise, and fever? Please watch this. As more people contract the Omicron variant of COVID-19 amid a nationwide surge, and as the economy has started opening up with border control easing up, what kind of over-the-counter medications or remedies can I recommend to treat mild symptoms of COVID-19 infection? What we know and experience is that most Omicron COVID cases nowadays, particularly in those who are boosted and vaccinated, tend to remain mild and produce very minor cold or flu-like symptoms. Overall, the symptoms of the virus commonly experienced by patients who suffered from mild Omicron disease include some one to two days of fever or chills, with some dry or productive cough, complaints of easy fatigability, some muscle or body aches, headache, sore throat, but most of the patients I've seen complain of congestion or runny nose. There are some cases of occasional nausea and vomiting and diarrhea. Now let me share you some tips on how we can manage these symptoms at home. Now if you develop low-grade fever, simply taking antipiratics like Tylenol and Paracetamol or some stronger anti-inflammatory medications that are over-the-counter like Advil and Ibuprofen can all be used to lower a fever. Now the anti-inflammatory medications of Ibuprofen can also help treat body aches and lower all around body inflammation, both of which can be symptoms of COVID-19. But one has to always remember that acetomethen like Tylenol doesn't treat the virus itself, nor does it reduce the duration of your illness. But it simply acts as a fever reducer that can definitely be an option for some relief. Now if you start getting cough or sore throat, now my advice is that the best option is simply hydration with water. Most over-the-counter medications have not been proven to be effective against cough or sore throat, but some may just aid in liquefying the phlegm to help you better expectorate the phlegm. Other remedies that I usually recommend is drinking tea like chamomile or herbal tea like ginger and hot water with lemon to help soothe your sore throat. Other options to soothe the throat from coughing is to take over-the-counter throat lozenges and decongestant balms like fix vapor up for some temporary relief. However, if you start developing some stomach problems and diarrhea for those people experiencing loose bowel or stomach issues with their COVID-19 infection, staying hydrated with lots of liquids is the way to go. I usually recommend you take some antacids or acid reducer to help patients get over the anxiety of the fact that you're getting COVID-19 infection. And as a result, this helps reduce bloatedness, the feeling of nausea, and some upset stomach. Now the most common symptom I've seen with omicron nowadays is really upper respiratory tract and that's nasal congestion or araninose. Now they usually last longer than a typical allergy or usual viral infection. So one may elect to temporarily leave one using some decongestant medication to help treat congestion araninose, including some decongestant nasal sprays. But I am not really a fan of this as rebound effect can occur, especially if used for more than three days. So I simply recommend that for your nasal congestion to treat the araninose or stuffy nose to get enough rest. One can also try using siline nasal sprays to also help relieve the symptoms. Likewise, simple measures like a cool mist humidifier using essential oils, drinking hot teas, taking a facial steam, or hot shower can help alleviate the congestion for some of our patients. Now yes, there are antiviral pills present or available now to treat COVID-19. Pills such as Paxlovid and Molnupiravir which are available by prescription. But now these antiviral pills aren't for everyone who gets a positive test. They are intended only for those who are more likely to become seriously ill, like those elderly with other health conditions like heart disease, cancer, or diabetes that do make these people very vulnerable to progression of COVID-19. But if you start getting these emergency warning signs associated with COVID, please do seek medical assistance immediately. If you start having trouble breathing, persistent chest pain or pressure, then most likely it's time to seek medical help. I hope these simple measures can help you get over the mild symptoms of Omicron infection. Please continue to stay safe. This is Dr. Jerry Tan. See you again soon.