 personas act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act So for many years, people have already used apple cider vinegar as a home remedy for everything from fighting germs to preventing heartburn. But more recently, we have many more studies to have shown that apple cider vinegar use actually might have some real health benefits, such as helping people with diabetes to reduce blood sugar or even helping people who want to lose weight. Well, there are lots of evidence with regard to its benefit. Apple cider vinegar is generally harmless as long as you use it correctly. Now, this kind of vinegar is a type of vinegar that's made with crushed apples with yeast and sugar made through a process called fermentation. So most of these apple cider vinegar that you can find in groceries or store is actually the clear pasteurized form and that's filtered. But you can also buy them raw, unfiltered apple cider that contains a cloudy sediment. Now, the acetic acid in the apple cider vinegar is also thought to be at least partially responsible for the health benefits this specific product gives. Now, most studies support the use of apple cider vinegar for its health benefits, although they've been small, but the results have not also been very decisive. We therefore need to have more bigger investigations into its benefits. But so far, let me share with you what research has found. Number one, that it is helpful for patients who want to lose weight. Research studies have shown that those taking apple cider vinegar twice a day helped people successfully follow a reduced calorie deficit diet and therefore be able to lose a few extra pounds. In two important human studies that looked at apple cider vinegar and weight loss, one, a Japanese study in 2009, and another one in 2014, people with obesity who took at least one to two tablespoons or 15 to 30 ml of apple cider vinegar daily for the last 12 weeks lost weight and body fat. Number two, it has been shown to also help lower blood sugar. In those studies, taking a tablespoon or two of apple cider vinegar was shown to help lower blood sugar after a meal. But keep in mind that apple cider vinegar can't replace diabetes medications and a healthy lifestyle, but it should be safe to add to your treatment plan. Third, it has also been shown to lower cholesterol. Now, again, same small study showing that apple cider vinegar use boosted weight loss that found it to lower also total cholesterol levels of the subjects put to apple cider vinegar. They also noted an increase in the level of good cholesterol or HDL and lowered levels of triglycerides. So the next question is therefore, how do we use apple cider vinegar? First, it is very important to note that it is safe and tasty to use apple cider vinegar to add some excitement to your meals. You can actually use it to liven up your sauces and stews, as well as traditional salad dressings, as well as marinades. But you can also safely drink apple cider vinegar, but you dilute it in your hot or cold beverage as you prefer. Some, in fact, people prefer it before or after meals, it's up to you, or before going to bed. For weight control, for example, in a study that found weight loss benefits, people drank two tablespoons of apple cider vinegar a day, but you have to split it on two occasions, probably before lunch or the other before dinner. Experts say that the amount should be safe for most people. Now, for blood sugar and cholesterol control, people in that study showed an improvement when they took about one and a half tablespoons of apple cider vinegar after a meal. One question is can we use it for acid reflux? In fact, yes, it has been shown to be helpful for those patients with heartburn. A teaspoon or two of apple cider vinegar diluted in a mug of warm water after a meal has been shown to help reduce acid reflux. Now, it is, in fact, unlikely to make the condition worse. But of note, this is a caution for all. Apple cider vinegar is not for all. Now, since it's high in acid, apple cider vinegar could irritate your esophagus. If you drink it straight or you drink too much undiluted, apple cider vinegar can also break down your tooth in an ul. To avoid these issues, always water down apple cider vinegar and drink it through a straw to protect your teeth. The use of apple cider vinegar also can give some people indigestion or make them feel nauseated. Therefore, it is best that you don't drink it on an empty stomach. And if you feel sick or throw up, you should stop using it altogether. Now, there can also be interaction of apple cider vinegar with some drugs, including diuretics, laxatives, especially if you also use insulin for your diabetes medications. So, it is therefore very safe that before using apple cider vinegar, please ask your doctor if it is safe for your condition, especially with your current medications. So, the bottom line is, yes, apple cider vinegar in itself has been shown to be helpful. But if you want to lose weight, it should be incorporated as part of a whole meal plan. If you want to use apple cider vinegar to help lower your blood sugar, it should be part of the whole diabetic meal plan. Again, this is Dr. Jerry Tan. Stay safe. See you again soon.