

=== FILE: Foods to Eat to BOOST your Metabolism and Help You LOSE WEIGHT [PR9M_5_VaxA].txt ===

 and gportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportportport your metabolism, making it easier, therefore, to maintain and lose weight. But remember, eating or taking too much of them will also not help, but instead, use them to complement your balanced, low-carb diet to promote weight loss. Let's watch this. The first on the list will be protein-rich foods, such as meat, fish, eggs, and dairy, including nuts, which could help increase your metabolism for a few hours. We all know that protein-rich foods require your body to use more energy to digest them, and therefore, these foods will tend to increase your metabolic rate by as much as 15% to 30% compared with only 5% to 10% if you eat carbs, or 0% to 3% if you consume more fat. Plus, remember, protein may also help keep you feel fuller for longer periods of time, which can therefore prevent you from overeating. Second on the list would be coffee. We know from several studies that people who consume at least 3 cups of coffee burn up to an extra 100 calories per day. I would therefore suggest that it should be blocked coffee without milk or sugar. Third is tea. Tea works in tandem with caffeine to boost metabolic rate, in particular, both oolong or matcha, green tea. They have been shown to increase fat oxidation by increasing your fat burning ability by as much as 17%. Fourth on the list would be beans and legumes. Now, legumes and beans, including chicken peas, black beans, including peanuts, are particularly high in protein compared to other plants. Legumes, for example, contain dietary fiber, which your body can use as prebiotic to feed the good bacteria living in your large intestine, which in turn can produce short-chain fatty acids, which can help your body more effectively use stored fat as energy and maintain normal blood sugar levels. Fifth on the list would be ginger. Research have shown that dissolving 2 grams of ginger powder in hot water and drinking it with a meal can help you burn up to 43 more calories than simply drinking hot water alone. Plus, drinking it has been shown to decrease levels of hunger and enhance feelings of fullness or satiety. Sixth on the list would be cacao. Cacao or cocoa are tasty tweets that may also benefit your metabolism, as animal studies have shown that cacao or cocoa extracts may promote the expression of genes that stimulate fat burning. Seventh on the list would be apple cider vinegar. They may help you lose weight by slowing the emptying of your stomach and enhancing the feelings of fullness. So if you decide to take apple cider vinegar, make sure to limit yourself to 1 to 2 tablespoons per day and dilute it in at least 1 cup of water per tablespoon of vinegar to limit the risk of tooth erosion damage to the lining of your digestive tract. And of course, the best on the list would be water. We know that drinking water is a great way to stay hydrated. Additionally, some studies have shown that drinking water may also briefly boost your metabolism. Plus, studies have shown that 2 glasses of water before each meal has been shown to reduce the amount of intake of meals by as much as 20 to 22%. So the bottom line is certain foods do really help slightly increase your metabolic rate and how many calories you burn. So consuming them regularly may help in a way make it easier for you to maintain your weight and keep it stable long term. However, these foods will not negate the high calorie or the poor quality diet. And therefore, always seek help with your primary care physicians, with your endocrinologist as to the best way to help you lose weight. Again, this is Dr. Jerry Tan. Stay safe. See you again soon.

=== FILE: How Much COFFEE is Good for You？ [zLP5u25V97I].txt ===

 su suкукуку, suкуку, suкуку, suкуку, suкуку, suкуку, suкуку, suкуку, suкуку, suкуку, suкуку, suкуку, suкуку, suкуку, suкуку, suкуку, suкуку, suкуку, suкуку, suкуку, suкуку, suкуку, suкуку, suкуку, suкуку, suкукуку, suкукуку, suкукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукукуку coffee in the morning, mid-morning, as well as in my mid-afternoon snacks. Now, when a study came out in 1981 linking coffee to pancreatic cancer, there was much controversy regarding the health benefits of coffee. Fortunately, the study was deemed flawed and therefore the results were dismissed. What we now know is that we have overwhelming evidence of a pretty convincing data that coffee has more healthful than harmful outcomes in terms of one's health. Now, in fact, moderate intake of coffee is linked to weight loss and a lower likelihood of type 2 diabetes, heart disease, liver and endometrial cancers, including Parkinson's disease and depression. In fact, people who drink coffee may even reduce the risk of mortality, though the results or the relationship is not yet clear why this happens. What we know is that to achieve these health benefits for most people, moderate coffee consumption can be incorporated into a healthy diet. And what's moderate, it's approximately 2 to 5 cups a day. I usually only can take 2 cups a day. Now, coffee, as we know, contains caffeine that gives people the energy and keeps them alert throughout the day. Now, it binds to adenosine receptors, which normally makes you feel alert and reduces depressive effects. However, what we know is that the benefits of coffee is not simply from caffeine, because what we know is that the same reductions in diabetes and heart disease risk was associated with the intake of decaffeinated coffee, which means the benefits of coffee is not simply from caffeine. Though it can be tempting to assume that coffee's health benefits apply typically to a typical Starbucks drink, unfortunately, they don't. The experts often refer to coffee to its most basic form, which is drip coffee. So drinking regular coffee instead of those sugar-sweetened beverages or others like soda or juice, however, has positive effects on health. Coffee, in fact, may impart a number of health benefits over time, but not much is known about the effects, first on children, as well as the effects on pregnant women. But when it comes to coffee, remember that what keeps one person up all night may hardly affect another slumber. Clearly, there's a complex relationship between genes and caffeine metabolism or how quickly the body processes coffee. For now, it's best that we enjoy our cup of coffee for the pleasure it gives us. And of course, the health benefits are a bonus. Again, this is Dr. Jerry Tan. Stay safe. See you again soon.

=== FILE: Is Apple Cider Vinegar Safe for Weight loss and Diabetes？ [tFfkU5CX_Ss].txt ===

 personas act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act act So for many years, people have already used apple cider vinegar as a home remedy for everything from fighting germs to preventing heartburn. But more recently, we have many more studies to have shown that apple cider vinegar use actually might have some real health benefits, such as helping people with diabetes to reduce blood sugar or even helping people who want to lose weight. Well, there are lots of evidence with regard to its benefit. Apple cider vinegar is generally harmless as long as you use it correctly. Now, this kind of vinegar is a type of vinegar that's made with crushed apples with yeast and sugar made through a process called fermentation. So most of these apple cider vinegar that you can find in groceries or store is actually the clear pasteurized form and that's filtered. But you can also buy them raw, unfiltered apple cider that contains a cloudy sediment. Now, the acetic acid in the apple cider vinegar is also thought to be at least partially responsible for the health benefits this specific product gives. Now, most studies support the use of apple cider vinegar for its health benefits, although they've been small, but the results have not also been very decisive. We therefore need to have more bigger investigations into its benefits. But so far, let me share with you what research has found. Number one, that it is helpful for patients who want to lose weight. Research studies have shown that those taking apple cider vinegar twice a day helped people successfully follow a reduced calorie deficit diet and therefore be able to lose a few extra pounds. In two important human studies that looked at apple cider vinegar and weight loss, one, a Japanese study in 2009, and another one in 2014, people with obesity who took at least one to two tablespoons or 15 to 30 ml of apple cider vinegar daily for the last 12 weeks lost weight and body fat. Number two, it has been shown to also help lower blood sugar. In those studies, taking a tablespoon or two of apple cider vinegar was shown to help lower blood sugar after a meal. But keep in mind that apple cider vinegar can't replace diabetes medications and a healthy lifestyle, but it should be safe to add to your treatment plan. Third, it has also been shown to lower cholesterol. Now, again, same small study showing that apple cider vinegar use boosted weight loss that found it to lower also total cholesterol levels of the subjects put to apple cider vinegar. They also noted an increase in the level of good cholesterol or HDL and lowered levels of triglycerides. So the next question is therefore, how do we use apple cider vinegar? First, it is very important to note that it is safe and tasty to use apple cider vinegar to add some excitement to your meals. You can actually use it to liven up your sauces and stews, as well as traditional salad dressings, as well as marinades. But you can also safely drink apple cider vinegar, but you dilute it in your hot or cold beverage as you prefer. Some, in fact, people prefer it before or after meals, it's up to you, or before going to bed. For weight control, for example, in a study that found weight loss benefits, people drank two tablespoons of apple cider vinegar a day, but you have to split it on two occasions, probably before lunch or the other before dinner. Experts say that the amount should be safe for most people. Now, for blood sugar and cholesterol control, people in that study showed an improvement when they took about one and a half tablespoons of apple cider vinegar after a meal. One question is can we use it for acid reflux? In fact, yes, it has been shown to be helpful for those patients with heartburn. A teaspoon or two of apple cider vinegar diluted in a mug of warm water after a meal has been shown to help reduce acid reflux. Now, it is, in fact, unlikely to make the condition worse. But of note, this is a caution for all. Apple cider vinegar is not for all. Now, since it's high in acid, apple cider vinegar could irritate your esophagus. If you drink it straight or you drink too much undiluted, apple cider vinegar can also break down your tooth in an ul. To avoid these issues, always water down apple cider vinegar and drink it through a straw to protect your teeth. The use of apple cider vinegar also can give some people indigestion or make them feel nauseated. Therefore, it is best that you don't drink it on an empty stomach. And if you feel sick or throw up, you should stop using it altogether. Now, there can also be interaction of apple cider vinegar with some drugs, including diuretics, laxatives, especially if you also use insulin for your diabetes medications. So, it is therefore very safe that before using apple cider vinegar, please ask your doctor if it is safe for your condition, especially with your current medications. So, the bottom line is, yes, apple cider vinegar in itself has been shown to be helpful. But if you want to lose weight, it should be incorporated as part of a whole meal plan. If you want to use apple cider vinegar to help lower your blood sugar, it should be part of the whole diabetic meal plan. Again, this is Dr. Jerry Tan. Stay safe. See you again soon.

=== FILE: Is Eating Chocolate HEALTHY or Harmful？ [TSh3_PBmf3c].txt ===

 Hello again, I'm Dr. Jerry Tan, I'm Dr. Jerry Tan, I'm a Mayo Clinic-trained endocrinologist for today, we'll talk about the association of intake of cacao or cocoa with weight loss and other health benefits. we all know that cocoa beans are the primary ingredient in chocolate but they can also be ground into cocoa powder the powder provides many potential health benefits especially if your powder is at least 72% cocoa so what are some of these benefits number one it has been shown to help your attention working memory as well as general cognition number two it's also very important since cocoa powder contains certain nutrients and minerals that help your body function and give your immune system a boost including iron zinc and selenium number three cocoa powder also contains an element called magnesium which can help in maintaining your healthy muscle and nervous system function by protecting nerve cells and reducing the risk of neurological disorders number four especially if the chocolate is made with 90% cocoa that contains plenty of zinc a mineral that is useful for healing wounds cocoa therefore is helpful in hastening wound healing number five we all know that chocolate also contains flavanols known to protect against heart disease by lowering blood pressure improving blood flow as well as preventing cell damage likewise number six cocoa powder also contains polyphenols antioxidants that help improve cholesterol and blood sugar levels and therefore can reduce the risk of heart disease what's also important as number seven is that cocoa powder is rich in theobromine which can help reduce inflammation and can protect you from diseases such as heart disease even cancer now what's important is number eight that since cocoa is rich in phytonutrients but low in fat and sugar the calories you get from cocoa powder will be packed with healthy chemicals in fact studies have shown that this is very helpful for weight loss they found that cocoa helps to regulate energy use and metabolism while increasing the feeling of fullness in other words although chocolate is commonly associated with weight gain cocoa powder may actually help reduce your weight while providing important nutrients provided don't overdo it it is very critical that in any way we do in any nutrients we take it should be part of a healthy healthy balanced meal again this is dr jerry tan stay safe and stay fit see you again soon you

=== FILE: Is RED MEAT Safe to Eat？ Is RED Meat Bad for me？ [PL-3G0HGMfc].txt ===

 fibritsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsitsits is not really bad at all because remember it's a very good source of protein okay which is an essential component of one's diet so the question we always have is when is red meat really bad and if so how do we recommend red meat intake to most patients so as not to harm one's health if you need information let's watch this so the short answer to the question is red meat unhealthy or not for those with health problems or are watching one's weight is really enjoy red meat but make sure you eat the healthy cuts of meat specifically the lean cuts of meat so lean cuts of beef for example are beef cuts with the least fat content we know that there's really a compromise here since as beef lovers we know that the best cuts of beef meat are those with the higher fat content those with good marbling but we have to keep in mind that the lean cuts of beef are not just healthier but can also be flavorful as well and eat eat it with less guilt so nutrition wise this is the kind of meat that has low fat content equivalent to that of a skinless chicken breast or thigh so for every 3.5 ounces or 100 grams of lean beef it only contains less than 10 grams of fat less than 4.5 grams of saturated fat and less than 95 milligrams of cholesterol so the question is what are these healthier cuts of beef or meat that we can order in restaurants okay here's some tips number one chuck or shoulder from the chuck portion you get shoulder or arm roast or steaks lean beef cuts from the chuck also include shoulder steaks or medallions which are small round steaks second first half of the brisket or lower chest these are the areas that are ideal for lean cuts third would be shank or the front leg cross cuts these are lean beef cuts obtained from the front leg however the most popular lean cuts of beef and may be among my favorites in terms of beef steak would be the short loin or the back portion where tenderloin steak comes from that is used in dishes like filet mignon or top loin or strip steak or the t-bone steak another lean cut is the flank portion of the abdomen that lies behind the belly this can be used as flank steak to make beef stir fry stir fry now the leanest cuts of beef however are the sirloin or the lower back these sirloin steak cuts are not only juicy but they're also flavorful portions that work well with stir fries so in general therefore not all red meats are created equal the lean cuts of meat can be as healthy as chicken or flavorful as well so studies show that lean beef has the lowest levels of saturated fat and if you consume it with low fat diet it can actually reduce cholesterol levels in your body therefore not all red meats can be bad for the heart research also have shown that lean cuts of beef prevent the release of blood blood related factors associated with heart problems furthermore lean cuts of beef can provide us with further benefits it's a very good source of protein for muscle development it can have omega-3 fatty acids which help protect your body and mind lean beef also has minerals like zinc and iron which promote healthy growth of your cells and can boost your immunity it also contains essential vitamins so adding lean cuts of beef therefore to your diet is not all that bad but rather can have health benefits in spite of it being a red meat lastly here are some tips for choosing lean cuts of beef when choosing lean cuts of beef check the labels okay choose cuts with the grades choice or select because the label with prime in it means higher fat content lean cuts of beef will have less visible fat or marbling which makes it easier to choose when choosing ground beef on the other hand opt for 90 percent to 95 percent lean beef with the lowest fat percentage however remember this the leanest cuts of beef have very little fat so they cook quickly and requires a third less cooking time for a third less cooking time but they need slightly more cooking oil for grilling or frying i hope this short video on choosing the right kind of red meat for your health and for your daily intake is helpful and have given you some insights that it's okay to eat red meat on occasions and but try to choose the lean cuts or the healthier portions of your meat or beef again this is dr jerry tan stay safe see you again soon

=== FILE: Proper Diet to Build Stronger Immunity [bhDSiCFv1QU].txt ===

 UDA, mis impatible UDA, mis impatible UDA, mis impatible UDA, mis lifestyle habits, especially with the temptation of processed food, numerous choices of fast food, and of course, sugary drinks. We have to remember that these unhealthy foods can have many effects on your body, including your immune system. Over the last 60 years, there has been a decline in the nutritional value of the foods we eat. And remember, our immune system needs specific nutrients in order for it to function properly. Now, these nutrients include the following. Most of these necessary nutrients can be derived from eating fruits and vegetables, including protein sources like meat, fish, and dairy. However, our bodies might not be able to get enough of these nutrients from the food we eat on a daily basis. If one is not properly nourished and lacks the necessary nutrients and minerals in the body, then this malnourished individual is at risk of developing infections and chronic illnesses like diabetes and heart disease. Unhealthy foods include those under the ultra-processed category. Ultra-processed foods means the food has almost no natural ingredient left. These are the foods that use a lot of chemicals like preservatives, flavoring, coloring, and plenty of added sugar and salt. The problem with eating too much ultra-processed food is that it has been shown to alter the gut microbiota, which can result in more oxidative stress, resulting in more production of pre-radicals that can destroy your own cells. All of this has been linked to immune dysregulation diseases like inflammatory bowel diseases and other autoimmune conditions. And these alterations can make our own body's immune system more aggressive toward your own body, creating a chronic inflammatory state that has been shown to result in heart problems and other chronic diseases like diabetes. So here's another question from Lee. One-fourth of the plate should consist of rice. One-fourth of the plate should consist of meat or fish, while the rest of the plate should be filled with fruits and vegetables. And more importantly, it is best that you eat lots of fiber, because studies have shown that foods rich in fiber are also important in boosting your immune response. People who are elderly, those who are picky with their foods, those who are too busy to choose the right foods every meal, and those who are ill that have problems with appetite, are those people that can benefit from taking supplements to help boost their immunity, especially vitamin C and zinc. Remember that vitamin C helps boost immunity, as well as hastens wound healing, while zinc, on the other hand, has anti-inflammatory properties that support cellular processes and helps in their recovery from sickness. The problem is vitamin C and zinc is very difficult to combine. So if you want to assure it's better absorption in the body, then vitamin C and zinc is better combined with the so-called zinc plus technology. Now, zinc plus technology allows vitamin C and zinc to be combined well. Walang masisira, walang nawawala. Kaya 100% assured kayo of its delivery of vitamin C and zinc in every dose. Yan ang maasahan mo. The immune system is the foundation of good overall health, because it's our body's defense against diseases. It is very important, therefore, that we prioritize it and keep it strong. I hope for today, I have given you some tips and hints on how to help our body fight against infection and boost our immunity. Remember to always strive to eat healthy and consistently, because good diet is essential for a strong immune system and a healthy body. But always remember that always together with proper diet, wag kalimutan mag-exercise at least 150 minutes per week. Again, for health tips, please follow me in the YouTube channel, Dr. Jerry Tan. See you around.

=== FILE: TEN Quick SIMPLE Tips to Jumpstart Your Weight loss [hz9IZKBuTJs].txt ===

 aromasin, instincts instincts, aromasin, instincts, aromasin, instincts, aromasin, Here are some of the quick tips that you can do to help you lose weight. Number one, eat a healthy protein breakfast. Because by eating a high protein breakfast, it could help reduce your cravings and calorie intake throughout the day. Second, limit your sugary intake and fruit juice. Remember, empty calories from sugar aren't useful to your body and basically can hinder weight loss journey. Third, always stay hydrated. Drink water throughout the day and aim for half of your body weight in ounces. Number four, eat more fiber since studies have shown that eating fiber may help promote weight loss. Find the fiber in whole grains, fruits, vegetables, and nuts, including seeds. Fifth, drink coffee or tea since caffeine consumption have been shown to help boost your metabolism. It is my advice, however, that there's no need to go overboard on caffeine because of the side effects of palpitation. And be mindful of added sugar or other extra perks like chocolate to these drinks. Number six, base your diet on whole foods because they tend to be nutrient rich, more filling, and less likely to cause overeating than processed foods. Number seven is very important. You have to eat slowly. You have to eat slowly. Eating quickly can lead to weight gain over time, while eating slowly makes you feel more full and boost weight-reducing hormones. Number eight, very important also, is to get more enough quality sleep. Sleep is important for many reasons, and poor sleep is one of the biggest risk factors for weight gain. Of course, number nine is to reduce stress. Stress from work, be it financial, personal, or emotional stress. And definitely, last but not the least, is move your body. Any form of movement, including standing compared to sitting, burns more calories. And then moderate-paced exercise burns more calories than standing. And of course, brisk walking do the best in terms of burning calories. I hope these 10 quick tips can help jumpstart your journey toward weight loss. Again, this is Dr. Jertan. Stay safe. See you again soon.

=== FILE: The Health Benefits of EATING OATS [ZCxSg9R2mJw].txt ===

 Hello again, I'm Dr. Jerry Tan, I'm a Mayo Clinic trained endocrinologist. For today's video, let's talk about how we can incorporate oatmeal as part of a healthy diet. Oatmeal-based diets are popular breakfast food in our country as well as in many countries around the world. We always use oatmeal to replace rice as we believe it is beneficial for health benefits including weight loss due to healthy mix of fiber, complex carbohydrates, and specifically high in protein. At the same time, we know that oatmeal is filled with nutrients that can help lower cholesterol, aid in weight loss, and lead to a better gut health. But the question is, are all oatmeal created equal? The truth is, it's not. In fact, the difference is in the oats that are used to make the oatmeal. Now, the best and most nutritious are the least processed, forms like the still cut and the rolled oats. Some of the health and weight loss benefits of this nutritious oatmeal include the following. Number one, the dietary fiber, particularly the soluble fiber. It softens the stool, regulates hunger by creating a feeling of fullness. Number two, another perk of eating rolled oats is its low glycemic index, in fact, lower than whole wheat bread, which means that oatmeal keeps your blood sugar from spiking from spiking to high during and after meals, which may help fend off hunger longer. Number three, one type of soluble fiber, the beta-glucan, is found in oats and has been shown to help activate your infection-fighting blood cells, and therefore, they can act like an immune booster. Though oatmeal has several health benefits, people should be mindful that to help weight loss with oatmeal, number one, don't add too much sugar and mix-ins. Now, throwing, for example, a couple of blueberries or apple slices on it is a great idea, but throwing sugar on it definitely is not a great idea. Number two, keep in mind that the recommended portion size of half a cup of dry oats as a healthy serving, because eating more can defeat the purpose of weight loss. And number three, stay away from instant or flavored oats, because instant oats are more highly processed. They have less fiber and therefore a higher glycemic index. Now, although no research study has directly linked eating oatmeal with weight loss, studies have found it to be effective in appetite control. My advice, therefore, is if you want to start an oatmeal regimen, people should start with oatmeal two to four times a week and work their way up to daily servings. Now, it may be beneficial to have a larger glass of water with oatmeal to help move the fiber through the GI tract to reduce the sensation of bloating and occasional stomach pain. Those introducing oatmeal to the diet, therefore, should start slowly and therefore avoid instant and flavored oats. Again, reminder, always eat in moderation. This is Dr. Jerry Tan. Stay safe. See you again soon. You

=== FILE: Tips to Help You Lose Weight and Prevent Weight Gain [Ud7MOSfnujo].txt ===

 and why. Let's watch this. In general, there are two major factors. It's your age and your activity. Now first, as you get older, we have to remember that our body slows down each passing decay. First, the effect of aging slowly changes your body composition, decreasing the amount of calorie burning muscle and replacing it with fat. Second, most adults become much less active as they get older, but we continue to eat as much as we do in our early twenties. It is therefore the combination of these two factors that many of us eventually experience the weight creep and weight gain. Now here are some tips that I can share with you to stop gaining weight by eliminating these bad habits. Some of the common mistakes people make actually lead us to gain weight. Now first, not enough me time. Not enough time to have fun exercising. So be sure to have some time to move and work out at your own pace and time in front of TV or comfort zone. You may be too busy with work that you always associate early morning wake up to eating breakfast, then go to work. So please put some me time wherein you have time to meditate and exercise. Second, the usual situation where we want to relax after work, that's the time we do mindless eating in front of the TV or cell phone. Be it chips, popcorn, or pastries. The cycle has to stop because without you realizing it, you are building up more calories and more fat. Third, indulging in sweetened drinks like specialty coffees or milk teas instead of water. These specialty drinks we know really taste good, but they are rich in calories compared to let's say brewed coffee or simple tea. But of course the best trick of all is plain water. We all know that milk teas, for example, has been shown to provide us with 20 teaspoons of sugar, equivalent to 200 to 400 calories per drink. Better go therefore to please go back to basics. As drinking water around 2 cups each meal has been shown to actually lessen intake of food during each meal by as much as 22%. Fourth, irregular meals result in fluctuation of hunger, then fullness. Now this cycle is not helpful because as you tend to overeat during the episodes of hunger, you're too hungry because you missed your meal at 12. So you waited for 2 o'clock to eat and that's where you overeat and you become so full. So feeling full is not good because it means too much calories resulting in more fat and weight gain. The habit of finishing kids meals or the habit of finishing our partner's meal. The cost of developing chronic diseases related to obesity is more than the amount of that wasted food. Number 6 is reaching for second helpings. After finishing a plate full of food in spite of feeling full, we tend to eat more primarily because we are in a buffet setup. Shy away therefore from buffet tables and in eat all you can food fair. Number 7 is when we eat too much simple carbs like sugar and white bread and not enough protein either during main meals or during snacks. We know that taking in protein-rich foods has been shown to burn more calories as it takes time for the body to burn energy from protein sources. So my advice therefore is try to figure out where your own problem areas are and then find solutions to control calories and fit in more fitness. If you're a sweet tooth or a pastry freak or a non-exerciser, then work on the issues you have. Remember always that eating healthy does not mean following a super restrictive diet. Those simple measures that I mentioned, you can get rid of them and they will actually help control, maintain, or in fact, help you lose weight. Just remember, be good on most days than not. Because all you need to do is simply watch what you eat and watch what you put into your mouth. Again, this is Dr. Jerry Tan. Thanks for watching. See you again soon. Thank you. Thank you.

=== FILE: Why Are You Not Losing Weight？ [1Uv4qIehYAU].txt ===

 Hello again, I'm Dr. Jerry Tan, I'm a Mayo Clinic trained endocrinologist, for today we'll discuss about the saga of hidden calories, the culprits of why you're not losing weight. Here are some of the hidden calories that you may be taking every day without knowing it. Number 1. Number 1. The low-fat yogurt. Yogurt can be highly nutritious, but like many other low-fat products, low-fat yoghurts often contain added sugar to enhance their flavor. Now, of note, what I'm going to give you in terms of calories would be from a single cup of approximately 245 grams of low-fat yogurt that may contain as much as 40 grams to 45 grams of sugar, which is about 11 teaspoons. This is more than the daily limit for men and women. Number 2. Barbecue sauce. We know that barbecue sauce is what makes our beef or marinated meat tasty. However, 2 tablespoons of your barbecue sauce of around 28 grams can give you around 9 grams of sugar, which is equivalent to around 2 teaspoons of sugar. Number 3. Of course, what we love most with French fries or with egg omelette would be our ketchup, which is one of the most popular condiments in the Philippines and also worldwide. Unfortunately, because it's sweet, it contains sugar. And in fact, a single tablespoon of ketchup will contain nearly one teaspoon of sugar. Number 4. Spaghetti sauce. Now, Filipinos love our version of sweet spaghetti. Unfortunately, since the sauce is sweet, they have added sugar. So, all spaghetti sauces will contain some natural sugar given the fact that they are made with tomatoes. The best way, however, to ensure that you aren't getting any unwanted sugar in your pasta sauce is preferably to make your own. Number 5. Chocolate milk. Now, chocolate milk we know is nutritious, but it has been flavored with cocoa and is sweetened with sugar. So, despite having all the nutritious qualities of milk, one cup of chocolate milk of around 250 grams will contain almost 12 extra grams or equivalent to 2 to 3 teaspoons of added sugar. Number 6. Granola. Now, granola is considered a healthy alternative for breakfast because it is made of oats. But, without you realizing it, it is actually combined with nuts and honey and other sugar added sweeteners, which can increase the amount of sugars and calories in it. So, in fact, 100 grams of granola can contain as much as 400 to 500 calories, nearly 5 to 7 teaspoons of sugar. Number 7. Of course, what we love most. The flavored coffees. It's a popular trend, but in some coffee houses, for example, one large flavored coffee or coffee drink can contain as much as 45 grams of sugar, if not much more. So, that's equivalent again to 11 teaspoons of added sugar per serving. It is therefore best that if you want coffee, it should be black, without cream, or without sugar, without any flavored syrups. Number 8. Iced tea. If you go to buffets, iced tea is always there because it's cheap and it's tasty. But, it is usually laden with sugar, unflavored with syrup. So, most commercially available prepared iced teas, for example, will contain as much as 35 grams of sugar per 340 ml serving. This is about the same amount of sugar in a bottle of regular Coke. Number 9. Breakfast cereal. Some cereals, for example, those marketed for children, really have lots of added sugar. Some, in fact, contain 12 grams or 3 teaspoons of sugar in a 34 gram serving. So, the bottom line is added sugars are everywhere. It can be in our condiments. It can be in our usual meal. It can be in our usual sauces, which we don't know that they contain sugar. But, long term, this will actually cause harm. Especially if you consume large amounts of these hidden calories. So, the best way, therefore, to avoid these hidden sugars in your meal is, preferably, to make these foods in your own home. As you exactly know what's in them. Make sure, also, if you buy stuff prepared in groceries, to check the label to identify any hidden added sugars. Especially when you're buying this for your family. Again, this is Dr. Jerry Tan. Stay safe. See you again soon. Thank you.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.299864Z ===
