 naringin,bai. We all know that trying to lose weight can be tricky. We all know that trying to lose weight can be tricky. But using this beverage to help control one's appetite not only can be satisfying, but definitely healthy. Which trick is this? Let's watch this. Let's watch this. Let's watch this. Let's watch this. Let's watch this. Let's watch this. Coconut water. Coconut water is the clear fluid found inside coconuts. And it differs from coconut milk because coconut milk is the combination of coconut water with grated coconut. Now, in itself, coconut water has a slightly sweet, nutty flavor. Most importantly, it quenches thirst that is low in sugar and calories, unlike fruit juices or sports drinks. Now, this popular beverage is also high in natural vitamins and minerals that also assist our patients in terms of hydration. Now, but while some people swear by the benefits of drinking coconut water, is it really the best option when you're thirsty or hungry and trying to lose weight? Now, on a hot day, this famous drink may efficiently revive the body, but the sweetness of coconut water does not end there because this beverage may also provide you a variety of health advantages. Now, first of all, we have to remember that coconut water, because of its less calories, is an excellent choice for individuals who crave to eat or drink something sweet and who wants to lose weight. We all know that one cup of coconut water contains only 45 calories. It is therefore, number one, diabetic friendly, which is what I like. It is one recommended drink that I advise to my patients to curb hunger and is, in fact, my favorite drink to take daily, especially after dinner, prior to sleeping. Now, in addition to being low in sugar, coconut water has no fat. In fact, as a result, because of this property, it is a great weight loss beverage. In fact, it boasts of plenty of electrolytes such as potassium, sodium, and magnesium, which can also help replenish lost nutrients, especially after exercise or during a mild illness. Of note, one cup of coconut water can contain approximately 600 milligrams of potassium. Now, as a mineral, this aids in the removal of excess salt from the body via your urine, and therefore, clinically has been shown to aid with blood pressure reduction. So, drinking coconut water, therefore, can be part of a healthy diet for a patient with metabolic syndrome. And speak of metabolic syndrome, this is a patient with high blood pressure, high blood sugar, high cholesterol, and high uric acid, as it helps you stay hydrated while being low in calories, rich in potassium, and being free of fats and cholesterol. In fact, coconut water is 94% water and is fat-free and cholesterol-free. So, for recreational drinking, I usually go for the fresh coconut water straight from the coconut fruit, unsweetened, and one that doesn't have any added sodium. Now, for those who are physically active, a rule of thumb, especially those who want to lose weight, is that for every pound of weight loss during exercise, you need to replenish your body with approximately 20 ounces of fluid, whether that's coconut water, a sports drink, or water. In the US, it has been shown from statistics that 11% of men and 6% of women have kidney stones at least once in their lifetime, and thereby staying hydrated is key to preventing them. Drinking coconut water as part of the balanced diet, therefore, can offer some relief and help flush our system. Coconut water has been shown to also increase the removal of potassium, chloride, and citrate in the urine, and therefore, if you have kidney stones and your physician recommends you get more potassium into your diet, drinking coconut water could be beneficial. And therefore, the next time you've got to crunch your thirst, consider reaching out for coconut water. This beverage is full of natural vitamins and minerals that aid in hydration, and consuming coconut water may also help your antioxidant system by neutralizing the effects of free radicals. Likewise, my advice is, drinking coconut water can really be filling, and therefore, can boost your ability to control your weight without getting hungry. Trust me on this. Again, this is Dr. Jerry Tan. See you again soon.