 UDA, mis impatible UDA, mis impatible UDA, mis impatible UDA, mis lifestyle habits, especially with the temptation of processed food, numerous choices of fast food, and of course, sugary drinks. We have to remember that these unhealthy foods can have many effects on your body, including your immune system. Over the last 60 years, there has been a decline in the nutritional value of the foods we eat. And remember, our immune system needs specific nutrients in order for it to function properly. Now, these nutrients include the following. Most of these necessary nutrients can be derived from eating fruits and vegetables, including protein sources like meat, fish, and dairy. However, our bodies might not be able to get enough of these nutrients from the food we eat on a daily basis. If one is not properly nourished and lacks the necessary nutrients and minerals in the body, then this malnourished individual is at risk of developing infections and chronic illnesses like diabetes and heart disease. Unhealthy foods include those under the ultra-processed category. Ultra-processed foods means the food has almost no natural ingredient left. These are the foods that use a lot of chemicals like preservatives, flavoring, coloring, and plenty of added sugar and salt. The problem with eating too much ultra-processed food is that it has been shown to alter the gut microbiota, which can result in more oxidative stress, resulting in more production of pre-radicals that can destroy your own cells. All of this has been linked to immune dysregulation diseases like inflammatory bowel diseases and other autoimmune conditions. And these alterations can make our own body's immune system more aggressive toward your own body, creating a chronic inflammatory state that has been shown to result in heart problems and other chronic diseases like diabetes. So here's another question from Lee. One-fourth of the plate should consist of rice. One-fourth of the plate should consist of meat or fish, while the rest of the plate should be filled with fruits and vegetables. And more importantly, it is best that you eat lots of fiber, because studies have shown that foods rich in fiber are also important in boosting your immune response. People who are elderly, those who are picky with their foods, those who are too busy to choose the right foods every meal, and those who are ill that have problems with appetite, are those people that can benefit from taking supplements to help boost their immunity, especially vitamin C and zinc. Remember that vitamin C helps boost immunity, as well as hastens wound healing, while zinc, on the other hand, has anti-inflammatory properties that support cellular processes and helps in their recovery from sickness. The problem is vitamin C and zinc is very difficult to combine. So if you want to assure it's better absorption in the body, then vitamin C and zinc is better combined with the so-called zinc plus technology. Now, zinc plus technology allows vitamin C and zinc to be combined well. Walang masisira, walang nawawala. Kaya 100% assured kayo of its delivery of vitamin C and zinc in every dose. Yan ang maasahan mo. The immune system is the foundation of good overall health, because it's our body's defense against diseases. It is very important, therefore, that we prioritize it and keep it strong. I hope for today, I have given you some tips and hints on how to help our body fight against infection and boost our immunity. Remember to always strive to eat healthy and consistently, because good diet is essential for a strong immune system and a healthy body. But always remember that always together with proper diet, wag kalimutan mag-exercise at least 150 minutes per week. Again, for health tips, please follow me in the YouTube channel, Dr. Jerry Tan. See you around.