 earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings earrings So here are some seven quick ways to cope with anxiety. Now, first, simply question your thought pattern. Overwhelming your mind with negative thoughts can really consume you. So a simple way to challenge your fears, ask if they're true, and see where you can take back control. Now, always think instead of positive thoughts. What you can actually do is think of the good fortune and the good things and the good vibes that you have had in the past few weeks, rather than consume yourself with bad thoughts. Now, one way of doing this is doing the second step, which is to meditate. Now, one way to meditate is simply practicing focused, deep breathing. Now, try breathing in for four counts and out for four counts for five minutes total. Or what I usually do is counting every exhalation up to four counts, then repeat. Now, by meditating, you actually slow your heart rate, which should help calm you down and put you to sleep. So meditation can eventually help you train your brain to dismiss anxious thoughts when they arise. Now, one other simple step to do is to use aromatherapy. Now, another technique is to put lavender scent, whether they're in essential fold form, incense or a candle. But other natural scents like chamomile and sandalwood scent can also be used as they can also be very soothing. Studies have shown that practicing aromatherapy can help activate certain receptors in your brain that can potentially cause anxiety and reduce it. So try this technique if you haven't done so. But for me, one best form of therapy is exercise. So simply go for a walk or do for 15 minutes, a yoga or any physical activity at home so that some quick exercise and walk away your bad thoughts can help relieve you of your anxiety. By walking, which is a form of exercise, you're taking some time to focus on your body and not on your mind. Therefore, you're helping relieve your anxiety. Now, the entorphins released with exercise can actually boost your mood. One step that I have not done yet, but probably will do so in the future if I do develop some form of anxiety is journaling or writing down your thoughts. Now, journaling has been shown to be helpful because if you write your emotions and possible solutions, you can get the anxiety out of your head and make it less daunting. This technique has been shown to be helpful, especially for those who experience anxiety sporadically. Now, the process of writing down your thoughts itself can actually be, as some say, calming. However, journaling has also been shown to help keep track of when you experience anxiety and how it makes you feel and what sort of things trigger it. But one thing that I would strongly recommend for those who are alone and being lonely is to take time to socialize. Now, spending time with friends, of course, and family on a regular basis may help manage your anxiety. As socialization has been shown to help relieve stress, encourage feelings of laughter and togetherness, and can help you become more resilient to stress in the long run. But most importantly, you need to eat healthy, nutritious meals. Now, aside from exercising daily, it is best to practice eating balanced, nutritious meals, as well as getting enough sleep. Before I end this vlog, I would say that prayer, prayer do work. Talking to God and meditating and do some prayers when you develop anxiety do offer some help. Lastly, if your anxiety is severe enough that your mental health practitioner you need help believes that you'd benefit from medication, well, there are certain medications you need to go depending on your symptoms. Therefore, discuss your concerns with your doctor. Now, a mental health professional can definitely help streamline the process of trying to identify your triggers, maintaining long-term strategies through behavioral therapy, medications, and more. So, in conclusion, anxiety may always be part of your life, but it shouldn't overtake your day-to-day. Even the most extreme anxiety disorders can be treated. So that the symptoms aren't overwhelming. Once you find a treatment or the solution that works for you, life should be more enjoyable and less more daunting. Again, I hope this is helpful. This is Dr. Jerry Tan. Stay safe. See you again soon. .