 nainnozumnoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoznoz Now, treating and tracking Omicron symptoms will be something every family needs to be ready for the rest of 2022. Chances are that in the foreseeable future, you or any of the family members will test positive or will have symptoms of COVID-19. Now, what do you to the vaccination status of each one of us, including booster shots? Try not to get too anxious about this, as it should be manageable at home. Now, fortunately for most people, the Omicron variant presents as a mild illness and can be cared of at home. Frankly speaking, if you are fully vaccinated, it's unlikely you'll get severe case or you need hospital care. However, those vaccinated individuals with underlying health conditions like heart disease, asthma, diabetes or cancer, however, may be at greater risk of more severe symptoms. So do take care of them. Now, in the Omicron era, it has been shown that congestion and araninose are common signs of COVID-19, particularly among those people who are vaccinated and boosted or who have some measure of immunity from a prior bout of COVID-19 from a different variant. Now, recent data from the UK-based Zoe COVID-19 study published in December of 2021 in the British Medical Journal showed that among the top five symptoms reported for Omicron infection, it is always reported that patients complain of runny nose that can last anywhere from few days to a week or more along with headache, mild or severe fatigue, sneezing and sore throat. Now, the typical COVID-19 runny nose eventually can lead to a nagging cough from excess mucus running down the back of the throat. Sometimes what is frustrating and pasting for most of us is it can be difficult to figure out exactly what is causing the sniffles. The only easy way to differentiate it from flu or allergies is, of course, to get tested. Now, recently in July 4 of 2022, another Zoe COVID study published estimates that there are currently around 300,000 new infections across the UK every day. And then they predict that around 3 million people are actually currently suffering from COVID-19 infection. The spike in cases worldwide, including our country in the last few days, has been most likely predominantly driven by the Omicron sub-variants, BA.4 and BA.5. So what they found out is that aside from nasal congestion, sore throat and cough, the list of the following as recognized COVID-19 symptoms did not differ from the past. It includes feeling sick or being sick and exhausted with loss of appetite associated with high temperature or shivering chills, loss of change of sense of taste or smell associated with shortness of breath, aching body and, of course, headache. Now, once you develop the symptoms suggestive of COVID-19, possibly Omicron, let me share you some tips, especially now that if you are confined in your homes and trying to isolate yourself because you suffered from mild COVID-19 infection. It is best that you don't go to work or school if you have symptoms. You need to be vigilant and stop the spread by isolating. Track your Omicron symptoms and, of course, rest up. Remember, rest is very important for you to recover from viral illness and this helps your body fight against the infection. While you're at it, drink plenty of fluids. Hydrate, unhydrate with water and, of course, I usually recommend coconut water to keep your temperatures down. Proper nutrition with plenty of fruits and easy to digest foods, including soup, can also be light and can serve as a comfort food for the tired body. Of course, one way to help reduce fever and body aches or relieve headaches is to take as needed paracetamol. You can take a maximum of eight paracetamol tablets in 24 hours. If you suffer from a scratchy or sore throat, soothe those sore throat with a sip of honey drink or simply get some lozenges if you have them. Or simply salt water gargle. That's the least expensive of the home remedies, which can be quite soothing for the inflamed throat. What you do is prepare the half teaspoon of salt in 200 ml of water. It should do the trick. Try not to lie flat when nogging cough starts, of course. Also remember to always take any of your regular prescription medications. It is also best that you expose yourself to the sun and get some fresh air while recovering instead of just staying inside your room. Good for your mental well-being. Always have your windows open to allow fresh air to come in. If you do suffer from some nagging slight headache or throbbing headache, an ice cold headache pack would be good for you. Now the good news is these symptoms generally pass after a few days to a week. However, if you are getting better but then worsens again, be ready to seek help in your local hospital or likewise talk to your doctor about antiviral oral therapies. Remember as the prevalence of COVID-19 now again is increasing, it's more important that ever that we remain alert, take precautions and ensure we're up to date with our COVID-19 vaccinations, which up to now remain our best form of defense against the virus. Again, it's never too late to catch up if you've missed the boosters or if you haven't gotten your first doses. I do firmly suggest that please take your recommended vaccines, including boosters. Now the recent rise in cases is indeed worrying and should therefore remind us that there is no room for complacency as far as COVID is concerned. The good news is while there are other countries that have experienced significant waves of BA.4 and BA.5 like Portugal and South Africa, these were reported to be without any major increase in severe disease or death, mainly because of the high levels of vaccination in these populations. Finally, a reminder to anyone who may be sick now from COVID-19 with mild sniffles, even if it just feels like a mild case of nasal congestion or flu, be sure to isolate at home and mask up. Masking, remember, remains a tried and true measure to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Again, this is Dr. Jerry Tan. See you again soon. Dr. Jerry Tan Dr. Jerry Tan Thank you.