 yustustane yustustustro yustustro yustustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro yustro healthy option of protein that I usually recommend for my patients and simply to be recommended for all is the plain and reliable tofu. Now, how beneficial is tofu in one's diet? That's what's this. Tofu is simply made from soybean curds. It is made by coagulating milk, soy milk, to create these curds, which are then pressed and compacted into gelatinous white blocks, recognized as tofu. Of note, one huge block of hard tofu weighing approximately 122 grams only contains 177 calories, only 5.36 grams of carbohydrates, with a huge amount of protein of around 15.57 grams of protein. Health-wise, therefore, this product is low in calories and naturally gluten-free. What's important is that tofu is rich in minerals, including calcium, magnesium, iron, phosphorus, and potassium. Now, for those of you who are at high risk of heart disease, remember, if you are a diabetic, you are categorized as having high risk for heart disease. Now, remember, taking tofu is very beneficial because tofu contains no cholesterol and therefore pretty safe to be consumed in moderate amounts. Now, being an excellent source of nutrients, these are important sources of nutrients for those who are anemic as well as those who are trying to prevent osteoporosis by providing enough calcium for bone strength. Now, I usually use tofu as part of my regimen for those patients who want to lose weight. Now, for the weight conscious and those on low-carbohydrate diet, tofu can be an important source of protein, especially for vegans and vegetarians. It can actually be a filler, especially if you're still hungry and you eat tofu on top of what you have already with no guilt as tofu contains very few calories. What's important is aside from its complete source of dietary protein, it therefore provides our patients with all of the essential amino acids needed in the diet. Therefore, when we consume tofu as an alternative to an animal protein, then you are on a safe level because it has been shown to help lower levels of LDL or the blood cholesterol, which in turn can decrease your risk of atherosclerosis, heart attack, stroke, and of course, lower your blood pressure. Now, recently, the FDA recommends or has set 25 grams a day of soy protein as the minimum intake needed to impact cholesterol levels. Now, among my patients with diabetes, remember when you are a diabetic, patients with diabetes are at increased risk of complications like heart disease or kidney disease. One way specifically to prevent further deterioration of kidney function is really to limit their protein intake, specifically the red meat. Now, however, the protein, particularly soy protein, has the opposite effect and instead may enhance renal function. And it could have benefits for people who are undergoing dialysis or kidney transplantation. In fact, in one very important study, it's a meta-analysis of nine trials of consumption of tofu was shown to have a positive effect of soy on some of the biomarkers of those with chronic kidney disease. Now, one controversial thing about tofu is that it contains isoflavones such as phytoestrogens, which has been pretty controversial due to the touted body effects on cancer growth, especially breast cancer. Now, the controversy regarding this with regard to cancer formation has been ongoing. However, the safety of it in terms of breast cancer diagnosis, in fact, has been questioned. But recent studies have shown that consuming moderate amounts of this soy protein or less than two servings a day of whole soy foods has not been shown to affect tumor growth, has not been shown to increase the risk of developing breast cancer. Instead, there is growing evidence that regular soy intake may, in fact, decrease breast cancer recurrence. But the evidence is not yet strong for me to recommend soy for all breast cancer survivors. But there are now several clinical and experimental investigations, likewise, looking at genistein, the predominant isoflavone on soy, which has been shown to have beautiful antioxidant properties that may, in fact, have protective effects and responsible for inhibiting the growth of cancer cells. So for the meantime, I hope that this video on this very important product, tofu, you will now consider tofu as one of the major nutrients of your diet that not only can help regulate your weight by substituting it for the low carb meals, but also beneficial in terms of its multiple health benefits. Again, this is Dr. Jerry Tan. Stay safe. See you again soon. Bye.