 aromasin, instincts instincts, aromasin, instincts, aromasin, instincts, aromasin, Here are some of the quick tips that you can do to help you lose weight. Number one, eat a healthy protein breakfast. Because by eating a high protein breakfast, it could help reduce your cravings and calorie intake throughout the day. Second, limit your sugary intake and fruit juice. Remember, empty calories from sugar aren't useful to your body and basically can hinder weight loss journey. Third, always stay hydrated. Drink water throughout the day and aim for half of your body weight in ounces. Number four, eat more fiber since studies have shown that eating fiber may help promote weight loss. Find the fiber in whole grains, fruits, vegetables, and nuts, including seeds. Fifth, drink coffee or tea since caffeine consumption have been shown to help boost your metabolism. It is my advice, however, that there's no need to go overboard on caffeine because of the side effects of palpitation. And be mindful of added sugar or other extra perks like chocolate to these drinks. Number six, base your diet on whole foods because they tend to be nutrient rich, more filling, and less likely to cause overeating than processed foods. Number seven is very important. You have to eat slowly. You have to eat slowly. Eating quickly can lead to weight gain over time, while eating slowly makes you feel more full and boost weight-reducing hormones. Number eight, very important also, is to get more enough quality sleep. Sleep is important for many reasons, and poor sleep is one of the biggest risk factors for weight gain. Of course, number nine is to reduce stress. Stress from work, be it financial, personal, or emotional stress. And definitely, last but not the least, is move your body. Any form of movement, including standing compared to sitting, burns more calories. And then moderate-paced exercise burns more calories than standing. And of course, brisk walking do the best in terms of burning calories. I hope these 10 quick tips can help jumpstart your journey toward weight loss. Again, this is Dr. Jertan. Stay safe. See you again soon.