 n operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator operator hit 80 to 90 percent of its old hospitalization peak recently. Now, on the other hand, some UK hospitals are also reporting being strained to the brink due to the similar trend of apparent increase in COVID hospitalization. This proportion of increase of Omicron infections from BA.4 and five is also noted and reported in other European countries as well as in the United States. So, the question is what then should be done on our side to hopefully mitigate this new spread of this new variant which is capable of having another new wave. That's what's this. Now, bad as it may sound, this COVID-19 variant BA.5 doesn't necessarily mean that a large and deadly wave of COVID-19 infections will follow, although it is likely that the COVID-19 there will be an uptick in COVID-19 cases. Now, one thing that's very concerning to me, however, is that there is what we call a mutation of its five protein gene of this variant that makes this BA.4 and five more contagious than the earlier Omicron variants as well as it infecting the lung tissue. Now, this would therefore make this new variant infect and favor the lungs and therefore more severe disease similar to the alpha and the delta virus. It is therefore very important for us to emphasize that those who remain unvaccinated and have not been previously infected will continue or will be of greatest risk. Up to now, I have approximately two patients whom I have to convince that they are not going to be infected. Now, another bad trait of this new virus is particularly which I'm worried about is being past immunity evasive and is literally surging so fast that it will likely be 50% of all SARS-CoV-2 strains in the US this week and soon displacing all other past strains. Now, the good news is it may be true, but it may be true that it will likely be 50% of all SARS-CoV-2 strains in the US this week and soon displacing all other past strains. Now, the good news is it may be 50% of all SARS-CoV-2 strains in the US this week and soon as it will likely be 50% of all SARS-CoV-2 strains in the US this week and then we will see that the virus is still in the US. Is this in COVID-19 cases but look at this study in COVID-19 cases but look at this data from United Kingdom. levels higher than previous years. But look at their hospitalization and death. They remain relatively low, plainly because of vaccination and prior infection, providing their population with some sort of immunity. It is therefore very important that we all continue to believe in the efficacy and effectiveness of our only armor against COVID-19, which are the COVID vaccines. I want you folks to understand that vaccines are indeed incredible inventions that have saved millions of lives. COVID vaccines, for example, so far have saved an estimated 19.8 million lives, according to a mathematical modeling survey. And an additional 600,000 lives have been saved if the goal of vaccinating 40% of the population of each country were met by the end of 2021. Now, what lessons can we learn from this apparent increase in cases in Portugal? Yes, it is a highly vaccinated country, yet BA.5 has completely overwhelmed it. Now, what we know is that our COVID vaccines worked very well over time as hospitalizations and death have not significantly increased. But here's a caveat. If a virus spreads unchecked without other medications, again, without other medications, vaccines alone to protect you are not enough. We therefore need vaccines plus other mitigations, wherein most countries have already started to be laxed about them, including masking. It is a known fact that vaccines save lives. But what we need at the present time are in fact updated vaccines to save more lives against this newer variant. With Omicron's even more transmissible relative spreading widely, recently, finally, the FDA have asked Pfizer and Moderna for a recipe change in hopes that modified boosters against these variants will be made available soon. So far, in terms of encouraging news, we know Pfizer as well as Moderna's monovalent and bi-violent Omicron-adapted vaccine candidates have demonstrated so far in studies superior neutralizing titers against Omicron, including the South variants, and these new updated vaccines are most likely to be available this fall. In the meantime, let's continue to put our trust on our existing COVID vaccines as they are still likely to provide good protection against severe disease and death, including in populations that have experienced previous wave of infection. Now, data on the efficacy of boosters against these new variants, unfortunately, are still lacking. But if we rely on previous experience, they are likely to continue to help reinstate immune protection, at least against hospitalization and death in those who have been vaccinated. Mind you, reinfections are going to be pretty inevitable until we have vaccines or widespread mandates that are going to prevent cases from rising again. But the good news is that we are in, I think, a much better position than we were without the vaccines. What I'm a little bit worried about are those people who have been having a false sense of security with BA.4 and BA.5 on the increase because we have some cases of reinfection even among people who had recent BA.2 variant infection in the past few months. For those who believe that they are immune to COVID due to past infection, this is a warning. Do not rely on your past infections to protect you from a more severe COVID-19. As recent research has shown, that reinfections can oftentimes be worse and have increased risk for hospitalization and deaths, including long COVID syndrome. So for now, continue to keep your faith strong against COVID-19 with your vaccine boosters and continue to protect yourselves with the minimum health standard protocols, please, including masking. Again, this is Dr. Jerry Tan. Stay safe. See you again soon. .