 Hello again, I'm Dr. Jerry Tan, I'm a Mayo Clinic trained endocrinologist. For today's video, let's talk about how we can incorporate oatmeal as part of a healthy diet. Oatmeal-based diets are popular breakfast food in our country as well as in many countries around the world. We always use oatmeal to replace rice as we believe it is beneficial for health benefits including weight loss due to healthy mix of fiber, complex carbohydrates, and specifically high in protein. At the same time, we know that oatmeal is filled with nutrients that can help lower cholesterol, aid in weight loss, and lead to a better gut health. But the question is, are all oatmeal created equal? The truth is, it's not. In fact, the difference is in the oats that are used to make the oatmeal. Now, the best and most nutritious are the least processed, forms like the still cut and the rolled oats. Some of the health and weight loss benefits of this nutritious oatmeal include the following. Number one, the dietary fiber, particularly the soluble fiber. It softens the stool, regulates hunger by creating a feeling of fullness. Number two, another perk of eating rolled oats is its low glycemic index, in fact, lower than whole wheat bread, which means that oatmeal keeps your blood sugar from spiking from spiking to high during and after meals, which may help fend off hunger longer. Number three, one type of soluble fiber, the beta-glucan, is found in oats and has been shown to help activate your infection-fighting blood cells, and therefore, they can act like an immune booster. Though oatmeal has several health benefits, people should be mindful that to help weight loss with oatmeal, number one, don't add too much sugar and mix-ins. Now, throwing, for example, a couple of blueberries or apple slices on it is a great idea, but throwing sugar on it definitely is not a great idea. Number two, keep in mind that the recommended portion size of half a cup of dry oats as a healthy serving, because eating more can defeat the purpose of weight loss. And number three, stay away from instant or flavored oats, because instant oats are more highly processed. They have less fiber and therefore a higher glycemic index. Now, although no research study has directly linked eating oatmeal with weight loss, studies have found it to be effective in appetite control. My advice, therefore, is if you want to start an oatmeal regimen, people should start with oatmeal two to four times a week and work their way up to daily servings. Now, it may be beneficial to have a larger glass of water with oatmeal to help move the fiber through the GI tract to reduce the sensation of bloating and occasional stomach pain. Those introducing oatmeal to the diet, therefore, should start slowly and therefore avoid instant and flavored oats. Again, reminder, always eat in moderation. This is Dr. Jerry Tan. Stay safe. See you again soon. You