 disease. Is it contagious? Can it be treated? Let's watch this. So, Ramsey-Han syndrome is caused by the same virus that actually causes chicken packs. We all know chicken packs when our children suffer from those blisters during their childhood. The problem is one may have that chicken packs as a child, but after the chicken packs clears up, the virus can still live in your body and specifically hide in your nerves. So, years later, once your immune system drops for whatever reason, stress, or any illness, this may result in reactivation of the disease. And when it does, it can affect your facial nerves, resulting in facial paralysis, which is what Justin Bieber is now experiencing. Now, other symptoms that the person may have once this reactivation occurs include ear pain, hearing loss, some ringing in the ear, and of course, facial paralysis resulting in difficulty in closing one eye, and a sensation of spinning or vertigo, and a change in perception of taste and dry mouth and eyes. Now, it is very critical once this diagnosis is done that prompt an early diagnosis is made because prompt treatment of Ramsey-Han syndrome can reduce the risk of complications, which can include permanent, again, permanent facial muscle weakness and deafness. Treatment has been shown to be effective, should be done within three days of the start of the signs and symptoms if you want to prevent long-term complications. Now, the question of whether it's contagious, Ramsey-Han is not. Okay, that's the good news. However, reactivation of the varizalazoster virus, which is the virus that causes this problem, can cause chicken packs, specifically in people who haven't had chicken packs or have been vaccinated for it. The infection can also be serious for people who have immune system problems. So, to avoid getting infected among people with chicken packs until the rash, blisters, scab, avoid physical contact with anyone who's never had chicken packs or has never had the chicken packs vaccine, including people with weak immune system. The good news is, for most people, the hearing loss and the facial paralysis associated with Ramsey-Han syndrome is temporary, which we hope for Justin Bieber. However, it can also become permanent. Now, the facial weakness caused by Ramsey-Han syndrome may make it difficult for you to close your eyelid, and as a result, the cornea, which protects your eye, can become damaged, resulting in eye pain and blurred vision. Now, to prevent this disease from occurring, children are now routinely vaccinated against chicken packs, which greatly reduces the chances of becoming infected with the chicken packs virus. Likewise, the CDC or the Centers for Disease Control in the United States now do recommend a shingles vaccine for people over the age of 50 or older, which, unfortunately, I know is not readily available in our country. Now, prompt treatment of Ramsey-Han syndrome can ease pain and decrease the risk of long-term complications. It includes antiviral drugs. Steroids can also be given to reduce inflammation, anti-anxiety medications, because people may think it's a stroke, and, of course, pain relievers, because the rash can actually be painful. And, therefore, these are supportive measures that can be given to our patients. Now, for the facial weakness, where it makes it difficult for you to close your eyes, it is advisable for one to use moisturizing eye drops throughout the day, and at night, apply ointment to the eye and tape your eyelid shot or wear an eye patch. In short, therefore, the good news is it is not contagious. However, what happened to Justin Bieber is that the course of the disease may be unpredictable, because we don't know who will have complete resolution of symptoms, especially the paralysis, and who will get the permanent disability. It is, therefore, best for all of us who want to avoid this reactivation of the virus is to continue to boost your immune system with the right food, the right amount of exercise, and, of course, good sleep. Take care, everyone. This is Dr. Jerry Tan. See you again soon.