 and why. Let's watch this. In general, there are two major factors. It's your age and your activity. Now first, as you get older, we have to remember that our body slows down each passing decay. First, the effect of aging slowly changes your body composition, decreasing the amount of calorie burning muscle and replacing it with fat. Second, most adults become much less active as they get older, but we continue to eat as much as we do in our early twenties. It is therefore the combination of these two factors that many of us eventually experience the weight creep and weight gain. Now here are some tips that I can share with you to stop gaining weight by eliminating these bad habits. Some of the common mistakes people make actually lead us to gain weight. Now first, not enough me time. Not enough time to have fun exercising. So be sure to have some time to move and work out at your own pace and time in front of TV or comfort zone. You may be too busy with work that you always associate early morning wake up to eating breakfast, then go to work. So please put some me time wherein you have time to meditate and exercise. Second, the usual situation where we want to relax after work, that's the time we do mindless eating in front of the TV or cell phone. Be it chips, popcorn, or pastries. The cycle has to stop because without you realizing it, you are building up more calories and more fat. Third, indulging in sweetened drinks like specialty coffees or milk teas instead of water. These specialty drinks we know really taste good, but they are rich in calories compared to let's say brewed coffee or simple tea. But of course the best trick of all is plain water. We all know that milk teas, for example, has been shown to provide us with 20 teaspoons of sugar, equivalent to 200 to 400 calories per drink. Better go therefore to please go back to basics. As drinking water around 2 cups each meal has been shown to actually lessen intake of food during each meal by as much as 22%. Fourth, irregular meals result in fluctuation of hunger, then fullness. Now this cycle is not helpful because as you tend to overeat during the episodes of hunger, you're too hungry because you missed your meal at 12. So you waited for 2 o'clock to eat and that's where you overeat and you become so full. So feeling full is not good because it means too much calories resulting in more fat and weight gain. The habit of finishing kids meals or the habit of finishing our partner's meal. The cost of developing chronic diseases related to obesity is more than the amount of that wasted food. Number 6 is reaching for second helpings. After finishing a plate full of food in spite of feeling full, we tend to eat more primarily because we are in a buffet setup. Shy away therefore from buffet tables and in eat all you can food fair. Number 7 is when we eat too much simple carbs like sugar and white bread and not enough protein either during main meals or during snacks. We know that taking in protein-rich foods has been shown to burn more calories as it takes time for the body to burn energy from protein sources. So my advice therefore is try to figure out where your own problem areas are and then find solutions to control calories and fit in more fitness. If you're a sweet tooth or a pastry freak or a non-exerciser, then work on the issues you have. Remember always that eating healthy does not mean following a super restrictive diet. Those simple measures that I mentioned, you can get rid of them and they will actually help control, maintain, or in fact, help you lose weight. Just remember, be good on most days than not. Because all you need to do is simply watch what you eat and watch what you put into your mouth. Again, this is Dr. Jerry Tan. Thanks for watching. See you again soon. Thank you. Thank you.