現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在現在 tries to determine which informations that you've received during the day are important to hold on and what can be let go. So sleeping actually has been shown to heal and repair also other parts of the body including your blood vessels and your heart. The question we have is whether we can still make up for the bad sleep we had the night before. Let's watch this. So the question is can we make up for lost sleep? Now apparently we can. Now listen further. Say you have to wake up early for a scheduled procedure at the doctor's office. You have to be there by 5 a.m. on a Friday and then have the luxury of time to sleep the next day. In this case most likely you'll recover your missed sleep because you slept longer on a Saturday. However let me make this clear. Catching up on a missed night of sleep isn't the same as getting some good night's sleep. In fact studies have shown that it may take extra time for your body to recover a lost sleep. Now in this study apparently you need at least four days of good sleep to fully recover from just one hour of lost sleep in the previous day. So overall a good night's sleep means at least seven hours of deep sleep. But a lot of us can't even have a good five hours of deep sleep. Now the problem if this is going to be a chronic problem of losing sleep is the potential to cause many health problems. Now sleep debt is in fact one of the major risk factors for the development of chronic conditions including diabetes, a weakened immune system, and of course high blood pressure. Now it can also stress your body since you're supposed to be sleeping and resting but instead you're awake. So getting enough sleep therefore is key to ward off these chronic conditions especially if we have the genetic predisposition to get them. Now what's important is that a good sleep is also shown to improve learning and memory and memory and studies have shown that people generally do better on mental tasks especially decision making after a full night's sleep as your brain will be sharper. Doing tasks faster makes it easier for one to go to bed at a reasonable hour the next night. Now the good news is the risk of diseases as I've mentioned for lack of sleep is reversible by getting enough sleep. Therefore it is not too late to adopt a healthy sleep pattern. Now here are some tips that I can share with you for making up lost sleep. Now for whatever reason if you experience chronic sleep debt and unable to get a good night's sleep without being interrupted by waking up every few hours then you need to have some long-term changes. Now here are some of my personal tips to help you get enough sleep. First don't overthink and always ask yourself why can't I sleep because it makes your brain active. Just associate your bed to have a good night's sleep instead of oh I'm going to bed again I can't sleep again. Second you should have a routine time to go to sleep and time to wind down before really going to sleep like reading a book. Avoid looking at the watch for the time and always keep off electronics or gadgets and looking at news and social media while in bed prior to going to sleep. My advice it is best to stop using your electronics or gadgets for at least one to two hours before bedtime. I always advise my patients also to make sure that the bedroom is conducive to sleeping which means it should be dark and cool enough and ready for a relaxing night's sleep. Now definitely one of the must is avoid caffeine late at night including eating dark chocolates drinking tea or coffee. Now if you have to exercise make sure it's no longer than three hours before your bedtime okay otherwise it will be more difficult for you to sleep. And lastly avoid frequent afternoon naps. Make sure you don't lose sleep at night by best avoiding naps outside of a 20 minute power naps. Now the problem we have now is that in a culture that values hard work and dedication long hours work hours deep sleep often becomes a major issue. However remember always that depriving yourself of enough sleep can actually make your day worse that can affect your day's performance and definitely long term can affect your health. Simple changes to your routine allow you to get to bed earlier and stay in bed longer. I hope this video helps for those of you who are having problems with lack of sleep. Again this is Dr. Jerry Tan. Stay safe. See you again soon.