 n puts less emphasis on social distancing, routine surveillance testing, and no more with contact tracing. We know that come next week, the Philippine schools will now open for the first time doing face-to-face already, and therefore these new guidelines do come in handy. So what now and how do we navigate our lives with COVID-19 around and amongst us? That's what's this. Recently, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has started loosening up COVID-19 guidelines, freeing schools and businesses from requiring those exposed to the virus to quarantine at home. The concept that this COVID virus is definitely here to stay will significantly impact the way we live with COVID-19, and therefore, gone are the restrictions and lockdowns. Now, with the high levels of immunity in terms of population-based immunity due to vaccination and previous infection, and the many tools that we now have available to protect people from severe illness and death, certain changes that we have to adopt to the way we live is but timely. The CDC's new guidelines come after more than two years of the pandemic, in which more than millions worldwide have died. The CDC has been making these changes nowadays because more and more people have now been vaccinated or been infected. So these prior infections have granted many of us some degree of protection against the virus. Likewise, the availability of treatments, these vaccines, including boosters, up to the present time have significantly worked very well in reducing the risk of severe illness and death. Now, significant of these new changes include the need to focus more on the reduction of risk now on an individual basis. What does this mean? It is therefore now up to us to decide and take care of our own risk. Avoiding crowds and trying to reduce your risk by shying away from enclosed spaces or events. Now reside on your own judgment rather than based on a policy of social distancing by a group, by the institution, or by the government. The recommended preventive strategies, including vaccinations, will also now be up to you to be vaccinated or not and to be updated with boosters or not. Now, if, however, you will be exposed to the virus, there is no longer a requirement to quarantine at home, but rather one is advised to wear a mask for 10 days and to get tested for the virus on day 5. Contact tracing and routine surveillance testing of people without symptoms are no longer recommended in most settings. Now, as you can see, the new recommendations now prioritize preventing severe illness rather than focusing on preventing transmission. Now, the guidelines on masking, however, remains. I will continue to wear masks in my clinic wherever I go in enclosed spaces, and that people should continue to wear them indoors, especially in places where community COVID-19 levels are high. Likewise, the policy of people who test positive for the virus should still isolate at home for at least 5 days, while those with moderate or severe illness or are immunocompromised should isolate up to day 10. With regard to issues on rebound infections seen among patients who have been treated with Paxlovid, this antiviral treatment, the policy continues to recommend that if symptoms return after treatment, that isolation should restart at the time that symptoms recurred. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration also has recommended that those people exposed to COVID who are asymptomatic take at least 3 at-home antigen tests, each spaced 48 hours apart, to reduce the risk of missing an infection. The new guidance, therefore, moves away from sweeping population-level precautions to more targeted advice for vulnerable populations and specific high-risk settings and circumstances. And therefore, for the general public, the guidelines are now easier to follow for most of us. I hope this new update on guidelines do help you. Again, this is Dr. Jerry Tan. Stay tuned for more updates. Be safe always. See you again soon.