 a and whether the current versions of these shots are really the best ones to rely on in the face of a still mutating virus. Let's watch this. The Philippines on Monday, April 25 started giving second COVID-19 booster doses specifically for immunocompromised adults, patients with cancer, HIV, AIDS, and immunodeficiency disorders, those who underwent organ transplant and are undergoing chronic dialysis, joining a growing number of Asian countries that have already approved second booster shots like South Korea, Taiwan, Singapore, which is hoping to prevent a coronavirus resurgence, particularly among its elderly, as it removes the remaining curbs this week. That, in part, was based on the data from Israel, which showed that adding a second booster shot last January for people over the age of 60 and for healthcare workers reduced the risk of death from severe COVID-19. These individuals, therefore, can get their second booster shots as early as three months after the first booster dose to hopefully further increase the protection of this vulnerable sector against COVID-19. AstraZeneca, Moderna, Pfizer, Sinovac, or Sinopharm vaccines can be used for the second booster shot. The question that we all have is whether the strategy of giving booster dose will be sustainable long term. We know that experts from the Food and Drug Administration reviewed studies looking into the potential benefits of adding another booster shot. And that studies from Israel published in New England Journal of Medicine showed that the rates of severe disease among boosted people are starting to rise, although they still remain lower than rates among the non-boosted people. Lab-based studies also from the U.S. confirmed that levels of the virus-fighting antibodies produced after a booster dose start to wane after several months, dropping to about, by about, six-fold during the time. It is also needed that we have to address the issue that any incremental benefit of the second booster dose has to be weighed against the potential side effects, which include inflammation of the heart tissue, especially for younger people receiving the Pfizer or Moderna vaccines, or the risk of blood clots for people getting the J.I.J. shot. In other words, continuing to boost every four months as a policy using the same vaccine may not really be a sustainable approach to confront COVID-19, considering that we are fighting a virus that continues to mutate. While a second booster shot can indeed raise the levels of persons' antibodies against COVID-19 and protect them from a more serious disease, the question is how long does this protection last and is the protection of repeated boosting really sustainable? So for now, for the general population, a second booster isn't necessary as yet, and let's await more data to support the second booster for all. Now, the people who are eligible to receive a second booster dose includes anyone above the age of 50 and certain groups of people with weakened immune system. Now, in the Philippines, only 18 years old and above who are immunocompromised individuals can receive their fourth dose as early as three months after the first booster shot. Now, there are certain recommended booster dose recommendations and intervals that was put out by the Department of Health. First, if you are immunocompromised and only received AstraZeneca for your fourth booster, you can either have AstraZeneca or the other vaccines, including mRNA and J.I.J. If you receive Sinovac as your first primary and first booster dose, you can still get the fourth dose of Sinovac or you can opt for an mRNA vaccine, J&J, or AstraZeneca as an option. If you receive Moderna, you can either receive the fourth dose as Moderna or AstraZeneca, Pfizer, or J&J can be given. On the other hand, if you receive Pfizer as your primary series of vaccinations plus booster, then you can either receive Pfizer again or you can opt for an AstraZeneca, Moderna, or J&J. Remember that the second booster shot won't necessarily protect you from getting infected with SARS-CoV-2. But if you do get infected, it can reduce your chances of getting severely ill and even going to the hospital for COVID-19-related symptoms. Always remember that the T-cells are the primary cells that are protecting the vaccinated and the boosted people from getting severely ill if they do get infected. So understanding, therefore, how well a second booster might continue to enhance the T-cell response could help health officials eventually decide if additional dose is necessary for people who aren't at highest risk of severe disease. The T-cell response is indeed currently under scientific investigation. So at the moment, the shots being used at second booster dose are the same as the original vaccine and don't seem to be pushing protective enough antibody levels any higher than they were after the first booster shot. So for the rest of us who are vaccinated and boosted, making individual decisions about continuing to wear a mask in crowded indoor settings and avoiding environments where we might be in close contact with a lot of people continue to be the best way to limit our exposure and risk of COVID-19 at least until more data becomes available. Again, stay safe. This is Dr. Jerry Tan. See you again soon. Thank you.