 So remember when experts said to avoid cholesterol-rich foods like eggs. Now, it was basically based on the thought that cholesterol per se raises your blood cholesterol, and therefore in itself increases your risk for heart disease. However, we know that recent studies have found that cholesterol foods may not actually raise your heart disease risk after all. But it's very important to understand that actually it's the diets that are high or rich in saturated fat that are linked to increased blood cholesterol and therefore increases your risk for heart disease. So what we want everyone to avoid are foods high in saturated fats. So what are the foods to avoid if you have high cholesterol when you do the blood test? So what's this? So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. Now, number one on the list is full fat dairy. Now, if you need milk for your calcium needs, then I would recommend that you either choose skim milk or the 1% to 2% milk instead of the whole milk. Now, likewise, high fat dairy like butter and full fat yogurt are also to be avoided. And of course, some cheeses because they are high in saturated fat. Now, if you are a fan of cheese, then I advise you limit your cheese to around 3 ounces per week. And of course, choose part skim cheese such as Swiss or mozzarella when cooking. Now, for your bread, instead of butter, for example, now my family is fond of using extra virgin oil with balsamic vinegar. If you haven't tried it, try it. Second on the list would be red meat, which we know it's not really a healthy protein choice. Now, everyone loves red meat. I myself, whether it's steak or ribs or simply our favorite pork chop. Now, all these unfortunately tend to be high in saturated fat and therefore high in cholesterol content. So if you're into meat and protein, my advice is, of course, you can still do it, but limit to lean cuts of meat, whether it be ground beef or chews. Those lean cuts of beef like sirloin, tenderloin, fillet or flank steak. But the best advice, if you can limit your meat sources, have better and lower fat content of animal protein, such as baked, skinless or lean ground poultry or white meat like fish. Or simply, I usually avoid any form of red meat and sometimes opt for a more healthier protein source like tofu. Now, actually watch my previous blog on the benefits of tofu, especially in terms of muscle strength and muscle protein. Now, number three on the list is processed meat. Now, for the general well-being, we actually recommend limit your intake of processed meat. Processed meat in general is always high in sodium content as well as low in nutrition. In fact, the common and usually eaten processed meat like bacon, sausage and hot dogs are actually made from fatty cuts of beef or pork. So if you must eat processed meat like for breakfast, then choose the minimally processed sausage or deli meat or chicken. Or for breakfast, if you have no other options, then of course, choose the healthier option. Oatmeal with banana and fruits for a healthy breakfast meal option. Number four on the list would be fried foods. Now, everyone's snack foods, the french fries. Our favorite fast food chain to go meal, the fried chicken and other foods cooked in deep fryer do really have a very high content of saturated fat and cholesterol from the oil they're cooked in, especially if restaurants or fast food chains try to reuse the cooking oil several times. My advice, therefore, is to try using an air fryer for a lower fat fried food taste and using or instead enjoying baked chicken without the skin. And likewise, opt for baked potatoes or baked fries toast with a little olive oil. Number five on the list are the baked goods, the pastries, the cookies and the sweets. Now, you know that cookies, especially cakes and the yummy doughnuts, for example, are usually high in saturated fat as well as full of sugar, which can lead to high levels of blood triglycerides, which in itself can be a risk factor for heart disease. Instead, make your desserts at home. And the best advice I have would be, of course, enjoy fruits of varieties, different varieties and, of course, color. They're healthier options for dessert. But again, what I'm saying here does not mean that you can't eat any of the above-mentioned foods. Of course, it is still best to eat them in moderation. Again, eat them on occasions. That's the key word, on occasions. It's most important that you focus on the overall diet and make healthy choices most of the time. My advice is to always enjoy the less healthy foods as occasional treats, not as everyday meal choices. Now, one last question that most patients usually ask me is why is it that eggs are not on the list? Well, the truth is one egg contains 60% of the daily value of cholesterol, but it only contains 8% of your allowance for saturated fat. Again, it's the saturated fat that's the culprit, not the cholesterol per se, from the food. Eggs, likewise, are high in protein, low in calories, and contain vitamin B, iron, and disease-fighting nutrients. And also, please review my blog on if I can eat eggs every day that I had posted several months ago. Please make sure you learn from it whether eggs are healthy for you or not. Again, hope this short video helps especially those who have been recently diagnosed in their blood test with high cholesterol. If you like my video, please don't forget to click like and subscribe button. With that, stay safe. Thank you very much for listening. See you again soon.