 Hello again, I'm Dr. Jerry Tan, I'm a Mayo Clinic trained endocrinologist, for today we'll discuss about the saga of hidden calories, the culprits of why you're not losing weight. Here are some of the hidden calories that you may be taking every day without knowing it. Number 1. Number 1. The low-fat yogurt. Yogurt can be highly nutritious, but like many other low-fat products, low-fat yoghurts often contain added sugar to enhance their flavor. Now, of note, what I'm going to give you in terms of calories would be from a single cup of approximately 245 grams of low-fat yogurt that may contain as much as 40 grams to 45 grams of sugar, which is about 11 teaspoons. This is more than the daily limit for men and women. Number 2. Barbecue sauce. We know that barbecue sauce is what makes our beef or marinated meat tasty. However, 2 tablespoons of your barbecue sauce of around 28 grams can give you around 9 grams of sugar, which is equivalent to around 2 teaspoons of sugar. Number 3. Of course, what we love most with French fries or with egg omelette would be our ketchup, which is one of the most popular condiments in the Philippines and also worldwide. Unfortunately, because it's sweet, it contains sugar. And in fact, a single tablespoon of ketchup will contain nearly one teaspoon of sugar. Number 4. Spaghetti sauce. Now, Filipinos love our version of sweet spaghetti. Unfortunately, since the sauce is sweet, they have added sugar. So, all spaghetti sauces will contain some natural sugar given the fact that they are made with tomatoes. The best way, however, to ensure that you aren't getting any unwanted sugar in your pasta sauce is preferably to make your own. Number 5. Chocolate milk. Now, chocolate milk we know is nutritious, but it has been flavored with cocoa and is sweetened with sugar. So, despite having all the nutritious qualities of milk, one cup of chocolate milk of around 250 grams will contain almost 12 extra grams or equivalent to 2 to 3 teaspoons of added sugar. Number 6. Granola. Now, granola is considered a healthy alternative for breakfast because it is made of oats. But, without you realizing it, it is actually combined with nuts and honey and other sugar added sweeteners, which can increase the amount of sugars and calories in it. So, in fact, 100 grams of granola can contain as much as 400 to 500 calories, nearly 5 to 7 teaspoons of sugar. Number 7. Of course, what we love most. The flavored coffees. It's a popular trend, but in some coffee houses, for example, one large flavored coffee or coffee drink can contain as much as 45 grams of sugar, if not much more. So, that's equivalent again to 11 teaspoons of added sugar per serving. It is therefore best that if you want coffee, it should be black, without cream, or without sugar, without any flavored syrups. Number 8. Iced tea. If you go to buffets, iced tea is always there because it's cheap and it's tasty. But, it is usually laden with sugar, unflavored with syrup. So, most commercially available prepared iced teas, for example, will contain as much as 35 grams of sugar per 340 ml serving. This is about the same amount of sugar in a bottle of regular Coke. Number 9. Breakfast cereal. Some cereals, for example, those marketed for children, really have lots of added sugar. Some, in fact, contain 12 grams or 3 teaspoons of sugar in a 34 gram serving. So, the bottom line is added sugars are everywhere. It can be in our condiments. It can be in our usual meal. It can be in our usual sauces, which we don't know that they contain sugar. But, long term, this will actually cause harm. Especially if you consume large amounts of these hidden calories. So, the best way, therefore, to avoid these hidden sugars in your meal is, preferably, to make these foods in your own home. As you exactly know what's in them. Make sure, also, if you buy stuff prepared in groceries, to check the label to identify any hidden added sugars. Especially when you're buying this for your family. Again, this is Dr. Jerry Tan. Stay safe. See you again soon. Thank you.