So Bruce, let's let's go back to the obese eating a terrible diet. Yeah. Tell us a little bit more about that. Well, there are lots of papers showing that if you define worse as ratio of calories to essential micronutrients, the obese are eating the worst diet in the country because they're eating empty calories. They're not eating their greens and they're not eat they don't eat much fish and all of that. And again, it tends to be the poor who don't know and they're just eating carbohydrate and it may be comfort food, but it's aging them much faster. And every possible disease that's been looked at is higher in the obese. More cancer, more brain decay, more heart disease, you name it. And if it's been looked at, it's higher in the obese. And I think it a lot of that's due to the fact that they're starving for vitamins and minerals. That makes sense. And uh so how uh and I think there's an easy solution to it. We invented something called the Corey bar about 10 years ago. Mark Shiganaga and I just he was an expert in the gut and I wanted to get vitamins and minerals into the poor. So, we came up with this bar. The local USDA was making a fruit bar and we added vitamins to it and plant phenolics were in there and a fiber, the three kinds of fiber you need to keep your gut healthy. And we've done 15 human clinical trials. Joyce McCann's running the project, so she should really talk about all of this. But she just sent off a fantastic paper which shows that this Cory bar if you know what you're doing the obese can lose weight. So I suspect it might affect satiety that whether you're hungry or not fiber is known to fill you up and the obese are short of fiber and I think it's going to make them feel good. So you're basically giving this the core bar which has you know some vitamins, minerals and essential fatty acids and fiber. Yeah. The f we're trying to mimic the Mediterranean diet for the things that the aspects of it that people don't get. Right. Yeah. And and you're giving to it to them on top of their terrible diet. They're just Oh yeah. We just tell they just eat what you're eating but take two Corey bars a day on top. It's just a small bar and it raises their HDL and lowers their LDL and improves their insulin resistant, improves their inflammation. It does all these wonderful biomark the biomarkers we measure that are linked to heart disease or cancer things all cancer we haven't really done yet but right all improve. So I think most of the world could do better with this thing. So really that's that's it's a really interesting finding that you can give someone that's so metabolically unhealthy just a bar with a good amount of micronutrients and fiber and and they can still eat their terrible diet. And yet you can make improvements in, you know, these things that are known to cause cardiovascular disease, things that are known to lead to cancer like inflammation. their diet is so messed up because they're they're disabling a lot of their metabolism because they're not getting the essential vitamins and minerals. Right. So basically, you're providing them with precursors so that their metabolism can work and so that they can repair a lot of this damage that they've already done. Yeah. It takes time. If we give it to lean people who are mostly eating pretty good diets, we can raise everybody's HDL or practically everybody's. So even people who think they're eating good diets are an optimum and there at least and you can deconstruct it, leave out one item and we know there are at least three different items in there that are important. And so, uh, Joyce McCann's running this project and, uh, it's I think this bar is like a super vitamin pill. So, basically, if you're already, you know, metabolically healthy, you know, as measured by being lean, um, then you can you can do good things like raising your HDL even higher quicker than the obese can. But the obese eventually can raise their HDL if they take these vitamins and minerals suggesting that it they have first the vitamins and minerals are probably going to you know repair all this damage to those you know energy requirements that are repairing the damage and then you know then you can move on to the other good things. And if they're inflamed, see when you're uh if you don't get your fiber and other important things for your gut, the gut, the more bacteria in your gut than cells in your body. And the gut barrier function is the cells have very tight junctions. So bacteria can't get into your bloodstream. Right? And if endotoxin or it's also called lipopolyaccharide was the outside of bacteria get into the body it rings all the alarm bells in the body because I'm invaded and that's the get inflamed and that takes over because the body has to deal with an invasion first before it can do anything else. And so that so we can get obese people who are not all inflamed to lose weight. But if they're inflamed, you blunt all that. But I think the corbar will lower inflammation eventually. And so it's just a matter of uh it doesn't help if people just drink uh sugary soft drinks and eat uh uh white bread or donuts. Uh I mean that's not a healthy diet. And but we didn't tell them to change the diet. We just put the curry bar on top. But eventually they'll have to transition and this may be a good way to do it to a healthier diet. It it may even be that once they start getting these vitamins and minerals and essential fatty acids and fiber that their dietary patterns change just because they feel better, just because they're realizing, you know, they like to feel good. And it it may even be as simple as their brain are, you know, brain functions a little different. I mean, you mentioned endotoxin. I found this study that was very interesting where they injected people with endotoxin caused it in caused inflammation and it caused depressive symptoms. Yeah. And so, you know, you're talking about affecting brain function, cravings, things like that. It may actually be that they'll their dietary habits will change as a function of getting the right micronutrients so that their brain is right. I was in Denmark for a meeting in early spring, I think it was. And Denmark's always raining or cloudy. It's just terrible weather and or by California standards. And there were three beautiful days where there wasn't a cloud in the sky. It was just like California. And uh every day had taken off most of their clothes and they were lying in the sun just everywhere. You saw all these half- naked bodies. And I I queried a few Danes, "How come?" They said, "Well, we feel good when there's sun and we sunbathe. It's built into us because we get so little sun and they're getting the vitamin D." Serotonin. Serotonin makes you feel good. That's right. So, yeah, that's it makes perfect sense that people would be out there laying in the sun. Um, but the Cory bar is is very interesting. And, you know, is it something that is going to be for available to the public. Yeah, Joyce Span just got a beautiful paper out uh a second paper on the Cory bar which shows all these things and you know statins is a $35 billion industry but there's side effects most drugs are blunder buses and there some side effects and nutrition is what's getting at the essence and I don't think you expect a lot of side effects. So, uh, I think that's the way to go. So, maybe the Cory bar can replace statins. Well, we'll see.