Hello everyone. Welcome back to another episode of the Found My Fitness podcast. I am uh very excited today. We're going to be talking about CO 19. Um and it's it's a topic that's on all of our minds right now and has been for the last almost a year pretty much. And my guest today is is someone that in my opinion um has been a real important voice throughout the CO9 pandemic. His name is Dr. Roger Schwelt and he is a quadruple board-certified physician. He is certified in internal medicine, in critical care medicine, in pulmonary diseases as well as sleep medicine. But in addition to treating patients and also teaching medical students in a classical setting like a classroom, he also runs a popular and very very informative YouTube channel where he educates not only medical students but the broader public in general. And his YouTube channel is uh called MedCram videos. And this is where I discovered uh Dr. Schwelt. He has been covering the co9 pandemic um pretty much since the beginning and he is he has been uh someone that has really done a fantastic job diving into the scientific literature being very comprehensive and uncovering just a wide array of very important topics related to this pandemic. So, I'm I'm very excited to have Roger on the show today and um to discuss, you know, all things CO 19. Roger and I share a few passions. Um in addition to educating the public, uh we also share passions about um you know, scholarly work and diving into the literature and trying to you know, answer questions, you know, answer important questions and and find good data to you know, support um hypothesis. So, uh, Roger, can you tell us a little bit about I mean, how did you how is, you know, you've you've been covering CO 19 since March, you know, 2020. Um, and you you how is how have things evolved for you in terms of covering this pandemic? Um and and you and I were chatting actually a little bit on the phone a few days ago and you were telling me um sort of what got you into this, how you, you know, were in in the trenches out there and decided to sort of dive into the literature for certain reasons. Um maybe we could talk a little bit about that. Yeah. So, thanks very much uh Dr. Patrick for having me on the show. Uh so this all started back when I was well I I mean I could go f far back but I've always had a passion for teaching and taking things that are complicated and making them easy and understandable and uh all through my college medical school residency and now as a assistant professor at a couple medical schools that's what I do and one day I had the honor of having a a PA student a physician assistant student that would changed my life. It's not every day that a student changes your life. It's usually a teacher that changes your life. And Kyle Kyle Allred was he's the other half of MedCram and he happened to be my PA student for a month. And he he said, "Dr. Schwel, people don't go to the library. Students don't don't go to the library, check out articles like, you know, I used to do. They they go to YouTube. they go to Google and they Google the question they have and they look for the shortest video they can find. And so he he saw a real need there because as they go through the PA program, which is a two-year program, you know, sometimes they don't get all of the education that they feel that they need to get. They have to do a lot of studying on their own and it's it's very time constraining to go and check all of these things out. Long story short is uh we started making videos about medical topics. So COPD, congestive heart failure, pneumonia, asthma and we started posting them on our YouTube channel and we gotten up to, you know, a few hundred thousand subscriptions. We were doing some videos that were very helpful and then Coronairus hit and uh one day we decided to do a Corona virus video. it. This was probably in late February, early March and it it just exploded because here was this virus that was basically taking over in China and uh people wanted to know about it. people were concerned about it and uh people wanted to know more and so instead of the world looking at uh you know movie stars or sports stars uh they were now for the first time looking at uh people like you and me Rhonda people who had been working in medicine and uh nutrition and and uh medicine and science and really there was a lack of communication I mean we have whole TV shows on sports about how to communicate what's happening in the world of sports and and we have whole infrastru structure for that. We don't have that for medicine and science. And so it really put a lot of people like myself and a number of other people like myself and and you um on the hot seat to describe this to millions and millions of people. What is it that's really going on? And and really the question was begged is what do we do about it? And that's sort of changed our lives. And what do you like? Do you feel like earlier on um your your your thoughts about you know the pandemic have um changed since since you know everything that's you know happened since you know eight or nine months ago. um in terms of prevention and um treatment and you know what what the data out there suggests like how how has that evolved uh for for you in in terms of you're also in the in the hospital treating patients as well. Yeah, it's you know I grew up in this the scientific world of you know the hierarchy of evidence. So you've got epidemiological evidence, case control studies, but really the thing that you need to have to be able to look a patient in the face and say this is going to help you is a randomized control trial. And those type of trials take a long time. They take a long time. And the problem in this is that the system that we've set up of randomized control trials, applications to the FDA, these are great for medic for uh diseases and conditions that are with us chronically and that move slowly, but they're not adequately designed to really help the majority of people in a worldwide pandemic because people are dying very very quickly and you want to come up with answers very very fast and these things take time. So that's one thing that I learned very very quickly is that if you want to try to save lives and you know all of us are look at this from a different point of view. I guess I'm coming from the point of view of yeah I understand the ivory towers. I understand the people at the FDI. I understand the people that want to people are relying on them to say here's something that we've tested that looks good and it and it works. But on the other hand I'm working in the trenches too. So, I'm looking family members in the face and they're looking at me and it's like, what can I do for our loved one? What what is going to work? And what we have to do is marry those two concepts together and come up with things I believe that may have plausibility to work, but but if we're going to institute something, if we're going to do something, it's got to have very, very low risk. And so what you've seen is you've seen a wide variety of things now that have gone through the FDA that probably never would have been approved under normal situation but because of the pandemic and the flexibility that we need to have we need to move quickly because as as things get out of hand more and more people are dying. So for instance convolescent plasma was approved using early uh using emergency use authorization through the FDA. There was no controls in that study. Um, so you that's just an example of of the type of things that we're doing. We're moving quickly here. We're in a in a pandemic and we have to be creative and we have to be understanding that this is not a this is not business as usual. Ha have you uh looked back in history to see I mean this isn't the first time our the world has dealt with a pandemic and there's always lessons to be learned when looking back in history. um you know things repeat themselves, right? And you're not you're not always starting, you know, from scratch basically. There's a lot you can learn from from the past. Oh, absolutely. I I'm I'm hoping we were going to go there in this topic because there is so much that I have studied. Not to say that I'm an expert in this, but just looking back at where we were just a hundred years ago is very informative in that. And I think if we want to get into that, what we've got to do is look at the disease itself. So COVID, COVID 19. And I think probably one of the the first things that somebody needs to understand when you think about COVID is it's all about timing. It's very important that you understand that there is an early portion of the disease and there is a late portion of the disease. And the timeline that separates those two is really when you get pneumonia. I think that's probably the best way to to make that demarcation. Early in the phase of CO 19 before you have pneumonia, there's a certain set of of of factors that are going on in the body. We can get into detail what those are that make certain interventions uh more plausible and uh more efficacious. And then there's the later phase of co 19 where patients generally are hospitalized they're on oxygen and we see other types of interventions to be much more effective. To give you an example of that steroids so dexamethasone that was a UK recovery trial that came out showed without a doubt that steroids improve well what they found was that patients who were not on oxygen. So in other words early in the course of the disease did not benefit from steroids. It was equivocal. Whereas those that were the sickest patients on the ventilator requiring high doses of oxygen seemed to be the ones that benefited the most from dexamethasone or steroids. The flip of that was rema. So whereas steroids were very beneficial late in the course of the disease medications like remesae which are not an it's not an an anti-inflammatory but rather an antiviral. It prevents the viral replication. The opposite was found. Remesae was much more efficacious early in the course of disease and not so much so for those patients on on the ventilator. So when you talk it's not just like this this disease is a onefits all thing. You've got co no it's is it early or late co. So taking that into consideration um we can then go back and look and see what people did a 100 years ago for uh these diseases because what people did in the hospitals a 100 years ago is nothing like what we're doing today. I mean they did not have oxygen. They did not have ventilators. Uh they they had some some medications which we can talk about. But what what I started to realize is that in a pandemic situation, it's very very difficult to scale up production of any pharmarmacological agent as we're finding out now. Let's look at vaccination. Um let's look at uh medications. Fortunately, dexamethasone is dirt cheap and we've had it for a long time and we can we can manufacture this stuff pretty quickly. But if you find any kind of pharmacological intervention, be it hydroxychloricquin, be it ivormectin, we can we can talk about those things. Um those things have to be scaled so rapidly and to such high degree that as soon as you say this medication is efficacious, you can't find it in the pharmacy. It's it's it's gone. And so what this has done as a as to me as an individual has really looked at plausible biochemically plausible rational efficacious remedies that that are not a cure all that are not they're not good they're to fix you or protect you 100%. But may in a population type of setting swing things enough so that uh we can we can deaden the blow of of the pandemic. And are you talking in a sense about lifestyle factors, things that Oh, yeah. Absolutely. Absolutely. So, lifestyle factors um but not just lifestyle factors because what are you going to do? Somebody who has not been practicing the proper lifestyle and now they get co 19. What do they do? It's too late for them to institute lifestyle changes that are really long lasting. But what what do they do? And I think there is a science behind some of the things that that we can do. And uh you know vitamin D, we talked about vitamin D in the past and and now in the future vitamin D has been a long story. You've been talking about vitamin D longer than I have. And uh there are other things as well. Uh things that that are actually have some scientific plausibility which I I love to talk about, you know. So again, like what we've been talking about Rhonda, it's a it's an all of the above type of thing. It's not just any one thing that's that's going to help. It's like for instance, when you go to the operating room, right? We we want to prevent infections and so we don't think that just the doctor or the surgeon wearing the mask is going to solve everything. We also have a negative pressure or a positive pressure uh operating room and we make sure that we use betadine on or chloropre on the on the incision. We're doing multiple things because nothing particularly by itself is going to be effective. And so some of the stuff we've been talking about today like hydrotherapy or we'll talk about vitamin D. None of those things by themselves is going to, you know, wipe out the the pandemic. We have to do all of the other things that we know work, like wearing masks, you know, over our nose and our face. And um and that's the other issue, too, is is we're seeing a lot of this. People are in homes and maybe it's their 8-year-old that's positive for CO. What do they do? They can't just send their 8-year-old down the street and have them go to a motel. So, what do you do in the home? Uh, and that just made me think of something else because the CDC's just come out now with updated information about what to do in terms of ventilation. So, the key in preventing yourself from getting CO 19 is to make sure that you know you're not getting it from somebody directly from like large sputum uh or or droplets. So, you want to make sure that you're wearing a mask, that they're wearing a mask, that you're distanced. But also re realize that if you're in a room that's stagnant, wearing a mask is not going to be 100% effective because it's kind of like smoking, right? Somebody's smoking on the other side of the room, you may not smell it, but if you're in there for long enough, that smoke is going to fill up the room. And so, what's really important is ventilation. Now, that may be hard to do in a, you know, that may be difficult to do in the winter time when it's cold outside, but as much as possible, even just cracking the window a few inches if you can do it and maybe dressing more warmly, having ventilation enclosed spaces can really do a lot. So, it's all of the above. It's it's the maskearing, it's the it's the distancing, it's to make sure that you're not in an enclosed space for a long period of time with other people. You know, interestingly, you might wonder why people don't get the virus when they're on a plane. That's a closed space and people are wearing masks. Well, you may not know this, but they do they do air changes like tenfold every hour and all of that air is going through hepailters and so the virus gets trapped. And that's why it works is people are on planes for five, six hours, you know, going across the the continent. They're wearing masks, but they're not getting CO 19. You might find a few examples where people might get it, but generally speaking, it's very successful. And why is that? It's because of ventilation. And so, uh, all of these things put together is is really what the answer is. So, following the recommendations, following what the CDC says, but here are some other things that we've talked about today that may also be beneficial. So, I just want to make sure that everyone's clear on that. Absolutely. I think it's it's super important to um to keep that in mind um that that wearing a mask and and social distancing and um you know washing your hands of course as well um and ventilation are are really uh important and and definitely um there's been so many studies now with maskearing too right I mean where even just you know it doesn't have to be an N95 mask I mean even you know someone wearing a cloth mask it can both protect um you from infecting others and also can actually filter throughout some to some degree um some particles that are you know you won't be exposed to as many viral particles as if there were no mask even if it's not a super high quality N95 mask you know filtering out particles. So I find I found I found some of those studies to be reassuring at least where it's like okay well even you know people wearing any kind of masks you know right helps. So yeah thank you thank you for bringing that up uh again Dr. Well, let's dive into to vitamin D. Um, you know, as it's definitely a passion of mine. Um, I'm I'm a bit of an enthusiast, you know, but I I've published a couple of peer-reviewed studies uh back in 2014 and 15. And so, you know, I've been I've been very familiar with the vitamin D literature for for many years. and um you know so when this pandemic first started I was already familiar with the role of vitamin D in the immune system and also in um preventing respiratory diseases you randomized control trials showing that but maybe you can kind of you've you've done a fantastic job covering the role of vitamin D and co 19 and and early on as well you were um you were out there champion you know that the vitamin D may play an important role and you looked at you know maybe we can talk about some of the observational studies and what the limitations are of those and um also um some of the very very preliminary you know pilot randomized control trials that have been done but maybe just start with some of the basics um not everyone realizes that vitamin D can be a little uh the name can be a little uh deceiving you're absolutely right and it's one of the first things I and I know I'm preaching to the choir here those that have watched you know that vitamin D is is so much more than just a vitamin but I would I would encourage anybody who's interested in this is Just just Google vitamin D structure a and look at the actual chemical structure of vitamin D. You know I I got my bachelor's in chemistry. So that's the first thing that I naturally do is you can tell a lot. Yeah. Good. Yeah. So so yeah exactly. So you know that uh that if you look at the structure of vitamin D it is very similar to the structure of cortisol of the structure of testosterone of estrogen of progesterone. And what do we know about all of these other steroid hormones? They go directly into the nucleus of the cell where they affect transcription of protein factors. And depending on the cell type, it's going to have a different effect. So, so already right off the bat, you can see that vitamin D is doing something very different than what we would think of as just a vitamin where you need a co-actor to have an enzyme do A to B. It's much more nuanced than that. And very early on the the the studies on vitamin D were involving calcium, bone metabolism. And so they came up with all of these things because they didn't know what else vitamin D did really. I mean, they had some idea, but they came up with these standards. Oh, you need so much vitamin D for your bones to do whatever it needs to do in the calcium. And so it it's the analogy I like to use is like, you know, you're you're baking something, right? And you put so much flour into the recipe. It's as if to say that's the only thing that flour is good for is this one recipe. And that if you use flour for anything else, that's exactly the amount of flour that you'd have to use for any other recipe. Well, that's nonsense, of course. I mean, we know that we need a certain amount of vitamin D for proper bone metabolism. But why does that carry that that's the amount of vitamin D we need for proper immune function? I mean, none of those things are are there. We have all of these standards about how much we need. Um, we'll talk a little bit about the uh about the observational studies, but vitamin D is not just a vitamin. It literally falls more into hormonal. I mean, think about Addison's disease. Addison's disease is where you have antibodies that attack the adrenal gland. It's this tiny little gland that sits on top of your kidneys. The purpose of that adrenal gland is to make cortisol, eldoststerone, androgens. These things are essential. In fact, if people lose their adrenal glands, they'll die uh the because they don't have enough cortisol. Cortisol is essential for just the regular running of the body. And here we have this thing called vitamin D. The problem is we don't have a gland that makes vitamin D. We have the skin, right? So the skin through uh through the sun and ultraviolet B radiation, which barely penetrates through the epidermis, it gets down to the dermis where the where the actual uh starting product is. And so if you don't get enough of this, you are going to be lacking in a whole host of things. So let's talk a little bit about what we found. And you know, prior prior to uh prior to co 19, we had some very good data on vitamin D. There was a a wonderful metaanalysis. What's what's in a meta analysis? where they take a bunch of studies, they they sort of chop them up, put it through a grinder, and they they look and see what the overall is so they can get a much bigger and much bigger subject number. And Martino, who is the uh the lead author on that British Medical Journal uh meta analysis that was done a number of years ago now, showed that supplementation with vitamin D decreased acute chest infections by 50% significantly. uh in in that study also in the the longer aging uh health study called Tilda in in Ireland showed that uh vitamin D supplementation was beneficial. So we knew that there was immune properties. They they found vitamin D receptors in the immune cells. And so all of this stuff is emerging and then and then we get to COVID and we start to see some really interesting studies coming out showing an association. Now, that's an association, not necessarily causation, between a lot of the same things that we see in CO, we see in vitamin D deficiency. So, what do we see? The older you are, the more apt you are to get vitamin D deficiencies because your skin is not as effective at turning uh at making vitamin D. And we saw there was an age predilction in CO 19. What about race? We saw that race, particularly uh darker skinned people were affected more in in CO 19. And that's that's not just you could say well there's some confounders there right because uh people who are ethnically darker may not have access to healthcare. Well this carried even in those countries where there were socialized medicine where everybody had access to health care which doesn't erase that completely but it was still a very strong association. Um we also saw it in uh in not only in gender but also big time in BMI. So the the more obese you were the the less the vitamin D. also there was less uh in terms or more um morbidity in terms of co 19 but all of that got fleshed out in I think a beautiful study that was done uh here in the United States that looked at 191,000 people and this was published by uh it was published in plus one the journal uh an article titled SARS kovv2 positivity rates associated with circulating 25 hydroxy vitamin D levels. So, let's back up right there and talk a little bit about metabolism. You've got these uh cholesterol derivatives that get converted into vitamin D in the skin. Well, then that has to go to the liver for a 25 hydroxal group to be put on on one of the carbons. Now, you've got 25 hydroxy vitamin D. This is what we measure in your blood. and then it gets converted into 125 uh dihydroxy vitamin D in the kidneys for metabolism or in the white blood cells where they need it there. So we're looking at 25 hydroxy vitamin D that's the storage form of vitamin D. And what they found was that as your levels as your levels started to drop below 50 nanogs per milliliter, we started to see an increase in SARS KV2 positivity rate. And it didn't matter based on race, gender, geography, or age. All groups saw an increase in SARS KV2 infections associated with a lower level of 25 hydroxy vitamin D. The lower these levels went, the higher the positivity rate. And that was just the beginning. I mean, this this went on and on and on. We, no matter how you sliced it or diced it, there was this very strong association of vitamin D deficiency with higher rates of COVID, higher SARS KV2 positivity rates and higher admissions. We see people being admitted to the hospital had lower rates than those that were had similar symptoms but were not SARS KV2 positive. And uh you know as you know just because you have an association doesn't tell you that you have causation. The only way you could really find that out is by doing randomized control trials like we've talked about. And and so you mentioned um admissions but also mortality. Weren't there some studies also showing that that patients that were more vitamin D deficient were more likely to have a severe case and even die versus ones that had higher vitamin D levels? Absolutely. Yeah. So that uh they showed that there was a difference in mortality that there was a difference in which ones went on to need uh ventilators and so all of this so so the question wasn't was vitamin D involved in this somehow the question was was vitamin D the causitive role or vitamin D deficiency the causitive role right and as you mentioned u because these are observational studies um one could argue well maybe low vitamin D is just biomarking being unhealthy in general, right? I mean, and and this is where um as you mentioned, randomized control trials are really key, but there's another type of study that I love to site and talk about because um it's a way, as you had mentioned previously, randomized control trials are very very expensive to do. They're very difficult. They're they you know, they take a long time. It's a it's a challenge. Um so another um way of measuring more of a causitive role of maybe you know of of certain factors and and particularly in this case lifestyle factors or something that you know I I call vitamin D a lifestyle because you're making it you know from the sun. um they're called mandelian randomization studies and essentially what they do is they measure so everyone has you know different variations in their sequence of DNA in their genes and these variations often are just a change in one DNA nucleotide which is called a single nucleotide polymorphism or a snip for short as you know um but for people listening and watching um there are many different variations in genes that convert for example 25 hydroxy vitamin D the major circulating metabolite of vitamin D into 125 hydroxy vitamin D which is the active steroid hormone and these changes in just one nucleotide of DNA and these genes um are associated with lower circulating levels of 25 hydroxy vitamin D uh because you know it's just it's just that you know different genes are doing different things and sometimes genes get less active and sometimes they're more active based on this you sequence change. Um, so it's well known that these certain SNIPS are associated with uh lower circulating 25 hydroxy vitamin D levels. And so there have been metaanalyses looking at people that have the snip didn't measure vitamin D levels at all. It's already known they have lower circulating levels. So you can't say, oh, you know, they're you're just measuring their low vitamin E. That's biomarking another health status. This is just genetics. We're just looking at a gene that's known to cause that. And these people have a much higher mortality from respiratory tract infections. They have a higher all-c cause mortality. They have a higher cancer mortality. Um cardiovascular related mortality is is unchanged. Um but respiratory tract infections are much higher. Um, and so that Mandelian randomization study, I I love to to to cite that because it really is establishing causation because it's not, you know, you're not just measuring vitamin D levels and go and and then saying, well, maybe they're low in vitamin D because they don't go out and exercise or maybe they're low in vitamin D because they're, you know, obese and and the, you know, vitamin D is less bioavailable, which it is in obese individuals as you mentioned. So the Mandelian randomization studies are another sort of in addition to the randomized control trials, I think another piece of evidence that hints towards possible causation of vitamin D being important for preventing respiratory tract mortality um as well. Oh, that's amazing. I I wasn't even aware of that. That's uh that's a that's a great way of of showing causation. Um and and of course they are working on some uh pilot studies that are trying to show randomization but uh uh how how big of a study was that? Uh it was quite large. Um I don't recall off the top of my head. I do have it linked in my notes. I can I can pull it up and send you. But um yeah, this it's it's there's been other um snips in like the vitamin D receptor for example. So children that have a single nucleotide polymorphism in um the vitamin D receptor they also have a higher mortality from respiratory tract infections as well. Um you know so vitamin D as you mentioned you know it's a steroid hormone it's going into the nucleus it is you know it it binds to the vitamin D receptor which then heterodimeizes with another receptor called the retinoid receptor. And that complex, you know, goes in and and and into the the nucleus where your DNA is, and it recognizes a very specific sequence of DNA called a vitamin D response element. And and and these are in more than 5% of the protein encoding human genome. I mean, that's a lot of genes vitamin D is regulating in all sorts of tissues, you know, brain, in the immune cells, um you know, and and other organs as well. Um so I I do think like you know thinking about mechanism and I know you've talked about you know the role looking you know at underlying mechanisms. How does vitamin D regulate the immune system? I mean there's a variety of ways um and specifically I it's really interesting um and I'm I'm getting off topic here. I want to get to the pilot randomized control trials but are you aware of of the role vitamin D plays in the ACE2 and renan angotensin system? I know there is a connection. Uh I was actually reading that uh just briefly. I think you're the one that sent me the article. Uh but I need to remind myself. We covered it back in um March or April. I think we did I did a short little um Q&A podcast on it. And it's really interesting. You know much more about the Reinian angotensin system than I do as a as a a medical practitioner. um which you know it obviously plays an important role in regulating blood pressure and um fluid homeostasis and you know I think even in the lungs too uh but what's interesting about the vitamin D uh reanotensin system kind of it it converges on the ACE2 receptor which um as you know and probably most of the world has heard by now is how the SARS cove 2 vir virus enters into our cells it binds that receptor well what's been shown with SARS cove one is um when the virus which also binds to the same receptor to get inside of the cell it binds to the receptor and it internalizes the receptor and downregulates ACE2 which is not good because that is really important for this reinangotensin regulation um as you know Dr. Schwel. So um that's been shown with SARS Cove 1 and what happens when the A2 gets downregulated lung injury acute lung injury um gets really bad um and and so there's been some animal studies that have found for example if you high dose with the active form of vitamin D the animals and then you cause acute lung injury A2 goes down acute lung injury goes up in the placebo group but the vitamin D group it normalizes the A2 levels. So if you think about it, you know, another potential, this is a h this is a hypothesis of course, uh another potential way vitamin D could be playing an important role in this specific virus. Um I is through regulating A2 levels. And what's interesting is that there was just a very recent study that came out. Um ACE2 the gene is it's located on the on the X chromosome and um women have two X chromosomes. most of the time one of those X chromosomes the genes inactivated. Um but there are genes that escape that and ACE2 is one of those and so women have much higher levels of ACE2 and um so researchers are thinking this is protecting them from a more severe uh co 19 outcome because they're getting that that that A2 levels like you know higher in terms of you'd think oh well more A2 that means the virus is getting in and but actually biology always tricks you it always you know you always think one thing and then it's like this beautiful you know sort of complex um scenario. But um I'm digressing and I just kind of wanted to bounce that off you because you're such a scholar and I thought you probably would find that interesting and I I certainly hope scientists are are are testing that hypothesis because it seems very relevant. Yeah, it does. Um not only that there's so the human body is so complex as you say that there's so many connections. The other aspect of of uh angotensin or ACE2 I should say is that it um it it gets rid of prooxidative uh products and it it uh increases antioxidant products. So for instance uh angotensin 2 and angotensin 17 those are in balance and A2 tries to keep those in balance but when A2 is knocked out by either SARS KV2 or SARS 1 the amount of oxidative stress goes up dramatically and what we see that that may pay play a role in terms of thrombosis. So you have oxidative stress in the A2 receptors in the endothelium of the vascule that causes uh inflammatory stress, oxidative stress that causes thrombosis and and that's where that happens as well. So all of these things it seems as though we've got the dots. Uh connecting them requires very good randomized control trials. But uh again like you said hypothesis driving type of uh studies that that may may answer that question. that that was um very enlightening. Um I do remember reading about that and um wow I didn't know realize it played the role in the thrombosis as well. Um so that's that's that's super interesting. Um but as you mentioned, yes, randomized control trials are key and there have been um I've seen you know one stronger but small trial that was published um was it back in September that found this was out I think it was in was it Spain perhaps? Yes. Yep. It was uh it was October I've I've got it pulled up here. October uh of 2020 and it was a Spanish uh it was Marta Castillo who published she was the lead author on this one out of Spain. Um there was a little issues with the randomization. So probably the effect was over uh overemphasized but if you look at the effects they were quite dramatic there in the calcifiial group. Let's just back up a little bit. What's calcifiial? That's the name that we give to 25 hydroxy vitamin D. So in this in this study they didn't give just vitamin D they gave the product of the metabolism in the liver of of vitamin D. Now do you think that's important for someone that is undergoing let's say I mean I if you're if you're so sick and maybe your liver is not working properly or your kidneys aren't working. I mean how are you going to convert these vitamin D metabolites into this steroid hormone? Right. So um do you think it's important to give someone that more you know more downstream like an active form versus vitamin D3 for example? Exactly. And so that's the question is whether because it takes some time for the vitamin D to be metabolized in the liver. Some I've seen some people say up to you know 7 days. It probably is a little bit less than that. But when you have uh when you're giving vitamin D in the acute situation, uh it doesn't really matter if you're just uh supplementing over a long period of time and you're hoping to prevent yourself from having uh bad outcome with COVID 19. But if you've already got CO 19, what what they may be saying here is that supplementing not with vitamin D, the the product prior to liver metabolism, but in fact kelsifodile 25 hydroxy vitamin D might be a more efficacious intervention. And that's what they did in this study. And you know, another thing this sort of brings to my mind, um, you'd mentioned the the preandemic studies looking at randomized control trials looking at the role of vitamin D supplementation in preventing respiratory tract infections. Uh, I believe it was Martin uh that was the the senior author on that. Yes. And what was so interesting about those metaanalyses was that they found weekly doses, daily doses, yeah, worked, but monthly doses did not in terms of protecting against acute respiratory tract infections. That's Yeah. And I to me it's like we can't learn from past like there's something wrong. we need, you know, so when you're designing a clinical trial, you need to be familiar with the literature and see, oh, there's these metaanalysis showing that monthly doses don't work. Maybe we shouldn't design the trial that way. Maybe we shouldn't just do one large dose, which um I think I've seen a pre-print floating around uh for for CO 19 where there was one large dose and there was no effect. Yes. Um, yeah, you're referring to the uh the Brazilian study where they gave 200,000 international units at the very beginning. Yes. I don't believe it's peer reviewed yet. Am I correct? At least I haven't seen it yet. Okay. Um, this study though, this Spanish study where they they gave something called calcifidial, which is again it's 25 hydroxy and it's this is not an over-the-counter medication. This is a prescription only. It's usually prescribed by nefologists in patients with renal disease that have very high pro, you know, u proalcitetonin or not proalciteton but parathyroid hormone levels. And they gave it on day one, they gave it on day, I believe three and then uh again at day seven. And what they found was in the calcifiial group there was only 2% that went to the intensive care unit whereas in the placebo group 50% of those went to the intensive care unit. So that's a a very very marked number. Uh again there was uh I think the the British recently got together and looked at all of the data and you may have known they they made a recommendation that there still was not enough evidence to uh cause supplementation to prevent CO 19. Um interestingly they discounted this Spanish study because they felt that the uh the randomization was not good enough. But uh there's been some mathematicians that have looked at this study and said that it would be impossible for that randomization to fully describe what happened in this study. In other words, they believe that there there was an effect of calcifidial in this study. And it it seems very likely if we have as you mentioned metaanalyses of many many many you know over 25 different randomized control trials showing vitamin D supplementation improves um prevents respiratory tract infections you know in people that are vitamin D deficient between 50 to 70 70% and even still had an effect in people that had normal sufficient levels of vitamin D. Maybe we can talk about what those are, but what would make I mean, of course, you know, viruses are different, but I mean, a respiratory tract infection, you know, to some degree there's got to be some common denominators, right? I mean so it it would seem to me it would seem you know logical that something like vitamin D where in the United States you know 70% of the US population is categorized as vitamin D insufficient which uh defined as the uh by the endocrine society is less than 30 nanogs per milliliter um and 30% of the US population is what is called vitamin D deficient so they have less than 20 nanogs per milliliter blood levels of 25 hydroxy vitamin D which is the major you know circulating metabolite of vitamin D. So I mean you know it's it's the question becomes and maybe we can talk a little bit about vitamin D supplementation and safety but is it really I mean you don't have to make a bold statement that it's going to prevent CO 19. I mean absolutely we should be following the CDC guidelines on social distancing on wearing masks on washing our hands and also you know as soon as they become available vaccinations but um in addition to following the CDC guidelines it might be prudent to say it's probably important to become vitamin D sufficient. In other words, if we already have data that you know 70% of the US population uh you know has insufficient levels of vitamin D, then clearly people need to take a vitamin D supplement. And you know I think or maybe need to get get their levels measured. I mean the best way is to go to a doctor, get your your vitamin D levels measured, you know, and then see what those are and then take a supplement to bring them up. And I mean the reason I say that is because as you mentioned, you know, we make vitamin D in our skin. Um, but depending on where you live, you know, you said UVB radiation is is how we make it in the skin. Depending on where you live, many parts of the year, uh, UVB radiation is not even hitting the atmosphere, right? Ex. Exactly. And so if you live above the 35th parallel, which if you're in the United States, that would be the southern border of Tennessee or just a few miles north of us here in Southern California, you know, most of the of the country lives above the 35th parallel, which means that you're not going to get enough UVB radiation in the winter months to supplement or to keep uh elevated your your vitamin D levels sufficiently. And so you've got to take supplementation and and and sunscreen blocks UVB radiation and most people are wearing sunscreen. Most people are indoors now. Work is, you know, we're on our our computers. We're not out. We're not we're not in agrarian society like we used to be. Um you know, people aren't out in the sun all the time. People are inside. I mean, if you look at um you know, NHANES data over the past couple of decades, you see vitamin D levels are steadily just going down, down, down, down. And I think that's because most people are now spending more time indoors. Um, also, as you mentioned, um, people, uh, like African-Americans, people with darker skin have much lower levels of vitamin D. In fact, African-Americans, this was Nhane Enhanes data, the most recent NHANES data that was published, they're 30 times more likely to be vitamin D deficient than Caucasians. And um, the reason for that is because melanin is a natural sunscreen. I mean, it protects you from the burning rays of the sun. So, if you live in, you know, Australia or closer to the equator, um, you know, Somalia, for example, that's great because you're getting a lot of UBV exposure year round. But when you take a person and migrate, they migrate, say they move from Africa to New York City to Chicago, well, it becomes a problem because you're much further from the equator and now you've got this natural sunscreen that helps you, you know, protect you from the burning rays of the sun. And now you're living in a place where you're not getting as much sun. And so, um, there's a there was a study that came out of the University of Chicago a few years ago that found African-Americans in Chicago have to stay in the sun six times as long as a Caucasian to make the same amount of vitamin D in the skin. Yeah, I I believe it. And and you know, the other thing people say, well, if that's the case, then uh then how come people are getting COVID 19 in in sunny places, in hot places? For instance, if you remember back uh in the early part of summer, there was a huge epidemic in Arizona and also in Florida and Texas. Well, I mean, if you think about it, yeah, there's a lot of sun, but if you're inside, you're not going to get exposed to the sun, right? You think people in Arizona are going out in the sun in the summer, dude, it's like living in the winter when you're in it's summer over I lived in Tennessee for six years and I'm from Southern California, so summers I was used to spending on the beach. When I went to graduate school, um, summers became like winter because I did not want to be outside. It was like 95 degrees, humidity, hot. I mean, so I spent way more time inside in the summer in Tennessee um, than I did in the winter in Southern California. And and here's the other thing, too, is that UVB barely gets through the atmosphere down to us. And and it does hit us when we're outside, and it the sun's got to be pretty high up in the sky. you go behind a piece of glass, there's there's almost no UVB at all. The only thing that's coming through is UVA, which is, you know, nasty ultraviolet radiation. It makes your furniture uh, you know, fade, your carpet fade, and it gives you aging wrinkles on your skin. So, if you think that you're sitting by the window is going to give you some nice vitamin D, think again. And clothing, right? Clothing also blocks it, you know? So you know the question becomes why why is the vitamin D prevalent vitamin D insufficiency and deficiency is so prevalent um in our country and also you know in in places like the UK where you said you know they're they're not finding enough evidence to recommend vitamin D to prevent COVID. Well maybe that's a strong statement and you need more randomized control trials to make a uh extraordinary claim like that. But you can still make a claim that it's probably in your best health interest to maintain good levels of vitamin D and that because we know vitamin D deficiency is so prevalent that it's probably best to get a vitamin D test and measure your levels and um take a vitamin D supplement. Exactly. And the thing that's uh that's a little confusing too is that a lot of these levels that we've come up with are are based on the endocrinological function of vitamin D with bone metabolism. We we don't know if that's the the value that we need for uh for imuno imunological functioning or COVID. But we do have some associative studies that seem to show at least in those studies that we talked about earlier where they took looked at 191,000 people that SARS KB2 rates started to go up once levels dropped below 50. So that's that's an interesting number. That's interesting. There's there was a few um back in 2013 there was a meta analysis published. I don't know the author's name, but the studies dated back from the 1960s to um to the 2013 uh and it was looking at all cause mortality in association with vitamin D blood levels and it was found that you know levels somewhere between 40 to 60 or 70 like was the lowest all-c cause mortality. So like like there was this sweet spot um you know and of course it's one of those things where you know associative studies are there's always the problems that people try to con you know correct for confounding factors and um but but the idea is to look and this is what you've done such a fantastic job you know with your scholarly work at MedCram videos is looking at the whole body of evidence the the observational data the mechanistic data the case studies and you if there are randomized control trials um the animal studies as well you know because that helps give us some insight on mechanism and and of course you can't translate an animal study to humans but but if you take the whole body of data right everything together then you can begin to tell a story uh as well so um in terms of supplementation though you know it's the upper tolerable intake that's been set by the Institute of Medicine has been 4,000 IUs a day um And what about you know vitamin D is a fats soluble vitamin. What about toxicity? Um toxicity uh there was a statement that I read that said that uh vitamin D is probably the least toxic fats soluble vitamin. So there was a study where this uh this Polish guy looked at uh Polish scientist looked at the Mayo Clinic's database and they looked at 20,000 people. And we've talked about this in our in their video that uh we recently published. One person had hypercalcemia out of those 20,000 and they had ranges people supplementing anywhere from 0 to 55,000 units a day and uh really just one person and that person's vitamin D level if I recall correctly was up in the the 200 300 range. That's nanogs per milliliter. That's not that's hard to do. Yeah. It's massive. Yeah. I I remember reading a study and I'm sure you've seen this one where there was the long the long-term supplementation with 10,000 IUs a day and it was really no no toxic effect and that was that was forgot how long term it was. But yeah, um the other thing I that I've seen is is that you know it's not a linear response curve. So if as you go up in supplementation, it's not like your nanogs per per milliliter are going to go up linearly. What we notice actually is that the first thousand units that you supplement causes an increase of about 4.8 to 5 uh nanogs per milliliter. Whereas when you get up to about 15 20 30,000 that uh each additional thousand goes up by about a tenth of that. So it's it's a it's a nonlinear relationship. But say it's exponential, but the reverse of exponential. As you go up higher and higher, the increment becomes less and less. It's almost like you're saturating receptors, if you will. It's probably not the case, but that's that's what it seems to be like. Do you measure vitamin D levels in your patients or is that something that's common in the hospitals you work in? Yes. So, we have been doing it. uh it's it's problematic if you don't have a lab that does it quickly so you get the result back in 2 to 3 days which uh which you you kind of want to know that upfront. So we will supplement and then wait for those levels to come back. But uh most of them are are low and and there's been studies on this too that have shown that most of these patients specifically with COVID are um are coming back positive. They're are coming back with low vitamin D levels. What they did in one study, they wanted to see whether or not it was the symptoms that were causing the low vitamin D. So they they took these patients and they said, "Okay, anybody that has X, Y, and Z symptoms, we're going to look at." And then they figured out which ones were COVID and which ones were COVID negative. Well, the ones that were positive for COVID and had the same symptoms had lower vitamin D levels than those people that had similar symptoms but were negative for COVID. So, it's not just the symptoms of COVID that's causing the low vitamin D levels. It's something about COVID itself that seems to be doing it. Wow. So, you guys are in your um in the ICU where you're treating patients, you guys are giving patients vitamin D. Oh, yeah. Is that that's that's great. Is that something um that that's being spread amongst hospitals? Do you do you know? I hope so. I'll tell you what we're doing based on the shade study. This is another randomized control trial that came out of India. Um, and it showed basically when they supplemented patients in the hospital with 60,000 units a day for 7 days that there was an improvement by day 21 in the number of COVID negative patients on testing. Now, that's probably not the best uh surrogate because, you know, PCR picks up any little detectable fragment of of RNA and and and gives you a positivity. It's a surrogate, but there was it was like 60 versus 20% at week three were negative by by just supplementing with vitamin D. The other thing that they looked at was fibbrronogen, which was a a marker of inflammation that was significantly lower as well. So based on that study, we we don't have 60,000 units typically here in the hospital. We have 50,000. So I figured the 50 versus 60 is going to be very small difference. And so that's currently what what I'm doing in my patients and I'm I'm recommending to my colleagues to do the same. We haven't seen any toxicity. There was no toxicity in that randomized control trial either. So you're kind of just assuming from right off the bat that most likely patients are are low in vitamin D. I mean, which I think is is a reasonable assumption considering and hannes data showing that 70% of the US population is insufficient. Correct. And if they're not, it's it's probably not going to hurt them if we do it for just seven days. Right. Right. Well, um I'm looking forward to more, you know, data on on vitamin D in terms of randomized control trials. I only hope these randomized control trials are designed properly. And you know there's so many there's so many factors when it comes to something that's nutrition related or something that you know you can make from the sun. Um it's always important you know it's not like a drug when you do a randomized control trial with a drug pharmaceutical you know drug people have zero levels of that in their body to start with. You know you give them that drug or the placebo and it's obviously you know they're going from zero to something. Whereas with something like vitamin D and also with in nutrition in general like you have to measure things at baseline you have to get you have to get you have to quantify you know you have to have something quantifiable and I've seen randomized control trials believe it or not with vitamin D where they don't measure vitamin D levels they just give them the supplement and it blows my mind um that that can even get past peer review or how do you design a trial that way? I mean you know it's just it's it's adding to the confusion in my opinion. So I'm hoping that because of the seriousness of this pandemic that you know people designing these trials are doing doing so carefully um you know like the the fact that we we know from from previous data that one high monthly dose of vitamin D may not be enough may not do the job right and as you mentioned maybe that's because it doesn't bring their levels up because it's not happening in a linear way right so yeah so so there was a great study that looked at that in France Um, you know, apparently the practice was that every nursing home patient would get 80,000 international units of vitamin D every 3 months. And, uh, when COVID hit, these patients were being admitted to the hospital. They they asked a very interesting question. What they did was they it was kind of a a quasi randomized study. As they were being admitted, they would ask the question, "So, how long has it been since you got your 80,000 international units of vitamin D?" And when they ran when they not randomized, what they sorted them to those that had gotten it within the last 30 days to those that had gotten it past 30 days, there was a statistically significant, clinically significant difference between those that had gotten it recently and those that have gotten it more than a month out. Wow. And do you ever have people just tell you, well, just go out in the sun more or uh you know, eat eat some food that's high in vitamin D? I mean, what do you say to to to people that might might say such a thing? Um, well, you don't know if it's working. So, I I was taking two and I'm I mean, I'm not I'm not living at the North Pole here. I'm in Southern California, uh, like you. And, uh, I was taking 2,000 units a day. Uh, and I wanted to get up above 50 because of some of that data that I so showed. So, uh, when when my levels were tested, so me, I work outside. I I uh I'm I'm not I don't like working inside a lot. So, I go outside, too. I do gardening. I you know, like working around the garden stuff. Uh that plus 2,000 units and the middle of summer and I was at 48. Wow. So, that that tells you that uh that you may have to work a little bit harder than you think at getting your vitamin D levels up. Yeah. Uh, and I think again, uh, the depending on how much melanin you have in your skin, depending on your age, you know, you're anywhere between two or four times less likely to make as much as you were when you were younger. Um, you know, depending on all that stuff. Are you wearing sunscreened where you live? What time of year it is? All those factors. I mean, so just to say go out in the sun more, you know, well, like what if you're an African-American living in Chicago and it's November? What are you going to do, right? you know, and and in the middle of winter, the sun's pretty low. So, it's it's probably there's not a lot of UVB probably that's coming through ultraviolet B radiation. It's got to go through a lot more atmosphere to hit you when the sun is that low in the sky. Right. Exactly. Um and the other thing is people think you can just get it from your diet. And this is another sort of um factor that I really like would like to address because you know the reality is um the the foods that have been for first of all the food that's been fortified with vitamin D the most is milk and unfortunately you know there's a lot of people that are lactose intolerant and 75% of African-Americans are lactose intolerant and there have been studies that have shown that for example African-American women that have a single nucleotide polymorph polymorphism in the lactase gene that allows s them to um you know tolerate lactose. They have much higher levels of vitamin D because they're drinking milk. Yeah. Um so fish, fatty fish, salmon, you know like 4 ounces have close to 400 IUs maybe. Um but you know people aren't eating fish in the United States they're not. I mean maybe in Norway or Japan. Um yeah, you know and of course omega-3 I mean is is is also very important. And I also think it's very important um to get enough omega-3 particularly now because of the role of omega-3 in uh inflammation and um you know there have been some interesting studies showing that uh omega-3 supplementation um there's been a metaanalysis showing that um supplementation in hospitals like prevents ICU stay or lowers ICU stay, prevents um mortality and like by up to 60%. Um I think they were this was um parinernal par how do you when they're giving it yeah the IV yeah they're giving it through the IV um as well as there's been other studies showing it helps prevent as as I mentioned to you it was a venus thrombosis um so uh but but my point is vitamin D is in the fish most people aren't eating fish so um a supplement is it's really the easiest lowhanging fruit I mean as you mentioned it's really hard to get people to change their lifestyle You know, we know for example that people with metabolic syndrome, with type two diabetes, um that are that are obese, high blood pressure, like are are have much, you know, higher risk of a severe COVID 19 outcome, right? But to get someone to completely reverse their type 2 diabetes is a lot of work. You know, we know things that can do it and you diet, you know, cut out the refined sugars and exercise and there are things that can can reverse type two diabetes. Um but that takes you know motivation. You have to want to do that. It takes a lot of effort and it takes some time. Yeah. Um whereas you know I think most people can take a vitamin D supplement. It's one of the cheapest. I mean it's literally like a penny a pill. It's one of the most affordable supplements ever and in my opinion, one of the most important, you know, because of the widespread deficiency, because of the way our society is now where we have migrated to other places, you know, we're we're indoors much of the time and just a very different world that we live in, you know, compared to, you know, a thousand years ago. Um, you know, or maybe that's too far back, but you get my point. Um, so yeah, no, there's so many things that are involved with it. And I I'm of the opinion too, just because of some of my sleep background as well that I do believe that there is a benefit from actually getting out into the sun. So I I I don't say that uh going out into the sun's the only way you can do it or should be the only way. I think I believe in supplementation. I supplement as well. But uh there is something to be said for getting outside into the fresh air and sunlight and allowing that light to hit the back of your retina. It has wonderful effects in terms of getting your circadian rhythm on sync. So yeah, I think I think one of the things that we need to learn about is it's not an or it's an and. It's an all of the above type of thing. And uh just because you supplement doesn't mean you should go in the sun. Just because you go in the sun doesn't mean you shouldn't supplement. Oh, I 100% agree. Thank you for bringing the circadian rhythm um up. I mean that it's one of the things uh that I've noticed having early light, bright light exposure and and setting my circadian clock is one of the most important things that has helped me sleep better at night because my clock is set early. Yeah. And you know, my body starts to produce melatonin at a reasonable time as long as I don't have bright lights, blue light on in my in my house all night. But um you're a So you also are in the sleep uh medicine and you run a you you have um do you run a sleep clinic or you're involved in this in a sleep clinic? I have a sleep clinic and I also am the medical director of a sleep lab as well. So what are some of the things I mean sleep is also very important for immune function and um what are what are some of the things that uh you're you're helping your patients do with in terms of sleeping better and and helping um yeah so so sleep is a very complicated uh topic because everybody may have problems sleeping but it's for myriad of different reasons uh could be medical reasons could be just you know maladaptive behaviors But what the point I want to make is that sleep and the immune system are intimately connected. We know for a fact that people who get more sleep before they get an immunization have a better immune response with higher antibbody titers to for instance the flu vaccine. We know that when people are challenged with a virus they they actually did this study where they they put rhinoirus into students noses subjects noses on purpose. uh you could you you know living on a college campus people will do any study for for very little money so it's easy to get those kind of students but uh this is what they did they subjected them to rhino virus and they put it into their nose and they waited to see how many people came down with uh with a common cold and when they looked back and and saw what their sleep habits were it was a five to sevenfold difference if you looked at those people that got seven or more hours of sleep per night versus those that got less and uh whether or not they had a good sleep efficiency. So sleep efficiency is how many hours you're actually sleeping divided by the number of hours that you're in bed. And so you have good sleep efficiency, you've got good hours of sleep, so good quality, good quantity, your risk of getting any kind of virus like rhino virus, uh adenoirus, those sorts of things is cut by five to sevenfold. That's a massive number when you consider uh what we're trying to do to reduce the incidence of co 19 right now with uh vaccinations and things of that nature that just a good night's sleep uh can have that much of an impact. It's not a cure, but it's a it certainly is somewhere to start. That's that's a very robust difference. I mean I I know I probably speak for many other people. I know from personal experience absolutely 100% if I get a bad night's sleep and I've been exposed to a virus it'll take me down. Um you know and and it this seems very relevant right now with vaccinations that you know sleep plays such an important role in the in the antibody tighter and how many antibodies you're producing. Um but even in more general sense I mean you know the the fact that that sleep is so important for just immune function. Um so what is what do we know the some of the mechanisms? I mean, one of the mechanisms that's involved uh has to do with the stickiness with how those immune cells stick to each other. And uh that's regulated that's regulated by by uh you would probably not be surprised by G-roins and cyclic AMP and second messenger systems. And what we notice is that when you sleep more, your cortisol levels are lower. And uh cortisol of course is cortisol and epinephrine and all of these other uh beta adroninuric systems affect the G- protein, stimulate the G- protein, causes increasing cyclic AMP in these immune cells and they make those uh those uh those proteins like the major hystocompatibility complex one and two less sticky and so it impairs your immune system when you have higher levels of cortisol, higher levels of stress. Mhm. And really interesting study. Um, since you just mentioned the the the light exposure and helping with sleep, I saw there was one study where people were exposed to 10,000 lux of light. And I believe it was for like a significant period like 6 hours, you know, like where you're like literally like it's a weekend, you're just you're outside at the beach or something. You're, you know, outdoors. um and it lowered their cortisol levels by 25% I think during the um the phase where it's not supposed to be high or something. Um because cortisol obviously wakes you up. I mean your cortisol is regulated in a circadian manner and it you know is important for waking you up. The problem is is that people are having higher cortisol from, you know, psychological stress. Um, you know, from from from what are some other things that raise people's cortisol? Yeah. Oh, so other things like sleep apnea, that's a big one. Um, sleep apnea. Yeah, sleep apnea. Basically, just a lack of sleep tied to obesity. So, what are some of the main practices that you tell your patients? like what have you found some of the most robust practices for improving sleep like maybe the lowest hanging fruit too. So so like things that are lowest hanging fruit and same things that are more robust. So the most important time of sleep is the sleep that you get at the beginning of the night. Um there's two there's really two types of sleep uh that are the best at uh making you uh feel healthy and they are slowwave sleep which is right at the beginning of the night. In fact this is the type of sleep that is associated with growth hormone secretion especially in children. This is if if there was ever the uh the fountain of youth this would be it. Growth hormone makes you feel younger, makes you look younger. I mean it's it's in fact we were giving growth hormone injections many years ago until we realized that it can cause problems uh because of uh where they were getting it from but that's another story but growth hormone and slowwave sleep at the beginning of the night is very very important. Yeah REM sleep is toward the end of the night that's when you dream and that's that's also a good part of sleep as well but nothing beats slowwave sleep with these large delta waves. If you if if you were to look at this on a on a a polyography, so the most important time to sleep is really that time before midnight. And uh there's a lot of research in the last four or five years that has been going into this holy grail of slowwave sleep and what happens at the beginning of night. So with that being said, think about what what's going on in the United States right now, okay? And over the last 50 years, we've essentially turned night into day, right? If you've ever seen those satellite pictures of what the United States looks like at night, it's lit up on both coasts. And uh if you look at our area here in in Southern California, it's it's very bright. It's probably one of the brightest in the nation. Uh probably only second to New York and the DC New York, you know, area. But here's what's happening. People are coming home later. They're, you know, eating later, staying up later. They got a lot of work to do. And they're they're they're putting their faces in front of screens, which is emitting light. Now, what does that light do at that hour? What that light does at that hour in just about everybody is it shifts the circadian rhythm and delays it. So whereas you would feel sleepy normally at, let's say, 9 or 10:00 at night, you're now going to start to feel sleepy at 11 or 12:00 at night. And so you don't go to bed until later. So you would normally be waking up 7 8 9 hours later because that's how much sleep you're really supposed to get. But unfortunately that goes into 8 9:00 in the morning and you're supposed to be already at work at your desk or you know now with co you're at home working somewhere. um or because of the fact that there's so much density, you've got to get up at 4:00 in the morning, 5:00 in the morning to get in your car to do your 2-hour commute to beat the traffic to get at your desk. And so what we've done essentially over the last 50 years is we have sandwiched the amount of available hours that we have for sleep. And what's cut off what's been cut off is that first part of the night before 12:00 where the best most restful part of the of the night is going to happen. You know, it's been said many times and from people hundreds of years ago, I don't know how they knew this, but over 100 years ago, they said the most that that 2 hours of sleep before midnight is worth more than four hours of sleep after midnight. And and the science is actually showing that to be true. It's it's amazing. Uh so so the the the thing that I have found to be the two things I have found to be most effective or maybe three in in making sure that I am not a night owl. I mean some people there are there are genes that do control this and there are some people that are genetically they're night owls and and there there are some genes that actually allow people to get less sleep but those are sort of a lot more rare. Um, but what I have found for me is bright light exposure. So, you wake up in the morning and what do you what do most people do? They want coffee because they're sleepy and they didn't get enough sleep. And so, they're trying to counter that with some caffeine. Right. Right. Maybe they should step outside. Step outside for 30 minutes. Maybe drink your coffee outside. Um, go for a walk. You know, if it's cold out, you know, I, you know, drink your hot coffee and, you know, do some stretches or yoga or something. go outside and set that clock so that your so that your circadian rhythm sets earlier so that you start making melatonin earlier. However, in order to make melatonin earlier um I previously um around our house we had these Philips Hue lights which basically you can program them to be to turn um red at a certain time. So red would be something that uh isn't as disruptive to melatonin production because as you know blue light is what disrupts it. And so um you can program them to like let's say come on at 5:00 p.m. And so now all the lights in your house are red rather than bright light. Um now I have dimmer and dimmer also really help because I just dim them so low um that you know at night it's like all the all the you know any light that's on our house is very very very dim. And um and the other thing is that well now I don't even I don't I try not to like work and get on my laptop and answer anything that gives me emotional stimulation if I'm I whether or not it's bad or like don't look at social media like I don't want to see a bad comment or like you know anything like that um that'll get me upset that'll completely throw off my my sleep. But um there there are apps that you can put on your your computers and phones that like block out some of the blue light or you can wear the orange glasses. I personally find that even watching TV uh that'll stimulate me and so that you know I try I actually prefer to just chill out um you know and maybe read a book or you just kind of decompress. Um but but like the the avoiding blue light at night and getting the bright light exposure I think those are the two really main main things that have gotten to me. You know I go to bed I'm like in bed and asleep by 9:30. Yeah, that is that is exactly you. You asked me the question, what's the lowhanging fruit and you you just answered it. That's exactly what I would recommend and that's what I do recommend. Um, now from there, people have different uh problems. Uh, people have sleep fragmentation where they wake up a lot. Some people can't fall asleep. Some people can't stay asleep. We could we could come back and do another two hours on on recommendations for each one of those things. And each one's an individual, so it's it's hard to say, but the kind of the sleep hygiene stuff that we've just talked about can go a long way in in getting you started on on finding your fitness, basically. Yeah. Um Yeah. Other things, exercise, um some people think the sauna, which sauna is something that you and I both uh you've recently gotten uh developed a passion for. Yeah. So, you tell me. Um it's something I've been passionate about for many years in public speaking about. Um and uh you've you've dove into a little bit about um the effects of of of heat stress uh in in in terms of sauna use on the immune system and lung function, respiratory tract infections um which is also very relevant now. Yes. Exactly. So so vitamin D gets me excited. Uh, talking about sleep gets me excited, but nothing gets me more excited than talking about this. This is really amazing stuff because I I have a feeling that it could be helpful in CO 19. It makes plausible sense. Let me tell you the evidence for that just sort of offhand. Okay, so I said at the beginning that you've got to look at CO 19 as a a timing issue early on in the disease. We've got good evidence now from immunologists that SARS KV1, SARS KV2, and MS, all three of those, they kind of act the same way in that early on in the disease, they suppress the innate immune system. So, there's two parts to your immune system. There's the innate immune system, that's sort of the garbage collector that goes around looking for stuff that shouldn't be there and eating it up. What are the tools of that innate immune system? Fever is a big tool of that innate immune system. Interferon, the substance called interferon. Uh there's gamma interferon, beta interferon, alpha interferon. All of these things are the tools of that innate immune system. The the other part of the immune system is the adaptive immune system. That's B cells, T- cells. That's what we're using with the vaccination. What I'm talking about is the innate immune system. And early on this virus suppresses the body's ability to mount that response. It the thing about this system, the innate immune system is it's very robust in children. But as you get older, its efficacy diminishes with time. So that's why we see fevers all the time in pediatric populations. They get a virus, they get a fever. But we're not seeing the the fever so much in the adult population and certainly not as much as we would expect to see in in SARS KV2. Now that being said, as the virus using various techniques, proteins, things that it does, as it suppresses that immune system, you get this lowlevel viral infection that goes on for days and then finally the adaptive immune system kicks in and you get this cytoine explosion that ends people up in the hospital with pneumonia. So again, it's a timing issue. The question is in CO 19, do you want to suppress the immune system or do you want to elevate the immune system? And the answer is yes because you want to do you want to enhance the immune system at the beginning so that it gets rid of the virus. But notice that all the things that work late like steroids suppress the immune system. So you got to be very careful about which phase you're looking at. Okay. So what they've done there there's a couple of papers that were published in science uh about a month or two ago. They could explain 14% of all of the severe cases in their cohort based on two findings. One was a genetic a bunch of genetic mutations that basically left the the subjects hamstrung in terms of secretreting and producing interferon. So there's interferon production is a complicated system. There's many genes involved with it and at many points along that pathway there were mutations that basically caused the interferon secretion levels to be nil. All of those mutations were found only in the severe CO 19 patients. Okay. Did not find any of these in the mild patients. So again there is some causation there like you were talking about before with the uh the snips in vitamin D. Yeah. Mhm. The other one that made up about 10% was el older patients that had developed antibodies to interferon. So essentially their interferon levels even though they're being produced they were being inactivated. All of these patients that had antibodies against SARS co or against interferon were in the severe none in the mild to moderate group. So what they determined was that a and other studies have borne this out that in order to predict a mild to moderate course of the disease, you had to have an adequate interferon response early on in the course and you wanted to have that to lead to a mild to moderate. If you did not have a good interferon response early on, that would lead to severe disease in almost all of those cases. With that in mind, what I started to do was look at a number of things. Number one, looking at heat. So, there was a a study, a number of studies actually that have been produced, some at the University of Toronto, uh some also in other uh centers as well that showed that if you take human beings and heat them up in a in a hot water bath, 39° centigrade, it the purpose of this is not to kill the virus. The purpose of this is to enhance the immunity. And what they found was that they were able to independently of of these uh potential mutations that fever or or temperature itself was able to cause a secretion an elevation in interferon tumor necrosis factor those sorts of things. There's one study that they did where they took subjects, put them in hot water baths at at various degrees, so 38.5, 39, 39.5, etc. And when they took the monocytes out of their body and put them on the petri dish and exposed it at various temperatures to uh LPS, which is lipopolysaccharide, which is a a universal uh activator of the immune system, that interferon levels were 10 times higher once they got up to about 39° uh centigrade or Celsius, which is around where you start to have a fever. So, lots of plausibility there. Okay. So now what we did is I I looked back in history and I thought well well maybe if we started to to heat up their their bodies maybe there could be some uh immunity. Think again about the fact that 80% of all symptomatic COVID 19 patients 80% never need to go to the hospital. Why? Because their innate immune system does the job. It takes care of the virus. 20% end up going to the hospital. if we could somehow increase that 80% to 85 90% that would have a huge impact on the number of people that are seeking medical attention right now in in the hospitals. So I decided to look back. So there was the flu epidemic of 1918 and 1919 and it got to the point in the United States now remember this is before oxygen this is before randomized placebo control trials. This is before the discovery of penicellin even there was two sort of two thoughts about how to treat this pandemic or this epidemic of of the flu. And as these soldiers were coming back from World War I and bringing the flu with them, uh there was a lot of army hospitals that were treating these patients. And the thought was was that it was the symptoms of the flu that was killing these patients. Well, we knew how to treat fever by giving aspirin. Aspirin had just been discovered in 1899 uh by the German company Bayer. And so, a lot of Bayer aspirin was being used to get rid of fever, to get rid of symptoms. And um and we knew exactly how that went in the army camps. That was the one way of treating it. The other way of treating it was by doing what we've just been talking about, which was rest, exercise, not not exercise, but rest, sunlight, fresh air, and uh and uh hydrotherapy. And this was the type of of of pattern that was being used in a number of sanitariums in the northeast of the United States. Well, I I stumbled across an article that was published in 1919 by Dr. Rubble. Now, Dr. Rubble was the medical director at the north uh at the Boston New England Sanitarium. And what he wrote was he said, you know, this epidemic has given us a fine opportunity to see if there is a difference in terms of our therapies. He called this rational therapies. And so that's exactly what he set out to do. And what he did was collected the data from all of the 10 sanitariums that he knew about in the northeast of the United States and compared them to what was going on in the sanitariums or in the army hospitals at the time. So what he did was basically say which one is better? Is it the treatment in the army hospitals with the aspirin where we're trying to kill the fever or is it in the sanitariums where we're trying to basically increase the body temperature with uh hot towels and and uh hot foot baths and things of that nature and and just just a point the things that they were doing in the sanitariums there's nothing there that we couldn't do in our own homes today. I mean we've got hot water we've got all of these sorts of things. So he did that and what he found was a couple of things. Number one, he found that the there was two phases. There was the early phase and the late phase just like we have with COVID. He's found the same thing with the the flu. And the thing that demarcated that was exactly what we have with the CO 19 and that is pneumonia. So the practice in the sanitarium was if anybody came down with any kind of symptoms period, there's no need to test. You just immediately start hydrotherapy. You immediately start sunlight. you immediately start fresh air and bed rest. That was that was the key for the sanitariums. When they did that and this was a number of about 446 uh subjects, only 2% of those subjects went on to develop pneumonia. Only 2%. He was able to get the data from the s from the army hospitals and in the army hospitals about 20% of the camp came down with the flu. How many of those patients with the flu went on to develop pneumonia when they got aspirin and they got all of these other things? 16%. So eight times the number of people in these army hospitals had pneumonia. Now when you looked at pneumonia in both the army hospitals and the sanitariums, the the mortality from there was about 40 to 50%. In both so it didn't matter once you had pneumonia the the damage had already been done. And so when you look at the the infection fatality rate in the sanitariums, it was about 1.1%. Whereas the infection fatality rate in the army camps was about 6.4%. So it was a fraction of that. So obviously this is a different time, this is a different practice, this is a different uh disease, but it's the same immune system. And uh the fact the very fact that hydrotherapy and heat can cause potentially an increase of the very thing that's lacking that we're seeing early on in the CO 19 course gives me pause that there is biological plausibility that hydrotherapy early on while you're supposed to be sitting home at wait and waiting for you to get sick enough to go to the hospital may impact and change the course of the disease so that you don't have to go to the hospital. The reason why I I find this particularly attractive is because there's no company that has to make hydrotherapy. There's no rationing of hydrotherapy. You don't have to leave your home for hydrotherapy. You practicing hydrotherapy doesn't take away the ability from somebody else to do that. All of those things are the same problems though that you have with ivormectin or or hydroxychlor or any other medication that might have to be produced and be distributed. this is something that everybody can do and it's it's also got very very low risk. So I I think and actually I'm working currently with um an institution up in Northern California called Weimar that is looking into this and we actually done a pilot project with students on the campus to do hydrotherapy to see if it will we're measuring tumor mark or we're measuring markers we're measuring inflammatory it's not a randomized control trial in any sense but we're trying to get more data to see if this is a plausible way of of dealing with this and of course this would not be affected by viral mutations or anything like that. It's it's a way of teaching the immune system or revving up or enhancing the immune system to deal with a uh an infection that is suppressing the innate immune system. So, I I've said a lot there. Uh but uh you know, ask away, see what you think. That is a really phenomenal scholar scholarly work that you that you did there, Roger, diving um deep into history and and um I'm I'm that is just so informative and I really enjoyed listening to to all of that research that you that you dug into. Fascinating. I do have a few questions um for you and I hope I don't forget them all because there's quite a few that lined up. Um, first of all, with the interferon response that occurs when you elevate the core body temperature, whether that's through an a hot bath uh or um a sauna or a steam or steam shower or perhaps even hot towels you were mentioning. Yeah. How long does that interferon response increased interferon response last? Is that something for example that's 24 hours like you can still measure or is it just very very acute or is it even known as I don't know if it's known. Um I do know that in those sanitariums they were it's very labor intensive. It's it's actually the reason why this went out of favor. I mean you can imagine that uh here you have this practice of doing hydrotherapy which is very labor intensive and then you have the discovery of penicellin in 1928. You can just give a tablet. Um, so because of its labor intensity, it was generally done maybe once a day. And so if it lasted if it lasted 24 hours, then uh that was probably enough. Um, the protocol that we're doing right now where we're testing it out uh is is maybe two or three times a week, but it's it is very labor intensive. We don't know how long it would last. In your protocol that you're doing, are you giving your students hot baths? Are they taking a hot bath? and if so, how hot, how long, and how much of their body is submerged under the water. So, this is okay. So, this is a a very good question. Um, the protocols are based on the historical protocols that have been published and you can actually find his book. Uh, it's called Rational Hydrotherapy. It's written by John Harvey Kellogg. It's about a thousand pages long. It's a massive book. I think it's in Google Scholar. You've got to sort of find the book. But there's a number of resources if people are interested. one of the um really where this is practiced and if you were to talk to me about a year ago, I wouldn't have known anything about it. I've researched it. But the the body of information that has kept this alive are really the physiootherapists or the physical therapists we call them in the United States because of hydrotherapy helping in physical ailments, muscles, things of that nature. And so they are the ones that have kept this uh this information for a long time. And so what I'm the protocol that I'm going to tell you is based on what they have seen and what they have done and used. And typically what is this is you basically have have the patient lie down on on a uh on a surface. They and there's various ways of doing it but you can use towels that are wet and you can heat them up either in a microwave or on a stove but it's basically boiling hot water in with a towel and you basically sandwich that between uh other towels. You place it on their back and you place it on their on their chest. So they're basically being sandwiched. They're the meat and the bread is two very hot towels. And you're also place a very cold towel on their head and on their neck. And what you're trying to do there is you're trying to heat up the body as much as you possibly can and not heat up the thermostat which is in the brain which is going to sweat and try to get rid of that heat as much as possible. So what you what you have here is you've got peripheral vasoddilation that occurs trying to give off the heat but actually what's happening is it's picking up the heat heating up the core body temperature and you do this for about 20 minutes. Now those towels will not remain hot for 20 minutes. So sometimes you have to recycle them and have have more ready to go. So you heat them up, you cover them up and if they're sweating then you know that you're doing what you need to be doing at the end of this 20 minutes of heat. Something we do that's kind of paradoxical uh and is also the probably the most uncomfortable portion of this uh treatment is you then basically put a very ice cold towel and replace the hot with an ice cold towel and you do uh friction uh rub. Basically it's it's a it's a uh friction is the best way to explain it. Th this is something that's come along for for a hundred years they've done this. When we look at the data and we try to see why they would do this, we believe that this seems to work because the cold causes vasoc constriction and it locks the heat in. So after you're done, it's not easy for the heat to dissipate through those vasoddilated uh vascule. But the other thing that it does is when you just like we know when you take a cold shower that vasoc constriction causes demarggination of luccoytes and that causes the amount of luccoytes in solution if you will or in the in the vasculature to go through find the viral particles and report to their lymph nodes through that increased circulation and that sort of jumpstarts the innate immune system in finding those uh epitopes and presenting them to the antigen presenting cells. After that's done, the protocol is for them to lie down and to really not move for the next hour and to just completely rest. And so this is what we're uh doing. And uh I don't believe any of the students, now this is a this is a student population, so they're young. I wouldn't expect these patients to need to go to the hospital. Uh and I don't and I don't believe that in any of our cohort they've they've progressed or gotten worse. Do you measure their temperature? Um, is there a rectal thermometer in there somewhere? Yeah, they're not doing rectal thermometers. Uh, we're currently measuring we are measuring temperature. We're also measuring a number of cytoines as well uh in that and uh we've just finished the preliminary aspect. So, we haven't had a chance to look at the data as yet, but it'll be very interesting to see. It's it's fascinating that you're adding the cold um shock and I don't know how much the friction plays a role but because you know in Finland where saunas are ubiquitous um it's also very quite common to jump in a cold water freezing like the the Baltic Sea or something you know a lot of people are jumping into the cold water after their saunas and they go back and forth as well. Um, you know, you know, it's funny you say that, we've h how long has the human how long has the human race been on this planet? We we could debate that, but it's probably been at least thousands and thousands of years. And do we believe that we've only discovered uh immunity and and what works in the last hundred years? I think not. I I think a lot of a lot of learning has been passed down generation to generation in probably in multiple cultures. And one thing that's really I found very interesting is no matter who I've talked to and I've talked to a number of people that are interested in this, whether they are of Asian descent, whether they are of Middle Eastern descent, whether they are from South America or as you mentioned in in Nordic countries, all of them seem to have this memory. whether it's their grandmother that did it or whether they look back a hundred years ago, they all seem to do the same thing. They come down with an illness, a virus, and they, for instance, in the Middle East, I I was talking to someone from Iran. He said, you know, my grandmother when we got sick, they would they would put us the hot sands. They would use whatever was hot around them and they would use it to improve their uh their their current situation, whether it was a viral infection or what have you. And I just I think there may be something there. I maybe maybe we've forgotten what we needed to do. And and what I'd like to say is this is that, you know, here we are in this pandemic and we don't have all the medications to treat all these patients. Instead of instead of saying, you know what, you're just going to have to wait at home and wait for you to be sick enough to go to the hospital. That's kind of like turning back the clock thousands of years. Why don't we just turn back the clock a hundred years and see what we did a hundred years ago when we didn't have these things and see if they work? I I I 100% believe that we need to do randomized control trials to really see whether they work. I want to see if they work. But the question is is in the meantime while we're waiting for them to work, if there's something that has biological plausibility and it has very little risk, you know, what's the risk of hydrotherapy? Well, number one, burning yourself. You have to be very careful you don't burn yourself. And number two, if you've got a predilction for cardiac arhythmias or tacic cardia or atrial fibrillation, it's probably not a wise thing to be exposing yourself to temperature extremes. So barring that, I think this has got pretty low pretty low risk and maybe maybe beneficial. So going so 100% agree with you and um you know there there have been quite a few studies looking at the health benefits of using the sauna. There's been a lot of observational studies from a friend of mine, Dr. Yari Lquin. He's an MD/PhD and um he is the the the senior author on the paper that showed men I believe it was men and women in that study that used the sauna two to four time two to three times a week had a 20% lower pneumonia risk and then if they did four to seven times a week it was maybe up to 40% lower something like that where it was dose dependent and they had corrected for a whole host of factors all types of different respiratory diseases they corrected for asthma uh lipid levels, I mean just many different things. And so um that that was something that was quite surprising to me, you know, because I was so familiar with the the literature on, you know, the benefits of um using the sauna on cardiovascular health and how, you know, heat stress itself it is elevating your core body temperature in in in a way is um it's mimicking exercise. Your heart rate elevates. um they've they've done a a side-by-side head-to-head comparison uh on a stationary uh bicycle and comparing it to 20 minutes in a sauna and all the same physiological changes happen while you're exercising. Your blood pressure actually goes up. Your heart rate goes up. You sweat. Your your your core body temperature elevates. While you're in the sauna, your blood pressure goes up while you're in there. Um your heart rate goes up. You're sweating. Your core body temperature goes up. But then when you're done with the exercise or you're done with the sauna, blood pressure goes down even lower than baseline um you know your heart rate um improves and you know so so it's very comparable to cardiovascular exercise and there's many many um benefits in terms of you know chronic sauna use and I think to some degree um hot baths you know and and perhaps you know this hydrotherapy um I think that falls in that category where where you're elevating your core body temperature, whether it's through a hot bath or these, you know, hot towels or if it's in a steam room or, you know, a sauna, which is which is what I have. Um, you know, I I try to do it four times a week. But it's it's it's it's fascinating that that could actually be helping my innate immune system. Um, yeah, there and I think there's there's other studies that have shown effects as well, like common cold. Yep, that's exactly right. I mean, not just on cardiovascular, but also on on uh on immunity and also on I mean like real world colds. They they've done multiple studies on these and they've shown there to be a benefit uh in that. And so because it's because it seems as though the benefit that we get from hydrotherapy or thermal hydrotherapy, however you want to call it, seems to be the one part of the immune system that's crippled early on with this uh coronairus. There's biological plausibility again there that I think, wow, this piece seems to fit. The only thing we're missing here is a randomized control trial. Boy, somebody should do that. I mean, that that would be amazing. Yeah, absolutely. Um, do you do you take hot baths at home? Is it? Yeah. So, I I have AI have a spa outside. Actually, believe it or not, I live at about a mile up here in Southern California, so we've just got about 6 to 8 ft of snow. I'm looking out the window right now because we've got about well, it's melting right now, but it's about 6 to 8 in of snow. Uh, and so just the other day I we all went into the into our spa and heated that thing up to the max and uh got out and uh ran around in the snow, rolled around in the snow and then we uh jumped back in and it was uh it was invigorating. So I I do that every day. My my wife is also a uh an internist. She works at the hospital. And so every day we've made it a point that when when we come home from work and we go through our uh our our rigmarole where we uh you know basically dishrobe in the garage and put the corona virus in this this basket and that goes into that. Uh we basically go directly to the spa and uh hopefully the the the chlorine and the and the hot water kills the corona virus. But even more importantly, hopefully if we happen to be exposed that day and we just don't know it yet, that that treatment in the sauna or the spa, I should say, uh helps our innate immune system to find that virus and to kill that virus before it has a chance to to do its dirty work. Absolutely. I I we're we're we've been I've been trying my husband, he's been really big on um getting in the jacuzzi and then uh hopping into the 56°ree pool. Um I've have I'm having to adapt. Cold showers are a little easier for me. Um but but they're not I mean although they're colder now. I was I was actually doing a lot of cold showers in the summer. So I've been I've been doing that sauna and um the the summertime is is It's warmer. The cold the cold shower is warmer. So, it's not really as cold as it should be. So, I'm trying I'm trying to to get into the cold a little bit more. Um, what do you what are your thoughts on, you know, for example, like people that are getting vaccines? You've you've gotten the mRNA vaccine. I got the Fiser vaccine oh, probably a little over a week ago and I I didn't change what I was doing. I was still doing it. uh I don't think it I don't think it would have an effect the the way that the mRNA is is delivered to the cells so that they can make the the protein is in these uh very small little myels or these bi- lipid layers that shouldn't have an effect it shouldn't be uh imunogenic so I don't think it should affect the uh the the efficacy of the vaccine the using the sauna or yeah can you talk a little bit about Just briefly, I know we've we've been chatting a while. I I promise to wrap it up, but mRNA vaccines are a new technology that's I mean, they're not a new technology. They've they've definitely been um around for for a few years, but it's new to humans. You having it, you know, use in humans basically. Yeah. So, this if you think about mRNA vaccines, it's it's like an envelope with a message in it. And that message is going to tell the cell what kind of proteins to make. This is exactly what happens by the way when you get a viral infection when you get corona virus or any other corona virus or any other RNA virus that that comes along is that virus fuses with your cell whether it's in in the cells in your nasal mucosa or or anywhere else and it basically tells those cells to make protein to make foreign proteins. And so in that sense this is no different. We're just doing it in a way that doesn't cause more viruses to be made. See, when you get infected with a virus, the virus tells the cells to make more of everything. Make more RNA, make more viral proteins, so we your cell can make more virus. uh in this sense the mRNA vaccine is only telling your cell to make a portion of the protein which we want the immune system to recognize so that if it ever comes around again the immune system is ready to attack it and to prevent it from from uh invading your body. So in that sense this is like a sort of a deadened uh virus uh that we're we're putting in but it's not even that it's not even a virus it's just a portion of the mRNA. So what about mRNA? mRNA is in the cytoplasm of the cell. It's not in the nucleus of the cell. And if you can imagine, you know, we had a a professor on uh from uh from San Diego, Dr. Kate, who I loved his analogy. It's like a post-it note. mRNAs are like post-it notes. They're here today, maybe a few days later they're they're gone. You you you crumple it up and you throw it away. They are not like your marriage certificate or your uh your social security card that you put away in a filing cabinet that you never take out and it's like the original. That's like your DNA. That's like in the nucleus. So that is not what an mRNA is. MRNA is like your scratch post-it notes that you post in your room and you're here today and gone tomorrow. So there's really not a danger that this mRNA is going to hang around. And even if it were to hang around, the purpose of the immune system is to find these cells with this foreign mRNA in it because it makes proteins that are foreign and to destroy those cells. That's why you get an immunogenic response when you get the the the flu vaccine or or in this case the mRNA vaccine. You get pain at the site. You get a little bit of a fever perhaps. You might have some uh muscle aches, body aches. it'll feel like you actually have a viral infection because that's your interferon that's responding to it. That's your adaptive immune system eventually that's responding to it. So that that would explain Mona's uh vaccine and also Fiser's vaccine. The other one that's coming out is the Astroenica Oxford one is does does very same thing except instead of using mRNA in a little like a a lipid droplet like a butter droplet if you like. It's using a different vector. It's actually using a chimpanzee adenoirus. Now you're like why why would you use a chimpanzeee adenovirus? Well, it's because humans haven't seen chimpanzeen virus. And so, we don't want to have a vector used in that situation that could be recognized by the immune system and destroy the vector before the message gets into the cell. In this case, the message is not an mRNA. It's actually a DNA. And so, the DNA goes in to the nucleus in in the Astroenica Oxford uh uh version where it is transcribed into an mRNA. And then the rest is the same from there. So that's basically the three types of vaccines currently available except the Oxford the Oxford one I I believe was just approved uh a couple of days ago in Great Britain. So that'll be coming out. There's a whole bunch of other vaccinations even sort of the conventional type where they actually have the protein and they inject that. Those are in process still. They have not come out. The reason why they're probably taking longer is because it takes a long time to make the protein and there is a lot of regulation that goes along in making the protein. And that's why these vaccine companies who choose not to use mRNA, who choose to do the conventional way are taking a long time. And that's why in the past it took a long time to make a vaccine because there's a lot of uh regulation that goes involved. There's a lot of making sure that everything is purified. What Merna and what Fizer and what Astroenica are doing is they're moving that factory production point out of their realm and they're putting it into your body. So, it's your body that's now making the protein. It's your body that's doing this. They don't have to do that and therefore they can get a product faster. And the other the other advantage with it, by the way, is we've talked about a little bit about these mutations or varants of the of the virus, and we're worried whether or not the immune system is going to be able to track this and and actually be effective against it. Well, the nice thing about the information, the mRNA, is that if this mutation or if this variant is significant, they can always change the information on the mRNA so that it matches the variant and so the immune system can respond to that. They can do that actually very very fairly quickly. So, these are all sort of uh interesting advances. I can completely understand how people would say, well, I don't know. This is kind of new. Let's see how this works. That's a that's a perfectly rational response to have uh to see because there you know obviously there's a lot of things that we don't know about and we're not going to know about it until we actually uh um immunize and vaccinate a large population of people. But so far it seems to be very safe um and uh it seems to be effective in in in terms of uh with vaccines. you know, there obviously are potential side effects that um may or may not happen in an individual. I mean, you can go on the CDC website and look at the variety of vaccines and and look at the the potential side effects for a variety of vaccines that are available. Are those it seems at least looking at, you know, the the list that those side effects typically are acute. They're not long like a long-term thing that you're looking at, you know, a year from now all of a sudden appearing or is that something to worry about in general with vaccines? Has it ever really been documented or Yeah. So, yeah. So, there are there can be long-term effects that can happen. Generally speaking, though, 90% of those long-term effects usually pop up within the first month or two. And so, we're going to know pretty quickly whether or not there's going to be long-term effects in the post marketing. Uh probably the worst case scenario that we've seen so far was a flu vaccine that was uh it was it was a regular flu vaccine. Was not an mRNA, was not a DNA, was just a regular flu vaccine that was administered uh in Europe a number of years ago. This is back in 2009, 2010. And they did find an increased risk of of narcolepsy in patients that were vaccinated with that type of type of type of vaccine. And the thought process there was is that perhaps there was an immune response that cross-reacted with uh the portion of the brain that produces uh hypocritin which is the the basis for narcolepsy and so uh it didn't happen in all of those patients but it was substantially increased in the general population. U so those are the types of things that uh we would be looking for. It's usually an autoimmune response. But I would just say at this point that right now right now what we what we're seeing in terms of COVID infections and vaccinations, your risk of getting a post infective autoimmune condition is probably higher in COVID. If you were to get infected with COVID versus getting the vaccine, remember, you're going to make antibodies against multiple portions of the corona virus. And so your chances of getting an antibbody that might be directed against something in your body is higher when you have more epitopes like you would with a a a natural uh infection with co 19 than you would against a very specific portion of a very specific protein of sars kovv2 which is the spike protein. So uh for instance gon beret syndrome it's very well known that people who come down with viral infections can get this thing called gillon beret syndrome which is an autoimmune condition where your antibodies attack your nerves and uh you can't uh sort of called an ascending paralysis where you can't walk and first then you can't breathe. It's very rare but it's it's definitely known to happen after a natural infection. Well does it also happen after immunizations? Yes it can. Uh but we believe it's probably higher in a natural infection than it would be in an immunization. And when we're talking about a pandemic situation, uh we we see weigh the risks and the benefits. And we I I believe that the the benefits of getting the the vaccine outweigh the risks at least at this point given the information that we have. I'm I'm 100% with you and I also am excited about this new mRNA technology that's being used. um um as you mentioned, I think there I think there are actually benefits to to you know having having this technology um as well. So I'm I'm actually excited that it's it's actually a new a new technology that we're using for vaccines. um are people like you know with co 19 you read all these horror stories of you know obviously there's the risk of being hospitalized and going to the ICU and needing oxygen and you know progressing into this severe case but there's a lot of people as you mentioned 80% of people that don't have to go to the hospital that they their immune system takes care of it they don't you know they don't have a real severe case but then you start to read about these other long-term effects that are cropping up like heart palpitations and all sorts of funny stuff. Um, yeah. So, there's one study that showed that 60% a month out still had uh myocarditis or inflammation of heart tissue. Uh, that's pretty scary. You know, what are the long-term effects that we're going to see from this pandemic? Because there's millions and millions that are being infected with this virus. And so even if it's just 1% of the people getting something, but we're seeing actually higher than that, uh that could that could really change the landscape in terms of what we see out there in terms of of disease and population. So uh it it's not this binary thing about they live, they died. It's they live, but they've got and the term is long haulers, of course, and more and more people are becoming long haulers, unfortunately. We don't know how long this stuff is going to last, but uh I I've seen uh I've seen uh studies, one recent study that showed that one rare side effect was psychosis. People actually hearing things and seeing things. Uh it's very rare, but it's uh it's certainly something that's well documented in people that have been completely healthy until they came down with uh with the virus. Wow. I yeah I'm I'm certainly more afraid of long-term effects with getting CO 19 versus getting a mRNA vaccine. Um so uh you know is this auto antibodies like that you mentioned that is a common thing with getting any viral ill illness has that been um looked at or studied or linked to this long term or Yeah. So they're they're looking at this. we we saw in kids there was this Kawasaki like illness that uh that was occurring. Uh we just don't know if that's u if that's similar to what we're seeing. I I I anticipate that we're going to be doing a lot more research in terms of the immunity and postimmunity as we go. Well, I am for one extremely excited about the vaccine um you know that that has now been you know making its way to the population. Um, and I've really really enjoyed this conversation. Roger. What are what are some of the like the top five things that you're doing in your lifestyle right now to keep yourself healthy and your friends and your family and perhaps patients? I'm not sure. Um, obviously this is not medical advice. Uh, yeah. But what you're doing. So I think probably one of the biggest things that I'm doing is making sure that I get enough sleep. That's that's number one. We talked about that. Number two is I am making sure that we're doing contrast showers. So what is a contrast shower? Hot and then cold. Hot and then cold. Hot and then cold. So 5 minutes hot, 1 minute cold, 5 minutes hot or 3 minutes hot, one minute cold, and another 3 minutes hot, one minute cold. Hot as you can tolerate, as cold as you can tolerate. And as we get toward the winter months, cold becomes even colder. Uh so those cold water in the pipes can really do it. So I I do that. Um, I'm also obviously taking supplement with vitamin D. That's probably one of the most important ones I'm doing. For others, there's not as much data on, but I'm still making sure I've got, you know, I get a nice big bowl of every antioxidant fruit I can possibly get. Elder, you know, blackberries, strawberries, raspberries, pineapple. Uh, that's what I have for breakfast. Um, I'm also taking Knack and acetilcyine. There's a study that showed that it improves symptoms in the flu virus. We don't know if it helps in CO 19, but in as we talked about earlier with ACE2 and the fact that there's oxidative stress, you know, knack is a great antioxidant. It's packed with antioxidants and it it's uh recycles that uh the uh the glutathione peroxidase system which is helpful in dealing with oxidative stress. So, I'm taking that. I'm also taking zinc, but you want to make sure that you don't take too much zinc. Uh zinc uh 40 milligrams, you don't want to take more than 40 milligrams of zinc a day. That's elemental zinc. Otherwise, you can have copper. You know, you see a lot of people in the hospital dying and and uh it could really weigh on you. You you've got to have you've got to place you've got to have your your your faith placed in something higher than just yourself. And it's not just a matter of what what macroolelecules you can take into your system, but you've got to you got to be grounded and and know what you're doing. Absolutely. Um, thank you so much, Roger, uh, for this conversation, for your amazing coverage of the CO 19 pandemic on your YouTube channel. MedCram videos has been um, by far like my if I want to know about anything going on with CO 19, I go to MedCram. I tell everyone about it. I mean, it's it's just been very scientific analysis, very well explained um to to people that don't have a science or medical background. Just phenomenal um job with this these videos on on CO 19. Um if people want to continue to to find out more about um what you're doing, where's the best places they can find you? Um, yeah. So, if they go to YouTube and just type in MedCram, go to our channel and uh sort the videos by chronology, they'll see the latest of what we're doing. MedCram.com and uh Facebook and also Twitter. We uh we we uh tweet as well videos. Yeah. Great. So, everything is MedCram videos basically on all the platforms, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, and the website. All right, Roger. Well, thank you so much. Um I I again um I really appreciate everything that you've been doing and uh continue and look forward to to to more information that you put out and um I love I just enjoyed this conversation a tremendous amount. So thank you. Make sure you guys subscribe to our YouTube channel. That way you get notified every time we release a new video. Also make sure to check out Dr. Roger Schwelt's channel MedCram Videos. Catch you guys soon.