Hello everyone, Dr. Rhonda Patrick here. Today we're embarking on a deep dive into a fascinating aspect of sleep health, the potential enhancement of sleep quality through heat exposure. It's been my personal experience that heat exposure along with appropriate cool down has helped me with aspects of my sleep. I'd like to share with you a little bit about why I think that happens and some of the complex cellular and molecular mechanisms involved which should equally apply to hot baths, saunas, and to some degree exercise. These include the release of ATP, increased adenosine levels, and the signaling of sleep regulating cytoines. In other words, aspects of our immune system that can promote sleepiness. Now, you might already be aware of the importance of early bright light exposure in resetting our circadian clock and the value of avoiding blue light exposure at night for optimizing sleep. These are significant elements in the realm of sleep hygiene. But today, I'd like to temporarily skirt past those fundamentals and focus on another intriguing avenue, the potential of passive body heating. What if the simple act of raising your body temperature through taking a warm bath or using the hot tub before bed or spending time in the sauna could significantly improve sleep quality. This isn't just an enticing theory. There's some scientific research supporting this. Passive body heating, in other words, raising your body temperature without exerting yourself through physical activity, has been shown to facilitate sleep onset. Likewise, taking a warm bath before sleep increase the proportion of slow wave sleep, the deep restorative phase of our sleep cycle that is important for staving off neurodeenerative diseases like Alzheimer's disease. For our older population where sleep issues are very common, passive body heating could be an invaluable tool. A systematic review found that passive body heating can aid in sleep initiation and maintenance in the elderly, offering a non-farmaceutical approach to combating sleep disturbances. So, let's dive into heating. So, you know, there's heating elevating core body temperature via exercise. There's also elevating core body temperature um through different heat modalities like hot baths and saunas for example. But heating via exercise stimulates ATP release and increases adenosine and signaling of sleep regulating cytoines. So these include TNF alpha IL1. These are released from the periphery or from aststerytes in the brain. So let's talk about ATP release. So exercise increases the demand for energy in the body right that leads to the produ to the production and release of adenosine triphosphate that's ATP the major um energy you know currency in the body so ATP is a molecule that stores and provides energy for all the cellular processes including muscle contractions adenosine so as ATP is being used or utilized during exercise it breaks down into adenosine and adenosine is a neurom modulator that plays a role in promoting sleep. So accumulation of adenosine in the brain particularly in the basil forbrain is associated with increased sleep pressure that causes you to feel drowsy sleepy and it promotes the transition from wakefulness to sleep. Sort of as a side note, caffeine is binding to adenosine receptors and essentially, you know, blunting the effect of adenosine, any adenosine that's still left over in the morning from binding to those receptors and causing you to feel sleepy. And it's one of the reasons why you get that acute alertness effect from drinking caffeine because you're not then feeling that effect of adenosine. um the impact of adenosine binding to those receptors. So sleep regulating cytoines I mentioned also exercise stimulates the production of certain cytoines such as tumor necrosis factor alpha that's also known as TNF alpha or interlucan one or1 these are actually somnogenic cytoines they're involved in sleep regulation these cytoines are released from the periphery or from aststerytes which is a type of glyosell in the brain and they act on specific brain regions to promote sleep whole body hypothermia A therapeutic technique that involves increasing the body temperature to a level similar to moderate to high fever generally through use of infrared saunas and warm blankets has also been shown to increase the production of somnogic cytoines. TNF alpha and IL1 have both been shown to increase nonrapid eye movement sleep non-REM sleep which you know could could be referring to uh deep restorative phases of sleep. So in short summary of that se this section you know heating the body um particularly through exercise which does stimulate the utilization the release and utilization of ATP which then breaks down into adenosine and then that increases the signaling of the sleep regulating cytoines as well like TNF alpha1. Um these factors contribute to promoting feelings of drowsiness via the adenosine the somnogenic cytoines. They facilitate the transition from wakefulness to sleep. So they potentially then approve improve overall sleep quality you know and um you know the also the the deep sleep as well. But it is important to know that exercising too close to bedtime might have the opposite effect due to the incre increased the acute effects of the increased alertness and the increases in core body temperature without being able to cool down before going to bed. So it's generally I think re recommended to engage in exercise um earlier in the day or just not right before bedtime. So you want to you want to at least do it a couple of hours before bedtime to allow the body to cool down to promote more restful sleep to allow the alertness and your brain to kind of calm down as well. Um of course like any exercise is better than none but uh when when we're talking about it in the context of of sleep um it is better to try to not do it literally like right before you're going to go to bed. So the effects of heat and exercise. Let's talk about some very interesting effects that we that we've definitely discussed in the past. Growth hormone and prolactin are they're two key hormones that are important in the regulation of slowwave activity. The relationship between growth hormone and sleep appears to be birectional. On the one hand, the majority of daily growth hormone secretion occurs in the initial phase of slowwave sleep. On the other hand, growth hormone and its releasing hormone, growth hormone releasing hormone have also been shown to promote sleep, particularly slowwave sleep. Regular sauna use is probably one of the most powerful stimuli that increases both growth hormone and prolactin. So, uh growth hormone the effects of sonnie use on growth hormone levels really depend on many factors including duration, temperature and frequency. So for instance, two 20 minute sauna sessions at 80° C with 30 minutes of cooling period in between can double growth hormone levels um basically from their baseline. On the other hand, two 15minute sauna sessions at about 100° C dry heat separated by a 30 minute cooling period can cause a five-fold increase in growth hormone levels. So there's also a really remark effect um when you do sort of repeated sauna use. So repeated sauna use, for example, you do one uh you do two 1-hour sauna sessions at 80° Celsius. This is very very high uh for 7 days in a row that leads to a 16-fold increase in growth hormone levels in men. That's not something uh it's just it's kind of just as a proof of principle example of how there is a dose dependent effect of heat stress on growth hormone. And um and that's something again that is temperature and duration dependent. Uh I don't I don't necessarily think it's good to do that much heat stress. That's pretty intense. But I just wanted to highlight the effect that sauna use does have on growth hormone levels. The heightened growth hormone levels typically last a few I would say more like a couple hours after sauna use. They really after about two hours they start to go down close to to to baseline levels. Um it's also kind of interesting that combining exercise with heat stress or sauna use may also increase growth hormone levels even further than when you just use for example sauna alone. Um, and mostly it probably has to do with the again your your elevations in core body temperature going even higher than one than one alone, right? The release of prolactin alongside growth hormone is one of the classic responses to heat stress. Prolactin is a hormone produced in the pituitary gland that is known for its role in lactation in women. But it also has various other functions. One of these is its role in the regulation of sleep. Prolactin has been found to increase during sleep and particularly during REM sleep. It's also been suggested that it may help to promote slowwave sleep, the deepest phase of non-REM sleep. So, in one study, introvenous administration of prolactin in humans was found to increase slowwave sleep. Moreover, some research has suggested that sleep disturbances such as insomnia can occur in conditions with prolactin deficiency. Prolactin. In one study, um, men that used the sauna, they were in the sauna for an 80° uh, Celsius sauna until they felt exhausted. They had a t-fold increase in prolactin levels. In another study, women who did a 20inut dry sauna twice a week had a 510% increase in prolactin levels after each sauna session. And similar to growth hormone, prolactin levels lasted for a couple of hours. Um there are some other lifestyle factors in addition to sauna use potentially even hot baths again something that is going to elevate core body temperature. Exercise is one. So exercise can also increase both growth hormone and prolactin. I don't know um the exact quantitative numbers and how much but they also do increase it. And then um sexual activity is another one that also increases uh both bo uh prolactin. So you know the effects of a growth hormone and prolactin um also again affect slowwave um deep sleep. And so the idea is that you know doing doing these these activities a a a couple of hours. So, you want to make sure you're not doing again right before bed because you you want to allow your body time to cool down. And if you're if you get in the sauna literally like like right before bed, you might still be really hot and you won't cool down unless you then, you know, perhaps get into a cold plunge or um do a do a cold shower to cool down. But, um doing it like, you know, a couple of hours before bedtime seems seems like a good time. It's typically when I do my um hot tubs. I do a lot of hot tubs in the evening and I do them a couple of hours before I I go to bed. So, um that's all I think super interesting stuff that we haven't talked about before. Uh heating activates warm sensitive neurons in the hypothalamus that promote slow wave activity in response to increased core body temperature and skin temperature. Yet again, another potential mechanism behind why sauna use, why hot baths um and even exercise, which elevates core body temperature may promote slowwave deep sleep. And then um exercise combined with body cooling and warm baths combined um you know with body cooling also um you know may help again to promote slowwave activity in deep sleep. There are a variety of sauna and hot tub or hot bath protocols that could be derived from the scientific literature on sauna use and longevity and potential effects on sleep. An example of a sauna protocol could be 20 minutes in a at least 176° Fahrenheit sauna at least 1 to two hours before bed allowing the body enough time to cool down before sleep. That may vary in terms of the time it takes someone to cool down before sleep. But what if you don't have a sauna or even a thermometer? An example of a hot tub or a hot bath protocol would be a temperature of around 104° F for 20 to 30 minutes with as much of the body from shoulders down submerged as possible. For hot baths, you may need to add more hot water throughout to keep the water temperature at around 104. So in that case, the thermometer may be helpful to monitor the temperature. For me personally, I have a pretty good sense of how hot I feel when I'm in the sauna for 20 minutes. So, by knowing that, I can sort of also make an approx approximation with how I feel in a hot bath. So, again, timing may be important by allowing the body enough time to cool down, ideally a couple hours before sleep. Some of you may enjoy a cool shower afterwards, which may also help cool the body down. To tie this all together, passive body heating, whether through a hot bath or a hot tub or a sauna or through physical activity, may be a really useful way to improve sleep quality, especially slow wave sleep. Rather than being a substitute for good sleep hygiene, it potentially adds a whole new dimension to it. Learn more on the fundamentals of sleep hygiene by listening to my interviews with experts Dr. Matthew Walker, Dr. Dan Party, and Dr. Ashley Mason in episodes 45,8 and 67. I'll add a link to those in the description. You can listen to them here on YouTube or get them on Apple Podcast or Spotify. Several segments of this episode were taken from a recent live question and answer session. I host one of these every single month exclusively for my premium members. Being a premium member not only gets you access to these Q&A sessions where you can ask questions directly, but also a myriad of other benefits. You'll get access to a membersonly podcast called the Aloquat, a twice monthly science digest, and a stockpile of over 100 member episodes of various types spanning many, many hours. So, if you're not a member yet, I encourage you to consider joining our premium community by heading over to foundmyfitness.com and clicking become a member. Thank you so much for your support, and as always, thank you for tuning in. Don't forget to hit the like button, share this video with someone who might find it useful, and I'll see you in the next episode.