 colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon colon I don't usually do like a day before or two days before. It just doesn't have enough time to create glycogen. So at the very least three days before. And the only time that there might be an exception to that rule is if I have to weigh in somebody. And then I got to be careful. So I got to either weigh them in while I'm drying them out and then make weight, or I got to turn around and make weight, then carb them up. So sometimes I could do both. I could get them to carb up, get them to slowly drop their water, make weight, and then start hammering the food. We did that with Hadi before where he had to make the 212. Yeah. That's where you got to just use like your experience, experience with other athletes, experience with that particular athlete and figuring out where I call the fog of war, going through that fog of war, where it's going to create a lot of different things where you're like going down that path and you're like, Hey, you don't want to go to the F up Ferry's house. You know, she's like, she's a cottage on the side of the road and you just don't want to end up going there. Oh.