 o. Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak Awak UK, you're in Birmingham, you have prejudging in the morning and for your fans and the bodybuilding audience, you're going out of your way to be able to just have a quick interview with me, just to give everybody a little bit, a taste of what you're going through. How, first of all, congratulations on winning the 2026 Arnold Classic. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Yeah. I know it was like a whirlwind. How do you feel? I feel incredible. I mean, that victory really, I was of course a comeback in 2025, not placing the where I wanted to after winning at 24. So getting the title back was an incredible feeling. And of course, another show than Arnold Schwarzenegger's show himself is amazing to feel that and really brought back my fire, my passion and motivation for bodybuilding. Well, first of all, you looked fantastic. The legs, you and I got a chance to work together a little bit of FIBO last year. We talked about leg training. Did any of that help? Yeah, for sure. To be honest, I don't think I've ever experienced muscle ache before since doing that work with you at the FIBO. It was insane. So I knew it had to be some kind of stimulus I haven't experienced before. So I did that for quite a long time, actually, the FFD7 technique. So it definitely helped bring your legs off in total. Yeah. No, well, you look fantastic. I mean, you have such wide shoulders and I just told you, like, if you could get that sweep, you're going to be able to match up that X frame with that upper body. But not only did your lower body improve, but your upper body improved too. So you guys did a great, great job on dialing everything in quad sweep separation. And it wasn't just a little bit more fullness. You added more tissue, which is what I really enjoyed seeing on stage. Your presentation was fantastic. And you were able to show everything in such great detail and hold those poses. You know, I wish Phil would do that sometimes back in the day, because Phil would rush through his poses sometimes. And I'd go slow down, man, you look so good. Slow down and you catch your breath and you're really, really good at it. And I just want to say that just it's such a great experience seeing not only an amazing physique, but being able to display it properly. So congratulations for taking your time and giving the audience what they really love, which is being able to see those amazing classic poses. Yeah, I appreciate that a lot. I think posing is one of the most underrated thing you can do on stage. We all dieted down. We all built the muscle already. The only thing you can do on the day itself is present it in a greatest way possible. So any extra seconds you can take with your good poses, just take them because for you, it might feel slow, but for the people watching, they're seeing it for the first time. So you really want to make sure they get a good grasp of what they're seeing. So the slower you are actually, the better it is. Absolutely. Absolutely. Um, were you nervous getting ready for the show? Was it something where did you feel like you went in with a lot of confidence or was it one of those things that it just took a little while before you got on stage and you, and you found that confidence? Because when I saw you on stage, you had it, but was it something as you were getting ready for the show, the final months, the final weeks, was it something that you had to feel like you were adjusting to? Well, actually the confidence came because, uh, me and my coach always make sure I'm ready a few weeks ahead. And, uh, the, the prep was so different because I'm used to suffering a lot more, uh, you know, but he really taught me that less is more. So actually less steps, more carbohydrates around the leg days. And, uh, after, after, like when I was two or three weeks out, it was pretty easy because I, most of the calories were on my leg days anyway. And we had to quite a lot of refeeds to make sure I don't get below a certain level because then I lose the fullness and the extra tissue that we build up. And now with knowing my weight limit would be higher. That was also our great tool, of course, to make sure I come in and I'm supposed to come in, which is fuller with more muscle mass and the conditioning, which I knew I had beforehand. So the confidence was there, but I also knew Mike was going to do the competition. So I, I had no idea what he was going to look like. If I thought that the Olympia, it was a surprise to him that he wasn't supposed to weigh less than he wanted to, but that the Columbus, I expected that he knew that beforehand. Of course, we now know what happened, but that was in my head, the biggest challenge. Right. Right. So how much more did you weigh here compared to the year before? What, and how far were you from the, from your weight limit? Uh, well, the year before my weight limit was 249 pounds. And because I got sick, I got quite below that. Let's just say so. But in 2024, what I won, I was around 245 pounds and now I'm at least 10 pounds above that. And, uh, while I'm still at the weigh-ins, I'm still like five pounds away from my weight limit at the moment, which is 256 pounds. Okay. So 256 is where you weighed in, uh, earlier today. Was it today or yesterday? Uh, today, uh, today we weighed in, uh, but I already had, I weighed in exactly 255. Okay. But I had my clothes on and I already had two meals and water. So that's why I mentioned there's probably five more pounds to go before I really hit my actual limit. Got you. Got you. And then Mike weighed in too. What was Mike's weight? I think 203.7 of the allowed 204. Right. So again, he missed the weight at the Arnold in Ohio, and then he was able to make the weight here. And I believe he was just under, right? It was just, he just barely. Yeah. Just under. Yeah. Right. And then I saw some pictures of you guys working out together. Was that from out there in, in the UK? Yes, there was in the UK at Dino's gym. It's the gym I always go to the true old school gym. And we, like Mike is a nice guy because we always do the same tradition. Uh, since last year we've done it as well. First in Columbus, we've done it twice in Columbus. And now in the UK, we do the same thing. Like the last workout is me and Mike before the show. That's awesome. That's awesome. That's, that's great camaraderie because most guys do not want to be even around, you know, that close to the show. So what, how was that workout? How was the energy? I know you guys aren't going to train super heavy. Um, but what, what, how was the energy between you guys? And did it feel like it was something where I know you're going to want to go up against Mike? Cause you want to show your new armor, right? The new armor, the upgrades, I call it. And you want to be able to stand next to him and say, wait, wait till you see what I look like next to you. But tell me how you felt when you guys were training and were you guys kind of, you know, posing next to each other? Well, we, we actually did all that posing and all that challenging in Columbus before. So we kind of got that out of our system. Uh, but that was of course, before the kind of drama happened there. So in the UK, I, it didn't, I kind of felt like it didn't really want to do that, uh, show too much to really focus more on the workout. And we honestly, we talked about all the awesome old school machines they have there. The, cause his dad is also, I used to do bodybuilding. He recognized all those machines and I have, uh, like the modern version of those machines at my gym. So we kind of talked bodybuilding and not as much the competition, but, uh, you know, of course you look here and there, okay, how lean is he really at the moment? How big is he still? And you always look at stuff like this to kind of gauge your competition. But honestly, the camaraderie is really alive. If during the workout or during the competition, we both agree that it's going to be kind of a fight, but around the competition, it's more like bodybuilding friendly, you know? Absolutely. Going back to that question, how did you feel when you saw him? I mean, in terms of, did he look full? Did he look ripped? What, you know, again, was it, what was your, how'd you surmise that whole workout? So most of the time he had his hoodie on, so it was, it was difficult to see, but at one point he did take off the hoodie and was in a t-shirt, which was pretty tight. So you could see that he was very lean. You could see in his face, he was very lean. Of course, making that weight quite a few pounds below where he wants to be, you will see in the face and in the body. You could see he lost some fullness, of course, because there's no way around it. Um, so yeah, you could see the, the suffering you had to go through to make that, to, to lose his extra pounds, but you never know what the total package will look like on stage. Maybe that conditioning will bring out another level of quality for him. So we just don't know, you know, but we'll see tomorrow. It's going to be exciting. That's right. That's right. Cause you guys get on stage right now. It's about 10 PM, uh, local time for you. And then you're going to be getting in your last meal. If you haven't already had your last meal, right. And that you're getting up. What time are you getting up tomorrow? Uh, honestly, um, I'm going to sleep until my body wants to wake up itself because I usually only have two meals before the show anyway. And depending on how heavy I wake up, that decides how the meals will look in terms of how many carbs, but the show's probably once we're really on stage around 1 PM ish. Okay. So that I really liked that because it gives us some wiggle room in the morning to fix anything if we need to, uh, because we do our own tanning, for example. So I just wake up, have my breakfast. So we check the tan, make sure everything is correct. And then depending on how I look like then and the weight, my coach and I decide, okay, what kind of last meal are we going to have? And, um, but that's always the plan. So the most important thing is have a good night's sleep without an alarm. Cause I, you know, I wake up early anyway here, but it's just nice to be able to sleep as your body do what it needs to do. Uh, you always look better in the morning anyway, and then fill up what you need to fill up in the morning until the show happens. Well, I really think that those couple of hours gives you a big advantage because one of the fuck I think is a prime time because if you need to eat a little bit more, you don't have to force into that 10 AM spot. You guys normally have in the mornings on the Olympia stage, because on the Olympia, it's right around that 10 AM is when you guys are kind of forced to go on. So you have to get up a little earlier and get a little bit more food and make those adjustments. But with those couple of extra hours at the Arnold in the UK, I think that's going to be really nice. And then same thing, um, same comment, uh, in regards to what you said about Mike, his face was really sucked in. So it's going to be very interesting to see, is that extra shredded physique going to look just like beef jerky and it's going to be really, really wrapped tight, or is it going to be a little deflated because he had to pull so much muscle off to possibly make the weight. So I think, uh, it's, it's, we're going to all see tomorrow, but, um, also a person that's a dark horse. Uh, I mean, you have a couple of others, um, in there too. I mean, Sam is the big name in regards to influencer athlete. That's got a ton of, you know, followers. Um, did you get a chance to see Sam or any of the other top competitors? Yeah, for sure. Uh, we, uh, whenever I see Sam, we always talk, uh, he's a funny guy to be honest, very down to earth. And it's just nice to spend time with him as well. Uh, but we also, of course, Kim Angel and Andrea Mamoli, who I think will be again, three and four between them. It's going to be an interesting battle because at Ohio, some people were like, Oh, Kim should have been third or Andrea should have been fourth or other way around. So Andrea is my teammate. So he's being coached by Stefan as well. So of course I'm rooting for him and they made improvements. So, you know, it's still going to be a tight bell there, but who knows me, one of them will look so great. They're going to get into the top, uh, top three with us with the top two. And, you know, it could be another battle on our hands, but, uh, I never underestimate anybody, but as I see it right now, I think between me and Mike is going to be a separate battle from Andrea and Kim and the rest of the guys, to be honest, I don't really know them well enough to gauge how well they're going to do. I mean, Sam said he was a little bigger than, uh, Ohio. And if he still brings the same conditioning and he brings better posing, he could shift the place up maybe one or two places. You never know, which will be great for him. So we'll see, uh, what's going to happen. But I think the top four is pretty, pretty solid. Yeah, it is. I think if he could get into that first call out B Fuller, I think that he could definitely make a little bit better mark, but I think that he sucked in a little too much. And then I think obviously a lot of people are already commenting on his posing and needing to do that. But again, he has only done a couple of shows, you know, he hasn't done many shows, so he doesn't have, uh, you know, uh, ring rust as we would call it in boxing, right? It's, it's more of the fact that he just needs more stage time. He's still a little green on, on stage, but that's just going to come with a little bit of time. But the great thing is, it sounds like he's excited and he wants to go up there and show a fuller package. And, um, and I believe the top five is going to be amazing. Um, and, uh, we know the quality of the show, the production is always top notch at the Arnold. I mean, it's just, uh, looking forward, um, to seeing that because I'm sure that the weather there is, uh, it's probably gray like it normally is in the UK. Today was actually pretty sunny. The temperature is a little down, but the weather was pretty okay today. Let's just hope it's not going to rain tomorrow because we are, we're all pro to end up. So we got to protect that. But for the rest, uh, it's been quite okay. Some days were very rainy and gray, but I'm used to that for Netherlands anyway. Is there anything that you wanted to try at the Ohio Arnold that you didn't, that you're going to try here in regards to the last minute Carba pumping up backstage, doing anything in the last 24 hours or anything that you felt like you could have just wanted to try that you may want to kind of implement it for this show? Yeah, I did Detroit also after the Arnold Ohio. So I took that chance to practice the peak with my coach a bit more. So what we did is the day before the show, we tapered water a bit sooner because we knew we can increase, improve conditioning from the Arnold Ohio. I was the fullest guy and that's why I won, but conditioning could have been a little better, which at Detroit, we pretty much nailed according to also the head just there and said, if you bring this shape to the UK, you're going to be golden. So let's just hope that's going to happen. Uh, but we will replicate that peak from Detroit also with the body weight, waking up a little lighter because I like to fill up a bit more rather than having to drop down at the very end and hope that I end up perfectly on the hour of the show. So I'd rather experiment with adding carbs and having to eat less and hoping the body responds. And that's what we did at Detroit. I woke up perfectly at the perfect weight. I had two light meals and then I was perfect for the show, light digestion. So that really worked well for me. So we take that lesson to the UK and we're not going to do anything crazy except for, uh, you know, bring our very best once again. Awesome. Awesome. Well, thank you so much. I know you got to get some rest. You got your protein is all situated. I know you're going to be thinking a lot about your routine. You're going to be thinking about battling on that stage. You know, uh, we're all rooting for you. Um, again, being able to see you, Mike, all, all the guys, the top guys just going out there, just want to say thank you for doing this last minute interview and being able to share with the audience what it's like just hours before getting on stage. Oh yes. You're very welcome. I always say also today at the meeting, we're going to be without the fans, without people watching, we wouldn't have a show and we wouldn't even be able to make it our career. So thank you also very much for everybody watching this and supporting us bodybuilders. Yes. You guys get me able to go on to the Arnold UK channel. They're going to have the links to, uh, the broadcast. So you're going to be able to watch that. And, um, let me know if you want to do another workout in FIBO. I'll be coming to Germany. Oh yes. Uh, already let's, let's arrange it right now because that's what I want to do. Absolutely. And we'll definitely do it. Good job on putting in all the hard work. And just, again, you just on that finish line, you just be able to go home stretch, go out there. Good luck tomorrow. And, uh, and let's, let's definitely catch up after the show. Let's do that. Thank you very much. Okay. Wesley, have a good night. Thank you, brother. You too. Bye. Bye. All right, guys. Honey Rambod, Wesley Visser is the champ from the Arnold Classic Ohio, getting ready to step on stage. Go ahead and go into the comments below. Let us know who you think the top five is going to be. And I love you all. And we'll come in with a recap of the show right after the finals. Love you all. Peace.