 I made him, I made him, I made him, I made him, I made him, I made him, I made him, I made him, I made him, stop training arms, the whole prep, and he got mad at me, because he came to San Jose, to train with me, three weeks out, was that 2011 or 2010? I think 2010. Was it 10 or 11? I think it was 10, bro, and we did it again in 11, that's when I got mad. No, you got mad the first time, because we got into it in the middle of my house, we were walking in. No, I'm telling you, yeah, of course I got mad, shit. He's like, what kind of trainer are you? You're telling me not to train arms. Da-da-da-da-da. It's like telling Thanos not to use the, stones, you know. Yeah, that's literally. No, don't, don't use the stones, bro, like just, you know. Just watch it. Just, just, you know. Only use like one. We are doing the Mr. Olympia, happy birthday, Phil Heath workout. That's right. Yeah, you know. What are you, 50? Nah. Not at all, 46. You're, what, 50? Yep. About to be passenger 51. Two weeks. That's, that's pretty funny. In two weeks. Yep. The, the, the 51st level. That's right. Yeah. So. Captain 51. So this would be definitely the, uh, 46 laws of power. Oh. Yeah. Okay, Mr. Yeah. Mr. Level 9000. Yeah. Um, so guys, uh, we're putting some blood in the shoulders. We're gonna do some bicep and tricep. We're gonna talk a little bit about some stories. A lot of you guys have always enjoyed. The fact that we kind of throw in a little bit of the stories of the past. I was just with Jay last week at Venice and, uh, we're talking about the 2009, 10, 11 preps that we all did together, which was a great time. Um, so shout out to Jay. Cause that was always a good time with him around. I'd say that was probably, if social media had existed back then. Oh God. You guys would have seen, I mean, you guys have seen a lot of the coverage, I'm sure, through the FSC7 videos and whatnot. But like, those times were probably like the, I don't want to say the peak of bodybuilding, but the peak of our careers. It's very rare when you get to see two champions actually training together with the same coach. And being able to have camaraderie while still staying competitive. So, it was a good time, man. A lot of intensity. Um, a lot of laughs. Some stories that we can't really share. I don't know. I think we could share a little bit of them. Like if we got, if Jay was here, Jay was here, if Jay was here, I would tell more. Yeah, but we can't do it without him here because we don't know what he wants to share. Let's just put it that way. Oh, good old Jay. Good old Jay. You guys, what did you guys train? Uh, we trained shoulders actually. So, it's good. I need to try to get my shoulders up so I don't look narrow. Because then, if your shoulders are too narrow, then you go go-karting. You have to use the narrow car. So, one of the things that Hani had to remind me of when I was first working with him is, you know, of course my arms were like the strongest, you know, most pronounced body part, right? But the shoulders needed work and the back needed a lot of work. And then the chest needed work and then the legs needed work. But the problem is, is that when people train arms too much or they have it as a strength of their physique, it makes your shoulders look small. So, you guys out there that want to have like these big meaty triceps and these biceps, you have to be in more mindful of the rear delt because usually it's very shallow. And it's not pronounced at all. So, you have to work those three different heads. And that's when we talk about like having 3D muscle. You have to be more meticulous and more intentionally focused on those body parts. So, doing the front raises, doing the side laterals, doing the rears. That was something that Hani really strongly addressed. And then, around 2010, Hani was like, listen, you had a really good offseason, but you're going to not like what I have to say. You can't train arms. And I'm like, what the F are you really talking about, man? And he was like, nah, man, like it's taking away from your width. And it's going to make you look more narrow when you're standing next to Jay, Dennis Wolfe, Victor Martinez, you know, Kai Green even. And I don't want to say it took a lot of convincing. It was just like a lot of cursing I put in his direction. Because, of course, you know, taking away a superpower, which I thought, you know, these arms were. Yep. It took a lot of level of discipline and trust. And so hiring Hani as my coach, but also my friend, not hiring as my friend, but being my friend, it was kind of hard for me at first. But then I realized the bigger picture. And the bigger picture was you can be bigger and train these like every other week. And then it became like every 20 days. No, no, it became during prep. You didn't. We didn't do it at all until like the last few weeks, the last three weeks. And I was like, yeah, this is some BS. But you know, it's funny in 2010, like when like even Jay now says, like arguably I could have possibly won, which in my opinion could have either. I definitely could have won that one. No one even noticed that my arms, they weren't necessarily down. It's just no one like no, like in my mind, I was thinking like, oh, if I don't train arms, like they're going to shrink. Right. And in fact, it completed my physique by doing the shoulder. So it was good. So I understand why you want to do shoulders all the time. Yeah. So again, guys, sometimes it's not just how strong those certain body parts are or your strong body parts, but trying to build balance. You have to sometimes back off. And that's really hard to do, especially as an open bodybuilder where you feel like everything has to come up. Well, if you have body parts that grow like Phil's arms, they're going to always be disproportionate. So you have to be really, really careful. So that was something that didn't feel like his was completing his physique. That's when you're prepping somebody, if you're a coach or if you're actually a competitor and you have, you're a woman and you have really, really strong legs, but you're a figure and you're trying to balance your upper body and your lower body. You have to sometimes back off some of the leg training to let the upper body catch up. Or if you end up having a certain body part, that's really overwhelmingly just a strong point. You may have to back that off. We had to back it off to the point where he literally got into an argument with me. I can never forget this. And we were three weeks out. He flew to San Jose and we're in my living room getting ready to go train. And he's like, I don't know, man, I think you're going to mess me up. I'm like, how am I messing you up? And he goes, because I haven't trained arms all prep. And I was like, well, we're going to go to the gym. We'll take a look and, you know, we'll see what you need. And then he goes, all right, man, but man, I think you're messing me up. So we got into it, went to the gym and said, look, we're going to throw in a little arms after shoulders. All of a sudden, physique was just completely changed because his width, shoulder width really balanced out with his arm size. And literally we did three workouts for that entire prep. Starting three weeks out, we did one. Two weeks out, we did another. And then the final during peak week, we did our last arm workout. And you guys saw the result of that. We'll grab a video and post it up here. Yeah, put that B-roll up there. Yeah, put a little bit of that B-roll up there. Put that 2010 B-roll up there, man. That's right. Nate and Jake, we're going to throw in some of that extra B-roll. You were pissed. I had every reason to be pissed, man. But that's the thing. You had what we call that anxiety. Well. We didn't have KSM 66 back then. We didn't have a lot. I mean, you know, but that's why it's important when an athlete slash client hires a coach, you have to consistently stay coachable and trust the process. And that's, it's going to be tested, right? Like you're going to, it's like Phil Jackson telling Kobe Bryant, like, hey, Shaq is coming back. I know you've been scoring 40 and I, I don't know if everybody knows the story, but Kobe Bryant was like scoring like 40, like consecutive games. And then Shaq came back and he was like, Shaq's got to get his touches, man. So even though you may be having a good game, you got to make sure a big fella gets his 30. And, you know, Kobe had to, you know, I think he scored like 38 or something like that. He was like, well, I didn't score 40, you know, but he still got his. So you have to be able to work with that to get the bigger goal than that is to win. If I hadn't listened to him and him listened to me and kind of find that compromise, we would not have done what we did and how we did it. It's one thing to win by the skin of your teeth, but we kicked a lot of ass, man. We kicked a lot of ass. And I was very happy about it. And, and here's the best thing. Arms still look good. And it was because of the fact that we did it with consistency, a lot of hard work. We didn't have to, you know, make any compromises. And, and as far as like how we got there and that's what you really want, because now I'm 46 and I, and I feel really good knowing that I could come in. I've just been driving the last three, four days and very little sleep, staying at multiple Airbnb and still have the opportunity to get some blood in and actually get a good pump. And, you know, the, the, the, the striations don't lie. What are we doing? Let's do some presses. Okay. Come on. Let's do it. Will you leave the way? This is your gym. All right. Let's go. Who lives those? Only hottie, right? Only hottie. Yeah. Okay. Hottie. And then, and then also Nate. Oh, okay. Nate has to move them. All right. So I've been some blood. So I've been sitting in this position driving for the last four days. My back was so tight last night, bro. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You should walk on it. Walk on my shoulders and stuff. No. Oh, my back. Yeah. Actually, last night I was like, I need to stretch. Luckily I brought my little castle. I got to get you one. Oh, that thing. I think I saw you post about that. Yeah. Yeah. I need to get you one. What is that thing called? Castle flex. Okay. Yeah. Right. Gentleman by the name of Dan Castle. He actually was. It looks cool. It's um, it's a, what is that? It's a stretching device, but it's its own kind. Like it has all these patents and stuff and people have tried to make it, but they can't because he owns it all, which is great because he was actually able to heal himself through his own back pain. He was hooked on pain meds and you know, that, that stuff will, you know, damage your health for life, you know, if not take your life. And, uh, he developed this thing over the course of years. And I guess they got all the patents and worked with a lot of different athletes, a lot of different celebrities as well. And I actually purchased one. I just seen it on an ad and I just hit him up. I was like, bro, this is, this is actually so helpful because I was, remember we were traveling with Panada and, um, we went to the remedy show and then after that I went to Malta and, uh, I just, heck yeah. Cause my back would seize up. Oh, okay. Cause I get, get your hands out. We'll use, uh, outer grip. Yeah. Anytime I get dehydrated, my back goes out. You know that. So that really helped. Good. A little higher. Good. Slow down a little bit. There you go. So then. Good. I've just been taking it with me on this trip. It's been helping out a lot. Good. That's awesome. Yes. I like this one. Yeah. It's a good machine. Mm-hmm. I still got to order mine. I placed mine probably this week. I'll probably send it over to him, to Edo and then have it sent, um, have it all made. So, so guys, we will see you at the Panada booth come Arnold Classic. UK. So, no, US too. Oh, they're doing US too? Yep. Last time I checked, they're doing US also. Okay. So, they did US last year. I know they'll be at UK because they just hit me up about going. Okay. So, that'll be good. Yeah. Hopefully, uh, Mr. Schwarzenegger wants to get another lift in. Yes. Yes. Which is great because last year, Phil and I got to train with him, which actually, Phil trained with Arnold, I got to be coach to the two, to the two goats. It was like goat herding. Two seven time guys, you know, just getting after it, having some fun. Yep. Yep. The funny thing about him is like, he's like, all right, we're going to train at eight. You know, good and damn well, he wasn't training at eight. So, I tried to get there earlier, 745. He was already there. I'm like, okay. Oh, yeah. So, this is a highly competitive dude still. Like, and it's, it's great to see that. So, he showed up a half hour early? Mm-hmm. Yep. I'm like, well, it's his show. So, yeah. It's his venue. You got to breathe, homie. Yeah. Six. Six. Eight. Nine. And this is where a honey would be like, two more. Two more. Now, I'm just trying to get that warm-up going so I can add some weight. There you go. Try to get that going. You know, a lot of people don't realize that V taper delts are super, super important. Obviously, we would break up our delts whenever, you know, coaching Phil during his prime. It was really about, just like he said earlier, focusing on the different heads of the shoulders. So, you know, for overall size, there's nothing better than a shoulder press. We would do everything from Smith machine, you know. And some people think that Phil didn't go very heavy. There's times where, you know, we were doing 315 on shoulder press. Oh, yeah. I remember even, remember getting ready for the Arnold, the week of the Arnold during the prep. We were in Ohio and you were doing 315. Yeah, Wednesday. That Wednesday, which was crazy. I still remember that because that was when, so we were doing this workout and Kai walks in. Uh-huh. And he decides to do step mill. Yes. And that's when he was with Oscar. Yeah. And he wouldn't let him get off that step mill. And I was like, oh, yeah, we might have scared him a little bit. I should have won that damn thing. That's a whole nother podcast there. Oh, well, and that's when he's saying you were protected. Kai, if he was protected, he would have beat you because he was ahead. By three. In the morning show. And then five hours later, he ended up losing that show to you. That was probably, I think, actually, I believe I know that that was the biggest point swing probably in bodybuilding history because I was down by three, lost by seven. No, no, you were up by three. I was, I'm sorry, I was up by three, lost by seven. So that's a 10-point swing in just a five-hour period. That's crazy. Yeah. That shit don't even make sense. Yeah. It don't even, I mean, it's still like in my mind, I'm like. But you know what? Actually, in the grand scheme of things, we always talk about God's plan is perfect. It motivated you. Oh, for sure. And you never lost to him ever again. Never. And that was it. So. He really said that? He said that somewhere on the, one of the podcasts that you were protected by the judges. So I think that it's definitely. So I was protected by whooping that butt in 2013 when I did one call out. Well, not only that, but let's talk about even the year before the 2010 Arnold when you were 2009 and you had gotten sick and Jay's come back here. Oh, yeah. And Kai beat me by one point. By one point. So if I was protected. So how were you protected when he beat you by one point? I think at the end of the day, he's just trying to get those clicks. Yeah, of course. And he's got to do it. Sure. But we won't give him any more time. Kai, let us know if you want to jump on the podcast. Love to have you on. Kai, enjoy those Arnold Classic titles. You had a great run. I'm just very thankful that I have three different types of sandals and I have seven of them total. But you can come over to the crib anytime you want and take a look at them. And, you know, we can have some tequila and taco times. Control, control. That's it. Good. Good. Good. Let's go. Come on, champ. Easy. All right. So, guys, we are using the Panada shoulder press machine. They call it the super deltoid press. Let me give you one of the main reasons why I like this machine so much. Number one, both angles. So, you have both grips. You have a neutral grip and you have the regular overhand palm grip. But you also not only have the seat adjustment, which almost every machine does, but you also have a back adjustment that can go forward or back depending on the thickness of your torso. So, therefore, if you feel like you are not under the bar enough, you can just as easily grab the handle here and move back. So, therefore, you can feel like I want to hit a little bit more of that front deltoid. So, the seat goes back and it's not right over you. It's just slightly ahead. It takes a little bit more pressure off of your shoulder. That's why the seat adjustment is a great addition in the biomechanics of this Panada shoulder press. And then all the super machines have the self-spotting mechanism. So, that way, you don't have to feel that tension all the way at the very, very bottom dropping the weight. There you go. Man, if I would have had this during the... Oh, man. Yeah, for sure. Because, you know, I train by myself. Yep. And then having something that self-spotted right there. Crazy. Go. All right. So, guys, make sure you go full range of motion. Get a nice stretch. Push all the way to the top. You don't have to lock your elbows out. But you want to try to go as far up as possible without locking those elbows. Yeah, don't do that. Yeah, because we don't want to hurt anything. I mean, what's funny is, like, sometimes I think people will be like, oh, you're not going full range. I'm like, dude, I'm trying to make sure I'm feeling everything without locking that out. Because the minute I do that, two wheels go by. You're going to feel a lot of your triceps. I'm like, oh, my triceps don't feel right. My elbow's messed up. Now I've got to go hit up a chiropractor. I've got to hit up the physio. And if I'm training for a show, then I'm hitting your ass up. Yep. How do I fix this? And you're like, well... Well, don't do that. Yeah. Lamont, you big dummy. Don't be doing that. 98% of people watching this don't know who Lamont is. I know. That's sad. No, it's okay. Now I'm really dating. Yeah, stop. Between that and Voltron. You even know what Voltron is? Nah. That's like the... The Lions? Yeah, yeah. It was like around the time Transformers came out. But it was the Lions. So you had Transformers. You had Voltron. I had the toy, yeah. And you had all that. The Thundercats, you know what Thundercats are? So you had those three plus G.I. Joe all in the mid-80s. And they all only lasted less than, I want to say less than five years. If they would have lasted longer, I mean, it would have been... I mean, He-Man, same thing. Like, all that stuff was like in the mid-80s. He-Man was jacked. Did you ever see that? Did you ever have a He-Man? They were jacked. Jay Cutler could have played He-Man. That's probably why, like, a lot of the guys that are in our era have, like, a certain demeanor pertaining to, like, strength, competitiveness. Because it was like that, the mid-80s was like... Yeah. You had to work out. You had to fight. Like, you had to learn self-defense. You had to, like, Rambo, Schwarzenegger. Like, these were the guys that were like... That we grew up... Like, we had... Like, that's what we had. So when people say, why is this guy so aggressive, this, that, it's like, man. Action films was, like, literally approaching his prime. At that time, man. Even the cartoons was like, fight. You know, like... That, man. There was none of that soft-ass... You know, like, nothing soft. Breathe. Oh, come on. Two. Three. Let them know. Come on. Four. Five. Six. Come on. Seven. Eight. Left side. All right. Come on. Ten. Easy. Easy. Easy. Easy. Easy. I'm not going to lie. That felt heavy. It was heavy. Whew. Ain't no joke, man. I mean, that's why I'm staying here. That's the thing about... I mean, I ain't going to front, man. That's the thing about Panada equipment. You know, it'll humble you real fast. You know, it's not like these other brands where, like, you know, you'll go to a gym and you'll think, like, oh, I might do three plates on each side on a different machine. Not all machines are created equal. And because the biomechanics on this machine is definitely different, you see, like, the pegs aren't... They're not that large. And it's because, like, you can only max it out so much before you start... I mean, you start right here, bro, you're going to kill yourself. Yeah. You're going to stress. I mean, you're going to get hurt. You're going to hurt your shoulder. That's why they have this. Come on. All the way. Come on, Phil. Good. Let's go. Birthday pump incoming. Let's go. I'm just thinking about cake. Let's go. Ice cream cake. Oh, nice. Baskin-Robbins. Come on, man. Let's go. Four. Three. Two. One more. All the way up. Good job. Ooh. Easy peasy. And see how I lowered that? I didn't slam the damn thing down. Can't be doing that. I'm trying to be nice to your equipment. Thank you. You and Hottie. Hottie does that, too. He gets mad at people when they drop their stuff. I think so, too, man. I mean, it's a... Number one, it's a form of disrespect when you're going to someone's house. Like, you don't put your feet up on someone's, you know, coffee table. But with this equipment, it's like driving a Ferrari, man. Like, you don't... You got to be smart, man. You want it to last long. Keep it all pristine. Have it ready for the next person. You know? You got to get that left side, though. On that sixth rep, bro. Starting to go... Starting to go... Snarf. Oh. Snarf, snarf. All right. Let's try it from the front. See how that works. All right. I'm going to change up the angle a little bit. We're going to go neutral grip. I can barely talk. Let's go. Come on, man. Oh, good lord. Let's go. One. Wow. I can feel my triceps on that, too. Yep. One, two. Three. Breathe. Four. Six. Seven. Eight. Nine. One more. Come on. Come on, dog. Come on, come on, come on. You got it. That's it. Yep. Oh, shit. Holy shit. Let's move on. That's it. What do you want? You want to start off with that? Yeah. I mean... Oh, you're talking about behind the mat? Yeah, uh-huh. Yeah, that's fine. Good. Slow down. Slow down, homie. Slow down. You're doing reps like you're driving in Texas. I'm going 90. Them people are crazy, man. Yeah, man. Except when I was doing 120 with Ronnie. Yeah, that's different. 130. And he got pulled over at 3 o'clock in the morning, coming back from the club in Miami. That's because it was 3 o'clock in the morning. Well, he's also doing 130. Yeah. A little higher. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. That's what I'm talking about. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Mm-hmm. I've got to... It's time to make... It's time to make the change, bro. Well, I mean, you do have your own gym. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So... And one thing you guys are noticing is what Ronnie's not doing is he's not allowing like that negative to bring him down and where he's hunching his shoulder and then using leverage to bring it up. You know, a lot of the time, this is an exercise that is... I say it's unconventional. Like, a lot of people don't do it. So when you're doing this, you initially want to, like, bend your hip and then, like, go like this. You can still stand there like what he was doing and just... And that's when you've got to pick the right weight. You don't need to... I mean, maybe you're last set and you want to go crazy. Like, that's one thing. A little bit about English. A little bit. But, like, you notice, like, his shoulders were square. And you can... And if you step away a little bit, then it'll give you that... Stretch. Stretch. I got the good stretch right here. And you really just don't want to add too much body English because that's when you start involving different body parts. And when you're bodybuilding, the biggest thing is to stay away from any type of soft tissue injury. And that was something that we really focused on. And you guys have seen my training. You know, it's all about making sure that I'm trying to do it as perfect as I can and just replicating that perfect rep every time. Finding that sweet spot, you know. And if you do that over time, you're always going to build some good muscle and have the least amount of injuries. I say, you're always going to have, like, a something. But heavily injured? No. No, no, no. And this is an exercise that I think will work really well for people. And we're sharing this because y'all ain't going to have Hanay nor myself with you. Screaming at you. So, like, you initially want to do this. It's like, no, all you got to do is just get maybe a little closer. And if you have a handle like this, you can. But I try not to. Remember before we tried to do it like this? Yeah, or I would usually have you put your hand on your hip to balance out your shoulders. Yeah, exactly. So, you can keep your shoulders square and then just come right here. And then that's the finisher right there. Right. So, the key is so that you don't involve the traps. Right? So, if you are really putting in a lot of weight, what's going to happen is you're going to stretch the trap and then you're going to use momentum from the trap. And that's going to actually make your shoulders look more narrow. Because if you have big traps and your shoulder development isn't quite up to par, what's going to happen is you're actually going to look more narrow. Especially in the most muscular, which is a, you can end up like, going like this. And it's like. Big traps, small shoulders. Big, big traps, big arms, small shoulders. But you're going like this. It don't look right. Yep. Good. Hand on the hip. There you go. Good. Control it. Good. Good. Good. Good job, Phil. Good. Hey, Phil, come on up. I need to train. Oh, we've got to talk about training. We've got some business to talk about. Yeah. It's your turn to train me. Yeah. Yeah. Cash in some of those tokens. Honey will be like, well, I trained you, bro. You're going to train me, man. That's it. Cash in some of those tokens. One, two, three, four, five, five, six, seven. Last rep was the best one. Actually held that sucker. All right. All right. All right. One, two, three, five, six, seven, eight. You can tell Honey's right-handed. This side is a lot easier for him. Nine, nine, 14. that's how way easier yeah why is that i've just always been right side dominant you know i can even feel it in the front of my delt right the development of that interior delt just pops compared to the left side so it just needs more love throwing in those extra reps and sets at the very end like you're doing the holes at the end on the right side yep i got to do a little more on the left side yeah everybody has a little bit of asymmetry if your muscles are real i'm just saying i'm just saying if your muscles are real like it could still be 22 inch biceps man but one's going to look a little different that's it just keep it real bro just keep it real that's right that's right that's it i mean that's gonna be that's just saying that's just saying that's the one that's good just saying bro if your muscles are real just saying man just fired shots fired that's why i feel like machines are very good because you can choose like one side you know unilaterally i mean dumbbells are great don't get me wrong but like when you have a machine that actually works for you and you can train just that extra side like we were talking about like when i first got into bodybuilding um playing division one basketball i was actually getting injured a lot on this right shoulder so i've separated this shoulder three times so like playing defense and i would hedge a screen let's say honey's trying to hedge a screen set a screen and i'm trying to hedge it and i bump into him and he's like a 6'10 guy this shoulder like so when i met honey he noticed a discrepancy in the right shoulder development yeah it was a lot smaller and it still is now that the muscles have atrophied but i could see that glaring weakness so then what honey would have me do is a lot of side and rear delt work um the front was pretty good but the side and the rear had to get a lot of extra attention so i'd have like a full uh shoulder day and then he would have me throw in some extra shoulder work on uh chest day even sometimes on back as well because you know you're doing back you can throw some rear delts in but this shoulder it would droop down and that was because of the injury that i had so bodybuilding you know like everybody that competes has you know previous injuries probably from other sports or just sleeping on the wrong bed or whatever it is but you need to have someone especially a coach that can kind of figure out okay why is that happening why is the muscles not moving accordingly why is the structure not looking the same and that's when you know working with chiropractor doing soft tissue work i was doing that like three four days a week yep just trying to get that balance and then we could actually start really building without regressing during prep what do you want to do um i want to do a front raise so we can do it a couple different ways we can either do a front raise with the rope or we can do it with the dumbbells on a spider okay and and come up that way okay um or we can even do a upright row if you want to try to do that we haven't done that in a long time because your traps would always have my pinch stuff though yeah so i don't want to pinch yeah so let's you want to do front raise yeah we can try that that's a good shot over there yeah yeah all right guys just uploaded a bunch of new content on the fst7 app if you haven't had a chance to use the app you can use it now for only a buck use code honeyyt to get your first month for only a dollar my exclusive workouts and my exclusive content including a new recipe portion of the channel so again honeyyt for a dollar all of my exclusive content is on there so if you've ever wondered what my workouts are all about you can go check that out at honeyrambod.com so you can check it out on the apple store or the google store get to your best version of yourself check it out today love you all oh shit so you're going like eye level on that yeah yeah yep and so here's a tip for you guys make sure you're using different variations of hand grip you can go ahead and do palms down you're going to feel slightly different you go palms up you'll feel a little bit different just a little more focus on that front delt and then the other thing you can do is just by shifting your body a little higher or lower you're going to feel a slightly different angle as you ascend up to the midpoint so that midpoint is always going to be at the top so if you bring your whole body up you're going to feel like a different angle similar to what you're going to feel like when you're using a cable because of the constant tension the tension point will be in a whole different area of the range of motion versus if you're hunched over a little more so utilize different ones to keep constant tension and don't try to stick to one particular grip try to change things around if you watch the old videos of phil and i back in denver i stopped training him into a point where he would do both arms and i would just make sure that we would just hammer one side complete the set and the other and i saw a lot more fullness because it didn't have time to be able to really kind of recuperate in regards to being able to say okay let me go right while the rice resting let me go left we just kept pounding blood blood blood blood blood into the one side went to failure then ended up doing the other side and then we'd always work on the weaker side first so that that way he wouldn't go to fatigue and it's fresh exactly thumbs up let's go thumbs up there you go control that negative good good good big dealt boom good control good control that negative there you go control that negative good you got four more four more come on let's go phil let's go champ keep it going that's it we got 11 weeks million dollars let's go come on that's it i like to tease them if only they listened to me before and would have done that when i was competing i always wanted them to increase that prize money they're like why don't you do it i think it's because he found a great woman in his life you know angie's been there for him and um i think you know she's been so like focused on um i would say humanizing him like showing him in a different light you know just being at the house with the dogs and all that stuff and jay always you know he doesn't goof around a whole lot but with her it's kind of like he kind of has to show it you know so it's been good and obviously as you get older heart goes fonder of those moments and those memories that we can create um because you can't recreate what we did right but you can develop new memories so i'm sure he reminisces and like yeah he was a fan because i'm staring at jay backstage we're in this tiny it was at the boulder theater near the cu campus and it was my first bodybuilding show i'm like who is this dude man like i've seen now prior to that i've gone to two other bodybuilding shows i saw gunter but jay was like so much better and so much in condition for a guest posing and i was just like how much do you weigh and he was like 290 you know and i was like well hell man shit i weigh 190 you know i'm saying like what's up so my boy josh crandall was like take a picture with him and that was the iconic picture man i'm so glad that we had that photo yeah because i was nervous to take it um and then that following year i uh didn't compete at that same show but i guest posed the year after that with jay and that was the year i turned pro in 05 so it was wild man like jay jay color at that show though in boulder colorado you can ask jeff taylor you can ask anyone that was there during those uh early years jay color would uh he would make an appearance you know he signed autographs and all that stuff at pre-judging jay would leave the booth and go guest pose at the pre-judging because the night show was already sold out so he thought what a better way to conduct himself as a true professional but to give a guest posing for those people that that's pre-judging you know you don't see that so that's where like you know i recognize that jay color is like a true professional oh okay so here's your tip yeah what you got to go is slow on the way down don't do this yeah don't swing that that that swinging takes off the tension off the eccentric and that's what you want you want that tension and that's what makes things really hard even with a five pound increase oh oh oh oh yeah oh two come on one more there it is oh yeah oh here we go dang that's it just keep going yeah the problem is when you keep going and stuff you the tendency is you want to start using some body energy that's the hard part it's like to tell yourself like all right slow and controlled i can always do another set you know what i mean let's go mr heath come on buddy yes sir two three control four five six seven eight control nine ten two more one more come on phil oh two more two more two more you got two two two two control it though control it though good that's really good great pause at the top up oh good job oh good job old man that's it it's still there where i'll see ain't going nowhere come on man i'll see ain't going nowhere that's just a photoshop yeah let's say the word 3d the word 3d wasn't even thought of before i came on the scene that's very true just i coined i coined that term he's keeping a buck that is i'm retired now i can say all now everybody's like oh he's 3d i'm like stop right there you stop your lies that's it so no lie there was an interview i did and they said what makes phil heath different this is just him starting out this is we did just got done doing the first show as a pro 2006 denver pro and then two weeks later we did the new york pro a week later bro oh i'm sorry it was a week later because you had to go to la i went to la and then you left my food at the hotel had to go get more food because no money with no money because the check bounced from the john ray thanks for that wasn't even his company i'm gonna put it out on sean it was his show it was his show but the parent company yeah the the check didn't clear wiped my whole account they froze it negative two thousand dollars i was like damn and i got to do photo shoots for two days and then fly to new york to do the new york pro yeah i was out of my skull like just from the dehydration and rehydrating and trying to get ready for the show cooked all my food and then left all of that in a suitcase in the residence and right across the street from where milo star chef's gym was back in fullerton coliseum yeah coliseum yeah and then i had to call honey up he was like you did what i was like yeah man he's like well you gotta get some food bro i was like i ain't got no money it's like what do you mean i'm like the check bounce bro yeah i found out about that i got on the phone about that and then i had to go i got hooked up for with uh factory mubrac yeah he hooked me up factory came out and then uh got me a microwave and a fridge and and some uh food yep and then you were like what were you carving up on i was like oatmeal and uh fish and you're like honey walks in the room and he goes man you look like complete dog shit and i was like thanks and then he was like we're gonna have to do something different i was like what are we talking about he's like man we're gonna do some burgers bro he blew me up yeah i weighed 20 208.6 after pre-judging at the new york pro and um we won the whole thing man when the whole thing like you're 230 sure did but i was complete but it's one of those things where you know you start thinking about those moments man like you win your pro debut and then you're you know the talk of the town and then you realize like everything is great and then financial things you know happen and then you have to keep yourself you know together still do your job as a pro still do the photo shoots and you forget your damn food keep the keep the cortisol down by keeping the straight face and just be like everything's gonna work out if i did the work beforehand it's just food that's what i used to tell myself if i did the work before if i did the cardio if i did the training like you said if i did the diet like you said once he gets here we could fix it yep but if i hadn't done those cardio sessions i can't fix that he can't fix it and uh one thing is for sure like he knows like i never cheated on that diet i was like nope if anything he would tell me to eat more and i would be like i always had a problem with that remember like we do the burgers and stuff even at the olympia some years i'd be like i didn't want to do it but but then there was other times you did and i said no we're good and you're like man i know i'm gonna get blown out go to that fud ruckers fud ruckers man in the orleans bro that was yeah that yeah used to get swole swole but yeah we man those first couple of years man that that was crazy because and people don't realize like that was a lot of stress bro i got to the hotel room i remember i got to new york flew in new york to your cab yeah millennium hilton millennium hilton 55th and church street yep just go right right at that millennium hilton go upstairs all right man take it off let's take a look takes off his shirt we're in the bathroom turn on lighting man let's see this natural light let's see what's better i need some better light nope that light he's like no you just look bad yeah it was we got a figure he's like man it's gonna be a long night yep literally that's what i said it's gonna be a long night we're gonna have to make some adjustments just got him super round full dried him out just enough made it all the issues cleaned up all those issues remember he went on stage and looked like a whole different bodybuilder still very dominant but stupid shredded at the denver pro yeah at the denver pro's pro debut the week before then he just came off of a six seven hour flight from la to and and didn't have the right food because the food like he said got stuck and left at the hotel in la had to get all reset so again shout out to factory for stepping up and being a good friend he hooked us up helped us with getting the microwave and getting some food for him and doing that until i got there then once i got there took over in terms of just changing up the food food and i told him we're going to use a different look and that was the other thing that we talk about a lot is that you got to be able to go with the look that your body's giving you if you can't chase looks just because you think that that's an ideal you kind of have to give into what the body's trying to do and bring the best of that whether it's full round and separated or really really shredded and grainy um it would really just depend on kind of where his body's trying to lean um so when your body's going through an electrolyte imbalance coming off of a plane and just bounce you know rebounding off of another show and photo shoots all throughout the week your body's not going to be in the same place as it was getting ready for the primary show where you had many many less variables so you guys if you're coaching or you're working on you know with yourself or with your coach don't try to try take control of something that is giving you a completely different physique because your circumstances are completely different especially when you're going for back-to-back shows because your electrolytes are all over the place so do not try to turn around and use the same formula as you did the week prior or the show prior because your biochemistry is completely different something you guys all got to learn from yeah that's that's a bar right there because a lot of trainers you know they want to go for what they know and they're and they can be stubborn too and then the athlete is going to be stressed so we're like well why are we doing this so then there's a there's a there's that trust factor that has to be you know really established and as an athlete like you got to do what your coach asking you to do to a t so then if you want to be held blameless do exactly what they said and if they don't work then you can both come together and be like this didn't work well next time we're going to try this and that's how you really develop that trust too is that you got to trust in the process allow the coaches and if you played in a sport where a coach is like like a team sport or even individual sport we have a coaching your face you got to do what the coach is asking you to do man i can't stress that enough and even if the coach is new to it you're going to learn together but you don't learn if you don't actually trust that process and go throughout the entire entire process like that's why like i never i never listened to any other person any other coach because there were other people that would be like man like why don't you guys do this and i'm like i'm not even listening to this because first of all you'd be trying to sabotage me second of all you may just not like honey you know i'm saying and third of all you you just don't know what the hell you're talking about so i'm i never and i'm not saying that you know you have to stick with the same coach your entire career but we had great success even through failure like even my third show i did the arnold classic got fifth i was highly disappointed not in him but in myself and the result and then i realized this is a long game and uh there was things that i still didn't even know that we could do as my body matured so it's just food for thought you know like what honey and i are sharing with you guys is that you got to be you know willing to think delayed gratification if you if you just think the grass is greener it could be a lot more grass to cut come on man amen to that you you lifted my number man 22 it's my number i wore in college and high school bro and the number that was given to me on my first olympia so you got to do at least 12 come on man yeah dog four five six yes sir halfway there come on seven eight nine ten eleven oh straight first you want them straight first oh yeah center stage right there first call out oh yeah he's killing it man yes sir time to get 3d homies skin still thin now that you know i ain't been eating a bunch of burgers and stuff like you'd be thinking i doing yeah yeah that's why we got the real name the burger king and that's exactly where we went right after he won the denver pro in his pro debut burger king and i wore the hat i had to wear the hat we went through the drive-thru remember that of course the other one oh now he's getting serious he's doing a single arm that's it excellent good good good good keep it moving keep it moving control control don't swing that's it again good again good job there you go birthday's on the 18th so i did 18 reps that's it oh that one felt good yeah yeah it felt good man you know what was good about this one what's that is the fact that you can go short you can catch yourself slipping right so i noticed like i can go right here but then i was like all right let me do single arm instead of going here i'm going here and i noticed like man that's harder you know especially when you're trying to hold that sucker but i felt it more and uh nothing else hurts so like you said you know playing around with different angles and that time and that time and attention that control but that tempo is everything on this one yeah yeah for real man i feel good all right yeah buddy i heard this a million times why he's changing this up right trying to get that that that joint center to where his elbow is that's going to give him basically like that perfect rep and they even have like his foot position on this on this platform this is one of the best uh machines out there i believe primarily because you can actually use multiple grips you see him using the outside you can go inner then he can actually uh because of honey he actually wanted that straight bar so they detach that bar put the straight bar on there and if you really want to go crazy you can actually um switch it to triceps as well so it'd be like crazy you know super set yeah not bad that's right nate don't get jealous not jealous nate i want you to feel some sort of way first of all i mean yeah it's the same even though i'm taller i was all right interesting very interesting all right straighten out your arms little more there you go good come down so like i gotta come here yeah yeah stretch down all the way bring your elbows forward yeah elbows forward Elbows forward, elbows forward, good. Little more. Come down, down, down, down, down, down. There you go, good. Good, come down, down, down, down. Good. Come down further, further. There you go, that's it. You just want, you just want to see all the fibers. Yeah, you just want to see all the fibers. Come on, old man. You still got those fibers in there. You're gonna be 80 and you're still gonna have fibers in there. Yeah, because they're real. Come on. Come on, mister. Photoshop, let's go. Oh man, no, that was, ooh. And then I feel in the forearm. Ooh. Ooh. Yeah. So, for those that kept asking all those years, what kind of forearm workout did I give him? It was called back. That was it. That's the forearm work he did. It was true. I mean, and plus there's, where I used to train at, there wasn't like a forearm machine doing all this stuff. Yeah, it was predominantly the back. A lot of those rows, man. Those rows is what, those bent rows is what. Those bent rows is what. Those bent rows is what. Yeah, especially the forearms. Free arms. Underhand bent rows. That'll get you. Yep. Take it straight. Move. Move. Move. Hey. Come on. 10. Oh. So far, I said, I don't see any peaks yet, son. He's pretty disappointed. But I told him, it's 12, dude. Damn. That's it. I'm trying to think if I'd talk to my kid like that. So far, I said, I don't see any peaks yet, son. He's pretty disappointed. But I told him, he's 12, dude. Yeah. That's it. I'm trying to think if I talk to my kid like that. Well, God bless us with a son. Oh, man. It's over. Especially if you'd be like, Dad, I'd be like, I don't know, man. You really want to be in that gym? I'm saying you can't, honey. I'm going to send you over there for the summer. Probably be mad at me. Yeah. Good. Good. A little lower. A little lower. That's it. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. A little lower. A little lower. A little lower. Two more. Two more. Come on, Phil. Good. One more. One more. Hold it. Hold it. Good job. Woo. Forearms are on fire. What are you trying to do? Get me big again? Shit. That ain't hard. All you got to do is eat. Yeah. Yeah. How's that bicep looking? Is it still there? I don't know. You tell me. Not bad. Not bad. But that was also the right arm. That's it. That's the other one. Yes, sir. That's it. Yeah. Yes. So you got to tease them first with the right one. And they're like, oh, I think I have a chance. Yeah. And then you're like, oh. No, no. All too easy. Like Darth Vader would say, all too easy. You going to do some holes or what are you going to do? I'm going to just try to get through this set. Well, then. Come on. Okay. I'm going to control. I'm going to get a nice stretch at the very bottom. Go all the way up. All the way. Full range of motion. Curl. Contract. Try to keep the shoulders back a little bit. Good. Control. That eccentric. Going to do three. One. Come on, dog. I got a little more. Oh, geez. Yeah. Yeah. It's time. It's time. See? I don't know. I'm trying to remember. When was the time we trained the most together? What year was that? Was it right around FSC 7, 9, 10? Probably 9, 10. But I mean. Because I think I was still a little more. 13, 14. I think 13 and 14. Because I'd say 13 and 14. Because 13 was a different year. You know, we were trying to do a lot of different stuff. Trying to merge 2011 and 2012 physique into the one. But the FSC 7, I thought, was at an all-time high in 13. Because we needed that volume, but with heavy weight. So we did it like off-season and pre-contest. So the off-season was consistent more of like, you had me doing like five to seven reps on like a lot of compound movements. And then throwing the FSC 7 at the end to get the volume. And then come pre-contest, that was when, I mean, it was crazy-ass volume. Especially on leg day. I mean, you had me doing like 20 reps on 315, five sets, altitude twice a week. And just thinking about that workout, man, made me mad. Yeah. That was crazy. But, I mean, doing the FSC 7 stuff, like especially like on the line leg curls. Even standing leg curls, I remember doing all that. And that's what I think set it up for 2016. Because one thing was for sure is that you told me when I turned 30, you were like, you got to train very hard, heavy. Not get hurt, but be consistent. Off-season, pre-contest. Because, you know, off-season, I'd screw around. And it would pay off when I was in my mid-30s. Because you were saying that those are my maturity years. Yes. And that was when 2016 came about. Because 2014, I mean, I was off, but still did our thing. 2015 came a little smaller. And I think that was the year that we were trying to just figure out. We committed to the fact that what we had learned before wasn't going to work anymore. Right. And we had to scrap everything. Yes. And then 2016 came and it was like, had all that crap. But that really came from like a lot of the FSC 7 stuff prior to that. It wasn't just like, oh, you're training for 2016. I think it was a culmination of everything, but then just having more time doing it. Right. And really hammering the food and really being confident, in my opinion, to even do FSC 7 with higher weight. Like more weight. Because before I was like, I don't really want to do, like, I don't really want to do all that. And, you know, I was, because I was training by myself. And I was, I was very nervous about that. But then we would train more and that gave me more confidence. To be able to use the higher weight. Yeah. With the high volume. And I had a lot to be angry about, to be honest, man. Like I was going through, went through a nasty divorce. My dad had died. My stepmom was getting ready to pass away. You know, had a supplement company that went to crap. Like, you know, people, people flat out robbed me. Like all that stuff. And then people just starting to rumble online, talking trash. Because that was the beginning of Instagram. Yeah. So like everybody was coming after me and I was like, all right, I got a lot to be pissed off about. And you were like, well, just use it. I was like, all right, bet. And, you know, that dream killer was like, all right, I'm going to ride with you. You just got to be ready for it. And we killed it. Speaking of killing it, I might as well just go a little more on that. Good. Good. Good. Keep going, Phil. That's it. Good. Good. That muscle memory is kicking in. You see those fibers. Look at those fibers. Good. Right in there. Easy. Easy. Yeah. It's just one of those things, too. You know, you think about all the things that you go through in life and everybody's got, like, different levels of trauma, whether it be big or small. You go into your life's challenges and stuff. And when you're a competitive bodybuilder, it's going to happen. You have to have resistance. Weight resistance to grow the muscles. Resistance in your life through opposition to actually make you better. And through the opposition, I mean, it made us better. And, you know, you got to think, like, he's hearing things that I don't get to hear all the time. We're living in two different states as well. He would travel around working with EBJ and working with other clients. And there's always going to be that person like, yeah, you know, feels this and that. And he has to take that in, digest it, and decide whether or not he's even going to bring that up. So I give him a lot of credit because, you know, you're going to hear things and you have to know as a coach, like, do I really want to share this with my client? Is that going to make him or her better or make them worse? There's times where it would make me better. But there's a lot of times where it was like it may push Phil over the edge and make him more hypersensitive and more insecure and not get him to get to the finish line, you know, because you can't be always doing stuff to try to prove someone wrong. You got to think within yourself and prove yourself freaking right. And that's where us working together, like, having, you know, long talks about life more than this, you kind of understand one another's stance on things. And then you realize, like, man, screw it. Let's just go ahead and whip the ass and go home. And that was something I used to say all the time was, like, I'll do the job. We can try to keep the noise down as much as possible, which is, I mean, today's day and age with social media. I mean, the noise would have been insane. The noise would have been insane. Yeah. But it would have been positive, too, you know, because, like, you know, people would have been able to engage and actually see that because now we're just talking about old times. But, you know, through it all, like, you got to really know who you are when you're training with these weights. And sometimes you need to also think about your environment and who you allow in your personal space. Having a bunch of friends and trying to train with you and stuff. Yeah. Be careful with your proximity, man, because, like, those same people, they may not truly be rooting for you. They just want to be there when the winds show up. Like, you got to be very, and that's tough, man, because everybody's got to go through that. You know, honey, see me have, like, 80 people, 90 people come to my after party. And then the year that I lose to Sean, God rest his soul, 13 people was in my hotel room. That's it. So you got to be really careful about all that. Crazy. It is crazy. Yeah. But you was there. Yep. Now I'm here with you training arms. Now I got to see something. You got to. Now I got to see something. See? Now I got to. Oh, yeah, yeah. See? Oh, I see the vein in there. I said this one right here. Yeah. That one right there. Yep. Yeah, not bad. Not too shaggy. Whew. Come on, dog. Five. Yeah? Five. Yep. Three. Two. One more. Now you're going to squeeze. Yeah, buddy. Yeah. Yeah. You're going to squeeze. Yeah. All that shit. You're. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. No, no, no, no. Player. Yeah. This guy. This guy. Got him. Now we can move on. I had to make sure he changed color. You know what I'm saying? Then I knew he was really working. You mother bitch. Yeah. I'm just trying to get you better, bro. I mean, you know. You know, can't be, can't be, you know. I mean, can't be having some weak arms, man. Shit, they're weak, man. Like, you can't be doing that. You got to walk around like, yeah, dog. Like, yeah. You know? Yeah. Yeah. This guy. This guy. See? So when he stands like this, now he can stand like this. Like, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I did something. I would make him do that on the side of the stage. Right? If you see a lot of my guys, I'd always tell them, you know, do it. Do it. Do it. Do it. Do it. Do it. When you get back in line on the side. Well, you can't show you're being weak, man. Like, it's like you're doing this. It's like, you know, playing ball in college. You know, coach would tell, even in high school, they'd be like, don't let them see you weak. You know? So you got to stand up. And that's hard to do, you know, when you're exhausted. Especially when you're dehydrated. You're thinking about the call outs that you just did. You know that you're going to have to go back out and hit these poses. And you can't, you don't have a mirror there to figure out if you're actually hitting them good or not. You're just trying to figure out where your coach is, where your wife is. You know, like, and really just trying to have this feeling of sensory overload of saying, I know what this feels like. I know what this feels like. Like, all I'm doing is replicating this. And I got to smile to make it look effortless. And that's what true professionalism on stage is. But when you're standing on the side, you can't be drifting. You know? And you can't always turn your back just so you can breathe through your stomach and stuff. So you got to, like, really control breathing. And then kind of just make sure that you feel, like, present. And once you know that you're there on that stage, whether it be the Arnold Classic or the Olympia or some show out and wherever it is, I know what I'm going to be doing the next time I'm in that center portion of that stage. If they move me around, I know what I'm going to expose on the next person standing next to me. I know what the judges are looking for because I've been here before and I ain't going to get freaking tired. And that's what you have to do when you're talking about competing. If you're just in the gym and you're doing your thing, like, hey, go ahead, bend over, you know, whatever. But you're talking about, like, real competitive bodybuilding, male or female. And that's something that you can, you know, really calm yourself and allow yourself that space. And over the period of time, people start noticing how easy this looks. Your job is to make it look easy. But it's really freaking hard, man, because you're cramping here and trying to do that. And, yeah. What do you think of that right now? Not bad, eh? Let me actually flex, though. Flex. All right, guys. So, remember, it's not how good you look in the really good light. It's when you look good in bad light is when you know you're truly at your best. So, let's see what the front double bicep looks like. Come on. Come on, you first. No, I'm fine. All right. Look at that. Still split. They better be. The good thing is, like, you can see, like, even in here, like, the tricep and all that. Imagine when you actually start training. One million dollars. No. A million dollars. What's up, guys? Hany Rambod here, 25-time Olympia winning coach, here with seven-time Mr. Olympia, Phil Heath. And we're just finishing up our workout and talking about post-workout usage of KSM-66 to increase not only your testosterone, but to also lower cortisol. I know you love the ingredients. So do I. Absolutely. Absolutely. I mean, it's been a game changer for myself. I was just driving all the way from Michigan to here in the last three days. And that's a long drive, man. And in order for me to sleep, KSM-66 has been a game changer for me. I've been using it for quite some time, you know, traveling different time zones. Hany and I both, we travel the world, you know, every year. But putting that in our protocols, I mean, we were both sharing sleep studies, you know, wearing an aura ring, whoop, all that stuff. And we're like, wow, like our actual numbers are increasing in a positive direction due to taking that. And I would say, like, actually taking it, like, I usually take it about an hour before I go to bed. And I'm, like, out like a light. But I wake up in the morning actually refreshed. It's not the same as what you would take, let's say, if you're taking, like, a melatonin or something else. Or you kind of wake up groggy and whatnot. But KSM-66, that's the kicker right there. Yeah, huge difference, guys. So if you want better quality sleep, you can go ahead and even try it. Whether, like you said, an aura ring, check your HRV when you use KSM-66 and when you don't. And you'll notice you get into deeper REM for longer periods of time. Works tremendously well. So, again, if you haven't had a chance to use it, go ahead and use it. And if you have, you can use it either post-workout to lower cortisol or before bed to get into that deeper REM. So check it out. Hany Rambod, Phil Heath. Peace. Let's go. A little bicep-tricep action. So, good. All right, guys. So the big difference between doing triceps on a dip machine versus doing lower pec on dip machine is how much you lean forward. If you lean forward tremendously, you're getting chest. If you're more upright, you're doing triceps. We're doing triceps. Hence him being much more upright. Doing the panadid tricep. I'm squeezing at the bottom. Like, oh. Good. Good. I told Phil, now that he's moving to Texas, he's going to have to really step up the look because now people are going to associate us together. Ah, yeah. And they're going to be like, whoa, what happened to your boy, bro? Yeah. That's it. What happened to your boy, bro? I don't want to get too big, man. Oh, no. Too big, too big. I don't want to get too big, man. Still trying to stay retired, bro. No. Give it a minute. Masters, 2026. I pull a honey out of retirement. We'll do Masters. Okay. I'll do Men's Fat Physique, and you can do. I'll do the Backyard Barbecue Classic. Yeah, we're going to have that at my house. Tonight? Yeah. That's it. We'll have Jay Fly in. We're going to take all. We'll get Bill Wilmore. Yeah. We'll get Jeremy Buendia. Yeah. We'll get the whole crew back. Hottie will bring some Kubidae. Yeah. You know? We'll let Cameron judge. Yeah, that's right. He'll be like, Phil Heath in the middle. Jay Cutler on one side. Hottie Chopin on the other. Jeremy Buendia. I need to smoke all of us right now. He ain't retired. Yeah. Come on, dog. That would be funny. Oh, yeah. Guys, this is one of the most underrated exercises. Doing tricep dips, guys. Really, really good. Cool thing about this panada piece is if you want to switch things around, you can just turn around, grab the handle, switch the seats, face the other direction. If you're a little bit more on the wider side and you feel like you want to go a little wider, you can also adjust the handles. So, again, all the biomechanics that were thought of for you. So, good job, Rudy. And you can actually go single arm. Just using this right here. But we're not going to do that right now. One of the key things with this machine that I like doing is making sure that I can get contraction fully at the bottom of this exercise. All right. So, right here, I want to get very comfortable with pulling my elbows in and then squeezing my triceps. So, then I'm trying to draw that muscle memory and then just replicating that rep just right there. So, I should be flexing this tricep, both of them. And if I'm not, then I'm kind of just going through the motions. Like, I can easily just do this, but I want to feel it. On the eccentric. On the eccentric. Yep. Right here. And then as I'm pushing down, I want to feel these fibers move. Yeah. Nate, come over here real quick. So, what you're going to see is the fiber recruitment right there. You'll start seeing all, as he goes through, you'll start seeing the fibers really start to kind of kick in as they start to fatigue. You may not be able to do as many reps, but the quality of them. It's quality of our quantity. Remember, people, don't count reps. Make the reps count. That's it. Boom. It's like, I still think my triceps are better than his. Damn. I still think my triceps are better than yours. Really? No. I just thought I'd say that. I'm going to bump his head this morning. Yeah. Five. Five. Six. Nice. Yep. Yep. So, you know, when I talk about training, we were talking about this the other day when I was driving. Yeah. Talking about, like, resting periods. What do you think is a good resting period for, like, we're not talking about legs. Yep. Talking about, like, upper body work. So, again, the smaller the body part, the less rest you need, theoretically. So the bigger body part, meaning legs, number one, number two back, number three chest, are going to need more time, right? Obviously, legs are very taxing because of how big the muscle group is, how much oxygen you're going to utilize. You will need up to three minutes in between sets. If you're doing a crazy squat and you're trying to hit those 15 to 20 reps with 315, 405, you may want to be able to just give yourself a little more time to be able to really hit that top set to be able to utilize more weight to go to failure versus fatigue. I talk about this all the time. If you end up taking too little time between sets, you're going to tax yourself cardiovascularly, so therefore you're not going to be able to utilize maximum weight. Rest periods, a minute, minute and a half on warm-ups. Working sets, three minutes. If you're hitting a PR, take five minutes. But, again, you have enough time to give yourself that rest that's needed to be able to do those working sets, but don't take too long because you're going to just end up not having a very effective workout if you're always waiting three to five minutes between sets. I agree. Even though you didn't give me that much time. Yeah. Well, with you, I used to always increase intensity. That's one of the reasons why I created FSC7 was actually because of Phil because I knew that he was working out by himself. Lots of times he would train late at night, and I wanted him to increase intensity like I was there. So if he had the protocol on creating more intense workouts in a shorter duration, which is high-intensity training mixed with volume, that's what FSC7 is, and that's what it was, and it's evolving all the time. That's what I gave him because he would train by himself. So he didn't need a spotter with that type of program. Yeah. So that's one of the reasons why I put that program together to create intensity and to be able to amplify intensity. Yeah. So, yeah. Yeah. That's it. No, it's a smart way of going about it because not everybody's going to have a training partner throughout their career, let alone when they're traveling the world. And this can go for anyone that's even, you know, I'd say the executive athlete, you know, the person that's in the boardroom, you know, traveling on business. You know, you're going to hotels and whatnot. You're thinking like, oh, well, they don't have enough weight for me. It's like you can reduce the resting period, increase the intensity. You can max out the machine or whatever you have. But then you can start playing around with things, different angles, time and retention, all that stuff, making sure your form is, like, freaking perfect. You'll get a really good workout with that. And you don't believe me? Try going at peak contraction and holding that thing for three to five seconds each rep. If you're doing it right, like, you're going to be fatigued. No question about it. Yeah, I'll kill you. Yeah. If he dies, he dies, though. That's right. Oh, it's still there. Welcome back, Mr. Wick. Yeah, that's pretty good. Oh, dude, my pump is crazy right now. Yeah. Don't make me drive to Austin, homie. I mean, no more than welcome to. Oh, my God. Oh. Oh. Oh, contraire, mon frere. Okay, go ahead. Man, my stepdad, God rest his soul, man. Like, he used to say this when I was a kid. He said, like, I'd be like, Pop, people just be talking trash and saying all this junk. And he's saying, and he was a man that grew up in Huntsville, Alabama. And he used to be like, people just flap their jaws to hear the teeth do the boogie. And I was like, and that hasn't come, I mean, that's been, like, more pronounced in my mind when I read this stuff online sometimes. Hearing that, that was from 15, 18 years ago. Yeah, but there's always going to be somebody like, oh, yeah, he was doing this. It's like, stop. Because if I was, why does the muscles look like this right now? Man, my, just keep it real, man. That looked good, man. Turn to your set, this guy. 46. 46 ain't never looked as good. Let's be real. Let's be real. Drove a thousand miles. Let's come see you. Yeah, Dexter look all right, 46. Yeah, but I'll beat him. All right. Let's go. Love you, bro. Come on. Come on. Let's go. Let's go, Phil. Control that. Good. Right there. Push that in. Perfect. Good. There you go. Good. Good. Good. Keep it going. Good. Good. There you go. That's it. Oh, my God. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He hasn't trained arms in probably, I guarantee you he hasn't trained arms in a couple of months. Bro, I haven't trained in December. I haven't trained. Because we were preparing for the move. So now you're here. Doing all the business stuff. Now I come here. You know, wifey was like, I already know you're about to go over to Honig's and go train. Yep. Y'all ain't going to lunch. You can go train. I was like, hey. I'm like, yeah, you're right, babe. That's right. That's right. So, all right, guys. That was shoulders, bicep, tricep, and stories all mixed into one workout. So we got a little bit of history there. We got the champ's birthday. Yep. That's right. I hope you guys liked it. You know, one of the biggest things for me is to engage with you guys, you know. But most importantly, spend time with my bro. You know, we got a lot of history. We worked together. Gosh, damn. I mean, I turned pro 20 years ago, so pretty much it's been a 20-year relationship. Oh, my. Crazy. Yeah, it's wild when I think about it. It went by just like that. Yeah. So way before Nas, way before Cameron. Yep. You know. I was there when he met his wife. That's right. That's right. You were. And I was one of the, I think I was one of the first to know that you guys were pregnant. Yep. Yep. You were. I stood up at his wedding. Yep. You as hell. And a lot of history, man. But, you know, this has been fun. Yep. We'll obviously do it again. Yep. Welcome to Texas. Yeah, bro. Yep. Yeah, though. Moving to Austin, so I cannot wait. I'm officially here, man. Y'all better. Yeah, I'm saying. And the way this guy drives, it's 45 minutes. Yeah. That's it. Only in his car. Not my truck. But, no, it's always great. So, guys, again, also congratulations for 7X. He's wearing the shirt today. His new brand. Yep. Putting things together. What I really like about what he's doing with it is he's being slow and methodical with everything he's doing. He's going through it. You know, him and Cherie, they really want to put something together that's very, very special. So, they're not rushing it. They're really taking their time putting everything together. So, again, make sure you follow 7X. Make sure you follow him. And Cherie's always got some crazy tips out there. Cherie as well. Yeah, she's got it going on, man. But I will say thank you again. For you guys that don't know, like, I was in Hani's life during a pivotal moment in time where he was deciding whether or not he even wanted to start Evagen. And, you know, it's been awesome to see him grow with his own brand. You know, grow it, bring it out to you guys. And one thing he was talking about prior is the athletes that you had, whether they want to believe it or not or even voice it, by them having proximity with you, predominantly as a client of yours, but being able to see them also, some of them work with you, they then later on started their own brands. So it's one of those things where one hand can watch the other. You can always learn from somebody, draw influence from somebody. You just got to pick the right person. And that's the biggest thing. So, you know, I would not, I would be lying if I said that I didn't start my own brand if it wasn't for being around Hani. It wasn't because of the fact that I worked with other brands. That was a bit of piece of it. But it was also to see the level of competitiveness that Hani has, the knowledge that he's carried, and the professionalism that he truly has and the heart that he has. And I thought, well, I share the same sentiments. Why wouldn't I try? And I've tried before and it didn't work. And then I tried it again right before COVID and it didn't work. And then I was like, you know what? We're going to do this again. I looked at my wife and I was like, let's do this again because you have to keep trying. And you have to have the right focus and it can't be just on, you know, like we talk about social media, likes and comments and stuff. It can't just be money driven. It has to be about like community. It has to be about what you like and what we like, you know, is something that I know works for me and I feel like it'll work for everybody else. And, you know, we share that same sentiment. So, you know, you got to, I got to, I got to gain recognized game all the time. I really appreciate you guys. I think they do collabs on YouTube now. So I would, I would hope you accept. That's it. Do they have that now? Yeah. Oh, you did? Okay. Yeah. Yeah. So, you know, we're building up the YouTube and now that I'm here in Texas, I'll be doing a lot more on my own. My videographer actually lives here. So it helps out a lot. Yeah. And this won't be the last time we come up and say hello. And because I getting, yeah, pretty much. I mean, we got a lot going on. So with that said, I mean, we got to go eat, bro. Yeah. Let's go eat for the night. Birthday time. That's right. Got to put some, you know, got to put some food in it. You know what I'm saying? That's it. And then, you know what I mean? I'm kidding. Let's go. Hawny Rambots, seven time Mr. Olympia Phil Heath. We love you all. Peace. 2