 What's up guys, we are live, watching the Arnold Classic, live stream in the UK, classic physique division. So the big news is Wesley versus Mike. Mike, Mike made weight, Wesley's big as the house, Mike is shredded. This is gonna be a very, very close show. It's gonna be size versus conditioning. And I feel like we are going to make the decision tonight in regards to the judges. In regards to the judges, it's gonna be a close show. I really think it's close. When you go with size, obviously Wesley, you go into the overall conditioning and also shape. You have Mike, but we're gonna be watching right after they're doing their routine. I'm gonna go ahead and watch the confirmation round and see what the judges are going to do in terms of any more comparisons. But watching the earlier prejudging, it was very, very close. And again, Mike really brought it. I feel that the lighting is a little bit different than Ohio. But all in all, I think it's gonna come down to tonight. So let's go ahead and see what the judges think in this confirmation round. All right, in this first confirmation round, Steve's brought out... It looks like fifth through eighth. Fifth through ninth. All right, notable standout here in chapter. All right, notable standout here in chapter. All right, notable standout here in chapter. Sam. I think that Sam definitely got fuller, but it looks like he lost a bit of conditioning. Chasing fullness. notable standout here in terms of Sam. All right, notable standout here in terms of Sam. I think that Sam definitely got fuller, but it looks like he lost a bit of conditioning. Chasing fullness. And that was just a quick look. All right, so they got that Andrea and Wesley switch. Kept Mike right in the middle. There you go. Front double bicep. Now, on that front double bicep, you really see Mike's V taper. Side chest, you saw the really good amount of striations through Mike's glutes. Also on the back shot right here. Again, I don't personally like the way he sticks his butt out on that. Because when he clinched, you could really see that. There you go. The glutes. But you can see there's, there's a marked difference in conditioning between Wesley and Mike. Also Mike's color looks really, really good. He's got a little bit of that orange tone to it. A little brownish orange tone. I call that almost like a mahogany finish. And I feel like that really makes a big difference as well. To be able to show that conditioning. Now, Big Steve got them switching. Again, Wesley's legs definitely look much, much more improved. Yeah, Mike's hamstrings split. Yeah, Mike's hamstrings split. Your favorite classic pose. Hitting that classic pose. Thank you gentlemen back in line as we move our confirmation round. Quality is really good guys. good guys in regards to overall size and conditioning for everybody in the top four again it was a battle this morning and but the conditioning i think wesley just if he could have been a little bit harder so now we just went on to the pre-judging for the open men now remember pre-judging is tonight and finals is tomorrow night for the men's open obviously they're andrew's standout i'd love to see andrew brandon martin okay they got four so they have martin martin brandon andrew and then patrick is in that top four right now in that first call out let's see yeah really good front double bicep again brandon great improvements doing a great job holding his poses staying on top of those legs i think andrew's all of what he was in ohio if not even a little bit better again it's gonna be hard to compare especially with the different lighting there you go yeah patrick is holding his own out there too looks good for where he was really good improvements martin's still posing to try to get every ounce of that water out just to just continue to keep tightening up it's good seeing martin smiling up there man there you go yeah i definitely feel that this is one of brandon's best looks in a long time looks really really good obviously andrew very dominant size conditioning shape everything looks phenomenal um again martin looks like he's just a little bit just in terms of conditioning could be a little bit tighter and then patrick you know great job getting out there in the first call out and we got the second set all right we got blessing and a keem in the middle all right guys so what you're seeing here is if these guys were just a little bit tighter there's a chance for them to get into that first call out if they were just a bit harder um blessing i think he's made some big improvements um a keem just again if he could be a little bit more conditioned i think he can definitely be up there in that first call out as well i think hassan's a bit off um and the young and on the left um i forgot his name he just needs a little more size but his shape looks great okay your favorite most muscular relax everyone back in line all right Patrick and Blessing this looks like it's going in for that fourth place spot if I had to guesstimate you got Patrick's strong points is his shape that X frame you know Blessing's got more size Patrick's got better shape both have really good backs. Obviously Blessing is a little thicker through the lower body and thicker through the back but both have a really good V taper. Again this is Patrick's shot. And Blessing has bigger legs. Better V taper goes to Patrick. Patrick's definitely improved those shoulders and chest so he looks nice and full especially with that small waist but still needs to continue to grow those legs. But you can see that he has improved. So that's what I would consider top three right now. We got Brandon, we got Martin, we got Andrew. I would expect Andrew to get put in the middle at some point here but they're going to be moving him around a little bit. There you go. You can see Martin's getting a little tighter. You can see more striations inside of his legs. He's full and now you can start seeing a little bit of those fibers popping through as he keeps pushing. But Brandon, hamstrings, glutes dialed. Yep. Hamstrings are getting a little tighter too. And for the last time this evening, your favorite most muscular. Andrew and Martin, back on line. All right. Most muscular. I mean, obviously Andrew looks right on the money. I would right now, the way I look at it, Andrew one, Brandon two, Martin three. But again, this is only half the show. We got David Bay emceeing tonight here. $250,000 to the winner. Big shout out to Young LA. Again, I've been with Young LA now going on three, four years and always has amazing, amazing drops. If you are going to be using any purchases at Young LA, try out code HANI to save you a little bit of extra coin. And again, every two to three weeks, Gary and the crew do an amazing job coming out with some awesome drops. All right. Now we got the pose downs for classic physique. Everyone goes straight into the Arnold pose. That three quarter twisting double biceps. Yep. So guys, I will be doing a separate video about my thoughts on Sam for this season for the Arnold in Ohio, as well as the Arnold here. So go ahead and make sure you are going to like subscribe, turn on your notifications if you do want to see that video or any of the other future videos I'm going to be doing. But I am going to go ahead and give you my thoughts on what he could have done different. What went well? What could have been fixed? But all in all, let's get ready to see how this placing looks for the Arnold Classic UK. Okay. So we got Mike and we got Wesley. Who do you guys have? Who do you guys have for the win? Who do you guys have? Yeah. Yeah. I think it was the right call, guys. Again, I think the conditioning, there was just too much discrepancy between them. I think if Wesley would have just came in a bit harder, I think he would have been much more a challenger to Mike. But I feel that because he was just a little bit too soft, I think that just gave, left the door open and Mike just came in shredded. And he had, he did come in with that super peeled look. But Wesley looks great. Lower body grew. I think, again, needs to just continue to keep building up that tissue in that lower body while he's still getting a little bit more conditioned in that glute hamstring area. Thank you. There you go. Good job, Mike. Shout out to him and his coach, Neil Hill. Obviously, he had to suffer to make weight. He missed weight at the Arnold in Ohio. Came back. I'm sure he feels really good to get some momentum back. Get back in that winner's circle. And that extra level of conditioning definitely made a huge difference. Right there. Big, big win. There you go. Enjoy that, Mike. You deserved it, brother. Knowing Wesley, he's just going to get even more motivated, more ramped up. Had a podcast with him last night. Very, very focused on wanting to be able to not only try to win this, but put that exclamation mark on it. Obviously, didn't go as planned. But I know that he's going to really, really pour that gasoline on the flames to try to come back at the Olympia. I believe that's going to be the next show. We're all going to be at the FIBO. I will be at FIBO with my partners over there. Over at Young LA slash Panada KSM 66. So, again, I cannot wait to see you all. If you're anywhere in Europe, you're going to want to be at FIBO. I will be there with all of the different athletes. You got Phil Heath. You got Ronnie Coleman. You got all the different athletes there for Panada. Panada got a lot of really good, exciting things that we're going to be announcing at Panada. The Young LA crew is going to be there. KSM 66 is going to be there. So, again, it's amazing being able to watch this because normally I'm there at these shows, guys. But this one, I'm here at the headquarters, at the Evagen headquarters here in Irving, Texas, being able to do this live stream. I'm going to try to turn this around as quickly as possible. But not to take away anything from this win because I want to speak over, but he just looked great. He did a great job. Him and his coach, Neil Hill, did an awesome job. And I think that you see that taper, the conditioning. There you go. I mean, look how deep those glutes are. Their quads are on point. And the conditioning was definitely the main factor right there for me when I saw the different physiques. All right, guys. So, tomorrow we have the finals for the men, open men. So, we'll see how that goes. We have also men's physique tomorrow, which pre-judging will be in the morning. Evening was going to be the finals along with the finals for the men. And then I believe they said that it was the wheelchair. So, again, thank you to all the sponsors, Panada, Young LA, everybody that really puts back into this industry. It means a lot because we all wouldn't be doing it without all of them. So, again, make sure you click on all of the different links to all the sponsors. And make sure that you tune in tomorrow for the pre-judging as well as the finals. And, guys, do me a favor. Make sure, again, do not forget. Go into the comments. Let me know. Let me know what you guys would like different. What you'd like for me to add. What you'd like for me to take out. In the comments below. I love you all. Honey Rambod. Peace.