 All right, we got a little dog, who's trying to be a big dog, in the house, are you 20 yet? Yeah, I got a little while. So he's got about six more months left, till he hits the big 2-0, still a teenager, and has your mom grounded you lately? No, I learned to just do what she tells me to do, and not ask questions, it's just a lot easier for everybody. Yeah, you guys grounded the last time, so if you haven't seen the last time, what she tells me to do and not ask questions. It's just a lot easier for everybody. He got grounded the last time. So if you haven't seen that episode, he got grounded because of what? I didn't, like, clean my room or something. Yeah. Or something. He knows exactly what it is. He didn't clean his room. His mom says he couldn't go out of the house. And he was supposed to have a shoot with us. And I thought he was kidding. And then he goes, no, no, no. I'm not kidding. I'm really grounded because I didn't clean my room. I was like, well, dude, number one, clean your room. Number two, listen to your mom. And number three, when you're no longer grounded, let's get together and train. And then, like, three or four days later, he was able to come and train. But it was one of those funny things because when was the last time I had one of my athletes grounded? Never. Okay? This is a first. Now, are you staying true to school? Yes. I have a 3.9 right now. 3.9? I'm maintaining that. It is a bit difficult, but it's doable. It just takes time. A lot of studying. Did you pick your major yet? Yeah, I'm in the five-year MBA program, so I'm currently getting my master's in business. So I have a master's in about five years. So about three years from now. So you're going to have a master's with a bachelor's or is it just? Yeah, a master's with a bachelor's. That's it. And business in both. Business administration. Right. So you've got an MBA, master's in business administration. So he is a freshman here locally from Dallas. A lot of people are very excited because they see some really cool genetics. Also, how's Pops? Oh, you're doing good. Yeah. Yeah, it's his 50th birthday. We went to South Africa. I'm currently working on getting that video out. I have so much footage to condense. And I'm editing myself, so everything is getting put into place. It's a lot more effort than I thought it was for a YouTube video. People don't realize that it takes a lot of time, especially when it comes to YouTube videos because it's so long. But I'm currently working on getting that vlog out. But, yeah, it was really cool going to South Africa. I had, like, five people that recognized me there. In the video, there's people that are like, yo, what's up, man? And stuff like that. So it was really cool. Shout out to my South African followers. But, yeah, it was just really cool being out there. They always were like one love, one love. So it was just really welcoming to be there. So we're going to try to get his daddy in here with him. In a couple weeks. So maybe. I'm sure you'll love that. Yeah, we've got to get him in here and be able to see what the genetics come from. Yeah. So that's going to be fun. So today we're going to go ahead and do back. Julian, what are you weighing right now? I'm not sure. Maybe. I'm not sure. Should we find out? Yeah, let's go find out. During summer. I think it was about 2 or 3. So I think I gained around 4 pounds of muscles. Yeah. From eating all that food? Yes. And I'm using, I'm starting to eat cleaner too. So when I get back, I'm using more stuff to get packaged and stuff because the food there is not the best. It's very greasy. You know Marco's Pizza? Yeah. You got a Marco's. Inside of the campus? It is the only, yes, it's the only restaurant that's open past like 12 or like, yeah, 12 a.m. So it's like, it's hard to eat anything else because it's like when you're studying and stuff, you have to go and get food and Marco's the only thing open. You know what I mean? Yeah. We used to do our cans of tuna back in the day. That's right. Cans of chicken, cans of tuna. I would never eat tuna. I'm not going to lie. I can't do that. Tuna? I'd rather get chicken. You didn't see Big Ronnie ever eat tuna when he was in a police car and he'd open up his little can of tuna. Did you ever see that? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Ronnie can have the. All right guys, pre-workout. It's about four o'clock in the afternoon. Flavor of the day, peach mango. Have you tried any of the peach mango yet? I have not. Okay. So we got peach mango 3D and amino chem. We're running the amino chem in the pre's. I've been doing that a lot lately on my own personal workouts because just to help with making sure that the recovery is optimal. So you're getting those essential amino acids and then you're getting an extra dose of betaine as well as S7. And we're going to mix that with grape. And honestly, I didn't think this was going to taste good, but I think it came out fire. You haven't tried it yet. I don't think you've tried even the juicy grape yet. No. Okay. So we're going to go ahead and try the combo. So 3D amino chem with juicy grape AQ. And then you're going to let me know how it is. Okay. All right. Let's go. There you go. You're going to use this scooper here. Okay. For each one. So then we got back. Yeah. So you have two scoops. Again, that's non-stim. Two scoops here. One scoop there. Oh, two. Okay. Yep. And then a half a lid. There you go. You're very welcome. You excited? I'm getting excited because I want to see you get that back to grow. Yeah. That's actually really good. That's really good. Yeah. I told you that's good. Yeah, that's pretty good. It doesn't sound that great. But yeah, the peach mango and grape combo. Again, guys, the new juicy grape is now in AQ as well as extreme. So money. We do the FSC7 back attack. Damn. That must have been real good because there ain't nothing left in that. Yeah. Overlapping my shoulders. Yep. And now I got my shoulders to, you know what I mean? So we're getting there. He's so proud of his shoulders right now. I am. I've worked so hard. He's done it a long time since I've seen him. Yo, y'all have no idea the amount of side. Laterals? Yes. Like, I've been working on my shoulders. I'm very proud of them. Okay. But I know you want to do a front double bicep because that's your. I do. Yeah. Let's see it right there. Right there. All right. Let's see it. For the cameras. Boom. Good, man. Your arms actually look a little smaller now. Yeah. I'm totally kidding, but. I think so. Because the shoulders. I don't know. It's the shoulders, man. No, no, no. Well, your arms actually look even fuller, but actually you look a little more complete because your shoulders have grown. So when you're putting your arms down, there's still overpower your shoulders, but not as much. Yeah. So you're definitely catching up, which is really good. We are going to continue to grow. And one of the videos that I was doing yesterday here with Nate, we were talking about with Phil, was that for one of the Olympias, the first one that he actually won, I made Phil not train arms all the way up until three weeks before the show. Because what it did was it created such imbalance in his body that it made him look narrower if his arms were full. So we made his shoulders full and we flattened his arms out, and then we only trained it at the very end of the prep. So therefore, his shoulders looked way wider. So again, and I got a little junior version of Phil here, you know, that is trying to be able to balance it. Yeah, JR. We got the JR version. So what we're going to do is really try to get a lot more size everywhere. But individually, the shoulders have grown. Chest even looks a little bit bigger. Back, everything's grown. But we want to be able to really build up the back the most right now. I want to be able to grit a lot more of that 3D thickness, lower trap. We want to get the lats wider. We want to get the back thicker. So we're going to work on that today. So we're going to hit some really good rows. We're going to start off with some pull downs and work all the different angles so we can get him that 3D back. We want to be able to get that back to get fuller, more pumped, and get that better mind-muscle connection. So if you're like that and you have some really good arms and your back's not growing, well, this video just might be for you. So let's give it a try. Yeah. Off of what he just said, I agree. Whenever I do isolation low row, like these right here, I do feel like my arms want to take over. So I have to kind of like the handle, I have to kind of like twist my hand in so that it forces my back. So that's called supinating the wrist. Yeah, I have to supinate my wrist and then go right here and then kind of like force that back to go. Because if I don't, then my arms will just be bicep. So, yeah, I definitely know what you said. Yeah. So, again, we're going to go over, throw you some cues, some things that you can work with. And do not forget, go into the comments and let us know what you think in regards to, he needs a nickname, guys. Throw in to the comments below a good nickname for Julian. Yes. All right. Let's do this. Good. Control. Good. Excellent. Good. So we're using the super lat pull down circular panada machine. Really good because it really stimulates your lats, but it also really helps you feel like you're doing almost like a back double bicep on stage. That's why this is one of my favorite back pieces because it really helps you with the contraction at the midpoint, which is the point that it's all the way down. So remember, the starting and ending point is at the very top. You want to be able to get a really good stretch. Feel, you feeling that stretch? Yeah. Good. Good. Let's do two more. Squeeze. Good. One more. Now we're going to pause right there. Just pause right there. Three more seconds. Three, two, and one. Good job. Good. Now we're going to go ahead and throw a quarter on there. Do another warm-up set. Pull. Good. Good. Okay. Now two more. Now you see how fast you're moving upwards? Yeah. That eccentric slowdown. That's better. That's what I want you to focus on. Good. Pull. Good. Control the negative. That's better. Good. Again. Good. Again. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Now stretch. And let go. Good. Now we're going to wait about a minute and a half to two minutes. So, again, one thing that a lot of younger athletes do is they do not think of the eccentric, which is on the way up, and they release. The tension needs to be held onto the muscle to the entire range of motion, not just on the concentric on the way down, but on the way up as well. It's going to make you grow, and it's going to actually help your power. Let's go. Boom. Good. There you go. Good. Excellent. Two. Good. Three. Good. Four. Good. You're going to give me ten. Five. Good. Good. Keep going. Keep going. Seven. Keep going. Eight. Again. Nine. One more. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it slow. Good job. There you go. Yeesh. Alright. So guys, one big thing is a lot of people will ask which handle is best. It's really a matter of making sure that you use both handles. You want to be able to use different grips because you're going to feel slightly different stretch in your lats. So I like to be able to use, whether you're using a pull-down machine or you're using the Panada piece, using neutral grip or using just an overhand grip. Some of the machines will have a reverse grip. Make sure you change them up because the variation is going to allow you to continue to grow. Your body gets used to certain angles, especially when you're using the same machine over again. So utilize both sets of handles. You need one more. Alright. Yeah. I mean that's the same way. Just give it another, yeah, give it another 30-45 seconds. Okay. We'll do that. So this next set we're going to do is we're going to go ahead and go overhand. So that way we can be able to hit that second variation. Right. Yep. Depending on the person and the athlete, you'll have a tendency to feel a little bit more arm recruitment on one over the other. So as you're going through, just see after we're done, you can let me know which one did you feel it more in your back versus your byes. Okay. Yeah. Let's roll. Overhand on this one. Keep it moving. Keep it moving. Two. Go. Go. Up. Three. Good. Four. Control. Five. Control. Six. Control. Seven. Control. Seven. Control. Seven. Control. Seven. Control. One. Two. Two. Control. Eight. Control. Nine. Good. One more. You're going to pull down and you're going to hold this one. Five seconds. Four. Three. Two. Oh, good job. There you go. Yeesh. That's nice. All right. Which one did you feel more bicep recruitment in? The overhand or the neutral? Definitely this. That one. Yep. And that's where normally you would feel it. Yeah. Now, one thing you will feel sometimes is as you're doing an overhand, you might feel a little more in the forearm versus a little bit more in the bicep with just using power grip. So, when you're doing this, I like to use both. So, whether you want to use both angles in the same workout or if you want to switch that up, it's entirely up to you. But I recommend trying to make sure that you do both so you have a better idea and understanding of where you're going to get that maximum contraction in your back. That's why changing up the angles are so important. Whether you're doing pull-ups, whether you're doing pull-downs, or whether you're using a machine. Based on what you said not too long ago, I do find that a lot of my workouts, I do single arm because it is kind of difficult for me to focus on both at the same time. Like, I didn't really catch it until I started, like, got big enough to see some, like, asymmetry. And, like, wait, I need to work on this. And then I realized when I do both, it's like, I'm consciously kind of working harder on one end and I have to kind of, like, switch in between. So I usually just do single arm and then just match on the other side so I know I'm not, you know, doing one more than the other. But with stuff like this, you can kind of do double because it's like you're still pulling in. But when it comes to, like, bench press and stuff like that, it gets kind of difficult. And even with rows, one arm's good too. Yeah. We can go ahead and do that as well. Now, the good thing about this is actually this is designed to be single as well. That's why you have the script here. You would use this to be able to really anchor yourself with the opposite arm. Okay. And then you can go ahead and bring it down. Yeah, I just imagine I probably do single. Yeah. So we'll do one set like that just to give it a try. Cool. So take a plate off because it's going to be a little heavy. Excuse me. Always want to make sure you square up your shoulders so you're not leaning too far to one side. Good. Good. Stretch and squeeze. Good. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. square. Good. You want to keep your hips anchored so you get a better stretch. Pull, good. There you go. Julian's been working on his back, trying to get his back fuller and thicker. And doing these single arm pull downs is going to help tremendously. Stretch and squeeze. Good. Good. Two more. Two more. You got this. Bring that elbow down. Good. One more. Hold it. Slow. Good job. There you go. So this Panada lat pull down is a killer. Love the fact that you can be able to unilaterally train and be able to still brace yourself with the handle. Let's go. Left side now. Good. Control. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Keeping his shoulders square, keeping his hips down so he doesn't lift his butt so that he can be able to anchor himself and stretch that lat. Bring that arm out. There you go. And pull. Good. Good. Stretch. Good. Pull. One more. One more. You got this. Pull that elbow down. Down. Down. A little further. Right there. Hold it. Slow. Slow. Slow. Good job. There you go. Now hit it back to the bicep. Just sitting there. Let's go. Let's go. There you go. Make it work. Show everybody exactly what it takes to be able to grow that back. Good. Good. Now I want you to arch. Back that. There you go. Now I want you to stretch. Stretch forward. And then I want you to arch and pull. Good. Good. Good. So we're using a slight supinated grip. So we're using a slight supinated grip. The nice thing about this particular piece is that you can be able to turn as much as you'd like. You can go neutral. You can go power grip. Good. You can use a supinated grip. The supinated grip is going to work that lower lat where he's trying to fill in. Good. Pull. Just like a bent over reverse grip row. Good go again good Good Keep it slightly like that Right there right there now pull One more one more you got it go go Hold it hold it. Oh Just don't don't go super super reverse just keep it slightly supinated like that. Yeah. Yeah right there cool These little foot things they really come in handy. Yeah, so pedals So like this right there. Yep, like a video game. Okay. Yep. Just activate that lower lat put your feet down This should pin your hips right there Good stretch and then pull excellent good. You need that back to grow come on Go Good again Again Good Good good good come on go Good Good come on Pull good Two more two more One more Pull that's good. That's it Yeah Burn yes, she's burning Oh So who've you trained with the biggest with the biggest back? Who's the biggest back the biggest back? Yeah that you've trained? Probably The densest was Phil The widest is Jay The biggest The biggest overall that I've trained with but I wasn't coaching but I trained with him is Ronnie! Yeah Yeah, and then all and the guy that trains one of the hardest guys that trains is hottie Like in regards to that Is he so strong? Yeah, very strong and just it has crazy endurance I was saying what the hell is like like when I get further like really where do I go? Cuz if I'm just bumping up all the weights like I can't go to a regular commercial gym, you know what I mean? Like where am I supposed to go to train? You know what I mean? How do you get to do it? Cuz when I see them training they have like these crazy stacks of like all these weights and stuff like Well if you're just gonna be able to go to places that you're gonna have to do barbells and if they don't have dumbbells heaviness There's never a time you're not gonna have a heavy barbell you can always throw in place But you got to just make sure your form is good too because at some point you're gonna hit your limit where you're not gonna have a good form You can't just keep piling on weight. Yeah, you gotta reset every now and then. Yeah, go ahead. Let's go Good good Now let's go on overhand go on overhand overhand there you go now stretch it yep We're just gonna change up the angle. That's good. There you go. It's gonna take a little bit more bicep out of it Cool good Good good stretch now pull focus good Good stretch good now pull excellent There now pull Good overhand overhand overhand more keep it on overhand go Good Good again two more go go good Good come on come on Julie It's time to grow good Last one last one good form pull Pull pull pull pull pull right there hold it hold it slow slow All right next exercise we're gonna do pinata the t-bar row you can go single arm or we can go ahead and lock the mechanism out We go I went ahead and locked it out so we're gonna use Two arms we're gonna keep your hands overhand there you're gonna put you in a nice stretch position now you know arch your back There you go from there good and then you're gonna pull Good again trying to hit up multiple angles of the row good arch and pull good as you come up I want you to arch your back Good cool, that's better Now you want to recruit all those fibers in your mid back good Again go good good again go Good go keep going Good good keep going good good Good good keep going good good Good one more one more come on pull good that's it That's it That's it You know I definitely this machine specifically feel like the inconsistency or the weaknesses Because the stretch is so much I can be like oh I'm definitely activating this side more than the other side But that's good because that allows me to kind of focus on the other one and then you can fix those kind of you know things So let's see you back to the bicep right there come on Okay Chest up now hold that Hold it big fist there you go open it up stay wider Good good hold that I want you to just hold it hold it Good job good All right, let's go one more set here we're gonna stretch and we're gonna squeeze we're gonna really thicken up that back too Just like what we did to increase your shoulder density we're gonna do with your back density with this So really focus on being able to get a really good contraction You're gonna keep your hands overhand like that so your arms don't kick in as much right? There you go you're gonna get a good stretch go Stretch and pull good there you go go go that's that's the tempo go that's the tempo go that's the tempo go That's the tempo go that's the tempo go That's the tempo go Good Slow and drive Good Stretch the stretch the traps And pull Good Again Good Pull Good Come on join Good Good Good Partial Partial Halfway up Oh yeah Okay Dude That's it Shout out to Banana for making these death traps Yeah Appreciate it The one plate wonder So the key here was that we stayed away from anything that was reverse grip Because again amazing arms Arms are kicking in like crazy But what we need is not more arm density we need more back density So we kept it overhand grip pulled in trying to thicken up the trap the lower trap as well as the mid back So now we're gonna go ahead and focus on just the trap and we're gonna do some slight bend forward So we're gonna do some slight bend forward and we're gonna go ahead and focus on just the trap And we're gonna do some slight bend forward shrugs on a Panada trap machine So this is gonna be a really really good trap exercise Now you're gonna stretch down Stretch down Good And then lift Right to the back of your neck Perfect Perfect Good Good Yeah Exactly Pinch right up there Go Good Good Good Squeeze that together Come on There's a little baby traps Come on Come on Good It's time to get them to grow Good Stretch And pull Good Stretch down Stretch down Stretch Now pull Good Two more like that Stretch Pull Good You never do traps do you? Nope Yep I can see that So why Do I know that he never does traps? Number one It's because The way that he's fatigued He gets fatigued very very quickly Almost like somebody who never trains abs And they start shaking after the third or fourth rep Same thing as he was doing this So why do you not train traps? I saw Ronnie And Phil And they had these like gigantic traps And it looked like he was a little person in a big person's body And I was like there's no way that's aesthetic for like bodybuilding But I realized it may be But I was like yo that's kind of crazy Cause like most of my like at least upper body wise like my muscle responds pretty fast So I was like if I start working traps it might blow up pretty fast and it's gonna look weird So I was like I don't know if I should train them or not So I just never like focus on training them maybe I should You absolutely need to train traps And the reason why is number one you're going to look like completely unbalanced if you don't train traps But you can eventually not train traps when your traps get big enough and your back gets big enough So that your back as you're training back your traps kick in But he's not at that point yet So your actual back will get bigger as you train traps Because then your back will not be weakened by the weakest body part Which lifting this for 45 pounds or about 135 pounds with the apparatus is not going to be an issue So for you to be able to do heavier back lifts you need to make sure that your traps are strong enough as well So again The eyebrows on the demon back The little eyebrows Yeah That's it The eyebrows of his back Yes That's what you call it That's the technical That's for you That's for your bro science people out there Yeah, see we're trying to build those traps up Now he's got a little pump going so you can see that This needs to be much more 3D So when you talk about the rhomboid you're looking at the trap Trap, lower trap, all of that area We want to be able to really build a lot of depth Some people call it the turtle shell Like because it starts to look like a turtle shell But that needs to really start to hang to be able to keep up with the rest of the physique So therefore the traps are super important to get strong so that they can be able to assist in those heavy lifts for back Go Good, good Good Good Good There you go Come on stretch And squeeze Good Stretch And squeeze Good Good Stretch, relax, relax, relax Now drive up There you go Again Come on Two more Two more One more Higher Higher There you go Woo Now we're going to change the angle a little bit We're going to go over hand grip Just like what we consider a barbell grip Good Go up There you go Good Good Good Again Squeeze Come on Again guys, traps are very important It's a great ancillary muscle to help with that extra back growth So you can handle the heavier weights and your traps don't end up going to failure before your back does Good Stretch, stretch and pull Good Good job Boom Alright Let's pose it out right there under that light Right there Right there There Little further away Right there Now face me Take it, oh tank No, you can keep your tank top on Actually, take your tank top off Let's go There you go There you go Don't worry about the mic Boom There you go Boom Back is pumped up Traps are pumped up You can even see the traps are even firing Those little fibers going off on there Good Good Let me see you do a lat spread You know how to do one? That's a hard one for you Yeah Chest up, chest up Yep Now go out Shoulders out Good Further Further out More More More More Keep going Chest up Traps down There you go Chest up Chest up There you go Out Out Out You got it Hold that Get it out Get it out Get it out Get it out You need to practice that Yes You practice your back double bicep Because you like to do your front double bicep So it's really easy But you don't practice your front or your rear lat spread I know You need to do that Yeah Now let me see your most muscular From the front Oh Chest up Chest up There you go Much more dense through the shoulders Chest That looks better Keep your midsection tight Good Shoulders out a little bit There you go Like that Good Now let me see a crab Chest A little more chest Squeeze your chest more Pecs Pecs Pecs Pecs Pecs Pecs Pecs More pecs Chin up Chin up Don't block your leg Squeeze your chest Upper pec Upper pec Lean forward a little bit Squeeze upper There you go Squeeze that Squeeze that There you go Yeah Most muscular And Last foot That was the right Guys Let me know what you guys think What he improved on Is his body getting bigger? Do you think it's getting better? Go into the comments below I want to know what you guys think Made some big changes In my opinion Putting on About six, seven pounds Six, seven pounds Six, seven pounds Since the summer And Now Focusing on being able to get a little stronger I know that What's the toughest thing? Being In college While trying to be a bodybuilder Like To Do Everything To perfection So My Videos My Programs Anything that I like to work on I like to work on I like to do it myself Because I can't be mad at anybody Because I'm like No, I made this myself And I can go back And tweak every little thing Like even in projects at school I'm like Okay, just Like you do your part of the information I'll design it Like I'll design the whole project Because I'm kind of like a perfectionist Like I want a little And also it helps me grow Like I also like do that Because it helps me to You know, get new things Like I'm now learning how to edit better I'm now learning how to Design things better Because I do it myself often So I know what works What doesn't work I'm like a Canva master right now Because I'm over here You know, making presentations and stuff Like currently I'm working on my workout program I said that I was going to finish it Sometime during school And I did But I went to people and got reviews And they're like, yeah, it's too much information on one slide Because I basically made one big slide Had, you know, the graphics and everything And then the workout And then how to do the workout Because I realized when I'm at the gym Not a lot of people know what they're doing So I'm like, okay, well I can't Especially because my audience is a lot of the younger generation I can't just say do shoulder press Because they're not going to do it properly You know what I mean? Or they might, you know, have some form issues That I need to put on there So I still have all the information But now I've put it in multiple slides And I have, you know, photos I'm going to be taking of me doing the workout Because I know in today's generation Because of TikTok, social media People have a lot less, like, focus And so, you know, the biggest thing on the page Should not necessarily be the instructions But just a photo of you doing it Because what if they do know how to do it? You know what I mean? Then they can just look at the photo And do it themselves If they're an advanced lifter So it just makes it more practical More versatile for a lot of different people And so working on that Which is a lot of work Keeping a 3.9 Going to the gym consistently Because I'm in the gym for like 3 hours 3 to 4 hours Depending on it My friends are always bugging me Oh my gosh, get out of the gym Because I don't have a car So we all travel together And so they have to sit there And wait for me to finish my workout And so like, I'm trying to work out But why are you taking 3 hours to work out? Because I have a lot of volume Yeah, that's too much Yeah, yeah, I have a lot of volume We got that back a bit Yeah, usually Yo, my friend I think you just like to hang out Yeah, I know That's it He likes to hang out at the gym My friend Caleb He's a scientific lifter too He looked Yo, he almost had an inures He's like, dude, what are you doing? This is way too much And it's at the same time It's like, I enjoy, you know, being at the gym That's my happy place That's why you're in there for so much It's not because you're being a science-based lifter You just love to be at the gym I like being at the gym And then also my friend was like Yo, no wonder you got so big Because you had to adapt to this Like, this is incredible volume Like, you're doing crazy work Because they're always like, dude, how do you even have the energy to do a 4-hour workout? You know what I mean? And I'm just chilling I'm just, you know, just skipping and walking around and talking to people Yeah Singing between sets Yes, but it's a lot, you know, schoolwork So trying to get videos out You know, designing things A lot of big things Like a workout program Making sure everything's perfect Because if people are going to buy it with their money I want to make sure it's the highest quality that I can provide them You know what I mean? So I'm really just making sure that I'm doing everything I possibly can to make it good I'm not just trying to throw a project out there for a quick buck I'm actually trying to help people Because even when I'm at my gym now Today, the gym that I'm mostly at Kids come up to me all the time and be like Hey, remember that thing you told me before you went to college? Dude, I'm a lot bigger now I'm a lot stronger now because you helped me out with that And that makes me very happy Because I'm like, yeah, like, you know, I can actually help people And that's really like what I want to do I want to help people because how can I have competition? Or how can I like help the younger generation if I'm not giving them what I've learned? You know what I mean? So like, you know, I'm making it cost money and stuff like that But at the same time, it's like whenever I have the chance to help people I just help them, you know what I mean? Because I would expect the same thing And when I was growing up, people helped me as well So, yeah, it's just all of that Just making sure that I'm really just putting out my best quality And all that takes a lot of time, it takes a lot of effort Well, you can do that now And we can do that with only being at the gym for an hour and a half An hour and a half? Yeah Really? Yeah, this guy loves to be at the gym I don't, okay, maybe He loves to be at the gym He can be there for an hour and a half That's two hours if it's like a really long leg workout I can see that, take a little more time But I just think he loves to hang out, so If you were in my college, like, if you were in my college You'd be like, why are you at the gym for four hours, man? Well, we maybe have to come by So, guys, let me know also in the comments below If I should go to his gym at his college Get a guest pass, can they get a guest pass? Yes Okay, and go over there And we can maybe go in to his school And see how that workout is going to go You see a lot of dudes in there Four hours They're going to be like, yo, what's going on? What's Hany doing over here? Yeah, they'll be like, what are you doing? And then, you know, people are hogging the machines People are slamming the weights, dudes Because there's women in there too So they're trying to slam the weights The girls are slamming the weights? No, no, no, the girls are doing fine But it's like, the guys are always trying to show up So you should be like, dude, this is over, dude Is that what they do with you? Are they trying to, like, up you? Yeah, sometimes But they gave up after a little while I remember this one time where I was trying to fast Because I'm an ortho-oxidant, so we take fasting seriously And there was one time where I'm not going to listen to music So I was just going to the gym and just try to focus and lock in And the one day I went to the gym There were these dudes in the back It was a group of four You know, they always come in packs They're like, yo, I'm the strongest in the gym I'm the strongest in the gym And bro was over there repping, like, 2.25 for like three or four And I was like, do you want me to just ignore it? So I just kept going, I just ignore it And then eventually I was like, you know, you're not the strongest, bro And so they were like, alright, let's have it And I just completely cooked, bro What'd you do? Yo, I did three 15 for like five And he was like, yeah, I can't do that And from that point on we were all cool Like, every time I went in there, you know, we would just dap up It's like when you get a little older and people get into a little fight Like the two lions And then after that, they end up becoming buddies At least guys do that Women, maybe not so much Guys end up getting into them to become friends It's kind of a guy thing Yeah, yeah, so I just worked out with them And, you know, we're all cool now and stuff like that And people just stop trying to run on me And I'm like, I'm not focused on that And you're probably not going to win that So, it is ways But every now and then I'll get somebody that's stronger Like, I just have my friend in here He's stronger than me I really respect him That's my rival Yeah, he's really cool That's awesome Now do a frontal bicep There you go Boom Good Good, you're posing better Fist down Fist down Turn That's it That's better Good Good Right there Squeeze Just like that Now hold it Five Four Three Two One Good job Hit that frontal bicep Let's go Come on Show them how it's done Boom That's it Peek those biceps Good Supinate that wrist Right there Hold it Good Front elbow bicep, four, three, squeeze, two, one more, one more, one more. Easy control. Good job. Good. Let's see our side chest. Good. Foot together. There you go. Up on your heel. That's it. Put those feet together. Right there. Hold it. Just see what that looks like. Good. Like that. Don't lean your neck. Lean your neck up in here. Okay? Good. Squeeze that chest into there. Boom. Push that shoulder into that. Like that. Okay? Like that. Move your whole body because you're in the shadow. Move your whole body right there. Good. There you go. A little more. A little more. You're still in the shadow. There you go. Good. Fist. Arch your back. Good. Don't lean back. Just arch your back. No, no. Like that. Good. Now squeeze your chest. Put your shoulder down. Like that. There you go. Good. Hold that. Good. Good. Squeeze that. Hold it. Hold it. Five seconds. Five. Four. Three. Two. Good. We got to practice that one. Yeah. Good. Good. Good. Now catch your breath. And I want you to see your most muscular. Squeeze that chest. Upper chest. Chill up. That's it. Lean forward. There you go. Hold that. Hold that. Hold that. Hold it. Hold it right there. Lean forward a little bit. Five. Squeeze your chest. Upper chest. Five. Four. Three. Two. Two seconds. Two seconds. Two seconds. Squeeze. Squeeze. Good job. There you go. You're getting better at that one. Good job. All right. Julian. Halfway through his sophomore year in college, believe it or not. Only 19. Going to be 20 in June. And how was the back workout? It was awesome. Yeah. I really felt so good. She's a lot better than commercial gyms. Yeah. So shout out to Minada, definitely. But yeah, it feels great. Yeah. It was really good. Really good form. He's getting stronger. We did some single arm pull downs, which is really good. And I feel like what's happening is you're seeing his body develop quickly as he's starting to mature, but he's putting the time in as well. He didn't do a dirty bulk. He's doing a lean, clean bulk. So the abdominals are still showing. He's not gaining lower back fat whatsoever. His upper chest has grown. His shoulders are grown. His arms won't stop growing. So those are all happening. Now we're going to have to continue to keep building on his back. His back has improved, but again, proportionally, he needs to continue to grow the back. And the next workout we're going to do, legs. So then we're going to see how much growth he's really put into his lower body. So I can't wait for that. You ready to get tortured? Yes. Yes. Okay. Let's do it.