 autemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplempl For you guys, fresh off the presses, a study which indexes all relevant human case reports where Tremblone was a contributing factor to hospital admittance or even death. Yes, Tremblone was being used when these subjects passed away. Now, was it the sole root cause or did these patients pass away from a horrible bout of Trencoff? There's only one way to find out. Let's dive into the study together and see if we still want to use Tremblone after we're done reading, reviewing, and analyzing this study and painstakingly trying to come up with ways to justify further Tremblone news going forward. This literature review was performed by Lucas Casiri Camara, Diogo Pinto da Costa Viana, and Lucio de Sousa Monte Alto, who are all from Brazil. Fingers crossed I didn't butcher your guys' names. I tried my absolute best to pronounce these names correctly. This is like my 10th take already, but I have limited understanding of Portuguese. Desculpe. Anyway, this study is titled Adverse Effects of Tremblone, a Structured Review of Case Reports in Humans. It was published on March 14th, 2025, so that's a little bit over a month ago, and it was published in the World Journal of Pharmaceutical Science and Research. Let's dive into it. Here in the introduction, the researchers mentioned that Tremblone is being used to improve feed efficiency in cattle, and due to its potent anabolic properties, increasing body weight and overall muscle mass in these animals, it quickly gained interest in the bodybuilding community. Even though there is no regulatory agency which approved Tremblone for human usage, and the human clinical trial data is extremely limited. Which isn't exactly true. Tremblone hexhydrobenzocarbonate was actually approved for human medical treatments in France between the 1980s and 1979, after which it was voluntarily discontinued, likely due to heavy abuse by the bodybuilding community. And from France, Parabolin, which was the brand name, found its way all over the world and was readily used in the bodybuilding community, as many of the IFP pros have documented in the early to late 1990s. It was produced by Laboratories NECMA, aka NECMA Pharmaceuticals. Unfortunately, we only have the front page of the medical insert available. I was never able to find the back page of the medical insert, which might contain references or citations to human studies or human clinical trials. These were unfortunately never published, not to be found anywhere, but they might be sitting in a vault within Merck Animal Health USA, who owns the rights to Tremblone acetate, and still produces various veterinary Tremblone products to this day. Anyway, I discuss all of this in the Tremblone deep dive video, gift I want to watch if you haven't already. Further on in the introduction, the researchers mentioned that in the animal studies, there are clear observed adverse effects and toxicity concerns. Now, these toxicity concerns are mostly coming from the animals surrounding the cattle ranches where Tremblone acetate is being administered to cattle, and then they basically pee out the Tremblone or the Tremblone metabolites. It's seeping into the groundwater, and thus all of the surrounding animals are polluted with Tremblone or Tremblone metabolites. And the adverse effects observed in animals are rarely reported, to be honest, from all of the studies that I read. And mostly, these animal models look into feed efficiency. How much extra meat can this cow produce when we supplement a little bit of Tremblone sandwich in for the same amount of food, right? They gain 25% more muscle by the addition of Tremblone, and that's a lot more cost effective. Now, obviously, there are concerns from the lack of human clinical data or overall safety data in human subjects. And thus, they aim to provide a comprehensive literature review of all of the human case reports to identify patterns of adverse effects and provide clinically relevant information for safer usage in patients. Then again, Tremblone users and abusers are not patients. We don't use Tremblone for medical conditions. Medical conditions we don't suffer from. And Tremblone users don't suffer from cachexia or states of undernutrition and are certainly not elderly. When you're old, you shouldn't be using Tremblone. You should just relax on TRT only. Tremblone we don't use following a major surgery. We use BPC-157, TB-500, GHK-Copper, growth hormone, anivar, and collagen peptides, allegedly. Tremblone we don't use to resolve extensive burns or bed sores. And when we are senile or we have glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis, we don't use Tremblone for that. And if we do use Tremblone, most bodybuilders don't limit themselves to 76 milligrams per bolin yielding 50 milligrams net Tremblone per injection done every 15 days to every month. So the medical treatment dosages, which were at one point or another approved in France up until 1997, we completely forego. And the dosages we take in most instances are far, far, far, far higher. The researchers looked for applicable human case reports on PubMed, Embase, and Central, using various keywords related to the Tremblone sandwich. They aim to obtain relevant information, including patient gender, age, history of Tremblone use, their medical history and history of other drug use or abuse, the affected organs, laboratory findings, toxicology screening, and even organ imaging. So they were very thorough. I got to give them credit for that. That's not something I did for the Tremblone deep dive because I felt that the Tremblone case reports were a little bit all over the place and not exactly what I was aiming for, for the Tremblone deep dive. So we got to give these guys some credit because they did all the work for us. And I'm just here analyzing their results. In the results of this study, the researchers indexed the adverse findings in table two. You see here that all patients were male. No surprise there. Women shouldn't be using Tremblone unless they compete in a bodybuilding competition, but we'll save that for a different discussion in a different video. Eight men were between 20 to 30 years old. Ten men were between 30 to 40 years old. Two between 40 and 50 years old. And two were close to 60 years old. Imagine taking Tremblone when you're 60 years old. Again, you should stick to TRT and TRT only when you're over 50, 55 years old, in my opinion. That's exactly what I'm going to do. So I got about 15 years left. To be fair, though, the adverse effects are kind of all over the place. They aren't very consistent. There are six instances of cardiovascular disease, half of which were determined posthumously after death. And as we all know, cardiovascular or heart disease, left ventricular hypertrophy or heart failure doesn't happen overnight. That happens over a multitude of different years. Not acutely as you're taking Tremblone. So was Tremblone a contributing factor? Very likely. But was it the sole root cause of cardiovascular disease, heart failure or even death? Probably not. There were five instances of liver-related complications, most of which have reported polypharmacy, long-term steroid use or abuse in general, or the use of other ergogenic aids, as well as chronic alcohol consumption while using Tremblone. Again, liver-related complications could be caused by a multitude of different factors, including lifestyle choices, right? When you're taking Tremblone, you shouldn't be drinking alcohol, especially not chronically and insane high dosages. Because that's the Ziz way, that's the Gen Pop way. If you're a little bit older, take care of your health, take care of your liver, especially when you're using Tremblone. Because as you'll see from the study, Tremblone might have a modifying effect on bile acid secretion. If you're not supplementing with TUTCA, then liver health obviously is going to take a turn for the worst. Even though the animal models show that Tremblone is somewhat liver safe. There were three instances of kidney injury, one of which was actually related to rhabdomyolysis. Kidney injury can be caused by chronic oxidative stress or chronically elevated blood pressure, just like chronically elevated blood pressure can have a negative effect on heart health in your cardiovascular system, which can occur with any kind of steroid. This is well documented with a couple different steroids, including Nandrolone. And kidney injury in general is very well documented with BOLDENON, both in animal models and human subjects. I already made a deep dive describing the human subject and the animal models in a two-parter deep dive. But these studies have not been reproduced in other steroids. So you might say that BOLDENON is absolutely deleterious and terrible for kidney health. But if these same studies, these same models have not been reproduced in the other steroids, then all you have to go with is case reports. And you might be able to say that BOLDENON is deleterious for your health and Tremblone, due to the case reports, is also deleterious for your health. But if kidney injury has never been studied in Mastroone or Primabolin or testosterone or the other steroids, that doesn't mean that those steroids are safe for your kidneys. Absence of evidence doesn't equal evidence of absence, right? Keep this in mind going forward. I don't think that any steroid is kidney safe if you don't manage your oxidative stress or your blood pressure. What is interesting, though, and I'm sure some of you guys can relate to this to a certain extent, five cases of brain trauma, mostly manifesting psychological issues and disorders, which, well, it's very likely related to Tremblone. I mean, the documented cases anecdotally and even in the scientific evidence regarding Tremblone's terrible negative effects on your mood and your overall composure is extensive. Let's be honest. And these case reports are basically the worst of the worst. What can happen while using Tremblone? We'll dive into that a little bit more later on. And there are a few single case reports with a wide range of adverse effects, including acne, eye herpes, diabetes, injection depot complications resulting in necrosis, which is very likely related to some random underground lab that's completely unsterile or produced in synthetic carrier oil, literally dissolving the muscle from the inside or the bacteria eating away at the muscle from the inside. And Tremblone, there's even one case report resulting in pancreatitis. I think all of these case reports can be explained away. They aren't solely related to Tremblone. Well, maybe the acne is. Don't watch. Don't read that case report. It's absolutely disgusting, brutal graphic imagery. We're not going to show to you guys, but the citations are all linked down below in case you want to get some snuff in for the day. And there are more case report findings indexed in table three and four, but it's a little bit hard to interpret what the dosage patterns, the toxicology, the polypharmacy, and the patient health background for each commonly reported complication actually is. So I made it very easy for your dopamine depleted, trend brain, and grouped everything together. You're welcome. So let's get started with the cardiovascular related complications. First, being case reports 5, 11, 12, 17, 20, and 22. And doesn't this look nice and tidy and comprehensive? Here we can clearly see that two out of four guys passed away while using Tremblone, which was confirmed during the autopsy. They were around 60 years old. The other two were around 30 years old. So I don't think this can happen to you if you're reasonably young. If you're using Trin into your 30s, you can pass away at any time. Even though, again, I don't think that Tremblone is the sole root cause of these four guys passing away. Three out of four were using other steroids or other ergogenic aids chronically. So again, compounding factors resulting into their demise. Unfortunately, in these deaths, the dosages of Tremblone were not reported. Were they using excessive dosages of Tremblone or just a teeny tad bit, let's say 50 milligrams per week. We'll never know. Unfortunately, in case report, 17 Tremblone dosages ranged between 500 milligrams to 700 milligrams weekly for total cycle duration of six weeks to 10 weeks. This person probably did multiple Tremblone cycles yearly. We'll discuss case 17 a little bit more in depth later on because this is considered a high-dose Tremblone case report. And that's always very interesting to dive into. And in the case of case 20, there's even daily use of Tremblone for over a year. Now, unfortunately, the total weekly intake of Tremblone was not reported. But this person suffered a heart attack at 23 years old after a year long of Tremblone abuse, basically. So this all sounds like chronic Tremblone exposure to me. It's probably not a good idea to take higher doses of Tremblone for longer periods of time, especially when you're six years old combined with polypharmacy. So a little bit caution is advised. Low-dose, short-duration Tremblone is probably the best way to go. Next, our case reports 2, 6, 7, 13, and 19 discussing liver-related complications. Keep in mind that most of the men in these case reports were below 30 years old. So it looks like they don't make those livers like they used to. I mean, my liver is pretty resilient. And I took Tremblone up to 1,000 milligrams weekly. I mean, I was a walking bundle of side effect. Don't do what I did in the past. 1,000 milligrams of Tremblone for four weeks. It was absolute hell, but my liver markers were actually quite acceptable at that time. But I also eat healthy, and I don't drown my sorrows in alcohol-fueled rages like most adolescents do, and then forget to report that during hospital admittance. Dosages ranged between 175 milligrams Tremblone weekly up to 1,000 milligrams Tremblone weekly. Don't worry. We'll discuss case 2 in depth a little bit later on. Case 13 was taking 175 milligrams Tremblone weekly, but he got his Tremblone from Thailand. At age 21, he developed severe cholestasis. I mean, we all know that that Thai trend hits differently. Only case report 7 reported excessive alcohol consumption at 300 milligrams Tremblone weekly, resulting in severe cholestasis and nephropathy. But I suspect all of the other case reports, or at least the guys below 30 years old, that they were using other recreational drugs or alcohol or maybe even combining their Tremblone with Superdrol, which was shown to be liver toxic in every single case report. Yes, 100% of the case reports surrounding Superdrol were about severe liver toxicity. Tremblone and other steroids, as well as arimidex, are known to reduce bile acid production. So take your Tatka, avoid the alcohol, and shut the f*** up, genses. So take your Tatka, avoid the alcohol, and let's see what we can learn from those. Unfortunately, there's not much to go with. Case 4 reported five years of Tremblone use, probably on and off again. And case 7 used 300 milligrams Tremblone weekly and drank alcohol excessively over the weekend. This is probably also not a good idea. And case 8 only did two injections resulting in a rhabdomyolysis. Now, elevated blood pressure, oxidative stress, low antioxidant status, low estradiol levels, dehydration, probably from excessive alcohol consumption, whether that's daily or over the weekend, for example, can all contribute to kidney stress. Is Tremblone terrible for kidneys, or is it terrible lifestyle choices making your kidneys melt? It's probably both, because Tremblone is, in many cases, a terrible lifestyle choice, because they're not doing everything correctly and staying sufficiently hydrated, taking the prophylactic ancillaries to control blood pressure, and doing everything that they need to do to keep their antioxidant status as high as possible, right? So I think Tremblone was a contributing factor, but only because terrible lifestyle choices were in place. I mean, if you don't follow a healthy lifestyle, then Tremblone will f*** your kidneys harder than most steroids will. And getting rhabdomyolysis resulting in acute kidney injury from only two Tremblone injections, as reported in case 8, could be explained by injecting synthetic carrier oils, like glycol or propylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, for example, which are synthetic solvents that, again, are literally dissolving you from the inside, resulting in rhabdomyolysis as all of these metabolic waste products, all of these proteins, the creatine and the liver enzymes and all that stuff, is dumping into the bloodstream, and thus are burdening the kidneys, resulting in acute kidney injury, because they can't process all of these metabolic waste products, and these synthetic solvents and the inflammation out from the body fast enough. Now, I couldn't really find much in this case report, so I'm just speculating here, but it's always advised to stay away from synthetic carrier oils and not give yourself rhabdomyolysis from one or two injections, whether that's Tremblone, testosterone, primobolin, mastron, etc. It doesn't really matter, it's not related to Tremblone, it's related to the carrier oils. Lastly, case 1, 15, 16, 21, and 23, which go over psychiatric, psychological, and neurological issues, as well as direct brain injury in the form of eczemic stroke. For 12 weeks consecutively, case 16 resulted in homicide, the deletion of his girlfriend. That's pretty terrible, and there are several reports of men deleting their girlfriends or wives while using steroids, not just Tremblone. Again, that's the worst of the worst case reports that you could possibly have. And when you compare that to murders on alcohol, it's probably a disproportionate amount. So let's be fair here, alcohol murders or recreational drug murders far exceeds steroid murders when you look at the total picture. But I think we can all agree that Tremblone f***s with your mind to a certain extent, just like alcohol f***s with your mind, or recreational drugs f***s with your mind. And the combination of Tremblone with alcohol or Tremblone with recreational drugs or Tremblone alcohol and recreational drugs with an unstable mind is probably a recipe for murderous tendencies or, at the lowest extent, delirium or psychosis, right? So, yeah, a little bit of caution is advised. If you want to use one compound, stick with one. Stick with either train or alcohol or recreational drugs. And if you have an unstable mind, don't use any of these compounds. I'm sure you guys can all agree with that statement. I mean, some people experience these terrible side effects already without taking Tremblone or without taking drugs. These people are just messed up and should be locked up far away from the Tremblone sandwich or the all-you-can-drink alcohol buffet. And again, the rest of the case reports are individual cases of adverse effects that aren't solely related to the usage of Tremblone. Tremblone could be caused by a multitude of different factors, whether that's Tremblone in combination with a multitude of different factors or a multitude of different factors not related to Tremblone. But unfortunately, Tremblone was used at that time. Many of these adverse effects can be caused by other performance-ennouncing drugs, not just steroids or general lifestyle choices. In the discussion, the researchers mentioned that Tremblone abuse was associated with a wide range of adverse health effects, albeit that it's very hard to determine that these adverse effects were solely caused by Tremblone and not an unfortunate result of several circumstances, polypharmacy, lifestyle choices or other factors, all while using Tremblone at that point in time. Here, the researchers also referenced to the best anecdotal Tremblone study we have at this point in time, Timothy Piatkowski's My Mind Pretty Much Went to Mush study, which, like this index of case reports, highlights the correlation between Tremblone and psychological distress and verbal aggression. And I already went through that study extensively here on this YouTube channel, so don't forget to give that video a watch and a like and a comment and a subscribe and share it with all of your friends and follow the citations so you can read that study for yourself and laugh hysterically at the Tremblone quotes that the researchers highlight. And this is pretty funny. I found this in the discussion, which either confirms that the researchers were part of the GH15 boardings back in the day before it got wiped off the internet or they simply forgot to translate Tremblone in Portuguese to Tremblone in English. I think that they visited the GH15 boarding. That's a more likely and more plausible and more interesting explanation. In the conclusion, the researchers mentioned that Tremblone, like other anabolic androgenic steroids, are associated with heart failure, myocardial infarction, cholestatic liver injury, nephropathy, and psychiatric disorders. But they failed to mention that many of these adverse effects can be avoided, can be mitigated, and be resolved with intelligent use, low dose, short duration, Tremblone usage, and using prophylactic ancillaries to control your blood pressure, which already prevents left ventricular hypertrophy and damage to the kidneys. Or ancillaries like cholesterol medications that prevent plaque buildup, further preventing cardiovascular disease down the road. And using TUTCA to prevent liver injury or liver damage or other issues with your digestive tract. And God forbid you use something like a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, like fluvoxamine or vortioxadine, which are very potent regarding neurogenesis, and might be able to offset some of the neurotoxic effects that Tremblone potentiates. Or using a myo-inhibitor, like methylene blue, for example, which might be able to prevent this bronchoconstriction or lack of oxygenation that you get on Tremblone, hindering your endurance and stamina. And of course, the myo-inhibiting effects of methylene blue increase your serotonin, dopamine, and norepinephrine levels, which can also help you modulate your mood while using Tremblone and offset and mitigate Trenrage altogether. The researchers also mentioned that Tremblone's toxicity is poorly understood due to the lack of clinical evidence performed in humans, which is very, very true. I mean, besides this study and a Timothy Piotrkowski study and a couple studies locked in the Merck Animal Health USA vault, potentially, that's all we basically have to work with. And then there's 900 animal models and in vitro studies that we can learn something from. But I think the bodybuilding community, the fitness community, has done an excellent job on educating everybody that wants to use Tremblone, regarding its potential side effects. I mean, the documented cases anecdotally on Tremblone usage and how to mitigate side effects, aplenty, not only on this YouTube channel in the form of the Tremblone deep dive or other Tremblone videos that I made in the past. You can find videos about Tremblone or Reddit reports on Tremblone or pages upon pages on the steroid forums about Tremblone and how to mitigate the side effects. So even though there's no human clinical data, I think the community has done an excellent job on how to educate everybody else in the community and how to minimize and mitigate side effects regarding Tremblone use, whether that's short-duration, low-dose Tremblone usage or using prophylactic ancillaries regarding harm reduction and risk mitigation. When it comes to Tremblone, I think we have a firm grasp on how to minimize the adverse effects. I agree with the researchers where they mentioned that among most case reports, toxicology screening was not performed, meaning that we can't be 100% sure that Tremblone was even present in their system when all of these adverse effects started to manifest. And they also not reported what the exact Tremblone dosages were or for how long they were taking Tremblone until these adverse effects started to manifest. So a lot of conjecture and incomplete information in these case reports, I would say. And only five out of the 23 case reports, toxicology screening was performed, but it was mostly during the autopsy after the patient had passed away. And the rest of the case reports included self-reported Tremblone usage, but we still don't know exactly sure how much of a contributing factor Tremblone played into the observed adverse effects. Was it Tremblone 100% the root cause of these observed effects or maybe 1%, 5%, 10%? I guess we'll never know. The researchers mentioned that there should be more Tremblone education for the Tremblone users as well as the healthcare providers to minimize risk and reduce harm. But to be fair, the education is already out there, whether that's here on this YouTube channel or on the steroid forums, on Reddit, behind paywall on the membership sites, various anabolics books. There's plenty of steroid education and Tremblone education out there. All you have to do is go out and look and educate yourself. And that being said, the large majority of the Tremblone users, especially the abusers out there, they choose not to educate themselves. They don't do their blood work. They don't manage their blood pressure. They don't live a healthy lifestyle cooking all of their own meals. And they actually take way too much strength to compensate for the lack of effort that they put into the kitchen as well as into the gym. That's the problem here. And that's where most of these case reports are stemming from. If you go through all of the case reports, you see that there's maybe one or two bodybuilders at most. And that brings me to the next fact. The large majority of the Tremblone users out there are basically borderline retarded. Just go to TikTok where you can see the Tremblone challenge, the 30-day Tremblone challenge. None of those guys are bodybuilders. They take Tremblone for the sake of it. They want to experiment with it. They haven't put in the foundation to become a bodybuilder. I mean, Tremblone is meant for bodybuilders, strongmen, or powerlifters at the highest level, especially for competitive athletes. But Tremblone is now being used, being popped as tic-tacs. And this is where most of these case reports and most of the adverse effects are actually stemming from. Again, most people who take Tremblone are actual gym rats and have no business taking Tremblone in the first place. And I really don't think that healthcare professionals have any responsibility educating Tremblone abusers at all. I mean, why would you risk losing your medical license over people who choose to take veterinary drugs themselves? I mean, we decide to take these drugs. We decide to take Tremblone. So it's our responsibility to educate ourselves about harm reduction and risk mitigation with the information, which is provided aplenty all over the internet. Putting the responsibility of education in the hands of a doctor is the easy and the pussy way out. And if you really don't want to educate yourself, do the research and sift through hours and hours and hours of high-quality content, including Tremblone deep dive, which is linked down below. If you don't want to do that, if you want to know what Tremblone actually does, go to a bodybuilding gym or a cattle ranch and ask around there, dude. And again, further human studies will never be performed on Tremblone since it's not an FDA-approved medication in humans, at least not after 1997, that is. And I'm sure those human studies will stay locked in the Merck Animal Health USA vault indefinitely, because from what I've heard, those human studies are kind of immoral and inhumane, like how parabolin treatment affected the fetus during the pregnancy of women who were treated with parabolin for various medical reasons. So long story short, too long didn't read, Tremblone poses significant risk, especially when you take it at higher dosages for longer periods of time. I mean, just look at the case reports and the reports anecdotally of high-dose long-term Tremblone sandwich usage. That's why the exposure duration should be reasonably short at lower dosages, which are still effective if you combine it with other anabolic androgenic steroids or performance-enhancing drugs, which are reasonably anabolic. So maybe six to eight weeks at moderate triple-digit dosages at the end of a contest prep, let's say 150 milligrams, 225 milligrams, maybe 350 milligrams, Tremblone acetate or annotate or hexahydrobenzocarbonate, again, the last couple of weeks of a contest prep, depending on your level of experience and your overall muscularity and what level of competition you're going to compete in, and maybe lower double-digit dosages for, let's say, six to eight weeks, sometimes during an off-season phase, at most 12 weeks, assuming that the dose is very close to the medical dosages used in the 1980s up until 1997. So we're talking about 50 milligrams to 25 milligrams Tremblone acetate per week. Yes, I've done this. It worked great. Still, watch the Tremblone deep dive if you're not entirely sure on why these low-effective dosages actually work. And this is only, only if you have your shit together, you follow a healthy lifestyle, you've got all of the prophylactic ancillaries in place to make sure that all of the side effects, which are commonly associated with Tremblone, even at lower dosages, are completely mitigated. Now, before we close off this video, there's one high-dose Tremblone case report that I want to highlight here, as I didn't include it in the Tremblone deep dive. And high-dose Tremblone usage seems to be one of those elusive subjects that was mostly lost with the GH15 boarding. This study, this case report was performed by Kang et al., published in October 2019, titled Tremblone-induced liver injury. I mean, with that title, it sparks my interest. In this case report, a young and dumb 23-year-old male went to the hospital with complaints of jaundice and general body weakness, which...  autoprilschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschschsch admittance his total bit of ruben was 13.44 milligrams per deciliter which is 11 times above the reference range which goes up to 1.2 milligrams per deciliter liver enzymes AST was 159 units per liter which is four and a half times out of the reference range going up to 34 units per liter liver enzyme ALT was 425 units per liter seven half times above the reference range which goes up to 55 units per liter protrombin time was 11 seconds international normalized ratio INR was one and alkaline phosphatase was 142 units per liter which all fall within normal healthy parameters they performed the liver ultrasound showing that the liver was normal size without biliary obstruction three days later they rechecked his blood work parameters total bilirumin fell down to 12.54 milligrams per deciliter still 10 times above the reference range liver enzyme AST fell down to 135 units per liter now only four times out of the reference range ALT fell down to 320 units per liter now a mere six times out of the reference range pro trombin time international normalized ratio and alkaline phosphatase improved slightly but remained within normal healthy parameters so you think he's off the hook right you think that he's improving right wrong 10 days after the initial hospitalization total bilirumin doubled it's doubled to 29.5 milligrams per deciliter close to 25 times out of the reference range the good news is that AST dropped to 78 units per liter and ALT dropped to 123 units per liter so that's only double out of the reference range however though pro trombin time was now 20.1 seconds international normalized ratio INR was 1.85 and alkaline phosphatase jumped up to 242 units per liter all close to double out of the reference range the 23 year old male patient denied further tremolone use but if you have a history of a thousand milligrams tremolone sandwich per week for eight weeks and then you see your liver enzymes and all of your other blood work parameters start improving after hospital admittance what is a 23 year old male to do right we go right back to the trombinone sandwich now he denied any further tremolone use upon physical examination the doctors noted that jaundice had worsened and they wrote him a prescription to audition for the yellow power ranger that's not actually true but that's the least inappropriate joke I can make here he underwent an abdominal MRI which was luckily unremarkable the patient was discharged from the hospital and prescribed ursodiol at 300 milligrams orally twice daily after which the patient's liver chemistry improved in one week and he returned to baseline after one month so what did we learn from this case report say it with me now if you're going to make a dose tremolone then make sure you also make a dose TATCA or ATCA so you don't end up like Timmy and while we're at it there's one more high dose tremolone case report I want to highlight here performed by Bispo et al published on june 21st 2009 titled anabolic steroid induced cardiomyopathy underlying acute liver failure in a young bodybuilder I'm not entirely sure if that guy was young he was 40 years old but it's a bodybuilder nonetheless and again most of the case reports don't really specify if these people were across still gonna pronounce that word strongman power lifters or actual bodybuilders they just reported the age and the gender and that's about it this high dose tremolone case report details a 40 year old male bodybuilder doing short six to ten week cycles consisting of the anabol winstrel anadryl decadurbolin testosterone and tremolone so lots of orals and lots of 19-nors and estrogenic compounds in the mix with a tremolone nthate dosage ranging between 500 milligrams to 700 milligrams weekly it's unclear what this 40 year old bodybuilder was running at the time exactly that he was admitted to the hospital but he self-reported these compounds and specifically mentioned that it was running tremolone between 500 milligrams to 700 milligrams weekly after a month of experiencing various side effects and the full discontinuation of the steroid cycle so he was already off cycle for an entire month he admitted himself to the hospital at the time of admittance liver enzyme AST was 7879 units per liter holy moly liver enzyme ALT was 7125 units per liter i shouldn't be laughing at this but this is insane um total but the rubin was 6.8 milligrams per deciliter serum ammonia was 73 micromoles per liter creatinine was 3.8 milligrams per liter or milligrams per deciliter and lactose deandrogenase was 7 140 units per liter all in indicating acute liver and kidney failure i'll be scared to death if my blood work parameters ended up that high now is tremolone the sole root cause probably not right deanabol, winstrel, anadrol, adegadurbolin, testosterone and tremolone at various doses all mixed together for uh cycles of well at least it was reasonably short six to eight weeks but maybe he was blasting his socks off of 700 milligrams of each of these compounds that's like four to five grams in total i guess we'll never know um he was transferred to the intensive care after hospital admittance where symptoms and signs of congestive congestive heart failure became evident the patient slowly recovered over the course of 16 days so that's a reasonably fast recovery considering how bad his liver enzymes uh and and all the other blood work parameters were which signs of congestive heart failure and full-blown acute liver injury and kidney damage 16 days is a miraculously fast recovery after those 16 days he was discharged with oral anticoagulation medications and again in this case report there's too much polypharmacy and long-term chronic steroid exposure in place to solely lay the blame on tremolone alone and i think we can all agree that juicing hearts for six to eight weeks with only short two to three weeks breaks in between those blasting steroid cycles isn't enough to ensure long-term health i mean i think this guy broke his body himself um due to his own negligence tremolone is the least of his problems and all in all i would say that just 23 case reports showing the deleterious effects of tremolone is actually quite low for the amount of tremolone use and abuse that is occurring worldwide at any given time in the bodybuilding and fitness community i mean 23 case reports uh i would consider that low yeah then again most of the guys that take tremolone they don't admit themselves in the hospital and turn themselves into a worthy subject of a case report which is being published on pubmed or some of the other publication websites and and to be fair i mean i've gone up to a thousand milligrams tremolone per week for four weeks in duration i was a walking bundle of side effects but i did not experience side effects to the point that i needed to admit myself to the hospital and was worthy of a published case report so with that being said i think there's way more um anecdotal reports of adverse effects with tremolone which again you can mitigate and harm reduce and prevent by doing some education about tremolone um in your free time so with that being said the anecdotal evidence regarding tremolone's problematic nature is a plenty with thousands of thousands of reports of guys walking around with trend or trend acne or trend gyno or trend rage or experiencing trend cough and trend sweats or trend inserts your favorite or adverse effect here right these anecdotal reports are all over the place but again with self-education you can mitigate most of these all entirely and if you experience some of these adverse effects and you're not really happy with them then don't take tremolone at all tremolone is meant to be respected if you can't handle the sandwich don't use the sandwich at all or use low dose short duration cycles where the observed effect regarding glucocorticoid receptor inhibition and the anabolic to androgenic disassociation is already observed i'm talking about low and effective dosages of 25 milligrams 50 milligrams 70 milligrams weekly the dosages that nobody in their right mind would believe that you're running especially if you're looking good they would blame you and say that you're running 350 milligrams to 1000 milligrams tremolone per week but you're not right you're doing everything you need to do to stay as healthy as possible and a low and effective dose of tremolone goes a very long way and and it's totally fine if people don't believe you let them abuse tremolone themselves i mean darwinism and karma is always going to win at the end and while they deteriorate their own health through their own doing you're laughing all the way to the bank and getting all the benefits but none of the side effects if you decide to take tremolone yourself please do your blood work you can do that here in thailand you can do that in your home country if you live in the united states you can do that over at meric health they have excellent health care providers and patient care coordinators who can help you interpret your blood work results just don't solely rely on them to get your tremolone education in we have this youtube channel we have the steroid boards we have all these anabolics books please do your due diligence just because you're doing blood work while taking tremolone doesn't mean you don't have to get yourself educated you can find all of my sponsors and affiliates down below granamite has the best pre-workouts on the market um especially go well together if you're on the tremolone sandwich so you can mitigate some of this bronco constriction and a lack of stamina that you might have when you're taking even a low dose of tremolone intelligent shop for fragrances and other male beauty products for a better lack of explanation i heard for your over-the-counter supplements needs and if you can't find some of the specific down below in the youtube description section or in the comment section head over to my website vigoroussteve.com i got a boatload of articles that can send you all over the internet for specific things that you're looking for if you're trying to acquire more knowledge right vigoroussteve.com is the best place to acquire more knowledge bookmark that site you won't be disappointed vigorous crew you guys know what to do a front double basket for you guys no tremolone in this picture does test and YK-11 albeit injectable i mean that really works um not as good a strand though but i'm i'm very happy with the injectable YK-11 so far deep drive dropping soon if you're not subscribed yet now is a good time to do so so you don't miss that deep dive thank you guys so much for watching and i'll see you in the next video