Welcome to Vigor's podcast. Today I'm joined by Ryan from Cortex Labs. Man, it's been almost a year. I think it's been several months. Yeah, it it's been too long, bro. As I was saying to you before we jumped on air, like I watch your podcast or your I mean your live streams on the weekend. I'm like, [\h__\h] I learned a [\h__\h] ton from this guy. And it's just it's been long enough to where it's like now we're due to get in and get a good hour or so in of conversations. so people can learn what we're thinking about and what we're seeing and our client base and and our content. I think you you've been really hammering on the libido content recently. Yeah. Yeah. It's been important to me, man. So, what's going on there? Like, did you have a little bit of a dip and a roller coaster on your libido and that's why you went into the rabbit hole? No, I mean for relative to TRT, I mean, there's there's two protocols that are effective for me for libido. One of them is an infrequent injection uh strategy of every fourth day or so of between 70 and 80 milligrams of testosterone cipinate or any longest. I imagine an would be the same thing that works pretty well. Uh it comes with additional side effects for me personally. So it's not particularly ideal. Um but it it'll work. Where whereas if I inject every day uh the same amount or even if I go up to something like 210 milligrams a week and inject every day just micro injections doing subcutaneous injections I really just kind of fall flat on libido. Uh the second protocol that works for me is pretty high dose prop which may be a topic for us to discuss dude because I'm at 175 milligrams of prop right now. So that's 20 25 milligrams a day and that works great. like I just I don't really have to manage estrogen at all. I I it's like honestly if I go lower than that I start getting low estrogen sides. I start pissing crazy and I can't retain water. So um so like those are the two protocols that work for me. So I mean you know it's it's always a topic like in my head like okay in addition to my own experience because I can't really just use that and and discuss it with any degree of confidence or authority. It's like I'm seeing a lot of guys that are having a problem on long esters and and and I think it is because they're injecting too [\h__\h] frequently and and and if if if frequent injections will work for them like they got to be injecting more. I think you've mentioned that to me before like maybe you should just inject more if you're doing daily. Yeah. So so of course with the long esters you got to remember that the esters are certain percentage right of what you're injecting. Right. So with enator cipionate it's about 72% testosterone whereas with propriionate it's I think 85 86% off the top of my head. They could be mistaken with a couple percentage, but if you go from, let's say, 175 milligs testosterone annotate to 175 milligrams testosterone propinate per week on the PROPE protocol, you're injecting 20 25 milligrams extra testosterone. And that could tip the needle from feeling subpar libido or almost their libido to having like rock hard solid erections all day long and wanting to [\h__\h] everything inside. So, it could be as simple as that. Yeah, that's the goal, right? That's the goal. So maybe maybe on annotate recipientate you need to run 200, right? You do an injection every day and two on Sunday just for the hell of it. And and then on propionate you do one injection per day, but on Sunday you just do one, right? You don't overdo it. So this could be the difference. And of course, everybody metabolizes these esters differently, right? So I always tell people experiment go with tip for a while go with initate for a while go with propriate for a while and whatever works just stick with that. So if you notice now the daily injections of test probe work that's your protocol. Why deviate? Why why mess it up if it works? Yeah. I mean I think at this point the only the only reason that I would change from this is is the post injection pain is is ah it's like I got to rotate sites man. I really got to switch it up because it [\h__\h] hurts dude. And uh so so what is the what is the brand? That that's always the question because there's pharmaceutical propriate almost doesn't exist, right? I look forward. Yeah, I I guess not, right? No, I'm getting it from Defy. So, it's it's like legit Defi uh probably from Empower, I imagine, but um but you know, it's like with UGL, same thing compared to this stuff. And it sucks. Like I mean, I'm sure there's stuff I could do about it. Maybe I could ice it. You know, I I don't want to change cuz it feels so good. My energy, dude, is like I I honestly just feel great from the moment I inject in the morning until like 10 p.m. and then I'm like I'm tired. I go to sleep and that's it. So, it's hard for me to even think I want to change, but the PIP is definitely sucky. Yeah. May maybe just rotate through brands until you find one that's good. Or you dilute it yourself with a little bit of additional um whatever the carrier oil is, you use the same carrier oil to dilute it. Of course, you need to go with USB grade carrier oil and then filter that with a Wattman filter. And the USB grade cotton seed or grape seed or sesame oil. You can just buy on Amazon. And the Wattman filters, the micron filters you can buy also. It's a pain in the ass to filter that oil. But you can go from 100 milligrams per milliliter to like 25 and then you just pin one milliliter every day, right? You're just pinning. The problem is that the absorption is slower also, so you might not get the same effect, right? Yeah. [\h__\h] man. Yeah. God damn you, dude. It's a nightmare. It's a nightmare sometimes. That's why I like long esters because they're usually painfree. That being that being said, I just injected testosterone cipionate from Fizer. I got a couple vials from a friend of mine a year ago and haven't used anything yet. So, I injected like, you know, 0.25 or 0.3 milliliters of test sip and I got post injection pain too. And yeah, but I've never used this brand. So I I might have to go to Bayer just to also enthate. Weird weird. I never got PIP on that. That's a weird one. What what do do people get PIP on anate? Because I I I've been hearing that. I was looking into it and and that's a whole another discussion how people tend to just do different or better on different estrs even though I mean cipinate and enthate are really not that structurally different. Pretty much the same. Yeah. I mean do people get uh post injection pain on enthate? Have you seen that? Yeah of course it might not be the enithate. It might be the oil or too much benzol benzoate, too much benzo alcohol or or I know some toxins in there. Uh but yeah, it could be the enotate itself, right? Some guys they go on primo annotate annotate pulse injection pain and they go in testosterone pulse injection pain. It's just how your body metabolizes these drugs at the site and then how they metabolize it systemically for you to get, you know, the effect that you want being coming from the testosterone. Yeah. So this is why it's so much fun and some sometimes a pain in the ass because you need to go through a couple experiments to see what works for you, right? So like and that's why we have, you know, the channels like yours and mine to kind of put our experiments out there so people can make better decisions and kind of I know sidetrack uh or or pierce through the self-experimentation and get to a conclusion faster. Definitely. Yeah. I mean there's so much variability out there like you know like I mean there are people that seem to report that daily injections of whatever esther typically the longer esters do them quite fine you know and they're walking around with libido and erections and they feel great and they feel strong they have energy all day and importantly hematocrit doesn't creep past 49 and they generally just like feel awesome and then there's other guys that like will do a daily protocol and all that stuff is good and they don't have side effects and hematocrit doesn't go up but they just their dick doesn't work and and you know and like you know so like that variability is so crazy, especially if one is looking to get advice from Reddit or somewhere, you know, to do one thing or the other. It's like you never know. Yeah. You must see what works for you. Uh and then and then just run with that. Again, you know, um with longer esters, every third day, every fourth day, that's kind of the sweet spot for libido. It's like it's difficult to tell because you got to time the bloods really really well if if you know the testosterone to estrogen ratio is just [\h__\h] perfect like at you know 70% of that that duration window and that's why it's working or if it's you know a bullless amount of testosterone at once and that's triggering via the engine receptor binding and all that genetic action the right amount of libido. It's so difficult to tell. Yeah. So, so again, and and with the blood work, it's just a moment in time, right? I mean, especially if you do two injections per week or every 3 days, right? It's it's a little bit of a hormonal roller coaster. Uh but maybe you need that. Maybe you need like a long longitudinal pulsile fashion, just like you release growth hormone and testosterone endogenously in a pulsatile fashion. Maybe this is the way to get that done. Right. That's why I designed that lazy man's TRT protocol where you just inject your entire week's worth. Yeah. on Thursday because like most people in the fitness industry, we have like a cheat meal over the weekend. So that kind of carries you over for a couple days energy wise, libido wise and then by Wednesday you have like two or three workouts in. You feel a little bit tired, lethargic, you've been eating healthy and clean, right? Maybe a little bit low fat and then you need a little bit of a boost, a pickme up, the entire [\h__\h] dose of testosterone right then and there. And a lot of guys respond Yeah. A lot of a lot of guys respond very well to that. And I have always done this in the uh in a in a cruising phase or TRT phase where just do one shot a week because I'm lazy and it worked and then by Wednesday comes around then my libido was increased because my estrogen went up a little bit right and then so I have good libido going into the weekend and then the cheat meal carries me over until Wednesday and then Wednesday is a little bit of a like eh about one day a week to feel my it's it's okay I just had a great weekend full with food and full with sex. Yeah, man. That's epic. That sounds like a great protocol, you know, for the right person. That's that's what I mean. Like, if I injected once weekly, I I have tried that before. I get uh on days two and three a bit a bit of fatigue and it's difficult for me to determine whether or not that is estradile related or whether or not it's tanking my iron. Have you have you heard of that? And what do you think? Because that's somewhat common. I wouldn't Okay, let me just backtrack. Maybe maybe 10 to 15% of the anecdotals I'm seeing when when one bolus injection per week are getting some sort of fatigue. What do you think that is? I'm not sure. It's a hard one, right? Like, you know, I'm not sure. What is that? Is that the testosterone? Of course, I mean, most esters peak within the first two days, right? Whether that's in a day propriate, even though the gynoid esters, it kind of peaks within two days and then slowly tapers, but each estro tapers a little bit faster or slower compared to the other ones. Y testosterone increases um sensitivity to caffeine in some individuals. Y so maybe when serum concentrations are tapering your sensitivity to caffeine is diminished and that's why you feel less energetic the adenosine levels are increasing and keeping you lethargic. It it's something pronounced like I remember uh after running uh I was running 210 milligrams a week and and I think that was like 30 milligrams a day and again that wasn't particularly great for libido incredible for energy. I'm like, you know what? Let me just inject this bolus at once. Let me give it a couple days. Let this filter out this. This is like two and a half years ago or two years ago. I injected the entire 200 milligrams uh at once or 210 intramuscularly like right in my [\h__\h] quad. Big needle, the whole nine. Like old school TRT. And uh yeah, like size. Totally, bro. The thing was like, you know, and fiction. They uh days two and three and maybe even a little bit of day four, I felt this like profound [\h__\h] fatigue, dude. like it was it was something very pronounced, right? And I I wish at the time cuz I had never gone back to just, you know, one bullish injection a week. I wish at the time I had run iron or or or feradin like cuz cuz we know that this stuff is involved and and you know TRT has a large interplay with these chemicals. Did I did I tank iron a little bit? You know, did did feritin drop below range and then come back up? Like what the hell was I honestly I don't think so because serum iron is of course the free iron but it could be contained within feritin and it's serum levels are usually an accurate reh representation of what's contained in the rest of the body right within the cells but hemoglobin also contains iron and and red blood cells are constantly destroyed because they're old right metabolized and then the hemoglobin spills into the bloodstream it gets metabolized in the liver produces bilarubin and it releases the iron which then gets stored in feritin So serum iron levels they don't everything that I've seen they don't fluctuate so much it takes a while to get them down and it takes a while to get them up. Yeah. Um you've mentioned a lot about like inflammatory responses from carrier that could that could be the case. Yeah. Maybe it's an allergic reaction where you you shoot an entire milliliter. Maybe you have an adverse reaction and does you feel lethargic or sleepy or you know a little bit inflamed. I mean it it yeah it could be all of the above you know or like let's talk about hematocrit like you know I haven't had to to do a phbotomy or to donate blood the entire time that I've been on tier t until recently. So my uh my hematocr got to it was god it was 497 in the last two weeks and then finally I tested it I what's today uh Wednesday I tested it I think Friday or something and it was overrange and I actually started feeling it and started feeling a little bit lethargic but mostly just like that kind of um you know head pressure feeling where you somewhat feel like heavier you know your chest feels a little heavier that that that very common kind of um you know hematocrit like thing like we're fixes that you feel your heartbeat it's like insane. Yeah. I mean water right he can only drink so much and and I and I was certainly doing it. I I even started uh eating a grapefruit a day and then just dosing the the chemical version of that this naring stuff and it didn't seem to move. I didn't really give it long but takes takes two or three months. Yeah it takes two or three months. It looks like it may take some time for that. Right. So uh so it's like it's entirely possible that you know hematocrit is jumping past a reasonable range in in a bullis injection and then it's just kind of going back down in the days that could be the case you know so it's something that you know that's not that stays like red blood cells have like a 90day to 110 day give or take elevated yeah it stays elevated so doesn't go up fast and doesn't come down fast unless you're over hydrated or dehydrated. Then it then it might change like two or three points at maximum. But what what you did say like a bolus injection of testosterone of course that's a lot of influx of androgens and they that's very ariththropetic. So it works you know on on the kidneys and the bone marrow to to produce more red blood cells. So yes that could be the the needle mover cuz if you suddenly have so many androgens in the system I mean this is why they prescribe oxymetalone at like 100 to 500 milligs per day just to get the grip. as up as fast as possible in in alastic anemia patients. Yeah. Um so if you do bolus injections um it could result in a higher hematocrit. And and if you were to take um you know grapefruit or or naringin or what is it bergam mutton another extract flavonoid extract from grapefruit then yeah over time your aromatic can come down but the reducing the production of additional red blood cells whatever red blood cells are there it just takes time before they're die. Yeah, totally. I mean, that's why the therapeutic phbotoies are are are are useful for guys on tear so long as you're not doing them a lot. Like, I did my first one yesterday and uh you know, I got to say, what? How's your arm? How's your arm? But it it's a little sore. Like they they they don't they don't care. She just like she just stabbed it in there, rips it out when when she was done. I was like, "Okay, okay, Joy. Thanks, Joy." So, but like, you know, I was a little freaked out going in there like cuz I [\h__\h] The last time I gave blood was like in the military. I really don't remember. So, I'm like, um, how am I going to feel if I start getting weird? You know, are they going to give me some apple juice or whatever? Frankly, I felt great. Um, you know, again, I had some high hematocrit symptoms going in there. Probably from prop, daily prop. Uh, and and the whole winter I've not been able to really do cardio. I probably should at the gym. I'm just not. Ryan, Ryan, come on. You watch my channel. You got to do the daily cardio. I You know what, man? I gotta I gotta get back on it. And now I am because it's nicer here and whatever. So, uh I'm doing it. I'm walking. But, um I honestly felt great. Like I I didn't feel wacky at all. I I got out of there and actually felt better. You know, some of the excessive heartbeat and some of the other weird [\h__\h] that was happening from hematocrit just pretty instantly resolved. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, they could be high blood pressure or again the the the lack of oxygen carrying capacity because it kind of interferes with each other. But usually like if you're fully hydrated and you maybe use some blood pressure medication or the highdosese magnesium or seialist tonic, right? Um for athletes for most guys actually feel better when their hematocuit is like 52 54 and it's slightly super physiological low for them. Yeah. Yeah. Because I I honestly have the best performance when my hematica is 56. It's bit risk. It's a bit risky, but yeah, now it's now it's 42. After a year off TRT, it's 42. I'm gasping for air after like that. It's It's insane. Like, interesting. I'll tell you what, man. Like, when it was creeping up there, like it probably at its highest point, there was one There were a couple nights where I was like so energetic. I went to the gym for the second time and I my performance was crazy, bro. Like, I would I'm I'm the guy stomping around as if I had just sucked down two pre-work workouts, running from like set to set. People were like, "What the [\h__\h] is wrong with this guy?" Um, but yeah, I mean, you know, it could have been the extra hematocrit. Imagine if it's 60. That's what the cyclists have. Yeah, they have it 60 year round. Wow. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. It's it's a big difference, man. From 50 to 60, it's a huge difference. You just have unlimited energy. And then you combine it with me blue and then But a high dose metal blue, like we just discussed. I mean, a high dose metal blue is a great way to bring your hematocrit down. Yeah. I did not know that. Yeah. No, it's it's it's poorly documented, but of course metal blow was one of the first malaria medications and you can see that in the literature that that as a long-term treatment against malaria that hermatic and robots count to slowly come down and I recently've been seeing that during blood work consultations um because all these endurance athletes that want to optimize mitochondrial function and metal glue is such a great oxy oxygenator um and performance enhancer but then over time it kind of bites you in the ass because over 10 milligs, 25 milligs per week or per day. Um it initially you have performance boost and then your just comes down. So it it could be a viable option. Yeah. Um to occasionally run metal blow to bring your hematocrit down with a couple points and then you don't need to donate blood. Did you did you work out after donating blood already or not? No, I noticed and they were like, "Hey, you know, you probably shouldn't lift anything heavy today." Interestingly, Steve, before I went uh cuz I I didn't plan on going and then my schedule kind of changed and it worked for me to go. I went on a two-mile walk in in uh the north shore of Pittsburgh. So, like I had gotten some cardio in and I was like, "Shit, should I go?" And I went and I ended up feeling fine. But she's like, "Don't don't go home and do exercise. You know, make sure you know you're replenishing your plasma. So, get the liquid in as much as you can over the next 24 hours and then, you know, probably give it about 24 hours before you go lift weights." I didn't listen. This morning I went to the gym and I play Yeah. So, but usually with the bodybuilders when they do a therapeutic phabbotomy or blood donation, they they notice quite a performance reduction. Um, so I always tell them to schedule it over the weekend when you have at least two days off and then by the time you're going for another workout and your blood volume, right, blood plasma levels have been restored, but then you might still reduce or have a slight reduction in performance because the oxygen carrying capacity is just not there. Right. Of course, you can take like inostol tri ITP. What is it called? That's a long one. That's one of the long ones. Inositol triphosphate. Yeah. Is it? I think I think that's the one. Oh, maybe that's the wrong one. There. There's another one. It increases the oxygen carrying capacity of the hemoglobin. It's a little bit hard to source. Yeah. So your your armatica doesn't go up, but the amount of oxygen in the blood is actually enhanced, right? That sounds like a a good hack. That's a great hack. Be a good hack. Yeah. So um on that topic, um so let look a couple things. Number one on TRT, one of the things that I found interesting about managing estradile is like at this stage I really don't fuss with AIS anymore. I did for the longest time. Uh, it just kind of got to the point where, you know, though it could solve my problem of like libido being wacky or erections being wacky or whatever, I never really had a whole lot of water retention on TRT. Um, inhibiting aromatase, it's like there has to be a better way to lower estrogen, right? You know, inhibiting aromatase, like you need aromatase in the brain for libido, right? And so, and if you're inhibiting aromatase, it's kind of non- selective. So, it's like you're [\h__\h] inhibiting estradile everywhere. And then you know you start feeling those injuries that you're not feeling typically because estradile is in a healthy range. You start feeling them again, right? So um so you know I I finally bit the bullet and uh you know on a previous protocol started taking some calcium dlucarate and very surprisingly it it worked. It it it lowered estradile to the point where it's not like I haven't been saying that for many. I know you have and and so many people have like you know and um there's just not much out there but [\h__\h] it it it had in a previous protocol where astronaut sit around 30 I kind of like it 25 30 is like good for me it had knocked it down to like 21 I started pissing out all my water I'm like holy [\h__\h] like this is working better than I thought it would. Did your testosterone go lower as well in serum or no? Uh I wasn't measuring I don't know uh so so what happens is you have the the gluc glucarate it it kind of helps with hormone excretion and toxin excretion and it doesn't discriminate so it's very good for estrogen metabolites and phytoestrogens but it also lowers testosterone levels and that's why a lot of guys are like oh I can't take this because my testosterone levels go lower said well you can increase your testosterone intake daily by 1 milligram and compensate and then your estrogen levels will still be lower. Yeah, I I thought about that and I was like cuz I understood like the the liver detox pathways and how uh calcium glucarate effectively does its thing and and then the thought crossed my mind like well then it must be doing the same with testosterone but I just didn't look into it further. But yeah, I mean that makes sense. Increase the testosterone, keep the calcium duclerate the same, lower the E2 a little bit, you know, end up in a [\h__\h] sweet spot. Yeah. Yeah. That's great. That is great. Yeah. So that that kind of works. And then you got to remember that there's a lot of compounds that actually inhibit aromatized enzymes. Um zinc, there's a lot of flavonoids. Um yeah. Yeah. There's there's a boatload. So people are always afraid to take aromatize inhibitors because of the terrible side effects. But when you really dive into it, that's all established on postmenopausal women suffering from breast cancer. Absolutely. So they already have low estrogen and then they crush it to zero. Yeah. what do you think is going to happen, right? No libido, osteoporosis, uh hot flashes, and and that's all manageable to stay alive. Um, but if you keep your estrogen levels in a range and you use a tiny amount, then it's actually quite beneficial. And you know, if if aromatized inhibitors were such so terrible, then why would people use primabolan or mastone, which themselves or some of their metabolites act as aromatized inhibitors as well? And thus they would be similar or have a similar delletterious effect on health as the romatizers do which they they really don't. Of course you're increasing your drug intake so I mean some side effects are to be expected but it's not like you're going to get osteoporosis or uh you know neurotoxicity um any more than that. So like if you really want to bring your aromatas activity down um reducing body fat levels which sucks and you have to diet and then dieting also [\h__\h] with your libido. Yes, I noticed that for sure. I mean definitely after days where I'm I I've cheated and eaten like a pizza and some bread sticks and a libido is marketkedly higher. But uh yeah I mean bread sticks man. Oh just the [\h__\h] bread just you know you want libido bread sticks. Yeah sticks. It'll work. Um so yeah that that's a good point. I mean, estrogen is just I don't know, man. It it is literally the the make or break hormone in people's TRT experience. And it's so difficult for people to nail down like a range that works for them or to keep it there or in some cases just to leave their protocol alone for for [\h__\h] you know, two months or three months and then the and then, you know, maybe the estradile receptors or the estrogen receptors downregulate a bit and you kind of get used to that level of estrogen then everything kind of balances out. So it is definitely like a contentious topic and it is like the number one point of like you know problems for people on TRT. I think hair loss and libido are so multiffactorial that you could spend an entire lifetime trying to figure it out. Oh totally. And then and then most guys when they step away they go on holiday and then they come back and they report like dude I had sex with my wife like twice a day. You were stressed. It has nothing to do with your hormone levels. You were just it was time for a holiday. Like I've I've I've had so many consultations where everything on blood work looks good, right? And I tell them just take a week off. [\h__\h] off. Turn off social media. No stress. And they come back and say, "Yeah, I'm cured. I just ate what I wanted." And and and asked them, do your blood work again. See where your levels are at. Levels are pretty much the same. Same. But they had some good food and reduce the stress. And then the libido is good also. So it's it's it's kind of confusing, you know. So with the hormonal balance, of course, when you go on TRT, you're kind of skewing with your hormonal balance and you bring your testosterone up, it metabolizes into estradile and now you're missing out on DHA, predinolone, androenadone, um you know, all these intermediary hormones that that um have some neurom modulating effects, right? Neurosteroids. Mh. Um, so that's why I always prefer people to go on HRT, but it also takes longer to dial in than TRT because it's not just testosterone and and regulating estrogen levels with injection frequency and and calcium dlucarate and and getting your body fat levels down. Now, it's also DHEA and pregnenolone, maybe sublingual dihydrotestosterone, right? Occasionally. I mean, that's that's a great libido boost, man. People has no idea. Yeah. Just buy the raw DHD powder. Yeah, you just put it underneath your tongue 30 minutes before and then Oh, man. Yeah, you just figure something out, bro. You're going to be a billionaire, man. Get that out to the masses. You know, people that if the American administration wasn't so [\h__\h] difficult. Oh, I know. That's [\h__\h] terrible, dude. I mean, hopefully we'll have a better uh better next four years or eight years. Hopefully. Um fingers crossed. Fingers crossed. You guys know what we mean. So, yeah. So, so there's there's so many ways to kind of regulate your libido, but I think, you know, the foundation should be there always. You just try to be in a low stress environment and eat healthy. Yeah. And of course, if you eat a lot of animal meat protein, you get plenty of um building blocks for glutamate. Yes. Which is which is such an overlooked um neurotransmitter. Or you get glutamine and that converts into glutamate. And of course, glutamate converts into GABA. So depending on the enzymes that regulate that um you might have too much um I don't know sedation or too much uh what is it called excitement it's the glutamate that excites your brain right and if your dopamine levels are high and serotonin levels are somewhat high then I think glutamate levels not at least highend not to the point that it's neurotoxic because it can also be exyitotoxic right but testosterone is also exytotoxic so what can you um what can you do? Yeah, you probably you're probably not drinking alcohol, so you kind of balance it out that way, right? So, I think if you if you eat healthy and you provide your brain with all the building blocks for your neurotransmitters and then you supplement with um you know a correct ratio for you with testosterone and and neurosteroids. Mhm. I I think you can get pretty far with good libido. Definitely. Oh, yeah. Definitely. I mean, there is a way to modulate it. It isn't just that you, you know, like that that your best days of libido are are are long gone and they were with your natural production. Uh, it's definitely not the case. Like I've had such [\h__\h] strong libido on the right protocols like and it's been weird, you know, with some ancillaries like I've run u, you know, a cycle of kbergolene which took my prolactin from I think it was 14 at the time down to four nanogs per milliliter. bought my libido up and at the time I was running lowd dose props so estradile wasn't going anywhere near out of range. So it's like that's one protocol that works. There's just so many different things. You mentioned uh like you know some of these uh some of these other anabolic steroids like proviron and anavar um and priabalin right like um that don't convert or don't aromatize. Um, and we we discussed this, you know, be before getting on air, like, you know, maybe adding a little bit of primabalon to a DRT protocol. Uh, there is, it was so hard to find this, Steve, but there is in like god literature from years ago suggestion that um that it is inhibiting or occupying aromatase enzymes like primobalin and proviron. Can you elaborate on that? Like what exactly is it doing? Yeah. So, so of course primabol and proviron mastone they're all based in diehard testosterone right there's a good amount of scientific evidence that diehard testosterone both inhibits the aromatize enzymes um which if you really dive into it it's mostly been investigated in cancers um so it it inhibits the aromatize enzymes in cancerous tissues but then that hasn't been further investigated whether it does that in atapost tissue right and of course we know with you know genetic polymorphisms of the aromatized enzymes and they're you know a little bit tissue specific and so it we're extrapolating with the limited scientific evidence that we have okay so DHT inhibits it to a certain extent right and mastone proviron and primabolan are DHT derivatives right they're based on the chemical composition or the chemical structure of ditosterone with a couple modifications so technically they should work similarly um with slight various effects right they're all cars but they're different kind of cars Mhm. Right. And then testosterone would be a pickup truck and then DHD would be a Ferrari and then you have like a Porsche and you know Lamborghini and it's it's all like it's similar. It's just all race cars but they look a little bit different. So you can expect a little bit of different results, right? Some drive faster than others, right? Um now of course mastone proviron and primabolan they convert in metabolites and it's that you know through through multiple enzyatic reactions some of which you can detect in urine that's for the doping test so you know that those are being produced in humans and then there's bot transformation using fungi and bacteria which produces a boatload of other metabolites which might have anti-cancer properties uh aromatize inhibiting properties or or estrogen receptor blocking properties. So it when when you do research like oh this is the one this is the one that inhibits the aromatiz enzymes. So I found that for primopolin but these are being produced through bot transformation and then you you search these metabolites through the literature to see if the human body produces it's nothing. So again extrapolating from the limited scientific evidence. So based on the based on the chemical structure, the molecular structure, technically it should have some THC like effects on these enzymes. Yeah. And if it's not the parent hormone, then maybe some of these metabolites that the human body produces. But I I've been going through all the steroids, all of the scientific literature, and dude, if you want like that the scientific literature is lacking, that's a severe gross understatement. It's it's it's absolutely asinine. Yeah. How little scientific evidence there are there is on anything that's not testosterone and nandrallo. I know. I know. Yeah. I mean, believe me, I go down the deep dives of trying to to look up these compounds and understand every single facet of them, and you're right, it's just so hard to [\h__\h] find it. And and most of the time, it just doesn't exist. No. So, Master's been very extensively studied in breast cancer. Uh, and then of course, Primabolan and even Treslone has been uh investigated in that context, right? And it it seems that the scientific community they have they you get one study which shows something and then everybody jumps on boards and like I want to prove this or I want to disprove that like some sort of pissing contest. Right. Right. But they don't Yeah. They don't get inspired to research something else. Yeah. Yeah. So I I just did a a deep dive on trust loan. Right. That will be released tomorrow but it will be beh before this this podcast goes live. So I I found one study where they found that trestlone actually uh initiates testosterone synthesis in the testicles. So it it doesn't really shut you down. And then now there's nine studies on the subject, right? But that has never been investigated in other steroids. So you get one study and they're like, hm, that's interesting. And then you know some researcher in another country is like, huh, I want to see if that's really true. gets the funding, redo the study, and then a little bit different results. And then another researcher goes through the same process. So now over 15 years, you have the exact same [\h__\h] study with different results. And then good luck trying to get results from that. Yeah. Decipher that. Oh my god. I know. I know. So with with the mastrom previron and primobalin, I think it's beneficial to control estrogen. But some guys don't respond well to mastone. They say that they don't get any estrogen lowering effects. They get it from primobolin and then vice versa is the same right they get it from astrone but don't get it from primabolin because again aromas enzyme expression and and the entire structure of the amino acids is just slightly different and then the um the electron gradient the way that it it it goes in there and then it um you know reacts with nad plus or nad pH um it's just different for everybody so again experimentation I do the research see which ones is is available to you, which one is affordable to you, and which one makes the most sense to you. Yeah. And then give it a go. Do some blood work before and after. Yeah. I interestingly, man, I I ran Proviron for I want to say it was about a week uh some time ago. It was UGL Proviron, but you know, the source was relatively credible and uh all it really I I got to tell you, I definitely had a libido boost. Um, it made me a little [\h__\h] man. I felt like I I had I almost felt like well somewhat comparable to the high hematocrit symptoms that I'll get if if if he goes over 50. Um, but also I felt very stimulated like I I felt maybe a little borderline too much energy. You know, I had to go walk it out to kind of resolve that. But, uh, interestingly like I wasn't taking an AI at the time. And I did get from just taking proviry on top of what was I think 140 milligrams of tests a week. I was running every day injection subq little bit of hg. I did start getting like sore elbows like you know like like some of my injuries that you know are being masked by estrogen. The presence of estrogen started to kind of creep back up. So I think it definitely worked for me in in that regard in inhibiting aromatase at some level. Yeah. And provin is very good for that. Provar basically has two functions. inhibiting aromatize uh enzymes and um inhibiting the sexual binding globulin. So thus testosterone gets liberated and this is where the stimulatory effect comes from because testosterone can be quite stimulating. This is where a lot of guys starting on TRT run into problems and that that with ATG monotherapy as well they get insomnia. Mhm. Right. So, so you have to tell them to inject in the morning, maybe slowly increase the dose, um, or look into their SHBG levels because maybe they have too much free testosterone. And then, of course, testosterone contributes to glutamate levels and and keeps GABA kind of suppressed, right? Um, and then you get, you know, more stimulated. So, and if that increases caffeine sensitivity, then if you have your second cup of coffee at 4:00, maybe you should have that at 2 so you can kind of metabolize by the time you want to go to bed. Yeah. all these little things. It's just experience, you know. Oh, definitely, man. And it takes time to get that. Um, regarding HCG, I I you and I think personally have talked about this, but I'm not sure if we've talked about this on air. I know that um I believe you've talked about it on your channel, but I came across uh the lead the lead doctor at Defi Medical uh you know put this study to everybody's attention on Nelson Virgil's forum Excel Mail uh where they basically showed that within uh the difference between a 150 IU injection of HCG versus a 500 IU injection of HCG. Yeah. in that in the first 24 hours that's really the only time frame that the 150 IU injection you know demonstrated like reasonable serum HCG levels after which meaning at hour 24 there were zero it's like mill international units per milliliter whatever of HCG and then 72 hours the same whereas the 500 IU dose you know produced two and then three and and then at it was ah [\h__\h] at 48 hours there were still 3 mill international units per milliliter of AGG in that person's blood and then it dropped off to two at 72 hours and then zero thereafter. So what is your we've you know you and I have talked about this and I think the topic was like how much you know hg can you take without really upregulating aromatization significantly. What is your take on that considering it's like you know you take less you aromatize less but you take more and you ultimately get more of the benefits from taking more. Yeah. So, so there is a study which I quoted in the MEIC health seminar where um they used ATCG at various dosages 125 250 and 500 IUS to assess what the intesticular testosterone production was. So 125 IUS it's like subpar you know they're already shut down for TRT and they want to uh reinitiate testicular function with HCG. Yep. So they they were on TRT for a while. They withdraw the TRT and then they did the ATG experiment. 125 IUS I know 50% reduction after a while. 250 IUS 9% reduction from baseline. So technically based on that like 275 would give you u acceptable compared to baseline testosterone synthesis. A little bit more. Yeah. Yeah. After you've been shut down and 500 IOS would give you I think 26% more. Okay. Um, so of course if you're going on TRT, you want more, right? And and this was not investigated in combination with TRT. We do know that there's a negative feedback directly through the androgen receptors in the testicles. Yeah. Um, testicles also have androgen receptors, estrogen receptors and progesterone receptors. And that's why synthetic proesterines are so good because they they kind of directly shut the testicles down through the progesterone receptor and now they're unresponsive to fertility medications to LH and FSH. Wow. Um so 500 IU seems to be the supervisological interesticular testosterone production dose right and of course based on serum halflife like you mentioned on the previous study which was this was just from the forum right based on blood work it was not super controlled but just like an aggregation of anecdotal experiences. No I think I I think that this guy I think he was referencing a study. Um you'll have to you would have to search in order to find this you got to search uh Dr. SIA s a ye excel male and then you know I I think the title was like what is the proper dose or how to properly dose HCG I believe it was an actual study. Yeah. Okay. Okay. So I'll I'll find those and link them down below for research purposes and eventually I'll get to the best dose of HCG deep dive and then I'll uh I'll include those. So um so it seems that anywhere between 250 IO 500 IUS for testic testicular function is um good. Yeah. Yeah. And of course that results into spermatogenesis, but that's longitudinal data that would need to take place at least 3 to 4 months. Um, and I I can't remember if those studies have been performed. Fertility protocols is usually like a,000 to 2,000 IUs HCG every other day or or uh yeah, every day even. Yeah, dude. That's a lot. Yeah, that's a lot. Yeah, your nuts will be on fire. But I imagine you'll have some pretty good benefits from it. I mean, regarding semen volume and like um you know, testicular size and all that stuff, I did 1,000 IUs three times a week, Monday, Wednesday, Friday with FSH every day. So, 75 I use FS every uh every day and my nuts were huge. Oh my god. Can't wait to get them back down because it's it's annoying. Uhhuh. It's inhibitory to your pain. Yeah, it's inhibitory. Yeah, but semen volume was great. Like I had Dude, at one time we did a semen analysis after 4 days of absinence was like 5 milliliters. I'm like, wow, [\h__\h] What the [\h__\h] What? What in the hell, bro? Yeah, normally it's like three three milliliters. That's already good, but this is five. Yeah, abstinence is the answer. I've seen one one se analysis from a guy that helped with his fertility. It was seven. I'm like, how long did you wait? Yeah, five five days. It's too long. Jesus Christ, brother. Too long. So, anyway, to get back to the subject. So with the with the HCG of course if you do subcutaneous administrations it's um I think it's right serum levels are elevated for about 48 hours and it's well established in the scientific literature regarding protocols that every other day or three times per week is just the most favorable. So I think most guys, especially now that HCG quality has come down, vote Americans vote better, right? Don't let those guys label it as a biological because now the quality has gone down. Um Yeah. So this this year, right, this is the election year. Yep. You get a you get a second chance. Yeah. Big year. Big year coming, everybody. Big year. Yeah. Yeah. RFK. Let's make it happen. So, um I think it's pre-p proster steroids. I think he takes some himself as well. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. The big guy. That big dude. I mean, he's 70 whatever walking around like he's 20, you know what I mean? The guy and he eats like [\h__\h] apparently. Yeah. Oh, really? Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He's eating McDonald's and all kinds of [\h__\h] up [\h__\h] man. But he's just dude has Maybe he's on the semiglutide trip, you know. You know, he could he could be, but you're right. He's like he's like 67 or 64. He's tall, man. His kid, his kid is taller than him. He's got Yeah. One of his uh one of his sons is like taller. The the youngest like [\h__\h] strong tall leaders, man. It worked for Russia. Yes, man. Yes. The the the world needs it, bro. Yeah, the world needs. So anyway, before we get too sidetracked, um, so it appears that like three times or every other day administrations is the best based on the clearance of serum levels and then yeah, higher dose especially now the quality is a little bit wishy-washy and if you can try to source recominant mercitril so that's recominant human um corionic grenaden and then if you can get the pens uh with 6,500 I use in 0.5 ml And it's two clicks for 500 IUs and it lasts uh what 13 injections. So that's almost a month. Oh, that's pretty good. Yeah. Yeah. So for 50 bucks, 60 bucks, you have an entire month's supply of HCG. That's great. That's honestly great. I mean, it's it's very pricey these days, unless you're getting it from UGL or whatever. Um you know, it's or I mean, I guess uh we both know a guy, right? AP. Yeah, we both know a guy. Yeah. where where it's actually quite legit. But I mean the the uh god I paid 250 for and this is many months ago for the last 10k IU vial of HCG that I bought from defy you know through empower. That's a lot of money. 250 bucks for [\h__\h] you know what ultimately is about about a month about a month and a half worth of hg. It's crazy. Yeah. And the and the weird thing is with the with the hg that you reconstitute because you're constantly piercing the vials it seems to denature or lose potency within two weeks. I think I think so. Quicker. Like they they claim 60 days, but I don't think they're taking any of that into account. And of course, they're gonna claim the highest amount possible. Like it's definitely not 60 days. No. No way. So you you notice a lot of guys, yeah, I'm an ATCG. I'm doing the 500 IU protocol. I'm asking when was the last time you reconstituted the vial because of course it's a libido con consultation, right? When was the last time? Yeah. Uh 45 days ago, like beginning of last beginning of last month. I said, let's stop now. reconstitute a file and we'll use the remaining of the minutes for email advice. And then guess what? Two days later, they feel better. Said you reconstitute one every two weeks. Yeah. But then it cost me $200. Said, "Well, that's why we have UGL's or online sources so you can save a little bit of money, you know, just the risk the risk is increased." Yeah. But, you know, yeah, it is what it is. It's a trade-off. It's a better trade-off, you know, honestly, doing it doing it that way. Yeah. Yeah. So, so I I I do think that ATG is a place to sustain libido because TRT and even HRT has a little bit of a honeymoon phase where guys feel like good for 6 to 8 weeks and then then like why is my libido not as good anymore? Why is my energy levels not as good anymore? Because those um intermediary hormones um were still lingering around. Takes a while for those to kind of clear from the system. Yeah. And and you know you're with this increase in testosterone, you're also increasing micronutrient demand. Mhm. and and neurotransmitter synthesis skews a lot of it. So TRT is is it's never just TRT. It's it's it's a whole slew of micromanagement. Definitely which in the end if you do it right then of course quality of life can be 10 times better. I mean I I started last Sunday and I already feel 10 times better now. I bet you do brother. I'm sorry. You had to go so long without you know running at least test but you know you were on a mission and and here we are man. Honestly, I think I could have done it on TRT of 100 milligrams per week. Probably. Um, yeah, probably. But like the problem is when you're 40 years old, of course, I didn't know how good my fertility parameters could get. And when your wife is 40 years old and the chances of getting her pregnant are just severely diminished. And I felt it was up to me to produce the the most insane semen I could. Yes. And just based on all the blood work results that I've seen or the the semen analysis that I've seen on guys on TRT with similar fertility protocols, it was the morphology and the mortality was never as good. So now I've did 450 million perjaculate. And then 70 70 80 75% morphology or a progressive motility. So that's the ones that swim straight and and 35 to 38% morphology. So that's like sky [\h__\h] high. M uh but unfortunately it was not sufficient. Yeah. Yeah. So now in hindsight I'm like [\h__\h] man they should have just TRT and uh and and just got like you know good enough World Health Organization 2010 standards 4% the morphology and just go straight to IVF. Yeah maybe that would have worked bro you know I would have I would have been my wife would have been pregnant already. Yeah if baby did IVF because the success rates is just so much higher you know. Yeah definitely man. Yeah, it's okay. Hindsight again, everybody can learn from my mistakes. Yeah, I will have the most ex the most comprehensive fertility video. They will put humor's fertility video to shame for guys on TRT. This this I'm already working on it. It will be [\h__\h] hour long. It will be epic. And it'll be free. Yeah, it'll be free. That's the way to go. Yeah, let's let's get Hubberman out of there. I I like Andrew Hubman, you know, he's a smart dude. There's a lot of really detailed com I don't know if you've seen his his hourlong breakdown of dopamine. Very very informative. But he's not right all the time. You know, there's certain things that you said that that aren't actually correct. And and one of them is is prolactin. Prolactin is like the major driver of gyno. Not true. I mean, you got guys with pituitary adenomas that secrete prolactin and they don't have they don't have gyno. They have a touch of gyno. It's just like you said before, it would take a half hour or longer to go through every, you know, hormone that drives gyno, uh, hair loss, libido, like it's just it's so complex, man. A lot of guys, they don't they have pseudo gyno because they touch your nipples all the time because they're paranoid and they keep touching it. Oh, yeah. This in the bodybuilding is terrible. Like, I'm on tested and so I might get gyno and then they check it every day, right? Like they're they check their body fat. Am I leaner? Do I have gyno? Am I leaner? Pseudo gyno. Yeah, pseudo guy. And then it's just completely inflamed because they're just pinching their nips the whole time. Just stop touching your nipples for a week. Oh, it's gone. That's amazing. They give themselves gyno. I love that. Yeah, people are crazy. Just like you give yourself hair loss because you're constantly checking if it's coming out and then it's actually coming out. Oh yeah. Just aggravating the [\h__\h] hair that you have. Yeah, it's funny how that works. You you never dabbled with 9MEBC before? No. No. It was on the to-do list. Uh but dopamineergic I'm I'm pretty good. So please fill us in, man. Yeah. I mean, so you know, but you have taken cerebral, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And what by the way, what was your cycle at? Do you remember like how much you were dosing? I'm sure you were dosing it. Yeah. Five milliliters per day. I'm going to start another cycle of cerebral at one point. Uh but I have to order it. So yeah, 5 milliliters uh intramuscular before bed and then 10 milllers on leg day and it was [\h__\h] bliss. Yeah. Wow. And so you didn't have any brain fog at all cuz that sometimes happens with higher doses of cerebral. No. Yeah. So I did notice brain fog, but that's why I would take it before bed. So I would take it before bed. It was one of the best erogenic sleep aids that I ever got to woke up like like ah when you're on holiday, you know, you wake up after a couple days, you're like super relaxed. You wake up, you just feel super nice. And it was after a single shot of 10 milliters. I got that for an entire month straight. Yeah. Wow. Wow. Beautiful thing. And do you think there are any long longerterm gains still from that that you notice? Um or No, not anymore because of course I did smax and sank for about a month. Okay. And then I want to enhance my neurogenesis. So I went to cerebral for a month and then I went on fluoxamine which I just started again. Um and that's just continuous neurogenesis. I might try vortoxitine because it seems to be potentiates more neurogenesis and actually has cognitive enhancing benefits. Okay, interesting. But I still have so much full of oxyamine and I don't like to I don't know. I still need to do more research on 40 oxyine because I did read some case reports where people had like terrible side effects. So smart, smart. Yeah. So yeah. So that's that's basically the neurogenesis. But the last year I haven't touched anything because fertility, bro. Yeah. Yeah. I mean you can't like you can't mess with that. Yeah. So like I I have run multiple cycles of 9MEBC and basically what this compound is is it is a Parkinson's drug that had god it's got like four really really long exhaustive uh preliminary or primary papers on it that was studied to alleviate um Parkinson symptoms by way of restoring the dopamineergic system and restoring dopamine transmission. it. Dopamine is so complicated that like it it's it there's a lot of things that contribute to dopamine functioning well. One of them is the you know the synthesis or the conversion of like your dietary tyrrosine which is like the amino acid everybody knows is the building block for dopamine into L-dopa and then L-dopa into actual dopamine. There's two different enzymes that control that. 9MEBC upregulates one of those enzymes. It's called tyrrosine hydroxilase. So it'll make you make more L-dopa which will convert to dopamine from elyroine via upregulating tyrrosine hydroxilase. Now the other thing that it does which probably differentiates it from like things like brontane which also work on tyrroscene hydroxilase is it enhances this thing called uh dopamine differentiation right or dopamine neuronal differentiation which is like if you think about a dopamine neuron in its infancy it then grows and kind of matures and extends out from its base neurites and neurites are just a catch-all phrase for axons and dendrites. These are the branches between neurons that neurons use to communicate with other neurons. And so like this 90bc stuff, it it makes you build more dopamine neurons and then matures those dopamine neurons to have axons and dendrites to communicate with the rest of your brain and to optimize. It's like regionpecific optimization whether it's the the uh nigral stratal pathway or various areas of the lyic system or it's hypothalamus dopamine it increases the quantity of dopamine in all these areas. So it's like in addition to that though talking about like cerebral and neurogenesis it also upregulates neurotrophic factors like BDNF and uh I think the other one is a gal cell line derived neurotrophic factor. So this [\h__\h] this [\h__\h] I mean it it it's it's multifaceted in what it's able to do. I'm on I think day 12 of a cycle of 20 milligrams a day. So I dosed it this morning at 20 milligrams. Been doing it for the last 12 uh 12 days or so. My experience kind of mirrors all the other times that I cycled it. First two or three days absolute euphoria, right? Uh more dopamine than usual. Uh it's a monoamine oxidase inhibitor. So it's keeping other neurotransmitters elevated because it's just preventing Yeah. Right. So serotonin levels are also a little bit increased probably, right? I mean who knows like acetylcholine potentially too, GABA maybe. It just it's just keeping neurotransmitters. You feel really really euphoric. That dies down for a couple days thereafter. Usually doesn't come back or it could cuz it did for me at like day six or seven. But like since then I'm on day 12 now. It's like every day I'm just more excited. I I'm more motivated. My brain works a little better. Like I generally just feel [\h__\h] more interested in [\h__\h] And so I'm gonna give it until uh day 20. The literature on this is like, you know, you really don't get the positive effects on upregulating the dopamine conversion enzymes and inducing all this dopamine neuron differentiation until day 10. You've got to take it for at least 10 days plus. Um and you know, dose runs the gamut. I mean, my suggestion if people are looking to try it would be like between 10 on the very low end to 50 milligrams on the very high end a day for 20 to 30 days and kind of see how you fare. I wish there was a way to then, you know, go and test like dopamine neurotransmission other than urine, which I don't really think is very accurate. Not sure if that a biopsy. Oh, yeah. It's just like inserting a needle into your brain straight through your nose and Uhhuh. Seriously sample, see what's going on. We'll see if you have dopamine, you know. Yeah. So like um but I can tell just like again everything that dopamine is implicated in motivation, reward like I may be a little bit more impulsive while I'm on MABC and that's how's your libido though? Great. Honestly, great. Yeah. I mean it's as long as everything else is correct like and you work on dopamine it just gets better you know but if if if other things are not correct and you're working on dopamine it may help a little bit but it's just it's not it's so complicated right I mean testosterone you know is working on the dopanergic pathways to to help libido um and estradile and [\h__\h] aromatase it's it's so complicated but definitely everything that's related to dopamine is improved with taking this stuff okay that's good so how how does it compare to other dopamine energy ks like you dhexa nopeps and some of these neutropics all have a little bit of an overlapping effect in some of the neurotransmitters right and then of course you've you've tried all of those as well so y like which one is the best for motivation now what is the final verdict I would definitely say that 9abc is in a class of its own yeah it is in a league of its own that is like at least 30% better than the best dopamineergics out there and like you know the the the other comparable or even somewhat comparable dopanurgics would be modafanyl because you got DAT inhibition. So you have a little more synaptically available dopamine. So you know pretty good. Aderall obviously somewhat of a similar mechanism um to medafanyl regarding inhibition of the dopamine transporter and thus more you know biologically available or synaptically available dopamine. But they can only really get you to a certain point and they're not working on dopamine projection like from the origination points and they're not optimizing conversion. They're just keeping dopamine around. whereas 9BBC is working on the whole system. So it it is much better than anything I've ever taken, bar none for dopamine. All right, there you go. And I know a lot of people have good results with 9 MB uh MEBC after anodonian from from um let's say BBC 157. That's a common occurrence with some people, which is a shame because BBC 157 is such a popular compound, but some guys get an adverse reaction. I wonder what you look at after that. Yeah. So when you look at the acme sulfate which has some overlapping effects or or 9MEBC a lot of people get good results and they kind of after a small cycle they kind of overcome those issues. Sure. I mean I think that's one of the main things it can be used for. It could be used to alleviate sexual symptoms that like you cannot pin to testosterone levels or estradile levels or anything else. Um and perhaps it's dopamine. I mean look you can absolutely have a lack of dopamine firing where it matters which is the lyic system in the hypothalamus that that that [\h__\h] can get downregulated and deranged like a great way to do it or you know any antiscychotic drug that blocks the dopamine D2 receptor will absolutely do that so that system can go ary you know and resolving it you or getting to the bottom of what the neuronal underpinnings are of what's misfiring can change your life like you You know, like these people with anhidonia, you know, it's it could be serotonin mediated to some extent. Uh but almost definitely anhidonia is dopamine mediated. Yeah. Yeah. So I see that once in a while, of course, people complain. I made that BBC57 deep dive did pretty well, got a lot of views. So once in a while, I see those comments pop up. Yeah. Give me terrible anidonia. So I already included that in the video. Said look into 9MEBC. But at that time I didn't know what the protocols were. So hopefully those guys stuck around and are watching your explanation of it. I might have to put it in an order later tonight. Yeah, brother. Yeah, I mean it's honestly something else. You want to with a neutropic or a neutropic s chemical or especially something you know that's going to upregulate anything like a neurogenesis or or a dopurnergic system. You want to feel it and you actually want to notice that it's doing something. On day one, dude, you will probably notice it. Like on day one, you'll be like, "Wait a minute, man. A little chipper." Like I'm kind of like, you know, you're being in a good way. Did you ever did you ever try testo fencing? Uh, no. But I know that that elevates a bunch of neurotransmitters, doesn't it? No. Yeah. So, it's a selective norepinephrine, dopamine, and serotonin reuptake inhibitor. Right. Man, that felts like I know combination of of micro doing LSD and MDMA the first day. Interesting. You're like, I cannot record today. Everybody will know. But it's basically an appetite suppressant because you know uh SNDRI like wellbutrin for example has a side effect because all those neurotransmitters are so upregulated that they uh they they blunt appetite so testoenine and and tepid or simlutide duglutide very expensive appetite suppressants. So that's why I revealed both of them so people can have a little bit of an insight on what's going on. Oh, you did. So, did you notice any did you notice any appetite suppression of of 9 MABC? No. No, not really. I mean, my appetite is it's generally very very stable, meaning it doesn't fluctuate one way or the other because I'm as regimented as possible. And frankly, I'm not telling people to even be that way cuz my life is very boring, dude. I the same thing for breakfast. Same here, man. You know, it's just it's just, you know, that's what it takes to be successful, dude. Same [\h__\h] every day. And then at the end of the month, you do your financials. You're like, "Okay, this was a good month." This worked out. Yeah. It made sense to eat the, you know, the same thing every day. Yeah. It made sense to tell everybody to [\h__\h] off when they add me to dinner. Yeah, bro. Oh, man. I love it. Yeah. I had a client that used testoine some time ago and he actually came to me cuz he's like after taking it, nothing touched it. He's like, I I I I kind of feel shitty in my new baseline state. I've been taking this testoine stuff for the longest. I mean, I imagine because this is triple monoamine reuptake suppression. So, so, so I imagine, you know, he's got some sort of dysregulation then of serotonin, dopamine, norepinephrine, um, you know, after taking it for for what seemed to be a long time. Yeah. And then coming coming off this offensine is a nightmare just like any SSRI or or SD SNDRI because it I mean you're basically changing your brain chemistry and if if you if you stop taking the medication I mean coming off fluoxamine was a nightmare also. Yeah, you told me that. That's I stopped it cold turkey but being on fluoxamine it's like man life is so much better. Yes. I'll be honest man. I'll be honest. It's I can't wait to try 40 oxygen when I run through my stock of fluoxy. Yeah. Yeah. And you do the research and you make sure you're good on it. Yeah. Make sure that it's okay. Um Yeah. So, you know, think of course everybody's going, "Why are you taking SSRIs?" But dude, it's, you know, neurogenesis, man. 24/7 neurogenesis. It made a big difference. And that actually lasted for 6 to nine months. Wow. So, I only felt the last couple of months that I felt a little bit cognitively impaired. Interesting. Um, and then of course you want to grab some new pept you want to grab some modafanyl and you do the research like oh no clear fertility instructions. So Oh yeah, off the table. That's right. That's right. Sucks man. Sucks. Yeah. You know I think because you're so versed in um androgens and in hormone physiology that like you know the the potential negatives for SSRIs and sexual function really won't affect you. And if they start to you'll figure out why and you'll just immediately take more tests. It's It's that simple. It's that simple. No. Right. So, so and of course I I understand how to improve libido with sax and oxytocin and all these other compounds, sublingual dihydrotestosterone and basically everything that I mentioned in the libido video and I'm sure the 9bc would be actually quite a good libido 8 for me as well. Totally. Oh yeah. So, so that's why I would like to try. Just have to see how it overlaps with the necessar. I I'm sure there's some experiences out there. Yeah. I mean, I think the only negative you would run into is Namab BC is also keeping serotonin elevated. So, the SSRI plus that might it's like you run maybe a mild risk of serotonin syndrome if if the do so I might Yeah, I might have to lower the SSRI dose a little bit, but I'm slowly building that up because you get gastrointestinal problems. I'm starting at a low dose, 25 milligrams for a week and then 50 milligrams for a month and then 75 milligrams for like two or three months. So, slowly slowly building that up. All right, hold that thought. I'm going to go to the bathroom again. Um, yes, go for it. Give me Give me Give Give me like two minutes. It's so hot in Thailand, dude. I'm drink like a gallon when I go to the gym, dude. What's the weather? What's the weather? Is it hot all It's not hot all year round, is it? No, we have uh hot, [\h__\h] hot, and atrocious. And that's right now it's like atrocious. What? Holy [\h__\h] So, you don't have any winter? No, we have like uh like one or two weeks where it's like I know you feel a little bit chilly. Wow. But that would be like um I know tempered weather of Florida. Yeah. Holy [\h__\h] So that I mean uh you know your antidiuretic hormone is is what controls like how much you're urinating out to a to a large extent. What um does that just break the more water you drink? Like if you just consume so much water, the levels of ADH can't hold in the fluid. Yeah. And it's downregulated. So your eldoststerone, your antidiuretic hormones are just super low. Um, of course, my sodium intake, my electrolyte intake is perfectly balanced. And I I have five meals per day, which are pretty high in sodium because I know I sweat so much. So for me, I'm just always excreting. And then, you know, you use a little bit of telos, which modulates the innotent eldoststerone system. So, you're just flushing all the time. Um, and I'm also drinking all the time. Yeah. Because I mean, you can't hear it on the microphone, but I got the air conditioning blasting and fan blowing, so it dries out my mouth. So, I constantly have to drink water. Yeah. You know. Yeah. It is. Yeah. That's a that's a balance like that's hard to strike. Like I was saying, when when I get below right right around 20 pogs per mill estradile, I start I start just losing water and it's hard for me to even keep up with continuing to drink it. Like I I I just like I need to drink consistently and then I'll pee right away and then I got to drink again otherwise I actually start getting dehydrated. Yeah, I have the same I have the same. So like if I go out over the weekend so I don't I'm not consistent with my water intake in the beginning. just I maybe go to the bathroom like still five times and then my antidiuretic and aldoststerone levels go up because now I'm dehydrated and then I continue to drink at a normal pace but then my fingers start to hold fluid and then I need to take my rings off and it happens every weekend. Um yeah, so it's and then by Monday it's normal again, but it's just Yeah. bodybuilding, dude. Yeah. Yeah, bro. The price you pay, man. a price to pay for a little bit of muscles. It doesn't even work with the opposite sex. It's mostly the same sex. It's like, "Hey, bro. How much you binge?" I know. I know. I know. I know. I know. Totally, man. I know. Past a certain point, they're like, "Whatever." You know? Yeah. Whatever. Chicks are like, "Whatever, bro." It's more the bros. Yeah. You know, that brings me to an interesting uh uh topic. There was there's a you know, the whole fake natty scene. Uh like a lot of them are influencers. I like these days like how some influencers are very clear about what they're using or at least that they are taking anabolic steroids. Um there's a guy at my gym who I know for [\h__\h] sure is running something more than TRT, dude. I mean he is younger than me. I'm 40, but he's like 38, 39, so he's basically our age. And he is jacked, bro. Like lean and big and very full. And I asked him I forget how I how I you know brought it up. I think I was what do you take? I forget like a something and you know I maybe asked him why he's drinking so much water and then I try to filter into the conversation something about steroids or TRT and he's like nope nothing. And then he tried to show me pictures of him 10 years ago where he actually admittedly looked pretty jacked. But it's like ah like I I used to be one of those guys that looked at the rock and was like, "Oh no, he's like he just he just works out a lot and he goes to the gym a lot." I mean, you know, he's just hard work, but he kicks a lot, too. Yeah. Yeah. Right. All that tequila. But, uh, you know, [\h__\h] Yeah. I mean, some shitty shitty brands that these guys promote. I know, right? Some people are just they're lying about it. You know, the there are fake natties out there for sure and they ought to just come clean, bro, because I think everyone would respect them. Uh, yeah, I think so, too. The problem is in America, it's so frowned upon still by general population. As an example, here in Padia, um, once or twice per year, the US Marines come over and then once in a while I'm there, the US Marines come over, right, from the Navy or the the the Navy guys, they come over and they they have a good time. They're just fresh off the boat. Yeah. And uh you know a couple times I'm there [\h__\h] Jack and Tan and they look at me and like dude how much creatine you're taking and I just tell them I just tell them straight up said dude no man I took like a handful of deabol last night and I woke up huge. Uhhuh. And you should see their you should see their face like how in the hell can somebody be so honest and open about it and I just talked to it. So no guys I'm joking I'm taking this and this and this and there it falls on the floor. But these this is like Americans that are, you know, in in the army, right, or in the Navy and they they're not exposed to this kind of stuff. So they got in there with the misconceptions, you know, because they got in when we're 18 or 21 years old. And then maybe a couple years later, but they've only been exposed to the military, maybe some go pills. That's the most exciting thing they get exposed to, right? And then they meet somebody like me who's just completely open and they're like their, you know, face falls to the floor, mouth falls to the floor. Yeah. So I think it's just culturally not in the US and in many Western countries just in general Europe and Australia where it's frowned upon. So most guys just don't want to talk about it. Yeah, it makes sense. I mean what what what kind of um sponsorships or whatever would would The Rock lose if he came out and said all of them. Look at Lance Armstrong. Oh right. I mean totally. I mean that's right. So Lance was you know people think he's such an [\h__\h] He all he did was well he denied it for the longest and then eventually just but but it's like you know everybody at at any level of you know whether it's you know the acting realm like uh um god what's that guy's name uh Hemsworth something Hemsworth obvious man obviously the rock you know everybody they're they're all on [\h__\h] something but you're right I mean it's if they came out and said it and and talked about their cycles and [\h__\h] then they would lose money and sponsorships and whatever and that kind of just sucks. I mean I mean go go go to Disney World and they just w walk up to random people and tell them that you're on steroids. Okay, imagine doing that for the entire in front of the entire world because that's the general population, right? Right. That's general. That's what they look like. They're they're fat, they're sluggish, they're unhealthy, they're obnoxious, they're loud, they're annoying. That's just that's general population, right? Of course, we try to surround ourselves with winners. you know, people are go-getters and and understand that TRT is, you know, part of the business basically if you want to be successful. I think it can be highly val valuable asset for entrepreneurship. Um, and and of course for bodybuilding. I mean, [\h__\h] everybody knows that you need steroids for bodybuilding, but even though there's great natural bodybuilders out there, but they're, you know, significantly smaller, small ones. No, no, no. others. That's actually the huge subculture of of natural bodybuilders who are [\h__\h] good, man. Uh but they're they're not as big as the enhanced guys, obviously. No, definitely. Um but then you have to portray just the general population and I can see it in my own videos that go somewhat viral or you get 100,000 views. Oh man, you should read the comments. Yeah. And this is like on anar for example, testosterone which is medically prescribed. It's not on trenalone or anything else, right? And then you see the you're a cheater, you're this and that. I'm like, oh yeah, of course the of course these guys don't want to talk about it. It's because general population is just I don't know the the intelligence of a rock. No, that is a great point that you framed it that way cuz you're right. I mean, I've been called a cheater for 15 years using neutropics like to perform better, you know, when when actually it's documented that the guy with the highest IQ in the world, his name is Rick Rosner, or one of the highest IQs, it's like [\h__\h] 194 or something, takes new tropics, you know, every day. And so it's really not cheating when you understand that there's a like if you want to reach a threshold of performance that will take you to the next levels consistently, you have to optimize your physiology. This isn't cheating. You know, it it is making elements of your body work a lot better safely or within reason. Using neutropics, using hormones, you know, using whatever you have at your disposal that you've done the research on that's pretty safe that you can feel better. You know what's cheating? Printing more money to government governmental debt so everybody else gets poor through inflation. That's cheat. You don't hear anybody talk about that. You don't hear anybody talk about that. Oh, Jen Pop talking about that, man. Yes. The bananas are $7 a piece. I don't know why, dude. Your government cheating you out of your money. Utterly ridiculous, brother. I get, you know, I get most of my food like that day just cuz I want to cook fresh food for dinner and it's like every day I'm spending 3540 bucks on minimal [\h__\h] man. some chicken, some asparagus, like some cat food, couple other things. It's It's every day. It's a good bit. You know where to go if you want to go live cheaper, man. Yeah. Thailand. Like an old truck with all the neutropics and testosterone you need. I bet, bro. You know, man, if it gets if it gets ridiculous here, then uh you know, you never know. Yeah. And you never know. So, yeah. So, that's that's that's just so many fake 90s. And then you got to remember like the fitness industry is like a pyramid, right? At the top, there's the guys that are in the know. They understand everything. At the beginning or at the bottom of the pyramid, they're all the beginners. And guess what? At the bottom, there's millions. And they just took one leap out of general population into the gym. Yeah. And they're anti anti-stereroids. But that's where all the money is. That's why Liver King got so popular because or all these carnivore guys got so popular because they market to the lowest common denominator that's incredibly unhealthy and just need to follow a diet and their lifestyle will improve. It could be a vegan diet, could be carnivore, could be paleo, could be, I don't know, pescatarian. It doesn't really matter what they do. It's better than eating at McDonald's the whole day. Yeah. Anything. Absolutely. So lying about your steroid juice, which many carnivore experts do. Um, yeah, that's just part of the stick. And it's it's for all of these other fitness guys, it's the same, you know, just pretend to be natural and then everybody can reach the same goals and then after 5 years, they realize like, oh, wait a minute, this guy's clearly saucing because I didn't attain this physique. Yeah. And in those five years, the the bottom pyramid is already filled with millions of new people. Right. So, it doesn't even matter. Exactly. Like doesn't matter. Yeah. Doesn't matter. Liver King is probably the best example of that. like where you know it's funny because when he first came out I wasn't on TRT I don't think at the time I had been doing consulting on TRT and knew a good degree about it but not I mean you just you get on it it's completely different you understand it differently um you know there there was a there was a moment where like when he very when he first started getting popularized where like it was him uh like with big giant dumbbells strapped to his back walking through his his [\h__\h] driveway and he was jacked like a bohemoth. where I was like, "Oh, that guy just, you know, that guy just works really hard." But then I'm like, you know, there's no way. I mean, he does. He did. He does. He did work out very very hard. I mean, nobody does, right? I mean, you know, certainly you have to pair anabolic androgenic steroids with a lot of [\h__\h] hard work or you won't grow or you'll get a little lean or whatever, but you're you're not going to look like Liver King um or you. So, it's like um but then I quickly realized, you know, he's lying his [\h__\h] ass off. And you know, the funny thing about it, cuz you're the guy that brought this to ultimately Dererick's attention and then you know and then this went mainstream. It's like he he says he maintains he's just on TRT still and there's no way there's no way dude I mean he got a little smaller but he's still jacked ripped still looks he never got off I think he just took the growth hormone out for a while. Yeah. Yeah. And then and now he's on on something else. I mean I wish the guy good health because it was terrible when we worked together. That's why I had to let him go. Yeah. And and it it he doesn't look any healthier now. I mean, we're all the same age, but he looks like he looks [\h__\h] old now, dude. Yeah, he does. He does. So, and when you have kids and a wife and dogs and I mean, you should be a little bit more, you know. Well, hopefully he'll learn his lesson at one point. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you know, maybe maybe he's got enough money so he could just stop. Absolutely. Stop with the [\h__\h] and then and and just get healthy, you know. Yeah. I I think that health is usually the the thing that makes people stop doing dumb [\h__\h] you know, like eventually something's going to break, you know, you know, your body's going to recognize that whatever. Not all guys, dude. Not all guys did that now because I've seen his blood work. He was already broken. Yeah. Yeah. Like, how is he still alive? I know. I know. Yeah. I mean, it takes a while before you really get super unhealthy. You can I mean, bodybuilders are the same, you They they stick their head in the sand for decades and then they suddenly fall apart. Yes. But you can just clearly see it in their in their eyes. Basically, their whole face just looks mangled. Yeah, man. And uh and the body might still look good, but the face is just [\h__\h] up. So, yeah. It could just be in denial about probably feeling symptoms, you know, and and is just in denial about it. Yeah. But there there's many guys like that um in the fitness industry. So, that's it's one of the reasons why I stopped coaching. I just don't want to deal with that [\h__\h] anymore, you know? Yeah. Yeah. I understand. It makes sense. The thing that um that you just said that I think I saw in one of your recent videos um which rings true and I think is true for a lot of different diseases is that you said most men have to go on TRT because they they're self-induced hypoconatal. Yeah. So I mean explain that it's just is it lifestyle? Is it a lack of saturated fats? Is it not being conscious of micronutrients? You know what do you think it is? It's just treating your body body like a trash can. It's that simple, you know. I mean, I I was I I came off cycle couple years ago and I did HCG monotherapy, right? Off cycle without HCG, my testosterone levels are like 6 650, let's say. That's eating healthy. But in the slight caloric deficit, I think I can get it up to 750. Okay, that's in the range. Is it enough for what I want? No. Right. Ong monotherapy, I got it as high as 850. So that's let's say 200 points higher, right? and fertility parameters were like twice as good. Um, in both cases I was healthy but in a slight caloric deficit to stay in shape for social media. All the micronutrients were met. I still go to the gym. I still do cardio. I do my blood work. So I'm I'm let's say 2/3 the top of the reference range. Yeah. Because I I got my [\h__\h] together. Now if I were to eat like [\h__\h] my testosterone levels would be 300, right? So, if I can get them to 600, which is where most guys like you don't train as hard as I do, you're not as um you don't work 60 hours a week like I do, right? So, you should be happy with 600 nanogas for this. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. All right. Totally. And if you can produce it naturally, then I don't think you need. Okay. If you're a bodybuilder and you're high level entrepreneur and you're constantly running around and then suddenly it's Sunday again, right? Okay. [\h__\h] Go on TRT, dude. I [\h__\h] get it. It's a huge benefit, but general population should just go to the grinder and get themselves healthy. And and and and I think prescribing them hormones or selective estrogen receptor blockers which have a laundry list of side effects um is immoral. Yeah. Okay. Interesting. You need to get them healthy first. Like that's why I work with America Health because they get guys they say, "Do your blood work. You're [\h__\h] unhealthy." They say it nicer. Obviously they're doctors and professionals. I would tell people you're [\h__\h] unhealthy, but yeah, you'd be like, "Get the [\h__\h] out." Yeah. Get the [\h__\h] check. Yeah. You [\h__\h] [\h__\h] The booze. So, so they're very good at this. They optimize the diet. They got nutritionists working there. There are people that understand hormones. They do a lot of research. They got Dr. Adam Hodkkins who's mad intelligent and and really in tune with people need. And so they put them on this trajectory of male health optimization. Right. Right. Right. Okay. And then over six to 6 months to one year they get them in a good state of health and for you know let's say 50% is an arbitrary number. 50% they double or or increase their testosterone levels. They get healthy like oh great this was great. I worked with a nutritionist for a year. Yeah. Basically in a lifestyle coach and the other 50% they they're like you know what I tried everything for the last couple of months. It didn't work or my testosterone went up from 300 to 500 but I don't notice a difference. Okay. Blood pressure is now in range. Blood work parameters have improved. Sleep quality has improved. Skin looks better, right? They eat better. They actually go to a [\h__\h] gym now. They go on TRT and they have a great experience. Zero side effects. Totally zero. Absolutely. Right now, you're right. Definitely. How many consultations have we done with guys that go on TRT and they're they're they're a wreck? Endless. Endless. Endless. You know, whether the dose is too high or it's managing estradile because they drink a lot or they're overweight or whatever. No, you're I mean you're right. The the propensity for side effects on TRT increases [\h__\h] multiffold the the the unhealthier you are. There's no question about it. And whether it's you or whether it's like um God, I was just watching uh Dave Lee talk about this. Um he's Oh, he's very very smart. Yeah, he is actually smart. Doesn't hold back either. People give credit. Yeah. um you know just talking about all the various things that you know when you optimize them like thyroid hormones well you have a better control over aromatase expression via having better thyroid hormones. So it's like every single thing you know that makes a person very healthy. If those things are inadequate check your tier experience is going to be a lot better and and you probably have next to no side effects. Like smoking is a good one. I just recently realized this due to client work, but I have a client who's a smoker and no matter what no matter what we did, like when we went to micro injections, which ended up being okay, but kind of [\h__\h] with his libido a little bit. Uh could not get him out of under control. You know, the guy would donate it would come right back. Turns out smoking, you know, basically makes you um uh what's the word for it? Um it basically gives you Yeah. secondary polycymia. So, you know, it's like it's just another example of of lifestyle being so heavily influential on your TRT experience. It's like like breathing with a condom on smoking. Yeah. Yeah, bro. I mean, it's just, you know, and it's like you're that that is the worst thing anyone can do on TRT. So, anything you can do to make your health better generally, you're going to have a better experience on on hormones. No question. A lot less side effects, if any, for sure. Well, so so me as an example, when I started my TRT, well, I didn't start TRT. I went on a cycle, but I was scared to do 500 tests because I read all those horror stories on the bodybuilding forums. We're talking about like 15 years ago, close close to when I first started pinning. But I was already bodybuilding naturally for 11 years. So, I got my training dialed in, I got my cardio dialed in, I got my nutrition dialed in, I was healthy, I was young, right? My levels were about 600 nanogs per deciliter at that time. I went on an amp of test, right? half an amp on uh Monday or Sunday and then the other half on Friday evening. Right. Three and a half days apart. Exactly. Okay. Um and I did that for 13 weeks and I had zero [\h__\h] side effects. Interesting. Zero. Yeah. Wow. And now now I have zero side effects going back on TRT. I'm dualism. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So are you going to go have you broken down your protocol on your channel? Uh, that's going that's going live literally right now. Sweet, sweet, sweet. Yeah. So, you can watch that after we're done. Um, let me see. Let me see how many views I got so far. Oh, it's already live, huh? Yeah. Let me see. Uh, 2002 hours. All right. So, people didn't People didn't give a [\h__\h] Oh, yeah. Steve's back on hormone replacement. Here we go. Cool. I will [\h__\h] watch that, bro. Yeah. I mean, it's very basic. It's like 150 test per week and then I add that in 70 milligrams anavar. So 10 milligrams per day. Beautiful. A little bit of GH, a little bit of ink, IGF-1 cuz I bought that. Okay. Wow. Are you injecting uh every day? Every other day you doing subq? No, twice. Twice a twice a week. Twice a week. Cool. Yeah, twice a week. Just get it started easily. Like I'm I'm not for 150 milligrams. I just don't want to paint every day and I'm already doing multiple injections with the growth hormone and the ink legs and the carnitine, right? So yeah. So are you running subq every three and a half days? Is that what it is? Yeah, on Tuesday and Friday. That's when I train legs. And I noticed a little bit of an an a testosterone boost, so I might as well utilize that during the workout. Oh yeah. Yeah. So I did did a shot yesterday and the next one is on Friday. Subq. Nice. Nice. Easy. Quarter quarter cc. Yeah. Yeah. Or quarter amp. So that's 0.3 milliliters. Yeah. Beautiful. That's a beautiful thing, man. Uh I'm glad for you because I I know the feeling like you know. Yeah, man. Because I I I when I took a break from Arimedex, uh because the the scientific literature says you should do that, you know, via [\h__\h] bone mineral density issues. And um I I I I had been taking somewhat of a lot of it because it was difficult for me to get estradile under control when I was on higher doses. I changed some lifestyle stuff and that basically resolved. But um um when I took a break from it, I took my TRT dose to first 90 milligrams a week and then 70 milligrams a week with a little bit of HCG. And dude, I felt [\h__\h] terrible, bro. I mean, total test went to 576 estraal to 13 or something like dude. And that's like I mean normal people walk around with 500 and like and 20 estrad like I felt so [\h__\h] bad bro. So so like the moment I got it back up my life came you know back in order. So I I know like again HCG and high doses were probably helping you to some extent but I just I'm happy for you that you've not now now got test back in the picture. Yeah I'm I'm I'm feel 10 times better already. I had one period where I ran out of HCG. So I went from 1,000 IUs three times a week to zero for about 2 weeks. [\h__\h] And then after 2 weeks, I'm like, why do I feel so depressed? Oh yeah. So I went to check my levels. My testosterone is like 175. Oh my god, man. Yeah. And then of course you're you're a stupid bodybuilder, so I still want to train hard in the gym. And then it's just depleting your testosterone. Every workout you get 100 nanogs less. Just wasting it on the workout. So, I was happy that my ATCG arrived and I might have done 1,000 IUs 3 days in a row. Yeah. Just to um bring that back. Um yeah, but no. So, hopefully I'll get about 1,500 nanogs per deciliter on this protocol because I dropped my ATG dose down. Like again, I've frozen enough semen for like multiple rounds of IVF. So, I don't I'll never have to go through this [\h__\h] again. Uh assuming that the the fertility clinic doesn't lose electricity and everything. Uh right. you know, all all the semen samples get thawed. Yep. Um Yeah. So, so it's basically on TRT forever. Awesome. But it's good it's good to know that my testicular function came back normally. So, if I ever want to throw in the towel and just do ATCG monotherapy or do a full PCT and just rely on indogenous production, then yeah, I could. But I'd have to quit quit bodybuilding and I need to be retired from business. Yeah. Because with the demand Yeah. I think if I live in some some shed somewhere like on the beach, it would be fine. Just walk on the beach. Yeah. Play with street dogs. I think that's fine. But for what I want right now, no. 800 And for this liter was not enough, man. Double double would be good. No, I completely understand, dude. I I do like I I don't I don't know that I'm pushing, 1500, but I'm pushing 1,200 1250 with a prop, you know, and on my best doses of of cipionate, I was pushing 1150, 1200, and I I felt really good, you know. So, it's just for sure if you if if you have a performance-based job or if you're, you know, an entrepreneur or if you [\h__\h] have goals in life and you you want to be above gen pop, you really, you know, you know, testosterone is such an important like it in and of itself. Assuming you're pretty healthy. I mean, [\h__\h] gamechanging, dude. 100%. Yeah. That's why I included in the entrepreneur deep dive, which nobody watched, so I stopped. Yeah. You know, it's Oh, man. That's a sucky one. Yeah. Because like you might have 10% or 15% that are entrepreneurs, but they're all dipping in the same [\h__\h] that we're doing as entrepreneurs, right? Like they're all into optimizing, you know, hormones or health or whatever. But yeah, I know there's certain topics that like I think are so cool and that, you know, would be would be I think would be really useful that nobody even cares about, you know, nobody gives a [\h__\h] about. Yeah, I would watch it. Yeah, of course. You're not just making videos for me, right? Yeah, I know, bro. So, I'm just I'm just back on the steroid videos. Um, and those seem to be doing well, but the audience has gotten a lot more selective on what they watch. Yeah. It's just I think there's a lot more new channels, so there's a lot of stuff to watch nowadays. It's okay. Yeah. All good. I mean, whatever. But, you know, the the OGs will always re supreme in terms of knowledge, you know. Right. Did you ever try growth on secrets yourself? No. Okay. What do you think the benefit would be? No, I'm just asking because in your email you talked about TRT versus like ATG monotherapy or secret therapy. So it's getting very popular now to do ATG monotherapy and then growth hormoned goss kind of not shut you down and just rely on indogenous production but the maximum amount that you can get. So there's, you know, so again, I'm not against I'm against pro hormones and serums and clomophene, right? But reinventing the wheel and increasing testosterone and growth hormone levels with HCG monotherapy and then hyperarilin and tesmarellin that works quite well for guys that are like thinking about taking steroids, but they're not really ready to commit yet because it's a freebie, right? You can do HCG monotherapy and then growth hormone degree. It go actually for like a month or two and then stop and you'll bounce right back. Interesting. I did not know that. So how is growth hormone interacting with like keeping steady testosterone levels or or optimizing them in the No. So that's that's obviously completely different pathway, but you have if testosterone goes up from let's say you're 600 and it goes up to a,000 and it's A-50% increase that will be noticeable. And if your growth hormone levels go from, let's say, 2 IUs to 3 or 4 IUs, that's that's also A-50% increase. And in that 50% increase in these hormones, um, you should look better, feel more energetic, sleep better, uh, have better outcome productivity in the gym, increase your metabolism, and all these little things could be a needle mover between you feeling like average to you feeling [\h__\h] awesome. Yeah. No, man. I haven't I haven't you know what the the physique benefit would be the main benefit for growth hormone secrets right yeah just sleep quality physique benefits a little bit lost interesting yeah well your growth hormone levels are higher and if you take growth hormone secrets before bed of course you get the biggest nighttime pulse of growth hormone or sleep quality some guys get pretty wild dreams though of this I imagine it's messing with acetylcholine maybe now does this does this modify um endogenous growth hormone secretion at any level or is it just optimization? So the study increases it. Okay, cool. So like and then after do you have any type of shutdown? Is it suppressing suppressive at all? No, maybe maybe 2 days because IGF-1 levels stay elevated for about 32 or 36 hours after the last administration and that has a negative feedback and then there's a satostatin uh which is a negative feedback but that also is regulated by um you know how much food you have in your stomach. Yeah. Um, so so you have, you know, a couple hormones that send negative feedback, but that's only two days. And it's the same with HCG. The estradile will be in negative feedback on the pituitary. So with HCG monotherapy, your LH and FSH levels will still be suppressed, right? But because the testosterone clears so fast because HCG metabolizes fast in a couple days, then within a week or two, your estrogen is low enough for LH and FSH to kind of bounce back. Yeah. But if you do HCG monotherapy for like two years straight, you were shut down for two years and you probably need a pulse cycle therapy still. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Sure. Definitely. Yeah. But it's it's getting quite popular. Yeah. For a lot of guys. Yeah. Just HCG and then these secrets. Huh. Cuz they're they're just not ready to commit or it's a cheaper alternative. Definitely cheaper alternative. Yeah. Well, it makes sense, you know, for for folks. Yeah. People are asking me every now and then like is there something I can do besides going on TR? Usually HCG is my answer, you know. Yeah, let me try to get your health straight and see if that moves the needle on testosterone, but hg. But yeah, maybe I'll look into this other stuff. I'm interested like, you know, I don't think I'm going to go above 175 milligrams a test uh for the foreseeable future, unless I go on a longer est, which case I'm going to have to run at least 210 a week. Um I I do want to bring testosterone in and just try it again. and I ran it for a very brief time and you know maybe I'll respond differently to it but uh you know like yeah if anything you know the growth hormone secrets might be an option you know might be an option for me have a look have a look I mean that it can improve sleep quality quite a bit and then having a good night's sleep obviously helps with productivity the next day oh yeah everything you did a little bit of a deep dive of yourself on the nasal spray BPC57 right yeah yeah so so I know it will help with neurogenesis because BPC and HCG actually um induce a little bit of neurogenesis, but I never felt that the BPC would go systemic enough to kind of heal with injuries, right? Yeah, that's a difficult one and I don't know the answer to that. Uh, it seems as if nasal BPC-157 is effective at least at affecting neurology because it's like permeating the alactory epithelium and entering your brain uh through these like portals like these uh blood vessel portals. But yeah, how it's going to then end up in your Achilles tendon if you've got an injury like down there like anyone's guess, bro. I mean, I I don't know. I don't even know if it's I don't know if it's possible. How does the body determine how to distribute it? You know, it just goes into the bloodstream, but it it these these peptides metabolize so fast in the bloodstream and then don't have a depot, right? If it goes into the the the the nose, the alactory cavity, then it there's no depot there. So, there's no reservoir. It just goes in. It's the same as sublingual administration, right? Um it goes in and it it starts to metabolize. Now with steroids it takes like let's say eight to 16 hours depending on the oral steroid that you take. But with these peptide they get rapidly metabolized by um de or depeptid or peptides four enzymes that break down insulin IGF-1 growth factors. Um, so it's in serum for I don't know an hour, And that's why we inject it so close to the echula tendon if that's the that's where the issue is issue is because then you have a an injection depot a reservoir and it can kind of permeate into the surrounding tissue. Yeah. And and work, but then you would still need to inject it twice per day for the maximum effect. Oh, really? Yeah. I mean, for sure if I had another injury, I would be injecting. I wouldn't I wouldn't do it intraasally. No question. No question about it. Yeah. I I always wonder if if all those guys that get anodonia from BBC57 were actually using the the nasal spray go straight into the nerves and then or straight into the brain and then all the dopamineergic signaling is completely unregulated. Something like what what maybe that's what's happening. It's like it could be upregulating dopamine for some temporary period and then you know dopamine downregulates. Uh I mean it could be an it could be because it you know one of its mechanisms is like activation of growth hormone receptors like maybe it is causing an increase in prolactin and and then that's going to shut dopamine down because dopamine has to then try to keep up with that prolactin and eventually those hypothalamus dopamine neurons shut down or downregulate in response to having to try to control prolactin. So maybe that's causing them anhidonia. Yeah, it could be. Could be. [\h__\h] man. I don't know. all the more reasons to avoid it. Yeah. Yeah. Right. And just just take cerebral instead. Totally, bro. You know, or go with tried and true. I mean, injections for BPC-157 is is is tried and true. We know it works. We know it's effective. And you know, you're you're you're putting the material local to the injury, right? Yeah. Mhm. For sure. That's what you want. We got any anything else to discuss for this podcast? Um, no, man. I think we we [\h__\h] we broke everything down, bro. I think this would be good for both of both both of our channels, man. Yeah. Awesome. Awesome. Where can where can people find you? Uh find me at uh the Cortex Labs channel on YouTube. Just cortex Labs. You'll see yours truly. Uh you can find me at lifecortex.com. Uh that's where we've got two neutropics that I built bunch of courses and a couple digital guides and consulting and otherwise YouTube brother. I mean, I've been six, seven years now, every day, every other day, YouTube videos, and I'm only I'm only ramping it up now. And I got inspiration from you, Steve. Thank you. To get to that, you know, to get to that 50, 100K. So, let's go. Yeah. Keep grinding, man. It's it's it's it's weird. Sometimes it goes fast and then it goes slow. Just Yeah. You got to give more of what the people want to see. So, if the libido videos are doing well, just make more of those. And then you'll be uh you know, at one point you'll be known as a sexert. Uhhuh. Sexert. That's a great one, dude. Neutropics expert. Neutropics expert. Holy [\h__\h] No one took that one. I'll have to take that. Oh, yeah. Yeah, we're for sure patented right away. Ryan Ryan Bow, neutropics expert. That's crazy, bro. Yeah. Awesome, man. I'll see you a couple months on your YouTube channel. This was an absolute pleasure again to catch up. We should do this more often, man. Absolutely. Likewise. It was definitely great. Yeah. Yeah. Thanks for the opportunity, man. For sure. I'll talk to you soon. Yeah. Take care. All right. See you.