What's up, dudes? It's Vicor's Q&A. We're live. We got a boatload of questions already. Uh so, let's get into it. I got a lot of questions on the YouTube membership page. So, uh let's keep going and uh start with the question from D Higgs. Hey Steve, I asked about hypogestone a few weeks ago to to uh tremoline acetate. His progesterone was 11 nan moles per liter, which is I think three times out of the reference range. I think for men, I looked it up before we got started. Uh I looked it up. I think the reference range for men is up to 3.18 nanomals per liter. Um or that's postmenopausal something else, right? Okay. So let's see. Wait, is that correct? Yeah. 3.18 nanmles per liter. So that's three times out of the reference range. You suggested to drop uh trimlon acetate and went 25 days to retest. I waited 30 and it's still seven nanomals per liter. Prolactin and estradile are good. I'm having erectile dysfunction, libido and gyno issues due to it. Possibly some insulin resistance issues also still currently on 500 test 500 m struggling to cut. Any insight? Well, there could be a multitude of different things wrong. Right. I mean your progesterone levels are high and if your tremblone acetate has been out of your system for 30 days I don't think that talone or trembolone is detecting as progesterone but keep in mind that tremblone has what a two month three month detection time so maybe there's some overlap there um so yeah it could be that the tremblone is still detecting as progesterone or that the progesterone that you're taking is not metabolizing into something else I mean when you look into the stereogenesis pathways you see that progesterone let's see it converts uh or it it's metabolized primarily in the liver through cytochrome P450 enzymes, five alpha reductase, three alpha hydroxy dehydrogenase and a couple hydroxilase enzymes. And um maybe there's something going wrong there, but of course it'll be hard to pinpoint based on the information that you gave me. So if you're taking some sort of pregnant alone supplements or anything that is progenic, take that out. um see if you have an issue with metabolism. Maybe you need to supplement with nicotenomide monucleotides or nicot nicotenomide ribocide which are the building block for NAD+ which is usually the the electron donor in most of these enzyatic reactions that help with the metabolism of progesterone into something else and um you know so so this is where I would look first or maybe you're taking something that is inhibiting some of these steps that would otherwise metabolize progesterone right I mean there could be a multitude of different things going on and if you have ED and and um and gyno issues. Um it sounds like you're completely unregulated. You know, if you're struggling to cut, maybe you're uh deficient in certain uh you know, micronutrients, maybe your magnesium is off, maybe your zinc is off, maybe your vitamin B6, B5P is off, and thus your dopamine levels are too low, and now your prolactin levels are too high, and now you have libido issues and erectile dysfunction and gyno issues. Uh, even though your prolactin might be in range on blood work, I think it's time for you to just throw in a towel. Go back on TRT. Watch that video. I'll link it down below when steroids messed you up. Sometimes it's just time to throw in a towel and come off cold turkey. You know, it would be stupid to continue. Let's see. Uh, messed you up. You should give this video a watch. I go over most of the solutions which should be beneficial to you. Let's see live. There you go. Top one. Refresh the page. That will be a video you should watch and then you can maybe get some additional ideas on what's going on and how you need to fix it. But at this point in time, I would just tell you come off everything. Clean out. Focus on your nutrition. Focus on your micronutrients. make sure you get healthy again. And then usually with time everything will kind of sort itself out, right? Because maybe you're on too much trend and too much mass and too much testosterone and then now you're all out of whack because you didn't pay attention to your health, you know, or your micronutrients and that kind of stuff. So yeah, sometimes you just got to take uh you know take note and then uh move on. All right, next one. DLO micro doing NAD+ subcutaneous daily versus long intervenous once per week. I I think both can be done, right? The reason why we do NAD+ introvenously is to um make it go systemic and then do it through a slow drip. So you have 250 to 500 milliters normal salent solution and thus you absorb it systemically over the 40 minutes, 30 minutes that this IV administration is taking place. But of course, if you do subcutaneous administrations, low amounts, then you're also kind of slowing and blunting the absorption with um you know, prolonged secretion from the injection depot being subcutaneous. um and it should sustain it for about 24 hours based on the peptide uh you know peptide subcutaneous administrations that most people do. So I would say that it's doable. The problem is that it might have some proxidant effects at the site of administration. That's why we do glutathione introvenously vitamin C introvenously and plus introvenously they're very potent antioxidants but in high concentrations they might have some prooxidant effects. Um, still I would go, you know, if you do subq, maybe you do like 25 milligrams NAD plus subq every single day. 125 milligrams NAD+ over the week. 175 NAD+ over the week. And I think that's a very good intake for NAD+. Um, yeah, let us know how that goes. Maybe uh you found out something new. How do we join the YouTube club? Right down there, there's a join button. you click the to join the $10 membership for the private vigorous Q&A and then your um username will look like Higs nice and green with a check mark. Oh, I see it green in my chat, but you have a little check mark here and that means you're a member and then you can basically ask uh more questions during the week. Okay, let's uh start answering some of the questions that I um posted here. Oh. Uh, what is this? I think I missed something. Uh, I missed something off this chat. Let me not sure if that's this one even for the intermediates. Yeah. Okay. One second. Guess I deleted too much. So, we're going to answer the questions that were posted in the the thread in the YouTube membership section. Let's see. So, all the way down to the bottom. Oh, here we are. Uh, so van rostyang906 asks, "Hello, sir. insulin has a few side effects if used intelligently with your ebook and has enormous beneficial effects. Why is this a basic product that should be used in every cycle even for intermediate gear users? Can this mean uh using less gear for more or less similar results? Well, people are scared to do research and they've heard that insulin can kill, which it certainly can if abused, just like any other performance-enhancing drug, it can kill if it's abused. Um, but insulin is more of a life-giving medication than most of the steroids that we give, right? You can be androgen deficient and still somewhat survive. I mean, look at the castradi. they live for years longer than most men do, albeit that the quality of life obviously is not as substantial as men on TRT or uh than some. But if you go without insulin, you're literally dead, you know, within a couple years. So, uh insulin is a very beneficial medication if you're type 1, type two diabetic and it can be a very beneficial uh performance-enhancing drug if you eat a boatload of food and your muscle mass is so large that um you need increased delivery of nutrients. One of them being um glucose obviously, but also amino acids and electrolytes, right? You're basically a long story short to keep it simple, you're instructing the cell to open up and now all the nutrients can go in. So if you eat a boatload of food and um you know you feel that the delivery of nutrients isn't fast enough because your pancreas is not producing enough insulin to keep up with this nutrient demand and nutrient intake then you're supplementing the insulin that you're secreting from the pancreas in a form of a long acting insulin or short acting insulin or a combination of both right I mean this is everything the ebook describes um but you know you have to check your blood glucose multiple times per day and you have to um you know, be extra super careful with what you eat. So, your diet needs to be squeaky clean, otherwise you just get fat. You can't miss meals um and and you can't [\h__\h] up if you're on Lantis, obviously, because it works for 24 hours. And if you um you know if you take some fast acting insulin then you really got to make sure that you have some Gatorade or coconut water or PDLite or something like that with you to make sure that you have enough electrolytes and enough uh glucose on hand in case you go hypo. So that's that's more cumbersome than most men are willing to commit to you know and that's why most men are small. It's that simple. I think insulin will if you go on growth hormone and insulin and maybe IGF-1 LR3 a couple times per week if you can source a good quality um I I think you can limit it to like 500 milligrams of steroids per week right but it doesn't sound sexy and nobody will believe you oh he's done 500 tests and and and GH and insulin you know I wrote entire ebooks of it and men who follow these protocols for a couple years after they've been released I see the pictures these guys are absolute freaks you know but you have to follow it meticulously and do the boring ing bodybuilding stuff, eat your [\h__\h] meal, do your [\h__\h] injections, go to the [\h__\h] gym, and not miss any steps in that process, adding all of it up over years, and then you're big. And meanwhile, all the other guys are like, "Oh, insulin kills and insulin this, insulin that, and you know, and and those guys will end up small or with kidney disease or organ problems because they make a dose of steroids and don't have much to show for it. So, I believe in synergy between a multitude of different compounds, insulin being one of them. And um I mean I was like on 600 test or what was it? Yeah, 650 milligrams of test, two ampules of testosterone per week and a good amount of insulin and a decent amount of growth hormone. I was 120 kilos, 118 kilos upon waking, 120 kilos at the end of the day. So, um and guess what? My blood work was pretty [\h__\h] good on that protocol. All right, where is this? Oh, it posted it in the opposite order. Great. Nice work. Nice work, YouTube. Okay, next question. Um, Kundalini Martini. Nice. Asks, "Hey, Steve. I've been cruising on 190 milligrams testosterone per week, 1.5 to two. I use growth hormone, no T4, for 2.5 months." Two and a half months. December blood work shows elevated thyroid stimulating hormone uh with T3 and T4 in range. Cut 1.2 two to two IU of growth hormone be causing elevated TSH. Um, no. I would say that if your T3 and T4 are in range, then your thyroid stimulating hormone should not be in range unless you have something like Hashimoto's disease where um, of course T4 would be low, but thyroid stimulating hormone would be high. So, let's see. Uh, would adding 100 micrograms T4 bring TSH levels down, allowing for a higher doses of growth hormone? I want to verify that understand the ebook's offseason protocol before I start ramping things up. I mean, it's worth looking into, right? And we don't know, we don't know how high your TSH is because you didn't mention that. So, adding in 100 micrograms of T4 is a worthy thing to try. Give that two weeks, four weeks, then do blood work again. See if your thyroid stimulating hormone is still elevated. And then if you want right if TSH levels come down and everything is controlled then you could slowly start ramping up your testosterone and growth hormone dosages and keep checking your blood work in the meantime because obviously your lipids are going to change and your you know your metabolic markers your creatinine liver enzymes creatine phosphocinides all training related and then protein intake related or creatine monohydrate related right altogether and um if everything goes well right then you at least know that you know at least you know that you as an individual you need T4 in the picture when you take a little bit of growth hormone and I don't think that you need more than 100 micrograms T4 even if you start ramping up the growth hormone because there's a rate limiting response in how much deionase enzyme activity you can get um regardless of how much growth hormone you take in. So right give that a try and see what uh changes on your blood work. Let's see next one. Sian Rostang Rostain. Hello sir, for you what type of person could benefit for use of insulin? What person type of person doesn't? Okay. So the guy that's very meticulous checks his blood glucose levels and needs a boatload of food and then through trial and error you can start incorporating insulin later on when you have experience with your body. Uh when you're in a caloric deficit as well, right? in in though although in many cases it's not required but it does help you to stay full um you get basically more fullness for the same amount of calories that you take in right but your blood glucose levels at times might also be a little bit lower so that's why you first need to introduce insulin in the offseason so you can get experience with insulin in a caloric surplus right so it's only for the dedicated I would say only for the serious bodybuilders serious fitness enthusiasts that have everything dialed in read that ebook front to back a couple times and and understand the positive and negative uh ramifications of using insulin and what they need to pay attention to. And then if you're well informed, then insulin could be a gamecher because it again it allows you to take half of the steroids for the same if not more results. And there's no scientific evidence to back that up, but it's based on experience, right? It's based on years of coaching experience. Let's see. Uh G J G J G J G J G J G J G J G J G J G J G. All right, Jiz. Hey, Steve, I asked about how Okay, we just answered that, right? This is the one we just answered. Okay, cool. Uh, Billy K asks, "Hey coach, currently on TT Plus, my DHA sulfate came out at 5 1.52 micrograms per milliliter. Normal range is 0.3 to 5.7 micrograms per milliliter. I started taking 25 milligrams DHA every morning and everything goes smooth. The sad thing is I can't test um why is the ch channel messed up? I can't test pregnant alone, but I start with 10 milligrams per day. Tried morning and evening, but after two or three days of taking it in a row, I feel lethargic and unmotivated. Should I stop it or um will it be fixed? I know stop it and see if your motivation and um you know, lethargy goes away, right? That's the easiest thing you can do. You take something out. If you feel that it's due to pregnenolone, maybe your progesterone levels are high or or maybe you get some sort of um you know downstream effect where pregnenolone converts into progesterone and then cortical steroids and eldoststerone making you uh you know unmotivated of lethargic and one of these metabolites basically. Um so take it out and see what happens right maybe DHEA is more than sufficient for you. Some men respond very well to pregnenal alone and other men don't. And the only real way of knowing that is with blood work and and experimentation. And again, if you can't check your pregnenolone levels, which I'm sure will be higher than they were before pregnalone supplementation, take it out, see how you feel. And maybe it will take two to three days feel before you feel normal again, right? So maybe that's it. Or maybe the DHEA is making you a little bit lethargic and unmotivated, which is also a common side effect. or you know that has some sort of uh sedating effect. Um that's also a common side effect of DHA. Maybe you should take the full dose of 25 milligrams DHEA in the evening instead of in the morning. Right? You're taking 25 milligrams DHA in the morning. Maybe move that to the evening. Take the pregnantone out and see what happens. Right? You just got to make some adjustments until everything goes smooth again. Next one. Filippo's gym 7597 asks, "Hey Steve, is there any proof uh by now that smacks causes hair loss?" Uh, yes, indirectly. I'll link the studies down below. Or is it a Reddit myth? Well, a lot of things on Reddit are myths. That's why these guys are on Reddit and don't have their own YouTube channel. Uh, because I got myself some injectable smacks and I'm struggling with it now because I'm worried about my hair. All right, so I'll link you a study, PubMed. Let's go there. That's the easiest way to get these studies. BDNF hair loss. Oh man, there's like multiple. Uhuh. Which one is it? Well, there's actually quite a few. There's 117 studies. Uh what There was one effect where it causes some sort of hair follicle. Let's see. Hair follicle miniaturization follicle. Let me see if I can find it. H well there's actually more studies than I thought I didn't I link this study in the sax videos or the cerebral license videos now let me make a note here find BDN BDNF and hair loss studies I could have sworn that I linked one of these studies either under the cereal license video or under this max videos. Um, so what I'll do is after we're done, since the notes are right there, I'll I'll go through PubMed and find you a couple studies that show that brain derived neurotropic factor can cause some sort of hair follicle miniaturization. um if I remember correctly and that is the pathway in which um sax can cause hair loss because it of course increases BDNF brain derived neurotropic factor in the brain especially if you take the nasal sprays goes straight into the brain stem and then BDNF goes up and then it starts leaking you know until a hair follicle and um goes systemic goes to the hair follicle and then you get some miniaturization and then you go bald right I mean there is this old wives tale that um you know smart men are usually bald and that was then proven with science because smart men usually have higher levels of BDNF and BDNF has a negative effect on the hair follicle. So that is the the relation. There's some scientific evidence to back that up. So now you're going to have to make the choice, you know, do you want to be u bald and smart or with hair and and maybe allegedly a little bit more sexy and a little bit more appealing. It's probably better just to be appealing because then you can uh you know reproduce and if you're smart you're probably annoyed with everything that's going on in the planet right now and then you don't feel like reproducing. So right choices um Marco Marcel asked, "Hey Steve, can you inject ATG same day with TRT injections or should it be on separate day? 500 IO every other day on TRT then a thousand IUs until serums therapy." Um well, what are you asking? Now, do you want to do TRT or SERMS? What what's the what's the plan, Marco? It doesn't [\h__\h] make sense. You either do TRT or SERMS for post cycle therapy, right? I don't again, I'm not a big fan of Clomid, but there will be these token outliers out there that don't want to inject, right? We save the inclin for the oral only cycles, right? That's another corner of the internet. Um, not here. So, what about what I would do is uh three shots of TRT per week. And in between those shots, you take um arg and aromomas with your testosterone shots because that seems to have the same tapering effect. So uh let's say you do testosterone, right? 50 milligrams, 75 milligrams Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. 75 milligrams is a little bit more than TRT, but 50 milligrams still TRT approved. And then you take your ATG 500 IUs Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday, which is usually what I recommend in the cookie cutter HRT protocols. Um, and then of course if you want to do a thousand IU ATCG, um, that's what I am on, then I don't think you need TRT. My testosterone levels are right now 820 NOGS per milliliter. Yeah, pretty [\h__\h] good. I'll tell you that. All right, next one. Marco uh, also asks, "My wife has PCOS, polycystic ovarian syndrome, and she has irregular menstrual cycle. Any tips uh, if you have she isn't on any PEDs?" Uh, no I do not. No, I don't know anything about PCOS. My wife has never experienced PCOS. Um, so I uh I I never had the need to investigate that. And for all the women that have coached over the years when I was still coaching bikini and figure and wellness um, you know, athletes, none of them had PCOS. So, I never really looked into it. Um, but I'm sure there will be some YouTube channel about PCOS and then uh yeah, I'm sure they'll have a solution for your wife there. So, sorry I can't help there. I know a lot about steroids. Uh, but I don't know anything about PCOS. Oscar, welcome to the group, dude. What's up? Ask your questions. All right, we're going to start scrolling a little bit. All right, Iron Grit is in the chat. Be careful of Iron Grit. He uh he's got the banhammer on you. I hope you had an awesome new year. I have a question. You once mentioned a compound that could shuttle hormones out of the body if you injected something. What was it again? Uh calcium dlucarate. Maybe it helps with glucaronidation or uh I mean there's so many compounds that can speed up metabolism, right? You have St. John Schwartz medaphanil can speed up or or increase cytochrome P4503A4 enzyme activity and thus all the you know medications that go through CIP 3A4 uh could potentially increase the metabolism thereof. Um something you could recommend in regards to contest prep H I think it's calcium dlucrate. If you're talking about beating the drug test, it's probably calcium dlucarate and casein protein which inhibits a hydrayzeed casein protein which inhibit the glucaronidase enzymes which cleave off glucaronid from the parent hormone that is marked for excretion and thus it gets recycled. So you take calcium um casein hydrayzeed casein um let's say 10 grams morning and evening to inhibit these enzymes that caused the recycling and thus all the metabolites get excreted it or at least the glucar glucaronided the the enzymes that underwent glucaronidation right too many too much glucaronidation uh varants um so those are excreted and then you supplement with calcium dlucarate to make sure that the glucarate glucaronidation process. [\h__\h] hell, dude. What a tongue twister. These [\h__\h] How do they come with these words? Um anyway, so you take calcium to glucarate maybe 2,000 3,000 milligrams per day to um make sure that you have enough glucaroni diet to um metabolize these hormones from your body. Yeah. All right. Next one. Oscar. Hey, Steve. Uh, if I want an offseason stack and focus on as much mass as possible, how would you describe it between test bold and deca? Maybe add and draw the last four weeks. Also, first question here. Well, first you got to eat. It's not about the drugs. It's not about the You can use any [\h__\h] drug you want, but it's it you have to eat it. It's that simple. And what you just presented to me, baldinone has potential negative effect on your kidneys, which you might be able to, you know, mitigate with blood pressure medication, vitamin C or other antioxidants, right? I have two videos about balden onone kidney uh health. Deca can cause all kinds of issues with aromatization. So you have a roller coaster of estrogen, high blood pressure, moon phase, right? And nobody wants to [\h__\h] you in the offseason when you're on deca because you also have deca dick, right? Prolactin levels are high. So you're unfuckable cosmetically and your dick is unfuckable because you can't get it up, right? This the worst possible side effects can happen. Doesn't mean it's going to happen. And then anadrol can exacerbate the gyno that you might get from deca as well. So how about you do this test GH insulin and a boatload of food. It's it's that simple. It's that simple. And then if you want to close off the offseason, do it with Dadrol. If you want to have a little bit of joint support, 100 200 milligrams and anvilone on top of whatever testosterone you take goes a very long way. And if you don't want to use an aromatiz inhibitor, you take test and bold in a 1:1 ratio. Even though um you know I think you would get better results from test and primo with less kidney toxicity. Albeit that the same studies that have been performed at Baldinone regarding kidney toxicity have not been performed on primobalin. So you can say primobolin is not um nephrotoxic but there's no [\h__\h] evidence to show that it's not inducing um kidney issues. I think all steroids are nephrotoxic and neurotoxic. Um it just depends on what studies you read and if the studies have even been performed at all. So long story short um by the bio identical um or offseason cycles with biioidentical hormones and uh piece it together there. But the foundation of your offseason is just eat. Eat like it's your [\h__\h] job. Eat to the point you're afraid of getting non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Yeah. All right. Here we go. Hello, Steve. In all of your research, have you ever come across any compelling actual evidence that cancer can be treated through metabolic means like diet or fasting? If so, uh what do you know? Uh no, I I can't say that I've studied cancer that extensively. I know, of course, with carterine studies. uh I've read those right that that cancer can occur in what was it uh something plus minus mice which are basically susceptible to developing colctal cancer. So uh Cardarine was uh able to give them colorctal cancer even though they were susceptible to colurectal cancer. Um, right. And and I'm doing a little bit of a deep dive on BPC57 now. And even though there's no scientific evidence that BPC57 can cause cancer, right? 182 studies that you can find on BPC57, uh, doesn't really show that there's any cancer link. But if you do the, you know, the calculations in your calculator, your invisible calculator based on all the scientific evidence that you read and you understand how cancer works and forms, then you realize that angioenesis is probably not the best scenario for for cancer if it's already present. Plus, BBC57 seems to increase uh growth hormone receptor density and response to growth hormone in fibroblasts in the connective tissue. So um if you extrapolate that to cancer which also has growth hormone receptors then it would also not be a good idea. So right cancer is highly contextual. I haven't looked into it um in in the context of diet and fasting. Uh of course it's all the craze now right? We want to create autophagy and we want to be in a low inflammatory diet and high antioxidants and all that kind of stuff. And I don't think it can hurt. I don't think that if you focus on your diet and you do the occasional fast, which is basically what I do, that it's going to hurt your chances of um uh not getting cancer, right? That's double negative. Is that correct? Yeah. I think if you eat healthy and do an occasional fast every three months, which is what I do, five and a half days, but I'm tired of making before and after videos, so I just don't do that anymore. I have plenty of before and after fasting videos on my YouTube channel. Um, I think your uh chances of developing cancer are diminished because cancer is something that occurs in high inflammatory states and high proxidant states and that seems to be not the case if you just treat your body right. Right? Then of course if you hit the genetic lottery and you're [\h__\h] then you might still develop cancer. Um but if you have cancer uh diet and fasting would be one of the things I would explore looking into but not the only thing right I mean introvenous vitamin C therapy um you know what is it called uh uh you know alkaline diets all that kind of stuff right there's a multitude of things you can explore but you know I I don't think that you can solely treat cancer with diet and fasting right but if I had cancer I would [\h__\h] stop eating yeah I [\h__\h] fasted off and kill all the glucose because that's one of the primary energy sources that most cancers feeds on but not all right first you have to diagnose what kind of cancer it is so you can you know take affirmative action all right I hope that answers it Elliot my TSH is listed down below all right uh blood draw three okay so free T3 is high direct free T3 is Uh, also normal TSH7. Holy [\h__\h] IGF-1 is 541. Okay. Uh, I would recommend you to do an ultrasound on your pituitary gland because for the for your thyroid hormones to look like this, your TSH levels being like almost twice out of range, um, I I would discuss this with a medical professional because this shouldn't be the case. It definitely should not be the case. So, um, do an ultrasound or an MRI in your pituitary, maybe an ultrasound on your thyroid gland and then take it from there. Um, yeah, I would I would defer you with these numbers. I would defer you to a specialist. Yeah, I thought you said high maybe like two and a half because now there was a movement that you keep your TSH levels as low as possible, which I'm not for. I don't think that's necessary, but this is Yeah. high. So, seek some medical attention, please. Bratz toys, not Blastoids, but Bratz toys. Is 12.5 milligrams deanibal a day too low? I'm using subcutaneous 40 milligrams testosterone and 40 milligrams primo a day on top. So that's how much per week? 40 * 7 210. Oh, seven. All right. 280. All right. 280* 2. And then so that's you're taking 560 milligrams test system primo and then 12.5 times 7 uh it's 87 and a half milligrams a week. I don't think that's too low but you might still get um unwarranted methyl estradile effects because of course if you inject testosterone and inject primo keep in mind that your intestinal tract also has aromatized enzymes. So a good portion of that deanabol can metabolize into methystradile in the intestinal tract before it can hit an aromatized enzyme that's uh blocked by priobolan. So you might need to uh take a little bit of an aromatiz inhibitor with your dianabol or or um right to kind of offset the ratio of testosterone to primobalm but you're then you still have to deal with the methyl estradile. So how about this? How about you skip the dbol and go to anavar, right? Skip the dbol or go to terrinol. I think 10 milligs, 50 milligs, 20 milligs is more than enough on the cycle. Um, but of course it's up to you if you want to bump it up higher. Right? Give it a try for a while. Check your estradiol levels. See if you develop kynos. See if you develop a moon phase and high blood pressure. Mitigate side effects. And then after your um trial run of, you know, half a tab of the anal uh or or it's probably 25 millig tablet, right? So you you try your trial run and then you compare that to to trinabol or anavar whatever you can get your hands on and then see what you like more and you probably come to the same conclusion that test primo and anavar are the only [\h__\h] steroids that you need and that the animal is a fun thing to try but you know try it once it's like [\h__\h] a six you know try it once when you're drunk okay cool but you know if you can uh [\h__\h] eights nines t when you're sober that will be better right So that's the that's the difference between the Anibal and Anavar. Ryan, how do I lower uh my ADH safely besides hydration? Is that eldoststerone? ADH abbreviation. Is that eldoststerone? Anti-uretic hormone. All right. My bad. My bad. Attention deficit, hyper hyperactivity, and forgot to D because my ADD is so bad. How do I lower my antidiuretic hormone safely besides hydration? Uh sodium intake. Yeah, slowly start ramping up your sodium and you'll see that your antidiuretic hormone, your aldoststerone levels uh will slowly come down, right? But you can't do it too fast because otherwise you get this um you know this retentive effect. So if you're taking gram sodium in now, maybe go to 1.25 um grams of sodium per day on top of whatever else you're getting from your diet. Slowly start building it up. Slowly start building it up, right? And then you'll see that you'll end up at 3 g, four grams of sodium. You'll get crazy pumps. You don't really hold that much water. Maybe a little bit at the end of the day, but big [\h__\h] deal, you know? I mean, it's as long as you wake up lean and dry, then you're good. And then stay away from rip tropen or any of these generic growth hormones that might contain antidiuretic hormone. And I haven't used generics in ages. So, um, yeah. Elliot says, "Thanks. I give 100 micrograms a go and check blood work again a month. Okay, that's the way to go. Elliot, blood twark every single month. Eastern E. Hey Steve, do you STI? What is that? STI. Are you asking it? STI meaning. All right, let's see. Sexual transmitted infections. Dude, I've been been with my wife for 10 years. We've been married for uh let's say eight Yeah, eight years. No, no, we test I did a five panel, she did a five panel before we ever had sex. We never had to use condoms. Uh, of course, those panels were negative, right? And uh so no, no STI, no sexually transmitted infections for me. All right. Chase Hubs, I got Tyen Clark as my coach because of your podcast with him. All right, Tyen, you owe me 20 bucks. I think we're due for another collaboration, but I got so many other guys lined up that Tyen is going to have to wait. Yeah, but I would love to get him on again. I think he discovered some new stuff and I told him make a video about it. But you know, Tyen, he's uh too complacent when it comes to YouTube. So, if you're watching this, I'm sure one of the one of the the Netherland only crew will send this little snippet to him. Tyan, get off your lazy ass and make that [\h__\h] video. Okay. Yeah, take the credit. All right, where are we? Uh, hey, Stefan. Jesus Christ, that was Stefan with a PH, but let's just do Steve, right? I don't really identify as the the guy formerly the artist formerly known as Stefan. Don't really identify as that guy anymore. I just finished using LR3 as per your gut reset video. Okay. I'm about to start oral BPC-157. Do you think there's any issue taking seed probiotics along with the BPC57 empty stomach in the morning? Uh, no, I don't think so because of course you kind of killed all of your gut microbiome bacteria with LL37. That's an antimicrobial peptide that's bio identical. That's why I recommend it in the gut reset video. Very potent, very beneficial. and BBC57 is very good to heal your intestinal tract. If you combine that with the probiotics, can be seed, can be anything really. Um, and and maybe glutamine, right? Depending on how bad your intestinal tract was. The funny So, I I read all of the 180 papers performed on BPC-157. I'm almost done preparing for that video. It will be a while before that's ready. Um, cuz I have to record it and the editor already has a boatload of other videos he needs to edit first. So, at one point there will be a BPC-157 deep dive. Fingers crossed it does as well as the follow statin gene therapy deep dive because I keep seeing BPC57. So if I see a demand for it, I'll make a deep dive for it. Anyway, long story short, um BBC 157 is great in the context of healing injuries and the only thing it can really prevent is issues with your intestinal tract. Now, you already did the LR37 um and and you got your probiotics in place. Um, so yeah, I would take it off maybe 250 micrograms BPC-157 morning and evening with seed probiotics and uh and then have some glutamine um you know before cardio or pre-workout post-workout and then eat a healthy diet full with um kimchi, sauerkraut, maybe some sushi here and there, some raw foods and then slowly repopulate your gut microbiome. And if you feel that the LL37 or or you know whatever else the issues with your gut kind of messed with your neurotransmitter synthesis watch the entrepreneur deep dive video series uh part two four chapters right where I go into the neurotransmitter precursors because and if you overdo the antibiotics you kind of shut down dopamine production or reduce that really shut down serotonin production which is produced primarily in the intestinal tract but also in the brain. So if you feel off right, start supplementing with a little bit of elyroine and elptophane or 5http and and and glutamine will help with glutamate levels and then uh everything will kind of balance itself out slowly but surely. All right. Uhuh. Tree blaster. I'm a little bit behind on the chat, guys, but many questions to get through. I have uh is that uh oh yeah that's high Elon Musk. Everybody loves high Elon Musk. Okay. I have 2.5 milligrams Mjaro pens left. How should I use them for fat loss fasting or low calories for two weeks? Any recommendations on what to run alongside besides what you listed in the Munjaro videos? Um well two weeks you know low calories is a bit extreme. I would do something that's more sustainable. I would start with 0.25 milligrams. uh maybe three times a week and then start dieting and once you start noticing that your appetite comes up then you increase the dose to 0.5 milligrams or 1 milligram three times per week right so uh if you have multiple pens then you probably have enough for a couple weeks right and and keep in mind that you know fasting is a good start of the diet right to kind of get your insulin sensitivity off and really get you in this fat loss moment so you fast for a couple days how long you can stomach and then you start your mjaro right at the start obviously and then take a low dose mojaro just to control your appetite because you know it it you need to make sure that you get enough protein in your diet. You need to make sure that you get enough micronutrients in your diet. You need to make sure that you don't get [\h__\h] nauseous when you go to the gym. I mean if you mead do the munjaro any glucagon like peptide one receptor agonist and you do um heavy leg press right stifflegged deadlifts glute bridges reverse hyperextensions regular hyperextensions anything that puts pressure on your stomach uh vomit comet yeah vomit comet man I I remember the first time I ran llutide at 1 milligram three times a week or no that was tepid sorry tjapid 1 milligrams three times per week and And I did reverse hyper extensions with the full stack. So that's uh what is it? Say two and a half plates, five plates, five whole plates. And you start swinging and the reverse hyper is really starting to dig into your stomach. Oh my god, dude. When I came off that, I felt like violated. Yeah. Both ends. So build it up slow, make it last, don't overdo it so you can still eat and and then make sure you eat very nutritious food so you can uh you know have a successful outcome of your diet. William, does RU a local zip codes actually work for hair loss on test and deca? Uh, well, it blocks the androgen receptors, right, on your scalp. So, um, I've heard a lot of good anecdotal reports that are you, uh, your pin number is, uh, actually successful, right? And, and Deca is reasonably hair safe, but of course, the testosterone will convert into dihydrotestosterone, and testosterone allegedly by itself can also induce hair loss. So, I think it's something worth exploring. Unfortunately, I don't really have much experience with RU uh whatever the number is uh because the hair loss that I have is self-induced and it's not really something um I can gain experience on because I don't really care, right? So, yeah, good luck. But there's there's plenty of videos on RU on the YouTube. So, uh I'm sure Derek has a video on it and otherwise ask Tyen Clark. I'm sure he has an article in his private membership Facebook group as well. Oscar, the food is totally fine. I did a comp five weeks ago. The thing is money is not great. Hence the border on instead of primo. Not really in the place to buy GH. So I thought I ramp up the steroids. Yeah. So but that's that's the way you get unhealthy faster, right? So I would allocate a little bit of your budget towards growth hormone and allocate a little bit of budget to a low dose of insulin. Right? And I have an ebook for that. Uh, of it's $100. Let's say it's a lot of your budget is going away. So, if you want to do a budget cycle, uh, which I have a video about upcoming, uh, test balden. That's probably the cheapest you can do. And then maybe a low dose of mandelon alongside of that for joint lubrication. But then again, uh, eat about a lot of food. And then you'll you'll be surprised if you treat eating like a job that you don't really need that much steroids if you have a little bit of GH and a little bit of insulin in the picture. Currently on 150 milligrams testosterone until midFebruary. All right. So after Valentine's Day, it's go time. Also a duchy. [\h__\h] Get out of the chat, dude. Uh, all right. Oscar, you don't have to start telling her entire life story. There's other people in the chat also. All right. Uh oh, here's the question. Too much cber and AI. I think I crashed my estrodal, prolactin, very depressed, bad, anxiety, and no libido. Started taking debol. Okay, this is so this is how you [\h__\h] yourself up. This is how you [\h__\h] yourself up, right? You take too much of this. Then you self diagnose that you think you have low estradile and prolactin. You didn't do blood work. Then you overcompensate with a high dose deanal which doesn't give you biioidentical estradile. You give yourself a methylesterile which doesn't fulfill the same physiological effects. Um, you stop the AI and cber which is at least good and you started taking ACG three times a week which is also good. But I would take the deanable out and uh and watch the top video that I just posted because you um messed yourself up with steroids overdoing stuff or messed yourself up with ancillaries in this case and uh you know taking one thing too high and then taking another thing too high that's just going to send you to a roller coaster of [\h__\h] So, chill the [\h__\h] out. TRT, HCG. Wait. Just wait. Wait. Like, take take the loss. Wait. Write it out. You'll feel better in a couple weeks. Without going I mean, I try to coach people sometimes that go through this roller coaster of this and that and they they throw the entire kitchen sink at it and then and they really [\h__\h] themselves up, right? It doesn't matter how many how many times I make a video about that. Like steroids messed you up or drugs messed you up, you need to do this. People will be people and uh yeah, mistakes will be made. So, chill out. Come off, chill out. It will sort itself out. Polyethylene glycol is a solvent. As far as I know, Sony wouldn't recommend. Yes, that's true. Polyethylene glycol is a [\h__\h] poison. I would stay away from that. Alexander Carrera, have you heard of GC1? Any benefits for people with thyroid issues? Yes, I've heard of GC1. I've used it. I did research on it and I will tell you firsthand that it doesn't do jack [\h__\h] Doesn't do jack [\h__\h] And I've seen some antibod reports like, "Oh, this is the best thing and it works. It works. Where's the [\h__\h] blood work?" show me that it had some sort of you know modulatory change on your thyroid parameters which to this day I haven't seen. So uh it looks promising in the how many studies is it now? So let me see GC1 soyome if I spell that correctly man. How do you [\h__\h] spell this [\h__\h] So Jerome. All right, let's see how many studies are there now in PubMet. It's been a while. I think it's been over a year. Oh, 101 106 studies. Holy moly. Well, they did a better job than before. Yeah, look promising, but I I've never seen anything in the real world playing out that it's more beneficial to thyroid hormones or beneficial for people with thyroid issues. Then again, I'm not a doctor and I don't research medical conditions. I research stuff uh in the context of performance-enhancing, quality of life enhancing, cognitive enhancing. Um that's why we have doctors who should research medical conditions. I'm trying to prevent medical conditions, not fix them. Uh my friend has been using RU and has been uh having a lot of new hair growth. Okay, so that's blocking the androgen receptor. She had a hyctomy and lost a lot of hair. Yeah. So, it does work. So, it is one of those things that actually does work. A lot of anecdotal reports that argue um well, whatever the number is works for people in various conditions, but then with GC1, um again, I haven't heard anybody that isn't sponsored by uh gray area peptide website XYZ that used it that had a good anecdotal response. So, yeah, some work, some don't. It's kind of like that follows and gene therapy, right? The A31 and the A38 or A3. I mean, all you guys are asking about it. Thanks for all the views. Looks very promising on paper, but nobody wants to donate $100,000 to me so I can run that experiment. Plus, the highest concentration of uh ACE 083 I was able to find was like 5 milligrams per vial, but you need to inject 240 milligrams bilaterally. So, how many vials do I need to reconstitute for a single administration? I mean, no. Any thoughts on Seialis causing permanent vision loss? Never heard of that. Um, are we mistaking Seialis for selective estrogen receptor modulators or the SARM S4? Seialis vision loss. Vision loss. Is it uh ah here we go. Actually there's uh the UBC pub uh faculty of medicine I did not know about this a study performed in JAMA is it one study all right one study showed it well you know when a lot of men use you know medications at one point in time somebody will experience adverse effects And of course, everything can cause adverse effects, right? Especially medications that have been on market for a very long time. So, um I did not know about this. I will have to read the study. I'll link it down below. I think it's only one study. Um but based on all the people that I've talked to over the years running Seialis uh with great success uh and I've talked to many. I've used Seialis for like years on end. Uh 5 milligrams, 10 milligrams per day. uh I don't did not experience any vision loss. Neither did I uh ever talk to anybody who experienced vision loss or had that as a side effect. Um on seialis I will say that seialis of course with the erectile quality and having a nicely thick constricted penis makes you come very hard and as most men who know how to come very hard will testify uh that will give you temporary vision loss also and probably see some stars and you don't know where the [\h__\h] you are. So yeah, you get uh some out of body experience. Um but that usually subsides after you catch your breath again. Yeah, very enjoyable. Austin, big fat super chat, have you heard of bodybuilding getting uh atrial fibrillation from using androgens or have you heard of anybody fixing the problem? Yeah, it's uh it's actually more common than you think, but atrial fibrillation is also common with athletes. It's just a part of athletes heart. So, uh, watch the hearts videos that I've made. I'll link them down below, man. Everything I have a video about, right? Uh, hearts. Oh, not here. Hearts. How many videos on the heart do I have? Endurance, drugs, heart attacks. Jesus Christ. Oh, a lot of heart videos. How not to die from bodybuilding. I have a 52 minute video about heart health. Let's uh let's link that one down below. Oh, it's so skinny here. All right, second from the bottom. Uh long story short, um atrial fibrillation or or arhythmias, uh magnesium deficiencies very common or related to vitamin D3 and vitamin K deficiencies. uh just overall electrolytes uh you know in inconsistent intake and then maybe torine right and lay off all the [\h__\h] stimulants it doesn't help either. So torine, magnesium, uh proper electrolyte balance, proper hydration, ubiquininal, very potent. Maybe you combine ubiquininal, PQQ, proloquinoline, quinon, uh 20 milligrams two times per day. And then you combine that with chiligit fulvic acid, which helps with the absorption of ubiquinol and other micronutrients. So that will be a very heart-healthy stack. And then hopefully with time you can kind of get those atrial fibrillations out of control. It's not only from androgens. It's just you from training hearts, training to failure, high epinephrine, high norepinephrine levels. So maybe you need to take a better blocker, propanol, aanol, nivol. I mean there's a multitude of ways to get this done. Um but you'll be surprised how many guys have this issue and they can fix this issue with torine, magnesium, ubiquininal and then later on if you need it. I mean that's what the beta blockers and the medications are there for. Right. Right. So, but we also have imaging you can do frequently, right? Even an EKG, just a basic electroc cardiogram is already enough to kind of detect if you have any atrial fibrillation from what I remember. Is that correct? Let me let me double check that. Atrial fibrillation, EKG. Uh, yeah. Atrial flutter, atrial fibrillation. Yeah. So, with an EKG, you can already detect that or ECG. And that that literally takes you five minutes to uh assess. All right, let's see if I don't forget any member questions. Carlos, appreciate the answer. Love the new tropics videos. Some Max versus new pet versus reb versus respawn for reading and retaining information. What would you take if you were back at uni and had budget for those? Um I would definitely take a respawn for presentations. Uh I mean I'm giving a presentation right now, right? So I always take respawn before I do these presentations. I would take a combination of sax and newept in the morning for studying right the brain real brain work. So you do your you know you you wake up you get all of your most important work of the day done. Seax and for that and then cerebral for before bed. So uh of course sax will give you neurogenesis, new pept will give you neurogenesis, cerebralin will give you neurogenesis and uh you would cycle those in and out. So maybe you do one month sax and new pept and then maybe one month cerebral or or all at the same time and then kind of seeing which ones you want to discontinue. Uh and respawn you can just use as needed, right? It's not something you would take every day. But if you have something important that you need to be focused for and also feel good for because again a respond is a formula for feeling good but also being cognitive and productive then um that's what I would do it for. So I would take it maybe two or three times a week and then cerebral I would take cycles of a month or two months on and then seven max one month on two months on and then one or two months off new pep you would cycle it in or out. So, um, yeah, man. If I if I had those in uni, I would probably pay a lot more attention in university. University was so [\h__\h] boring, dude. I couldn't wait to get out of class and go to the gym. Ah, how can I get blood work in New York City? I'm turning 18 soon and always feel tired and no matter how much I sleep, I'm scared to drive due to tiredness. Okay. Uh, I would just go to the doctor and ask for referral. Explain your problem and also explain what your diet is and also explain how much you're drinking and also explain everything else that you're doing, right? And then ask for full blood work and and I'm I'm not sure what the age needs to be for blood work in the United States or if you can pay it out of pocket, but why don't you send me health an email, you know, ask them said, "Listen, I'm 18. This is my problem. Do you have a place to do blood work in New York City? Can I can you write me a referral?" they might be able to help. You know, I've got the link for America Health down below and and and depending on what they say, they might give you some recommendations for blood work initially and then discuss it with their one of their patient care coordinators. If you can't find a reliable doctor in New York City to help you out, right? I mean, the internet is vast and just because you can't find a guy locally doesn't mean you can't find a knowledgeable guy on the internet that's affordable. So, I mean, it could be tiredness, 18 years old, it could be a million different things wrong. So, um, right, I mean, I can't really piece it together for you over the internet. So, maybe seek some professional advice and then slowly go through the process to get yourself untired and get yourself feeling 18 where you want to [\h__\h] everything that moves. Well, at least eights, not sixes. Don't do that. I have some [\h__\h] respect for your dick. All right. Okay, we went through everything. Now I can get to cherry pick some questions. Did I miss one? No, this one I got. Do Serum shrink the prostate? So I I read through all the SERM studies all hundreds. I know there's a SERMS video dropping next week. Uh it's finally finished. So it's maybe Monday maybe it will drop. All the citations are there and I read through all the studies in in one or two days. And basically long story short um in all contexts where SARMMS shrink the prostate it's because they castrated those rats in part as part of the Hersburgger bioassays right where they start comparing SARMMS to the reference standard of testosterone propionate. So yeah of course it's going to shrink the prostate because you're testosterone and estrogen deficient and D testosterone deficient. So it doesn't grow the prostate and thus it's selective. No. No you stupid [\h__\h] there's no testosterone in the picture, right? So, and and and even the you know, serums when they administered 0.1, 0.3, 0.5 milligrams per kilogram of body weight, that's significantly less compared to the 2 to four milligrams of propionate that they might comparing it to as a reference standard. So, um I mean, you guys watch Fist of the Northstar at the opening scene of the movie where the guy just starts poking holes into Kiniro's chest. It's like if you want to com do the SAMs analysis, you can use all four fingers and just right into the abdomen. Yeah, for all the Serum goblins out there, you will not like the Sarms video. I promise you. If you want to shrink the prostate, do an oral only cycle. Shut yourself down. Or take a Mega Strepterellin or betaglitamide. What is it called? buttoamide. I can't remember what it's called. There's one medication which basically blocks all the androgen receptors. Brutal. What do you think about urylthene a helps with mitochondrial health and uh mitoagi? You mean the growth of new uh mitochondria? Uh, I think urine a urtholine a uh studies are greatly exaggerated. Yeah, I don't think it does [\h__\h] You know, another supplement that looks very promising on paper, but I really I rarely see anecdotal reports where they say, "Oh, your lithine was life-changing." And that's why I didn't include it in a mitochondrial um, you know, deep dive video. I think nicotenomide monucleide or or NAD+ or ubiquininal I might see I think that's more than enough uh things to look into for mitochondrial health and functioning uh uh all right start scrolling up a London, send the super chat. Really? Where is it? London. Sorry. Sometimes this chat resets and then I miss something. Did he go to [\h__\h] Streamyard? Where is it? I don't see a super chat. Let me scroll down all the way down. I'm looking for it. Oh, he said London send the super chat. I thought I missed it. Anyway, you got my attention. Could you reveal my London? Uh, could you review my cycle and tell me what you change if anything? Only negatives I'm having and night sweats. wife has put me on the couch because it's so bad. 1,000 milligrams of test, 400 milligrams of train, 800 milligrams primo weekly. Um, you're taking too much train. That's where the night sweats are coming from. And and maybe the test and primo is also too high. I don't know anything about your training intensity, your size, your metabolic rate, your food intake, your electrolyte intake, your micronutrient intake. I don't know anything about your body fat levels. All right. So, so, um, I would say take the train out. You'll feel a lot better in a couple weeks, and then you can go back to your wife's bed and [\h__\h] her again. So, you're welcome. Chris, welcome to the Vigor Crew. All right, guys. Please understand that I'm not a doctor, right? these medical questions that keep popping up, you should ask that with a qualified cardiologist, right? If if you find out you have some left ventricular hypertrophy, why are you discussing that with me? Discuss that with your cardiologist, dude. Right. Right. You can watch the the hearts video and take some advice for yourself, but I can't help you or diagnose you or or resolve medical conditions over the internet. Right. I can prevent you from getting less ventricular hypertrophy by telling you guys how to use performance and enhancing drugs safely. Um, but if you already got it, then that's what the cardiologists are for. Let's see. Hello, Steve. I've been working out for four years. I get more muscular, but I'm like barely getting strength. Tips: Eat more food. Eat more food. Like, I look insanely good, but my strength is [\h__\h] So, if you look extremely good, it means you're lean, and it also means you're not eating enough. So, whatever you're eating now, add 10% more calories on top from healthy food sources containing protein, carbs, and fats. And then in four weeks later, you do that again. Maybe four to six weeks later, you do that again. 6 to 8 weeks later, you do that again. slowly start increasing your calories till you're also as strong as you look, right? Because let me guess, you probably also have low libido because you're always lean, right? And what's the point of having a lean physique that that has no libido, right? All right, let me scroll up a bit. Do you have any experience with pine related mechanical growth factor for site enhancement? Uh did I use MGF? I think I used mgf disc and uh again the anecdotal reports are so thin that I don't think it's worth looking into and otherwise run it for four weeks and then come back with your insane story of how you capture delts to the moon uh and back uh yeah I'm willing to put money on it that you will not return with a story like that So, uh, should I worry about anti-nutrients? Will you someday do a deep dive of methylation and how it affects the efficacy of different drugs and supplements? Uh, probably not. Probably not. That's very low on the priority list. Uh, but you should worry about antrons. Yeah, you should worry. That's why, you know, you have resistant starches in your uh carbohydrates. So, you should keep your, you know, potatoes and rice warm, right? Don't let it sit. there's something to say for the antrons or the fibers in brown rice limiting the absorption of essential nutrients that you need and and then you know you can say the same thing to a certain extent about certain vegetables but you know all in all I think if you eat an overall balanced diet then maybe a little bit of fiber and antiutrients from certain food sources that you have are not going to matter much because you have so much nutrients coming in from other food sources right so again there's a lot of fear-mongering in the nutritional space especially about the carnivore grout. I mean, those are those guys are now just [\h__\h] nutrition terrorists, I would say. Um, if you want to do carnivore to reduce your intestinal inflammation, it's fine. But most guys who benefit from the carnivore diet is are just the guys that treated their body like an absolute trash can and then they go on carnivore and it saved my life. No, no, you could have done that with any kind of diet. You just needed to follow a structured diet. And it's the same for most kind of diets. If you just follow a structured diet and mix and match food sources that you slowly go in and out the that your body agrees with, then you'll be okay. Then you'll be okay, dude. It's it's, you know, methylation. I know what was it the Brea guy is talking about, oh, methylation this, methylation that, but there's a lot of hype out there and if you want to do a methylation study, just do your DNA analysis. All right? I think you can determine it there. And methylation is not the only metabolic pathway that you need to look into. There's many more, right? So just because it's in the news doesn't mean it's super important. And oh, it determines your biological age. The biological age is [\h__\h] It it's so many things that goes into it. You know, what you need to do is treat your body right from the start. All right. Next one, low carbs is no gains. That's not entirely true. I I did ketogenic diets for a very long time and I cycle my carbs in and out and I I still got [\h__\h] big, you know. Of course, I was bigger with carbs. I'll tell you that. But I still got pretty big and still got pretty strong, you know. Nutrition terrorist. Yeah, it's exhausting, man. Let's see. Yeah, you're out of here. Yeah, but I'm not a nutrition terrorist, right? Just because keto works well for me doesn't mean I'm going to force it up you on you guys that everybody needs to do keto, right? And plus, I do don't do 100% keto. I um I I I I do keto most of the day and then post-workout, I have some fruit, you know? So, is it 100% keto? Some sometimes I have 70 grams of carbs from fruit. Sometimes I have 150 grams of carbs from fruit where I feel really hungry and you know after leg day I mean [\h__\h] you. You got to backload your carbohydrates right bro. And then I feel a little bit brain fogged but that's okay. I watch a little bit of TV and then I have another four hours of cognitive work after that. So you know nutrition is something you have to play with. Figure out what works for you. There's no one cookie cutter way of nutrition. Uh besides that, generally speaking, you should avoid processed foods. Eat foods that expire and and you know after reconstituting oatmeal and and rice and that kind of stuff, right? And and eat food that is single ingredient, right? So if you eat potatoes, it's not potatoes and butter and and and this and that and blah blah blah. No, it's just potatoes and then you can add a single ingredient thing on top of that. So if you eat as basic like that and it sucks, it's boring, it's annoying, and you have to cook and this and that. And guess what? The guys who do that, they're the ones who are not getting unhealthy, and they're the guys who are staying cognitive and looking good. They're the guys who are not looking like ashtrays when they're 40 years old, right? So, um, nutrition is is the most important thing you have to do, but it is also the most cumbersome, right? because it takes more hours out of your day than the training or the injections do. Henry fam, hey, is uh TB-500 systemic? Yes, it is. Strained my pec a while back and not still not 100%. Wanted to try TB-500 into I use growth hormone for healing it. Add some uh BBC157, 1 milligram BBC 4157, 1 milligram TB-500 to au growth hormone. Just uh you know, inject it around the area, right? You just kind of circle circle around it like a a bundle of ants every single day. And then um you do that for four to six weeks. And then even if it doesn't feel better uh during the time that you're using this treatment, it might still be better a couple weeks later because the angioenesis has already been initiated. And it might take some time for the um you know, the healing to really set in and take place to the point you don't feel it anymore. and you feel confident enough to start benching heavy again or you know whatever chest exercise you do heavy again. So yeah, give it some time but add in some TB-500 bro. It's very pro very promising. There's literally one one human study. BBC157 here. Here we go. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes to both. Reminds me of vegans. Uh, all must become vegans. Yeah. Yeah. A lot a lot of dogmatic [\h__\h] out there. You know what? Just let them like I kind of any donkeys in Thailand. Uh there Well, there's a lot of donkeys in Patty, I'll tell you that. And and Phuket, like all the tourist areas are full with human donkeys. Uh but if you want to see some real donkeys, I think there's a zoo on the way to Wahin. Uh might not. What was that? Donkey farm donkey's rest hotel. Yeah, I think it's a Swiss sheep farm. Ah, donkeys and alpacas, bro. All right, let me let me find the link. Uh, Swiss Sheep Cha. Um, doesn't have a website. Well, I'll uh I'll send you the Google Maps directions. Sorry for the delay. All right. Share. Copy. Paste it. It's right there underneath uh some link. The Google Maps link. Go have a look there. There might be some donkeys there. And if you can't make it to Wahin, um hey, go to Padia. Plenty of donkeys there, dude. Full of donkeys. Me turn this air conditioning up a little bit because it's getting cold now. Steve, YouTube is an ass. All right. So, I can't do any uh YouTube payments for my country. Any other ways to ask a question outside super chats? Just ask them. But it's sometimes a lot of members show up and a lot of super chats show up and then of course I have to uh you have a moral obligation to answer those questions first because people pay for it, right? So, if you can't pay for it, just post it, dude. But it doesn't mean that I might see it because there's, well, as you can tell from the chat, there's a boatload of other people trying to get their questions in. Um, but if it's a good question, I don't mind answering it. All right. I meant humans. I meant humans. Human donkeys. Oh, yeah. There's plenty, dude. Uh, Thai people are very calm. Yeah, I mean Thailand is like uh it it attracts degenerates. All right. So, so this is just something you have to deal with. So, you have to keep your circle very very small. That's what I do here in in Thailand. You know, I give everybody a chance. But, you know, people have to usually prove themselves. Um and and of course, if you come to Thailand and you move straight to Patia, then I don't know. It's I recommend most people not to end up there and then they stay there for a year. and um and then they still move to Bangkok or they stay there indefinitely and then they're surrounded with the the degeneracy that's fine if you like that and if you like living in Patty or Phuket in that sense and again there's nice areas you don't have to be close to it but since it's a tourist city and and that the tourism [\h__\h] never ends it's just uh I haven't been there in a while I might go to Patt get after high season but it's definitely not a time to go right now it's just too much uh [\h__\h] I like the quiet life. Yeah, ask better questions. Yeah, that's usually the way I see I see a ton of questions which I answered last week or the week before and I have videos about. I mean, you know, my sincere apologies if I don't answer those. When are the vigorous cigars dropping? Um h I don't think I'm enough of a connoisseur to really um come out with my own good line of cigars, but you know I'm always I plus I like variety. So I usually you know get my uh you know humidor guy recommend me something and then I'm usually pleasantly surprised. Uh, how did you did you have culture shock when you first got there? Um, no, not really. I got culture shock when I got back to Holland when I realized that not everybody was easy to approach and I realized that not everybody was happy and I realized that um it was [\h__\h] cold because I came to Thailand in November. Uh, was it November? Yeah, November 200 2006. [\h__\h] it's been it's been forever. It's been forever. Um, yeah. So, I got culture shock when I got back and then guess what? I booked my ticket within the first week of arriving back to Holland. I booked another ticket coming back to Thailand and that's when I broke my leg in a motorcycle accident. So, um, yeah. So, no, I I don't have any culture shock. I I feel more at home here than I do back home. I had a little bit of a culture shock when I came to United States and I realized how fat people are and how obnoxious and um how um I don't know annoyed everybody is with each other in the United States. So yeah, I had a little bit of culture shock there, but uh in Thailand, no. Dubai didn't have culture shock. Japan didn't have culture shock. I mean, I've been all over the world, dude. That's it's nothing surprises me. But yeah, the last two times that I went to the US, I'm like, "Holy [\h__\h] this is Yeah, general population there, this is something uh not right." But the bodybuilding and fitness community, absolutely [\h__\h] sweet, right? Everybody in the fitness community in the United States, super nice, super lovely, very caring, very interesting, very talkative, very outgoing, wonderful people. But then as soon as you go to Disneyland, oh man. Oh man. Uh, Steve and Andrew Tate cigars. I I don't think that Andrew Tate likes steroids or bodybuilders or Thailand. So, and and I don't particularly enjoy the the content that Andrew puts out. So, even though sometimes he's he's he's got a couple valuable points, but you know, you got to remember the rules of Fight Club. All right. What's rule number one and rule number two? Shut the [\h__\h] up. Do your thing in silence. Hey Steve, do you still do blood work consults? Yes, sir. Just follow the link down below. vigorste.com/cconultations and uh let's set it up. Send me your blood work. Tell me your problems. Tell me your life story and then I'll let you know how long we need to resolve it. But usually 20 minutes, 40 minutes is more than enough. Yeah. Supplements you advise on testosterone, master and trend cycle. Uh, magnesium, vitamin D3, vitamin K, uh, ubiquininal, torine, basically, you should just have a look at my year- round supplement stack, which is due for an update. It's on the to-do list. Uh, I just didn't get around to it yet. Let's see. Supplements. Where's my year on supplement stack? B vitamins. Basically, all all the supplements. Toddka for sure. Tremblone has a nasty tendency to kind of erase your liver enzymes. And of course, since your metabolism and your metabolic waste products are going up when you take Trembbleone or a combination of Tesmaster and Trembbleone, then you need a little bit additional tata to help promote the excretion of all this garbage. Yeah. So make sure you stay healthy and maybe uh vitamin B6, B5P and some elyroine to keep your dopamine levels high because uh tremble is highly dopamineergic. So uh make sure you feed into that. Uh high test with aromomasin testosterone with DHT derivatives. What's the question here? I I I would say yes to both. Just depends on your preference. And I've done high tests with a Romson and I've done high tests with the DHD derivative to match and I like both. I like both. But the price of Primo now is yeah, it's theft. So if I were to go and cycle right now and just do test and aromomas uh test and aromomasin still got like two or three boxes of Fiser Aromosin laying in the closet staring at me which will be the last Fiser products I ever touch. Yeah, because of reasons. Yeah, because of reasons. Did you take down the anti-aging deep dives? No. Wait, the mitochondrial support stack or the Benjamin Button stack? Those are all online, dude. I didn't take anything down. No, those should still be there. Just got to search. Are you doing going to do more boozers vigorous Q&A? Last week was a great time, man. I was so [\h__\h] hammered. Holy [\h__\h] And then I had to take all that equipment back in the house. Um yeah. Yeah, it was fun though. It was fun. But maybe maybe in a year. Yeah. Let's let's let's plan for next year um you know, New Year's if I'm still doing these Q&A because hopefully by the time we have a kid and then I don't think I'll be doing these vigorous Q&As's uh by that time because uh I'll be on daddy duty, right? So uh let's see. All right. Nothing is off the table, but you got to go with the times. Steve, by the way, the Boozer Q&A was legendary. I broke up with my girl as my New Year's resolution because I was getting tired. All right, Iron Grid, you and the cats. I'm not laughing for breaking up, but it's just it's so funny, you know? It's so funny that you like the Q&A and then now you're single with a cat. Yeah. Yeah. All the more time to moderate. So, and then remember, you know, you're still young, so there's plenty of pushy the [\h__\h] that you still need to explore. You got one in the house and five in the hand, right? Like do a pull a pull a Donald Trump when you see him. Who needs a girl anyway? More trend, more men. Oh. Oh, Jesus. Well, iron grid. If you want to go that route, then a one-way ticket to Thailand is uh the way to go. Is it okay to take HCG with Hashimoto's? Uh, that I'm not sure. That I am not sure. But since HCG interacts with the thyroid stimulating hormone receptor in rat studies, not in human animals, not in human studies. I mean, I've been on a thousand IOS HCG for months now, close to a year. That thousand IO HCG three times a week. And my thyroid parameters have not changed in any way, shape, or form. Nor do I see that on blood work parameters. There's one or two animal models that shows that ATCG interacts with a thyroid receptor, but can it mitigate human Hashimoto's disease? I'm not entirely sure. Right. So, I don't know. Type in HCG and Hashimoto's at Pupmet. You know what? I'll do it for you. Let's see. HGI Moto. It's like nobody knows how to do research anymore. Oh, there's a researcher called Hashimoto. Uh, there are 52 studies. Well, you're you're going to have to go through PubMet yourself. There's a researcher called Hashimoto K and Hashimoto T. So, um, those are coming up in the search results. But yeah, I don't see any clear indication that those can be combined or not combined. All right. Where are we? The multiart of what? Of the anti-aging. Anti-aging deep dive. Did I do an anti-aging? I have videos about anti-aging, but I don't think I have a multi-part deep dive about anti-aging. Maybe you're mistaken with a different channel. All right. Where are we? Fisel, I'm thinking about doing a deca only cycle, but I take Dutasteride. How long after stopping it can I take deca given the halflife is five weeks? Uh, I would wait a couple months. Yeah. If if the halfife is five weeks, then it should be out of your system in 25 weeks, which is half a year. So half a year. Or maybe you switch to finasteride in the meantime. uh or you take salt pomemetto or pygm right to help offset the the the fava reductase enzymes converting testosterone into diet testosterone and then you do a deca only cycle. Now I would wait a long time because you know of course dihydroanderone is less of an invasive compound than deca itself. So you need a little bit of five alpha reductase enzyme activity and you need the conversion of pregnant alone into alo pregnant alone. So I would just take it out and take if you want to take dutaster I'd take it topically. I would I would not take that orally dude. Too many side effects. I started getting exertion headaches while lifting weight. It's really affecting my workouts. I went to the doctor and just gave me anti-inflammatory steroids. That doesn't help at all. Any advice? Well, uh type in tension headaches on my YouTube channel. Headache. I'll link it below. Headaches while using oral steroids. Uh, let me link it down below. Third from the top. There you go. Long story short, hydration, proper electrolyte intake. Look into something that causes vaso dilation. Not too much to the point that you get headaches from the vasod dilation. But something like lowd domas, lowd doialis, um, you know, things that increase nitric oxide uh levels in the bloodstream like uh, you know, pre-workouts for example. Uh those are all things that you can look into and stop holding your [\h__\h] breath, right? That also causes tension headaches. So those are all things you can explore. Watch the video that I linked down below and um and then hopefully you can uh get over that. But it's it's not that difficult, man. What why is this air conditioning not giving me the right temperature? So yeah, watch the video. It's all there. Making sure I don't miss any super chats. Terop, how much master with 200 tests and three times 500 I use per week HCG to keep estradile in range? I would do 200 to 300 milligrams master. Yeah. Yeah. Because of course the hgd produces estradile directly in the testicles. So you need more of a suppressive effect of aromatized inhibition on the testosterone that you're taking. So you might be able to get away with yeah I would say 300 m. Yeah. But of course do your blood work three weeks into that protocol to confirm to see if your estrogen is not too low or too high and then make the appropriate adjustments um you know on your testosterone to mastron ratio. But the ACG I would keep the same. Yeah. And keep in mind that 250 IOS ATG is usually enough to sustain testicular function. So you don't always need 500 IUS. um maybe do a semen analysis on 250 I use HCG three times per week 3 months into that 4 months into that and then see if you need to increase your fertility parameters further um albeit that scientific evidence shows that 250 I use is um right the most effective dose to sustain testicular function and spermatogenesis how to be in the moment when the girlfriend is there benzodianopene help is growth hormone for anti-aging how to be in the moment oment when the girlfriend is there. What do you mean? I mean, if you can't if you're not in the moment with your girlfriend, then the girlfriend is not not for you. Find somebody else. I mean, you don't have to take drugs for that. Benzoazipene, I mean, if you're nervous or anything like that, I mean, just just give yourself some time, dude. You know, spend more time together. And benzoazipines, I mean, you're basically changing your mood. And now the girl that likes you is liking you for a mood that it's induced by drugs. So, do you think that's sustainable? I don't think so. Uh, growth hormone for anti-aging, uh, topical anti-aging, yes, because it fills in the wrinkles because you hold a little bit more water, so you look a little bit more youthful. Your skin looks a little bit better. And, uh, that's about it. It might age you faster by increasing IGF-1 levels, but then again, the correlation between IGF-1 and aging is also a little bit dubious, I would say. So, Yeah, I uh I would say uh you know, give yourself some time with your girl, man. Don't have to rush into [\h__\h] her. Build up the mood. Big house. Steve, how frowned upon when a client asks uh his coach too many questions. Erin is being too soft on me. I don't know how to tell him how to put me through the grinder. What are you talking about? And his coach asks asks his coach too many questions. I mean, Aaron offers a good service and answers all of your questions. That's part of being a good coach. Um, you know, usually what I did is uh is just increase the rates because it's the cheap clients that uh that ask too many questions and then you start increasing the rates and then all the cheap clients the ask holes they fall off and then uh yeah, it's it's it kind of sorts itself out. So, I was always there to answer all of the questions for all of my clients whether it's through voice messages or lengthy emails or or whatever. That was that's just part of the job, you know. And then Aaron is being too soft on you and don't know how to tell him to put you through the grinder. I mean uh you got to put yourself through the grinder. He's guiding you through um you know making the best possible decisions for your uh bodybuilding aspirations, but you need to bring up the motivation to uh aspire to be a bodybuilder or or change your physique. So it's not his job to put you to the grinder. It's his job to get you towards your goals. If you want to grind hard, go grind hard, right? Go grind hard. And if you don't have the motivation to grind hard, then then pick up another sport. It's It's that simple. Angry just became a member. Why? I I see your username, bro. Probably got to pay you for it. [\h__\h] All right. Uh Jay Stockwell, Steve, did you ever try uh PE protocols besides growth hormonialis before bed? Well, I tried uh the Andra Tim cream. I have a video on that. I'll link it. And I think that um the what's it called? Let's see. Andra Oh, it's probably eggplant to circumvent the Oh, no. Overnight gains. Was that excuse me? Yeah, that's the one. 60,000 views. Oh, no wonder. All right, so I gained about a half a centimeter on that, but I don't think it's anything that I didn't have before. So, um, yeah, that's about it, dude. I mean, my penis is not small. Um, so I never felt a need to increase my penis size. And, um, you know, the best thing you can do is just move to Asia where the vaginas are smaller. uh and then you don't have to do anything crazy to your uh penis. Uh you know, you gain an inch or two automatically because well the the the physiques have less internal organ room I would say. So yeah, but of course if you're in the United States and you bang a lot of Brazilians and big butted black uh Amazonian goddesses, then yeah, you might need to do some penis enlargements uh because there's like three inches of uh butt cheeks that you need to get past and then uh you know the Mandy Go and whoever else has also had their turn. So it's basically throwing your uh your coin into a wishing well, right? I mean it will take a while before you hit the bottom and hit the sides. Uh yeah. So, but I don't know anything besides uh taking some, you know, growth hormone seialis and a DHT Andra Tim cream before bed. That's that's the extent of it. Yeah. I mean, it does answer all the questions. I'm just asking if I'm being annoying with it or is it normal? Well, in the beginning of signing up for coaching, there's always more questions and then later on all the questions are already answered and then uh you know and then it it gets less. So that's that's that's why I usually make clients sign up for like six months in in advance because you know in the beginning it's going to be a lot of work and then later on the questions kind of diminish and the client knows what direction they need to go and then it goes away and then then of course if you are over asking questions and it's not worth his time then he might say increase the rates or I'm full right? I've done that with clients as well. So I'm sorry I'm I'm too busy too busy. Sorry buddy it's uh it's not working out because these guys are literally asking an hour per day of your time. I'm surely hope you're not doing that because as a coach, you know, there's only so much time you have during the day and it's it's a full-time [\h__\h] job. People don't understand it. It's an 80hour per week job. Um, and you barely have any free time. You're always on your phone during workouts and during meetings and and just trying to keep up with all the messages. And at one point, the coach might say, "You know what? This enough is enough. I'm sick of this and uh I'm better off uh, you know, doing uh helping a client that doesn't spam me through WhatsApp." So, right, be careful. But mo most of the time, I mean, I would get like hundreds of messages per day and answer all of them. Yeah. All right. Uhuh. Uh, let's see. Saret. Okay. Okay. Okay, I want two. Here we go. Three. All right. Four. As we're going to 5 HTTP with desensitization, hyperyrorism, how to fix these issues after stopping. Do your own [\h__\h] research and stop spamming these [\h__\h] questions in the chat. How about that? Time out. You are not more special than anybody else here. Bye. Whatever anodonia you got is through your own doing. Uh let's see. Let's see. How often should I apply tininoan? Uh the tininoone cream I would do once per day and then you know you take your evening shower, you uh apply that before bed, let that um let that absorb and then you go to sleep, you know, and change your pillow sheet every single night because it might take a while for the tininoone to really dry out your skin. And then of course, you know, the the sebaceous gland and and the cream will get into your pillow. So change those bed sheets or at least a pillowcase, a pillow cover every uh day until your skin really dries out and then uh and then maybe you can apply it every other day, right? You don't have to keep applying it every single day. Once the skin is dry and you're clear, then you just apply a little bit as a maintenance dose and apply it to the problematic area. So like for me, I usually have pimples here on this side. Um and and usually around my nose here. And it's also because I, you know, let my cats walk all up and down my face because they like to, you know, give face rubs. Uh, and then I forget to wash my face also. So, I get a little bit of a, you know, a little bit of a pimple here and there. And, yeah, just just apply it where the problematic areas are. So in the beginning, every single day, change your bed sheets and then after that you uh you apply it as needed cuz less is more and you don't want to dry your skin to the point that you start looking like the mummy. That is not very appealing. Oscar, uh I wish people would stop asking this question. Yeah, that's what I think about it. But no, there's no news. Otherwise, I would tell you guys. There's no news. And it will be no news until I'm ready to talk about it. Maybe, who knows? Maybe we had like four or five miscarriages already. So, maybe this this question is getting [\h__\h] annoying. I I shot myself in the foot though, right? Being transparent and honest about it. Like, hey, I'm going to come off cycle and trying to get my wife pregnant. And then you have to deal with uh, you know, these questions every single day from family and from people in the chat and everywhere. Hey, how's it going? How's it going? How's it going? So, um maybe my wife is already pregnant. Maybe I just don't want to tell you guys. Maybe we're due um sometime this year and I don't want to mention that because um once the due date comes around, then everybody will start bugging you more. Hey, did you give birth yet? It's like with this baby making stuff, no [\h__\h] privacy at all. So, I wish I faked an injury, told you guys that I tore my pec and that I was going to come off cycle and just kept it quiet. That's what I should have done. Yeah, that's what I should have done. But, uh, yeah, fertility parameters are absolutely [\h__\h] stellar, though. Yeah, I'll make a video about it next week. Uh, let's see. Where are we? Let's see. Hey Steve, in your opinion, one week of fasting but drinking only water helps to better the skin. Uh yes, because you're not eating any inflammatory foods that can worsen the skin. You're not eating any dairy products that can worsen the skin. Uh you're not getting any any uh oxidants in, prooxidants in that can worsen the skin. So, I've done fasts uh multiple uh different times and uh yes, I can tell you that it it does improve the skin, but when you start eating again, once you start eating your shitty diet again with dairy products and inflammatory foods and uh and uh proxidant foods, then your skin quality will worsen. So, um fast first and then fix your diet, right? Fast first, fix your diet. Watch that how to fix your gut video. I'll link it down below. How to heal your gut. Yeah, I'll link it down below. Boom. Go watch this video. It talks about fasting in L37 and how to uh schedule your elimination diet and BBC157, etc. And then you should have clear skin once you fix your gut microbiome. Let's see. Mtos Mahmood. Um, hello Steve. Happy new year. Happy new year buddy. Thank you. Considering 500 milligrams test 400 master, how often should I inject? Should I mix the compound in the same needle, same oil? Thanks for everything. Okay, so you what you can do is you go to Amazon, you buy some sterile vials uh or buy it wherever you can get it, right? Sterile vials. You transfer a week worth. So that's 500 test 2 cc's and 400 m. Either 4 cc's master propriate or 2 cc's master inate. Transfer that to the same sterile valve. shake that like you're using a shake weight or like you're making um a cocktail, which in this case I think a cocktail is more applicable to what you're doing with your sterile vial and then draw whatever you need for that day with an insulin syringe. So if you're having 2 cc's test and 2 cc's master, that'S4 cc's per week 4 / 7 0.57. So you uh let's say 0.6 milliliters, right? Sunday, you inject a little bit less. Or if you're um a Muslim, then I think uh Monday is your uh rest day. Was it Friday? [\h__\h] Was it Monday or Friday? A second. I don't want to be incorrect here. Friday. Oh my god. My bad. Any I don't want to in um offend any Muslims. And I've been to Kuwait and Dubai. Shame on me. So um on Friday you would inject a little bit less. I usually make that joke about Sunday but that's a Christians among us. Um anyway so you inject 0.6 milliliters. If you have master enthates and if you inject uh let's see mronone propinate then you would have 6 milliliters. So that's divided by 7 is 0.85 milliliters subq or intramuscular per day. But I prefer subq because you don't create any scar tissue intramuscularly and intramuscular scar tissue takes a very long time to remove and might hinder your range of motion. All right, Javier, any neutropics you can recommend for stock market? Any drugs to forget people? Forget an ex. Forget a bad friend. Uh time heal time heals all wounds. Time heals all wounds. So, uh, neutropics for the stock market, modafanyl, aderall, will start working on those videos reasonably soon because I just posted that um, you know, that that multiple choice or the single choice um, poll on my uh, community page. So, most people wanted to see a video about anadrol ader and anadrolder fans or dexadine. So, we'll do that one first and then I think modafinyl after that. Um, but anything that can that is a little bit dopamineergic and uh you take a low dose because you don't want to take too much of a dopamine hit to the point you get overconfident and then you think, "Oh, it's only going to go up, it's only going to up or it's only going to go down, only going to go down, and you start trading not the levels um and the indicators, but you start trading the dopamine, then you're going to get liquidated." Yeah. Um, so I would do a low dose aderall, low dose medapanyl. Yeah. and then use some altenine to kind of take the edge off and and and most of the overthec counter supplements. I mean, that's what I'm taking right now. And I I made some killer trades the last year, but of course, the stock market has been going up. So, I mean, you know, I I made also profits when the market was going down, but I made some better profits when the market was going up obviously because you have to trade the swing trades, right, when the market is going down. So, you have to set entry points far below the, you know, you just have to wait for dips and then you buy the dip and then you buy it. uh res or you sell at resistance, right? So, and that those gains are usually less than in the bull market. Um drugstore forget people do trade for the next two years, wait for the next bull market to come and then travel. You'll make you'll meet a lot of new people. You'll meet a lot of new friends, you'll forget your ex, your bad friends, you'll forget your family, you'll forget everybody. Yeah, that's what I had when I traveled for a year. That's if you want to change your life, just travel and and you can travel through wherever you live right now. You can travel through Asia, you can travel through America. You know, if you tra do your stocks well, um you make a good amount of money. And even with $25,000, you can travel for an entire year, if not longer. So, um yeah, hold off. People come and go, man. People come and go. At this point, like I'm 40 years old right now. I just expect that people are going to be there temporary. And that's maybe a little bit of a wrong outlook, but you just realize that, you know, people can pretend to be all kinds of things and then at one point they turn out to be the exact opposite of the what they were pretending to be or they're, you know, their their ideals are not aligned with yours, right? So people come and go. You have a good time while you're together and then maybe there's a blowout or maybe you slowly separate because you lose interest. Um it's just part of life. It's just part of life, man. People come and go, people die, people stab you in the back. It's it's it's all part of life. So just keep your head up, man, because it it won't be the last time that it will happen. It will keep happening no matter how careful you are. Yeah. And vodka. And vodka, of course. How can I forget vodka? Is there a maximum rate of fat loss? If so, can it be enhanced? Assuming that diet and cardio and adherence is 100%. So, I think you can lose a percentage of your fat mass. I think I discussed this several times before, there's a certain percentage of fat that you can lose at any time. So, if you're 25% body fat, of of course, the rate of fat loss is higher because you have more fat mass. And what that exact percentage is, it kind of depends on what performance you actually take and how um you know, sleep your deficit is. But you see, the less fat that you have, the less fast you lose that fat. So, let's say you can lose 2% of your fat mass per week. And if you're 25% uh, you know, body fat and you're 100 kilos, it's 25 kilos of fat. 2% of that over the week, uh, 25 time 02 is half a kilo. Well, okay. Maybe maybe 5%. 25 time 05. Yeah. A kilo and then 250 grams. Okay, that sounds about right. So, let's say you lose 5% body fat per week. 5% of your body fat, right? So if you're 25% body fat, you're 100 kilos or 25 kilos body fat. 5% of that is 1.25 kilos. Now if you're 10% body fat and still 100 kilos, but in reality you're probably 90 kilos by the time because you've been dieting. So uh maybe even less, maybe you're 85 kilos times uh.1. So that's your 8.5 kilos of body fat and you lose uh z 5% of that, then you lose only 400 grams over the week. So you go from 1.3 kilos to 400 grams as you get leaner. And if you're 6% body fat, now you're probably like 82 kilos is a little bit less than five and then you only lose 250 grams of fat per week, right? So the leaner you are, the longer it takes to get additional lean. Um five amino helps with that. NAD+ helps with that. um nicotenomide monucleotide or nicotide nicotenomide ribocides to help with NAD+ levels in the fat cells and five imuninoq prevents the breakdown thereof and then there's a bload of fat burners you can look into right clutrol ephadrine uh dmp even though I'm not really for it right I mean there's a bload of things you can look into growth hormone right also liberates fat carnitine shuttles triglycerides into the mitochondria etc etc etc so yeah um leverage those drugs when you need them though you don't need to put them in right from the start you put them in uh when you start stalling. Macdaddy high dose HCG to fix Christ estradile in time for sex. I also have a protocol on this highdose ACG protocol for two weeks. Even have an article about it. Short-term ACG protocol to boost one's libido. All right, I'll link it down below. So long story short, thousand I use HCG every day for two weeks and then that should bring your estradile back up. It should bring your SHBG back up to a certain extent. It should b balance out all of your sex hormones and neurosteroids. And then your libido should be pretty [\h__\h] good. And it's probably already good by the fifth injection. But you just persist just to make sure that you have enough estradile. And then you go about your business. And then you keep ATG in at 200 ATG in at 250 IUs three times a week alongside your hormone replacement therapy. Thanos. Hello, son. Uh, what was the son of Thanos? Thane, didn't he make an appearance at the end of uh, one of the Marvel movies? Or was it somebody else? Was it the brother of Thanos? But no, um, I'm not the son of Thanos. I'm not purple enough. And if I had an Infinity Gauntlet, I would uh use it a lot more wisely than Thanos did. Yeah. Of course, I die from using it. So, yeah. No more mosquitoes. That Yeah, I would do that. That's worth giving your life over. You would cure so much deni and malaria and and just, you know, whizzing that [\h__\h] mosquito away. Yeah, I would all mosquitoes gone gone. But I would do it when I'm like close to death anyway. Uh, Mus Mammud, uh, you recommend one test, but Dr. James, YouTuber, yeah, I know about Dr. James recommends 5 to3 ratio for better estrogen control. I think it's probably worth looking into the ratios deeper. Well, it it depends on person to person, right? The reason why I said it and I'm the first one who recommended this reason. I'm the I'm I am the one who recommended this ratio and ratioing in your DHT derivatives or balden to your testosterone dose. Um the reason why is that most people are not as lean as Dr. James. Not sure if he's actually a doctor though. Uh but we also have Dr. Tony Huge, so we can all, you know, we can all roll with it. Um the reason why I recommend it is that most people are not lean. They're 12% body fat, 10% body fat. And of course, everybody has individual aromatized enzyme activity. So if you start at a 1:1 ratio, which I think is fine, and you do your blood work four to six weeks later, then um you know, might be that your estradile is too high or too low, but not significantly high, significantly low, that you get side effects. Whereas if you start with a 5 to3 ratio and you're fat, you'll have issues. Yeah. you'll have issues. So, um, right, again, everybody's free to reinvent the wheel. Um, and and figure out what works best for you, right? I mean, I I like uh 21. What's the ratio of Star Wars aspect ratio? Star Wars aspect ratio. Yeah. 2.35 to one. Anamorphic widescreen. I mean, it's great for movies. Um but if you want to watch it on your mobile phone, it's not going to work, right? Then you need uh six 9 * 16. So uh individual preference plays a part. But blood work, and I think that's what Dr. James also recommends, uh blood work should always determine what your protocol is going to be in nursing school. Uh trying okay text speech my best to get an exemption for the poke I if I have to do it I guys I'll get muted I I've talked about this enough so um I'm sorry I don't want to get muted any further than I'm already am so good luck to you good luck to you can you leave oil ins I have some testosterone propane in ampules which are 100 milligrams each but if I pin 150 milligrams test a week is it okay to put in syringe shoot half on Monday switch the needle and shoot the rest on Wednesday yes you can do that um but I would still prefer you because we don't know what carrier oil you're using obviously again I will have a carrier oil deep dive dropping in maybe two weeks or something it's a 55minute video so it will take some time to get through the editing process uh it will be a masterpiece though yeah it'll be a [\h__\h] masterpiece will not be a editing masterpiece like Dr. James who has like five to eight minute videos, editing masterpieces, but they're short. This will be an editing masterpiece 55 minutes long. Yeah, it will not get any views obviously because it's too long. Uh that's why Dr. James is smart, right? He puts short short videos, not so much information, but short, algorithm friendly. Um yeah, so where were we? Oh, yeah. Can I leave the oil in the syringe? Um, if the oil is uh something like castor oil, sesame oil, grape seed oil, cotton seed oil, there's no ethyloliate in there and the benzoentoate concentration is not too high then I think it's okay. But I would still prefer people to move the contents of the ampules to a sterile vial and just draw what they need uh as needed because ampules or vials are made of glass. That's a more superior way to store oil oil in because if you put oil in the syringe and it has synthetic solvent or some of the plastics or the rubber stopper leak into the syringe then now you're injecting that. Yeah. So I wouldn't leave it in there too long. Do the benefits of MK-677 plateau at high doses? What dosage would it become more effective to add in growth hormone? So most people report the maximum benefits at 25 milligrams at 30 milligrams MK-677 and you don't get additional growth hormone secretion by upping the dose. Um you get maybe combining that with what was it uh CJC-1295 right because MK-677 works on the grelin receptor and CJC195 works on the growth hormone releasing hormone receptor if I'm not mistaken. Uh just let me double check that. It's been a while. Yeah, growth hormone releasing hormone receptor. So I I would combine it with something like that. And then I think in the MK-677 video um I mentioned how to maximize growth hormone secretion further with some amino acids and uh melatonin. So you can look into those. Maybe that will can bring your growth hormone levels up higher. But most people will get only a growth hormone level of let's say two IUs's exotinous growth hormone. So if you want to get you know the the the chase iron's levels of growth hormone then obviously you need to go with exontinus. Anything over 2 IU would be more beneficial um if you go with exotinous use compared to the highest dose of MK-677 that you can take which is 30 milligrams per day for most people. Have you ever done pro bono coaching once? Once. Yeah, but it's friends of mine. Uh if so, uh let's say if so, if not, what does one need to do for you to have done it? I mean, if you're trying to make a name for yourself, then you can do a little bit of proono coaching or you coach somebody that has such a good network um that you can use them for something else. So the only person that I ever coached pro bono was San Cheltram from Bhutan who turned out to be a good friend of mine and we had a great business relationship uh off the coaching relationship and we're still good friends to this day and he's you know he treated me very well when is when I was in Bhutan. He basically gave me a free holiday which if you understand how Bhutan works and how expensive it is there uh that's basically a $2,500 free holiday. Uh, I got to m meet the prince of Bhutan. I got to meet a lot of influential people in Bhutan. Um, so that's the only person I ever coached pro bono and my wife obviously. So if you want to make a name for yourself, you can do it uh to get, you know, the before and after pictures and some good um, you know, um, or to get good testimonials. But coaching is a job that you get paid for. And if you're not getting paid, then you're not getting then you're not coaching. It's that simple, right? Then you're just doing somebody a favor. Is there such a thing as a dumb question? Now, you there's only dumb people. Dumb people asking dumb questions, but it's always good to inquire. Yeah. But a lot of the inquiries are just stemming from laziness. Let's be let's be honest about that. Okay. uh Hamat in terms of lipolysis is there benefit from increasing genitals are open from 1.5 to three IUs if you split up the dose yes because then you're on I think the maximum amount of growth hormone or most amount of lipolysis you can get from a single growth hormone administration topside at 1.2 two to 1.5 I use depending on how big you are, how much fat you have and how you respond to this exogenous growth hormone through hormone sensitive lipase. Um, so I would do 1.5 I use twice or one IU three times per day, right, for the maximum amount of lipolysis. That being said, a growth hormone is a very poor uh lipolytic agent. It doesn't come anywhere close to a low dose of clitrol or 5 aminoq or ephidrine, right? or or maybe caffeine is even more u fat loss inducing than growth hormone at these low dosages. So once you start megaosing growth hormone then of course you get fat loss but we're talking about 6 I use 8 IUs 12 IUs 15 IUs per day that's when fat loss starts to become noticeable um you know the amount of fat loss that you get from 1.2 into 1.5 I use genotrop or any kind of growth hormone is um not worth the money right we take the growth hormone for the beneficial effects of lip pololis is just an added benefit yeah let's see let's have some water Yes. Yeah. This is Greek. Bona is oa. It's uh Lion King. Lion King noises. Keep it English. Yeah. Unfortunately, not everybody has that uh you know translation software. Elliot Steve also wanted to add my elevated thyroid stimulating hormone. I was talking 25 micrograms T4 September to October and tapered off over two weeks. Could this have caused the thyroid stimulating hormone increase? I'll set up an appointment with my doctor in the next week. Um if if if you already tapered off in October and so you've been off November, December and and well part of January, then you might have had an initial spike in TSH. Um, but that should have normalized by the time you had normal T4 and T3 levels. So, uh, make a make an appointment with your doctor. Yeah. See what's going on. All right. Synergy FX. How do you stay away from all the temptations around you in Thailand? Um, well, after 18 years in Thailand or 17 years, um, I've done all of the temptations already. I've done all of the stuff already. So, after a while, you just get bored with, you know, everything gets boring after a while, right? So, uh, nightclubs get boring, go-kart bars get boring, going out late, sleeping with girls you don't know the names of. Um, it gets boring after a while, you know, and and [\h__\h] I'm from Holland, so I I did so much partying, dude. In my younger years, from age 16 to like 21, I partied so [\h__\h] hard. Every [\h__\h] weekend, I went out doing something, you know? You go to the casino, you they have like 25 euros for the night. You go to the casino, you play your 25 euros away to the point you have five euros, but you still get to buy three beers for that. That's how cheap it was back then. And and sometimes you make 100 bucks, 150 bucks, and guess what? You're drinking cocktails the whole night. And talking with girls and you have all this money suddenly, but the budget is still the same, right? You put 25 euros in at the night. you make uh either more money at the casino or less money at the casino and then and then you spend you still spend the same $25 that you entered your night with. So sometimes you have leg legendary nights and sometimes you have shitty nights. Uh but you still have a fun night compared to sitting at home. So I went to all the raves, I went to all the nightclubs, I went to [\h__\h] Goa parties underneath um in in like illegal tunnels that were half constructed under uh lakes. Um, dude, I went to the first sensation right in 2000 and I've I've all the temptations I've already done. I've lived a very full life and I'm I'm happy to be settled down. Yeah, I'm happy because honestly what I see right now is because social media has kind of [\h__\h] with everybody, right? The atmosphere I went out on my birthday one and a half years ago. Um, and it was fun, but the I don't know feel that people are different. They're they're even in the nightclub, they're like in their phone, whereas before, like I I used to go clubbing without uh mobile phones, people would actually uh talk with each other, right? And if you bump into somebody, no, no big [\h__\h] deal. You spill the drink, fine. You buy them a drink, you go to the bar, have fun, you know, you buy you make friends. Nowadays, it's a fighting moment. Oh, you spilled beer on my my shoes. Jesus [\h__\h] people are so [\h__\h] tied up to it. It's I I can't stand it. I can't stand it anymore. So, um you know, if if if friends are in town and they want to go out, you know, to a go-go bar, fine. I'll take them, right? I'll sit there with my [\h__\h] legs crossed and my hands tied and uh entertain those guys, right? I'll get get a few drinks in. No, no worries. But all the temptations here um I've done to the point of exhaustion. So, I'm good. And this is what you should do before you settle down because otherwise you might feel tempted to do that while you're settled down already. And then uh well you get yourself into trouble, right? Yeah. People talk to each other, dude. Dude, I I when I first came to Thailand, I would just go out by myself. I would make friends in the night. You go out, you go to the bar, you look for another single dude just like, "Hey, you're here hunting." He's like, "Yeah." It's like, "Okay, you need a wingman." So, yeah, of course. What are you drinking? Okay. You share a drink, right? You you treat these other drinks. You go walk around. You hook up and then you toast and you you go about your next business. And then maybe four weeks later, you see the same dude and you do it all over again. Don't even exchange numbers because you don't need to because you would meet other dudes at the nightclub out for the exact same thing. You would just make a team, you know, so it's not awkward and just go look around, right? You would walk a circle and then raise your glass of tonic, gin tonic, which is fluorescent, so you don't need to light like I found a couple girls. You light your gin and tonic, right? And then it's it lights up through the disco lights. And then you walk to your buddy or he walks over to you and you introduce him to the group of girls that you're with. And then and then guess what? In in 30 minutes, you're out the [\h__\h] door. Uh you're buying condoms. Yeah, but I don't think that happens anymore. Or maybe I'm just too old. You know, when I when I was in my prime, you know, 22, 24, 26. Yeah. Not when I was taking steroids and bald. When I was still able to fit into a shirt. [\h__\h] man. Oh, yeah. I got so jaded, though. I got so [\h__\h] jaded. Uh uh uh uh and it's odd to be told you're here by yourself. You don't have any friends. What a weirdo. Yeah. But so you just meet another dude that's out by himself. And I think in Thailand that still goes on and I'm sure other places of the world. I mean in Amsterdam it was [\h__\h] common. You would go out to Amsterdam and you would meet tourists that are there just solo and it's like what are you doing here? It's like yeah I'm traveling by myself. I wanted to go uh you know to this nightclub and I was like you want to join? Yeah of course of course you know and then you might share some drugs might share some MDMA you know and some coke on the way back to kind of sober up. Good times man. Yeah good times. met a lot of friends and and and then you know you don't add each other on social media because it didn't ex exist. You didn't exchange phone numbers, just high-fived each other on the way out and that was it. Great [\h__\h] experience, but I don't think that happens anymore. Yeah, everybody's socially awkward now and everybody gets offended for little [\h__\h] thing, you know? Well, I'm not going to say that the early 2000s were better, but to meet people and how people acted, it was better. It was not better to make money, though. I mean, social media changed the game for moneymaking. Um, so at least with social media, you can just do whatever you like and uh make money that way. Oh, here we go. You look like Johnny Sins. I want to spend some time with you. All right. Is that a pickup line? Uh, yeah. But I think Johnny Sin has got me beat. And plus, he's the most versatile man on the planet. And I've only done like four four jobs in my life. That's so cool. Meeting people and immediately become friends. Well, when there's alcohol or drugs involved, of course, that's going to happen. But I mean, I I mean, anybody that met me at the muscle factory can uh can vouch for me. Uh Muscle Factory here in Thailand or met me at the Mr. Olympia or any other convention. I'm very easy to talk to. I have social skills. I traveled a lot. I've been out. I've gone clubbing. I I I give everybody time and I give everybody attention and I try to make everybody feel like I uh want to be treated, right? So, um, and then over time some people turn out to be [\h__\h] Okay, you don't you don't talk to them anymore. But most people that I meet, um, very easygoing, very easy to talk to. And of course, in the fitness industry, everybody's easygoing and easy to talk to. Um, so I I don't think there's you'll find much anecdotal experience of having a bad interaction with me. Maybe once or once here and there because there are some weirdos out there, but obviously some people you just know right away that they're bad news. they stay away. Uh, Hama, do you believe that nicotine ages you faster can affect gym progress? It's been 8 milligs per day from nicotine gum. Um, well, nicotine has some prooxidant and antioxidant effects. So, um, if the proxidant effects are more pronounced, it could age you faster. But honestly, I haven't really looked into nicotine that much because I don't feel that nicotine is a good neutropic. I mean, it has all kinds of benefits, right? It's extensively studied. Um, Yubberman did a great podcast on nicotine, but since it's so addictive and I I used to smoke cigarettes, party smoker when I was like 16 to 18 years old, um, I do know that it's that it's problematic to get off. So, I don't even want to try nicotine patches every day or a couple times a week when the comedown and and the addiction is just clearly there, right? I can I can take modafanil a year straight and then stop cold turkey and not have any issues. Uh but nicotine I don't know for all the benefits you can probably get from other neutropics I don't think that any of the characteristics of nicotine are unique to nicotine I'm sure you can get that somewhere else um for less of the uh potential addictive properties that nicotine has so right there's so many alternative the neutropic space is so vast or the cognitive enhancing space is so fast uh fast that um I don't think it necessary but Of course, it's easy to acquire. Then again, 4 milligrams nicotine. I mean, I I think I saw the I think it's like 60 bucks or something at CVS when I was in the US. It's quite expensive. Yeah. Are there any downsides to HCG monotherapy aside from HPTA suppression? Could want to run it instead of TRT for years. Um, so I've been running it for close to a year and I would say that it's uh the only downside is that it's way more expensive than TRT. Yeah, it's way more expensive. Uh, but no, I know guys that run HCG monotherapy for two or three years straight and then eventually they're like, you know what? Um, I'm tired of this. I want to see what testosterone is all about. And they lower the hg dose so you can still keep it in for the function. But no, there's plenty of guys out there that do HCG monotherapy and perfectly happy. Yeah, perfectly happy. So, the downside is a HPT suppression and and it's expensive. Yeah. Uh, do you have any books, tips or podcasts to develop that social fluidity that you're developed? Um, traveling and drugs and and as you get older, you just stop giving a [\h__\h] That helps a lot also, right? So, when you're younger, you get rejected either socially by men or women. They're like, "Ah, he's weird. He doesn't know what he's talking about." Then you feel bad, right? In the inside. you get rejected enough and you age enough and you've gone through life enough, uh then even if you make an awkward remark, which I still sometimes make, uh you just don't give a [\h__\h] right? That that's that's the ultimate bliss where you don't really have to care what other people think. And that doesn't mean you have to turn into a complete [\h__\h] weirdo. Um but if you mess up here and there and you don't care because you know that you you're not doing that with the wrong intentions, you just said something dumb. Okay, it happens. Okay, just laugh it off, right? Just laugh it off. Um because somebody out there is going to find you awkward regardless, especially in the western world where everything is offensive nowadays, right? Bought a lot of snowflakes, so you can't even exist anymore without people being offend offended. I mean, success is offensive, right? I mean, just because you're successful or you have 100,000 followers on YouTube means people get offended. So um you just have to come to a realization at one point that people are going to be people might some are going to respond well to you some are not going to respond well to you. Um but if the net outcome is that most people respond well to you um then you're doing it right and it might take some time to develop and and for me uh recreational drugs helped with that during the time that I was going out a lot going out a lot exposure therapy helps a lot and then especially if you go to Asia where it's just non-stop right there's if you have anxiety here it'll be gone in two weeks because it it you'll just get forced it will get forced upon you right hey what's up people want to talk to you people are outgoing friendly there's a but lot of people everywhere and then there's a language barrier. So, you have to learn how to communicate with people because their English is not so good and your ability to communicate um you know in an easier to understand English is uh maybe also not so good. So, it get out there get out there. And that being said, I I still suck at recording YouTube videos. This is easy talking to people, but recording YouTube videos, I still suck at that. And I've been doing that for five years. Yeah, that's why there's so many jump cuts. Uh Jordan, if you conceive a child while in gear, is there any data to suggest that there's more of a chance of defects? No, not that I was able to find together. Like anecdotally, there might be more instances of uh autism, but then again, you know, the bodybuilding community is very well documented. So, uh, because we're all on social media, so you would think that there's more autism, but most of us kind of linger in the bodybuilding and and and and enhance the space. So, maybe that's it. Uh, of course, there's more instances of girls. That's well documented. Um, but besides autism, I can't really say that they notice an increased instance of defects. Um, and of course, you know, when people have miscarriages, they generally don't talk about that. So maybe there's more instances of miscarriages, but the the data on fertility when it comes to steroids, I documented all of it in a video that nobody watched. Um because well, you know, nobody gives a [\h__\h] about that. Um, so, so, uh, one of the reasons why I came off cycle is because a lack of evidence and, uh, I don't want to have it on my conscience that I'm doing something to my body that could potentially harm the future of a human [\h__\h] being. Uh, I I don't want to have that on my conscience. So, I'd rather be off everything and just use fertility medications that have proved backing um, that it's good for fertility, right? And I think me and my wife are doing everything right, but because we're old, 40 years old, it might take a little bit longer than expected. Yeah. Let's see. Scroll down a bit. All right. I'm going to be patiently waiting for your questions. If I miss it, please let me know. There you go. Your sheer existence is offensive to me. All right. Well, sucks to be you, bro. I'm not going anywhere. Yeah. Uhuh. Uh, vigorously, I've heard many times that going on gear could potentially ruin your fertility forever. How true is that? Uh, not from my experience. Not from my experience, but there's a lot of bodybuilders out there that, especially competitive bodybuilders, that don't have kids even when they're 50 years old. So, is that because they're infertile? Is it because they uh don't want to have kids? And we don't really know. A lot of the bodybuilders aren't as forthcoming as I am. Uh which is something is to my detriment because of all the fertility questions that keep popping up. Um so, so is it unheard of? No. I mean, testicular atrophy, testicular necrosis are all documented in cases of uh using performance-enhancing drugs. That being said, I've helped many people restore their fertility and helped many people get uh ultimately their wives pregnant. And not that I do the fertility protocol for the wives, but I do the fertility protocol for the the person, the man, right? Trying to recover spermatogenesis. And as you guys will see from my fertility parameters next week, uh which I'll make a video about. Um my fertility is [\h__\h] legendary. It's [\h__\h] legendary. That's why it's towering that my wife is not pregnant yet. Um because uh I I I could knock up like a million not a million, but I could knock up a fuckload of 20 year olds, 25 years olds. Uh which of course will all be a headache. So we're not going to go that route. Um because the emotional maturity of a 25-year-old is not there. Um but simply because their ovaries are a little bit more receptive than my wife's at the age of 40. Uh with my fertility parameters, I could get a fuckload of women pregnant. Yeah. But of course the the chances that you get your wife pregnant at the age of 40 is uh yeah diminished. Yeah. So it takes time. Where are we? Um, Steve, will using one tube of Andrect Tim per week for 10 to 15 weeks make my P grow as in your discount code still in use? Yeah, I think it's vigorous five if I remember correctly. Anyway, just go through my link tree and I think it links directly to the Android Tim you can buy on PCT Mart uh with a discount code. Uh, you know, it goes out of stock pretty fast. uh I gained about half a centimeter but you know I think I've had periods in my life where you know you have a lot of foreplay and then you basically engorg your penis during the foreplay as well. So I don't think it's anything that I gained uh over time but I you know I wanted to make that video for you guys because you guys kept asking about it. Um I think you can gain something if you do the Andrectim growth hormone and seialis protocol which I document in that video. Uh it's worth buying a tube and giving that experiment a try. Yeah. And otherwise there's always penis pumping, right? There's a LA Pump or um uh what was the other one? I I can't even remember. Ba Bathmate, right? Those two, right? Go whatever you feel the reviews are the best for and then use a discount code. There's many of them online. And then uh you know, start pumping away or get a smaller girlfriend. Now, nobody would be penis pumping if the women aren't so fat. I'd say it. I'd [\h__\h] say it, but nobody would be penis pumping if the women weren't so fat nowadays. You wouldn't need to pump your penis another three inches because there would not be three inches of fat that you need to get through. Now, is it is it the men that have small penises or is it the women that have buried their vaginas under layers of chunk? Just don't [\h__\h] any fatties. Send a message. Send a message. Just stop doing it. No matter how drunk you are, just stop. Just stop [\h__\h] them. And then you don't need to pump your dick for anything. All right. Where are we? Where are we? Manny, did you have any question? It's just a super sticker. All right, another super sticker. Guys, if there's any questions that I missed, please let me know because there's many of them. Oh yeah, I'll get cancelled for sure. Sometimes you got to you got to push the buttons a little bit back. You know, people people push my buttons every single day in the comment section or in Reddit or wherever else I talk [\h__\h] So, you got you gota you got to stir the pot sometimes. Get these people fired up. Working on typing it now. Oh man, I hope it's not an essay. Oh, let's see. I'll be patiently waiting. Evolutionary performance, Steve. The milligrams make me want Yeah. Fatties. Yeah. Trembbleone, right? Yeah. No, JT, you keep spamming here. Here we go. Steve, do you think it's false advertisement that pro bodybuilders uh Derek? Which Derek? You mean Derek Lunford? Advertised supplements is what they take to grow. Not talking about steroids. Should there be illegal implications for this? No, I don't think so. Um because if pro bodybuilders start talking about steroids, which they don't want to do, then they get themselves into legal ramifications. And pro bodybuilders, first and foremost, they have a duty towards themselves and their wives to provide, right? Plus, all the advertisement that we do nowadays offers discount codes. So, you get a benefit as a customer. you as a customer get to decide and choose where you spend your money, right? So, if you feel that a pro bodybuilder or anybody on the platform, on social media um is not being truthful of whatever else that they're doing, then you as the customer can decide not to spend your money there and not use their discount codes, right? Or not feel the algorithm by liking their pictures or whatever. Uh, that being said, why the [\h__\h] does Liver King, why the [\h__\h] does Michael Hearn, why the [\h__\h] do all these guys that say that they're natty, um, still have an audience, right? It's not going to make a [\h__\h] difference even if you cast your vote that way by not buying from them. So, um, there should not be any legal ramifications if people don't want to talk about steroids. I think blatantly lying about taking steroids is [\h__\h] pathetic, especially if you represent the supplement company. say, "I'm natural and I got these results because of these supplements." That's [\h__\h] pathetic, right? Then you're a scam artist, you're a charlatan, you're a scumbag, you deserve an eye patch, uh, that's just [\h__\h] karma, right? That's how the world works. Um, but if you talk about steroids in passing, like jokingly, or you don't want to talk about it at all because it's not good for your social media growth or you don't want your audience to start doing what you do, which is also understandable. Um, because you're young and impressionable, right? Then then you're within your right, right? And then I think it's better not to say that you're on steroids, but also not deny it. and you just leave it open for interpretation, then blatantly say that you uh takes don't take steroids and you're that big because of the supplements, right? And then you as the audience has to cost their vote by not using the discount codes and not interacting with them on social media and not giving them likes or comments or anything else and over time they will slowly disappear. Um, but yeah, it's it's, you know, I think Derek Lunsford uses all of the Evagen products that he uh that he talks about and he I don't think he talks about all of the products, only the ones that he takes. So, you know, but that's just a part of the industry. I mean, it's you have to take everything with a grain of salt. Just because Derrick Lensford takes Even supplements doesn't mean that he doesn't take something else alongside of that, right? And and keep in mind supplements like interworkout for example, you can't replace that with steroids. So, you know, all right, where are we? JT, next one. Oh, here it is. Wait, sorry. Let me make sure that I don't miss this super chat from one guy. One second. Manny, was it Manny? Did you post it? Okay. Uh, Captivated Gaming, Steve, uh, for white guys, is it safer to use Milano 10 or tanning bed 10 outside a few times a week? Just uh, regarding kidney stuff, melanoten 2 if on gear. Just regarding kidney stuff. Kidney stuff, the overgrown supplement. Um, I mean, I think 2 can protect you, right? Because you're increasing um, what is it called? the pigmentation of the skin which ultimately protects you from radiation of the sun. So uh right tanning outside would be better obviously but not too long right probably would be better to tan in the shade and it depends on the ozone layer and how strong the radiation is and of course the tanning bed you shouldn't do too often. So uh use a little bit of melanotan but not to the point you get nauseous or flushing and tan a little bit in tanning bed and tan a little bit outside and and just do a balanced approach. Uh, personally I don't have time for that and I don't really care about having a tan. So that's why I'm so pasty white. Uh, evolutionary performance. All right, let me answer this one first. Uh, Steve, my loved one had had hepatitis B for 20 years. She wants to know what supplements can hurt her. Uh, she doesn't have an issue, doesn't want to risk it. Could I email you through help get a list? I I'm not sure which supplements are hepatitis B a liver condition approved. Um again it's a medical condition that I'm not really researching because everything that I research is in the context of performance-enhancing drugs and uh hepatitis B isn't related to performance-enhancing drugs. Uh again, a talk with a liver specialist, I would say. Uh or or go to livertotalks.com. I'll link it down below. livertox. It's not.com, but it's uh it's basically the best index of liver uh health that you can find. It's the National Library of Medicine, National Center of Biotechnol, Biotechnology Information. It's linked down below. Um, give that one a reach. Uh, because all the liver health stuff is there uh an episode of discuss it with your cardiologist guys. I mean what what else can I say? You have an issue with your heart and you're asking some random dude on YouTube who's not a cardiologist. What answer do you expect? Right? I mean we have enough bad actors in the space who pretend to be doctors but I'm not going to pretend to be a doctor. So uh discuss it with your please. Let me see. Ah, here we go. Uhuh. Uh, sprinting stack you're recommended to take before soccer match. Uh, currently taking one scoop girl nitric respawn. I don't think you have to take respawn before a soccer match. Peak ATP I wouldn't take before soccer match because it's a vasod dilator. It's a pump product. uh it doesn't provide nearly as much energy as the gorilla mode nitric would give you um you know by removing lactic acid and a metabolic waste product. Uh, so I would I would stay awake for peak ATP. Peak O2. I would take that helps with oxygenation. 200 milligrams ofol. I would take 2500 grams cardine. I would take SR9009. Um, yeah. I I feel that cardine is better for endurance than SR9009. Even though it does help with metabolism and then of course uh what is it called? Uh, you know, circadian rhythm mostly. Uh, I feel my endurance improves a lot. Uh, but not my sprinting ability. You mentioned in one of your videos that Gorilla Mount should come out with the sprinting stack. Uh what would that be? Uh that was just a joke. That was just a joke. Um yeah. So your sprinting ability that's power output and for power output you might want to have more of a neutropic edge. So that's alpha GPC for example or something that is a slight androgen like anavar. Right? that's also improving your sprinting, but it might not be good for your endurance. So, uh, and again, if you're over on all the over-the-counter supplements and not real performance-enhancing drugs that downregulate your HPTA, then Anifavar is probably not a good idea. Even though there's some scientific evidence that not everybody after 16 to 20 weeks on an um, has completely down leggated LH and FSH levels. Um, still sprinting speed, I would look into the neutropics. Yeah. And instead of respawn, I would just do alpha GPC and caffeine. That should improve your uh explosive power. I mean, there's a lot of scientific evidence that uh caffeine can improve uh sprints and and lifting strength and explosive power. So, that's why I would look first and then maybe some of the other neutropics that I discussed in the entrepreneur neutropic deep dive or axel stimulants. Yeah. But then again, there's so many of them, you know. So there's there's a multitude of different things you can look into, but the what I would take out is the respawn and the peak ATP and everything else I would leave in there and then maybe replace the respawn with just good old caffeine. Amat. Uh oh, we're running out of time. Let's do no more super chats. No more super chats. All right, Steve. I learned a lot from you, not just in bodybuilding and health and stuff, but also in becoming a better person. Oh, holy [\h__\h] $100. Holy crap. Well, uh, thank you. Thank you, Amat. I'm happy to hear that. Thank you for your generous donation. Um, yeah, I I try to give back as much as I can. Sorry for sometimes being a little bit out there with my suggestions. But uh if if you found it to be beneficial then uh awesome and thank you for the donation. That will go a very long way tomorrow because tomorrow is wifey day. And uh after YouTube take it takes their 40% cut. I'm left with 60 bucks which is more than enough to take my wife out to dinner. So Hammed uh tomorrow's dinner for my wife on you. Much appreciated. 100 bucks. Holy [\h__\h] Holy moly. Any ind Indian underground labs uh name you think are good? That's my list. Uh Martin uh will you feel better sleep effects from higher growth hormone dose immediately this night if you applied 1 hour before going to bed or you need multiple days to feel it? Uh, I would I would feel it right away if I if I were to take like two I use four I use growth hormone right now. Um, already took it this morning before fasted cardio though. So, uh, so yeah, maybe I should do it again. Yeah, I I would have some pretty wild dreams if it take like four years of growth hormone before bed today. But I'm I'm on the um I'm on the, you know, therapeutic dosages only cycle. So, uh, yeah, I would I would feel it immediately. And if you don't feel it right away that you feel sleepy and sedated and relaxed, then, uh, send your growth hormone to me and I'll I'll dispose of it for you. Yeah. Yeah. All right. What is this loot? Your wife is so lucky. Well, I don't know about that. I don't know about that. Um, but she didn't end up with the wrong guy. Yeah, she she did she did pretty okay. Yeah, I think she did I think she did pretty okay, even though I'm [\h__\h] ugly. Um yeah. Yeah, she did. She did okay. All right, guys. Uh let's answer a few more questions with no more super chats and then we're going to wrap it up, man. 100 bucks. Hammed is very graceful and very thankful and I'm very thankful too. And then I missed that one super chat from uh pillow. Oh yeah, you asked about asked about uh the a atrial fibrillation, right? Yeah. Yeah. Sorry. Sorry. You need to talk to a doctor. There's no Dr. Vigor Steve. Do you believe in tremblone changing your semen DNA and creating alpha males? Uh a trenbolone if anything is the probably the worst on your fertility. Um you'll be shooting blanks. Do have you ever seen c fertility parameters on trembolone? I don't think so. I don't think so. How to get the biggest balls ever. Bubbles. I have a video on that too. I have a video on I have a video on everything. HG. What was the latest? Oh, yeah. The the cure for tiny nuts. Was that was that the title? Yeah. The cure for tiny nuts in loads 20 minutes. I'll link it down below. ATG FSH. My nuts right now are huge. It's like a handful. It's like I can't you can't even get a reach around anymore because there's so much balls in the way and my loads are like three and a half to four milliliters. Yeah. Fun. Um, very messy. Very messy. Um, so let's see. How do we get the biggest balls ever? Yeah, FSH and HCG and torine, vitamin E, everything else for your testicles. But watch that video down below. It's got everything. Two coconuts between the legs. Yeah. Yeah. So, every time I do a doctor's then uh then I have to physically lift it. Normally, you would hold the sides, right? If you do add doctors then literally every if I don't lift my entire junk up then I would squeeze them just together because my doctors are still big and strong. Yeah. Hey bro, I need to make a call. Weather LA weather la. What? Need to make a call. All right. Whatever, dude. Ryan can't find his balls. You want to go on uh Well, the Easter the Easter is coming uh soon, right? So, you can go on the egg hunt then, right? Then maybe that comes close. All right, let's wrap it up here, guys. Uh this was fun. I'll see you guys next weekend. Right. No more baby questions, please. I'll I'll tell you guys when we're when we pass the the the the first trimester and then uh and then I'll give you a vague idea on when we're expecting but not even come close to the actual expectation day because uh the questions are getting a little bit exhausting and every time I'm reminded how um yeah how annoying it is that my wife is not pregnant yet. So let's leave it here. Thank you guys so much for watching. Thanks for all of your generous super chats. Um that's [\h__\h] great. Tomorrow will be a feast going out to dinner. Absolutely legendary. I'll see you guys next weekend. Enjoy yourself. Um, you know, have a good weekend and, uh, yeah, don't misbehave too much. Don't do anything I wouldn't do in the past or present. Uh, which means all doors are wide open. See you guys next time.