 cerebalycin is the rosarose of neurogenesis, it might improve chronic brain fog after vigorous strenuous exercise, improve sleep quality, resolve addiction, oftenotropic effects, improving mood and cognition, all by increasing neurotropic factors in the brain. Turns out that only 15% to 25% peptide content cerebalycin doesn't contain any brain drive neurotropic factor at all, but it might increase BDNF levels by 25-40%, acting as a neurotropic factor secretagoc. Keep watching if you'd like to know more, all will be explained in this cerebalycin deep dive video. Figure of Steve here, so you might have heard about cerebalycin, a water-based mixture of peptides and free amino acids extracted from poor science's ribotissue, aka pig brains. If you're a Muslim, you're Jewish, a 7-day Adventist Christian or Rastafarian, you can basically stop the video right here, because your religious beliefs prevent you from consuming poor products of any kind. I'd still highly appreciate a like and a comment all your way out, I'll see you in the next deep dive video. However, I do feature a direct comparison between cerebalycin and cortexin, which is derived from the cerebal tissue of calves. Feel free to use the timestamps to skip ahead to see if cortexin is a suitable replacement for cerebalycin, but you might want to skip that section altogether if you're a Hindu. Before we get started, I just want to give you a little bit of a heads up. I couldn't find any scientific evidence where cerebalycin was used by athletes, whether that was in the context of increasing performance or improved recovery to reduce brain fog after vigorous, strenuous exercise or to mitigate traumatic brain injury following boxing or mixed martial arts or American football or ice hockey or slap fighting or any kind of contact sports of any form. Neither could I find any conclusive evidence that cerebalycin helps to resolve addiction or offer neutropic effects in people who don't suffer from Alzheimer's disease or dementia. Basically, there's no scientific evidence for most cases where cerebalycin is used by healthy individuals, albeit that there's some evidence where cerebalycin helps with sleep deprivation. Don't worry, we'll get into all of that a little bit later on. Furthermore, you might have heard that cerebalycin contains various neurotropic factors, including brain drive neurotropic factor, ciliary neurotropic factor, glial cell line derived neurotropic factor and nerve growth factor. I was convinced of this myself, but it turns out none of these bio-dentical peptide hormones are contained within the peptide and free amino acid mixture that cerebalycin is made of. So let's have a look into the composition of cerebalycin and see what it actually contains. As always, this deep dive is fully evidence-based with a healthy amount of anecdotal experience mixed in. You can find all citations of what we're going to discuss in this video down below in the YouTube comment section. So without further ado, here's the composition of cerebalycin. Regarding the storage instructions, you can keep it at room temperature, not exceeding 25 degrees Celsius or 77 degrees Fahrenheit, protected from light. Again, cerebalycin and ampules are amber to prevent light from penetrating into the cerebalycin mixture and don't freeze it obviously because it still contains a good amount of bioactive peptides. Cerebalycin comes in various ampule dosages, 2 milliliters, 5 milliliters and 10 milliliters, but the concentration is always the same at 215.2 milligrams per 1 milliliter. Now the peptide content, depending on the scientific evidence that you go with, all of the peptides have a molecular weight less than 10 kilodaltons and the peptide content of cerebalycin is approximately 15 to 25 percent. Passive diffusion of peptide and proteins across the blood-brain barrier is around 400 to 600 daltons or 0.4 to 0.6 kilodaltons, although some peptides and proteins with higher molecular weight can cross the blood-brain barrier via specific transporter mechanisms. Again, depending on the scientific evidence that you go with, the free amino acid content of cerebalycin is anywhere between 75 percent to 85 percent. L-triptophan seems to have the highest molecular weight of all the free amino acids and a molecular weight of 204.23 daltons, which allows L-triptophan and all the other free amino acids to passively diffuse through the blood-brain barrier because the highest it could possibly weigh is 400 to 600 daltons. So let's have a look into the molecular weight of various neurotropic factors to see if they can even pass the blood-brain barrier at all. Brain drive neurotropic factor has a molecular weight of 27 kilodaltons, which is probably too high to pass the blood-brain barrier freely. Therapeutic delivery of BDNF has many obstacles related to its reasonably short in vivo half-life and uncertain blood-brain barrier permeability. BDNF in serum is reasonably unstable and perhaps only a small fraction can cross the blood-brain barrier after administration. Low dose juice of exogenous BDNF have limited permeability and might not have an observed neutropic beneficial effect at all. BDNF is rapidly metabolized by the dipeptidyl peptidyl 4 enzymes. You can block this effect by taking a dipeptidyl peptidyl 4 enzyme inhibitor. Don't worry more on this later, but it seems that exogenous BDNF might not be warranted and it's better to increase BDNF production within the brain directly with the neurotropic factor secretagogue. When we look at the molecular weight of the other neurotropic factors, you see that they can't permeate the blood-brain barrier either. Glow cell line-derived neurotropic factor has a molecular weight of 30 kilodaltons, way too heavy. 7S nerve growth factor, there's several different kinds as a molecular weight of 140,000 kilodaltons, way too heavy. Beta nerve growth factor has a molecular weight of 13 to 14 kilodaltons and L cell nerve growth factor has a molecular weight of 160,000 kilodaltons approximately. Pro-nerve growth factor has a molecular weight of 32 kilodaltons. Ancillary neurotropic factor has a molecular weight of 23 kilodaltons. All of these neurotropic factors way too heavy to pass the blood-brain barrier. So you'd need to increase Neurotropic factor concentrations in the brain by taking a Neurotropic factor secretagogue. And that brings us to the actual composition of cerebalycin. Again, depending on the scientific evidence that you go with, cerebalycin might contain anywhere between 638 to 810 separate peptides, mainly derived from tubulin alpha 1A chain or tubulin alpha 1B chain, phosphidietyl inosital bifosphate 3-kinase catholic subunit gamma, actin myelin basic protein, and uncharacterized peptides I3-LNP3 or F1S3X7. Four of these peptide fragments have been investigated regarding potential therapeutic benefits. So the first one, it's all letters, so we're not going to attempt to pronounce that. One of them might have potential beneficial effects for multiple sclerosis as a treatment option. Two of them might be neuroprotective and have potential anti-inflammatory effects, and another one of them might be neuroprotective and has potential antioxidant properties. And again, in these studies investigating the composition of cerebalycin, no precursor or fully bioidentical peptide hormones like brain derived Neurotropic factor, ciliary Neurotropic factor, glial cell line derived Neurotropic factor, or nerve growth factor, were detected. I brief you all want to highlight the studies which investigated the composition of cerebalycin. First one is from Gevaart et al., published on May 28, 2015, titled, peptide profiling of internet-uptaided cerebalycin, just like I always do, using high-performance liquid chromatography, electrospray, ionization, ion trap, and ultra-high performance liquid chromatography, ion mobility, quadruple time of flight mass, spectrometry, I guess they were very, very thorough in analyzing the internet-obtained cerebalycin samples. In this study, the researchers brought cerebalycin online, just like the rest of us, and analyzed the content with high-performance liquid chromatography, ultraviolet, mass spectrometry, and compared the results with the sequences of Neurotropic factors, including BDNF, GDNF, NGF, and CNTF. In the results of the study, you can see that the percentage of various peptides that were identified in the cerebalycin sample, which are mainly derived from tubulin alpha-1A chain, tubulin alpha-1B chain, phosphate-detail inocital, bifosphate-3-keyingase, catalytic subunit gamma, actin, myelin basic protein, and these undercharacterized peptides with funky names. Of these peptide sequences, peptide myelin basic protein fragment, 114 to 126, was also studied for its possible role in the development of the autoimmune disease, multiple sclerosis. It is hypothesized that this fragment of myelin basic protein could possibly be useful as a potential treatment for multiple sclerosis. So with the results of this study, I looked for potential beneficial effects of the other identified peptide fragments contained within cerebalycin. Some of them might act as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and offer antihypertensive effects. Some of them might have potential antimicrobial activity and offer immunomodulating effects. They might act as an antioxidant, some of them offer mineral chelating activity or even contribute to collagen synthesis. None of which sounds very familiar to an enhanced effect regarding neurotropic factor activity in the brain, but let's proceed anyway. In the conclusion, the researchers mentioned that they identified 638 unique peptides within the cerebalycin samples, none of which had known neutropic effects, and none of them were stemming from precursor peptides like BDNF, CNTF, GDNF, and GF. However, a more recent study contests these results regarding the beneficial neutropic effects of cerebalycin by doing a nano-liquid chromatography mass spectrometry analysis of their own. Unfortunately, the full publication of this study is locked behind the $50 paywall. I was still able to access it fully, but unfortunately I can't share the entire study with you guys, so let's just go over the abstract real quick, which basically tells you everything you need to know. This study was performed by Young et al. published in 2023, so it's very recent. Titled Optimized Approach for Active Peptide Identification in Cerebralycin by Using Nano-Liquid Chromatography Mass Spectrometry. This study detected 810 unique peptides within cerebalycin, two of which could offer potential anti-inflammatory effects, and the other could have potential antioxidant effects. These three peptides might be the neuroprotective components within cerebalycin, albeit that a lot more scientific evidence still needs to be performed on which peptide chain might actually offer potential neuroprotective and antioxidant effects, because well, a three peptides out of 810, I would say that that scientific evidence is a little bit thin. Needless to say, the scientific evidence regarding the beneficial effects of cerebalycin in human subjects and animal models extensive, so let's proceed anyway. Based on this scientific evidence and all of the scientific evidence which is coming in this deep dive, don't you worry, I'm going to have to conclude that cerebalycin's beneficial effects probably come from acting as a neurotropic factor secretagogue, similar to how some acts saline, dihexa, new pept or other new tropics which are known to increase brain drive neurotropic factor levels in the brain act. And this could come by providing the peptide fragments or the free amino acids, which either directly influence neurotropic factor secretion in the brain or contribute to the production of neurotropic factors by acting as their building blocks. If you'd like to see a comprehensive deep dive on which neurotropic compounds increases neurotropic factors the most, comparing cerebalycin to some acts of saline, dihexa, new pept, etc., just let me know down below in the comment section, I would gladly make that comparison video so you know which compound increases BDNF, GNDF, CNTF and NGF the most. But what do these freaking neurotropic factors actually do and how do they work? And I'm glad to ask, here's a brief rundown of what the function and the role of all these neurotropic factors are and what you could potentially expect from cerebalycin administrations. So here's the function of indulgently produced neurotropic factors. The case with brain drive neurotropic factor is that it's involved in learning memory and moods. Brain drive neurotropic factor promotes new nerve cell differentiation, growth, survival and neurogenesis and BDNF is expressed throughout the brain and sensor nervous system. Ciliary neurotropic factor is involved in motor neuron, sensory neuron and glyosal differentiation and survival. Ciliary neurotropic factor aids in myelin production and repair. And CNTF aids in neuron regeneration following injury. Glyosaline drive neurotropic factor is involved in neuron function, regeneration, growth and survival in the brain, sensory nervous system and peripheral nervous system. But this mostly involves dopaminergic neurons. Glyosaline drive neurotropic factor supports neuronal glial interactions and GDNF is essential for nervous system health. Nerve growth factor is involved in the transmission of touch, temperature and pain. Nerve growth factor regulates growth and maintenance of neurons and NGF is commonly elevated in people who recently have fallen in love. And these growth factors aren't exactly neurotropic factors, but it seems that cerebalycin has a modulating effect on these peptide hormones. I felt it was only fair to include them here. It modulates insulin like growth factor one, which is involved in growth, development and metabolism of nerve cells. Cerebalycin modulates vascular endothelial growth factor, which is involved in the formation of new blood vessels, aka angiogenesis and cerebalycin modulates. Turmeric crosses factor alpha, which is involved in the immune system acts as a pro inflammatory cytokine is produced by microfaces, telympocytes and natural killer cells. And while BDNF, CNTF, GDNF, NGF and IGF-1 are continuously expressed within a normal healthy brain, VE, GF and TNFA are only produced during the healing process of an injured brain. And BDNF, CNTF, GDNF, NGF, IGF-1 and VE, GF all have anti inflammatory properties, while TNFA operates as a pro inflammatory messenger. So don't be discouraged Cerebalycin doesn't contain direct neurotropic factors. There's plenty of scientific evidence that shows that cerebalycin can increase neurotropic factors in the brain, albeit that this is all stemming from animal models, because while the animals are euthanized and the brain is homogenized and they can actually check for a neurotropic factor content after various cerebalycin administration protocols, whether when it comes to human subjects, they can only check for neurotropic factors, potentially stemming from the brain in serum. So we're going to have to go with the animal models in combination with the human data to come to a some sort of suitable solution and explanation of how much particular neurotropic factors increase during particular cerebalycin treatments. Cerebalycin increases brain drive neurotropic factor by 5.4 nanograms per milliliter in the serum of healthy individuals. This is observed after four weeks on 20 milliliters, cerebalycin by intravenous infusion for four weeks continuously. Now this is stemming from a Russian study, which was available as a full publication. You can find it down below in case you're interested. I ran it through three translation softwares, but unfortunately the baseline parameters of brain drive neurotropic factor before the cerebalycin treatment was initiated are unknown. So if you go with the healthy adults reference range on average for brain drive neurotropic factor with a range of 14.5 to 21.57 nanograms per milliliter, that results in a brain drive neurotropic factor increase of 25 to 37.2%. Again, I understand that I'm extrapolating dubiously here, but if it's not contained within the scientific evidence, then we're going to go with the next best thing with the average reference range of healthy individuals regarding their BDNF levels in serum. In another study, cerebalycin was shown to increase brain drive neurotropic factor by 41.2% in the serum of Alzheimer's patients. This was observed after eight weeks on 10 milliliters cerebalycin by intravenous infusion five times weekly on week one to four and week 13 to 16 of the studies that it took an eight week break in the middle of the treatment. Brain drive neurotropic factor increased by 50.3% when cerebalycin was combined with five milligrams of the nasa pill at week one to four and 10 milligrams to nasa pill week 13 to 16. So every time cerebalycin was administered, they either received 500 grams of the nasa pill or 10 milligrams to nasa pill and keep in mind that the nasa pill is a medication to treat Alzheimer's disease and dementia by acting as a reversely binding acetylcholine estrus inhibitor and thus increasing acetylcholine levels in the brain in a dose dependent fashion. Cerebalycin also increases brain drive neurotropic factors by 20 to 30% after a hippocompal neural stem cell grafts in an animal model using mice as the animals of choice, which was observed after one to nine months on five milliliters per one kilogram of body weight through intrapuratonal injection, which is straight into the abdomen, which translates to 0.4 milliliters of cerebalycin per one kilogram of body weight by intramuscular administration, which is very comparable to intrapuratonal administration for humans because I highly doubt that you're going to shoot your cerebalycin intrapuratonally. So let's stick with intramuscularly instead. And this is with using dose cow to get the human equivalent dose, meaning that a 100 kilogram bodybuilder would need to administer 40 milliliters cerebalycin intramuscularly to get a similar effect. Cerebalycin increases brain drive neurotropic factor by 30% in the brain after seizures stemming from an animal model using rats, which is observed after seven days on 2.5 milliliters cerebalycin per one kilogram of body weight, again by intrapuratonal injection. So if we extrapolate that to the human equivalent dose using dose cow, that's also 0.4 milliliters per one kilogram of body weight by intramuscular administration daily again for humans cerebalycin increases brain drive neurotropic factor gene expression by 18% after cellular oxidative stress stemming from an in vitro study using mouse neuro blastoma cell lines. But this is nothing compared to a 91% increase in brain drive neurotropic factor with the CDCOLIN aka CDP-COLIN groups. So maybe extrapolating from the scientific evidence, albeit highly dubiously, a combination of cerebalycin with the nasophil increasing acetylcholine levels in the brain has a heightened response to an increase in brain drive neurotropic factors, albeit in serum, right, based on human subjects. And in this in vitro study, CDCOLIN increases brain drive neurotropic factors by a factor of almost five. So I would say that there's something to say to combine cerebalycin with something that increases acetylcholine levels in the brain and whether that's the nasophil or CDCOLIN, I'll leave that entirely up to you. Cerebalycin increases glial cell line drive neurotropic factors by 130 to 160% in the brain stemming from an animal model using mice. This is observed after three months of five milliliters per one kilogram of body weight, again by intrapuretonal injection, which translates again to 0.4 milliliters per one kilogram of body weight intramuscularly daily for humans, meaning 40 milliliters cerebalycin if you're 100 kilograms. Cerebalycin increases nerve growth factor by 30% in the brain from an animal model using mice, and this was observed after three months on five milliliters per one kilogram of body weight by intrapuretonal injection daily, again 0.4 milliliters per one kilogram of body weight intramuscularly daily for humans. Cerebalycin offers similar effects to celerine neurotropic factor, glial cell line drive neurotropic factor and insulin like growth factor 1 and 2 in the brain stemming from an in vitro study using cultured adult rat hippocompol progenitor cells. Cerebalycin increases insulin like growth factor 1 by 2.5 to 3.1% in the serum of Alzheimer's patients. I would say that that's negligible. It's observed after 12 weeks on 10 milliliters, 30 milliliters or 60 milliliters five times weekly at week 1 to 4 and 10 milliliters, 30 milliliters and 60 milliliters two times weekly from week 5 to 12. There's a 2% increase of insulin growth factor 1 in the placebo group, which is very comparable to the cerebalycin group, and a 3.3% reduction in the 30 milliliters cerebalycin group. So if you want to go with this scientific evidence regarding an increase in IGF-1 levels, either less or more, right? But nothing between don't find the middle ground. You either take 10 milliliters cerebalycin five times per week or 60 milliliters because well, increase of 2.5% or 3.1% negligible results. If you want an increase in IGF-1 levels, spend your money on growth hormone. And on the other side of that, cerebalycin was shown to lower insulin growth factor 1 levels by 2.9% in the serum of diabetic rats, which again was observed after four weeks on 2.5 milliliters per 1 kilogram of body weight by intrapartisanal injection daily, which translates to 0.4 milliliters per 1 kilogram of body weight by intramuscular administration daily for humans. Cerebalycin lowers tumor and across this factor alpha by 1.3% to 10.6% in the serum of Alzheimer's patients. This was observed after 12 weeks on 10 milliliters, 3 milliliters or 60 milliliters five times weekly from week 1 to 4 and 10 milliliters, 30 milliliters or 60 milliliters two times weekly at week 5 to 12. Now there's a 12.6% increase in tumor necrosis factor alpha in the placebo group and a 1% increase in the 30 milliliters cerebalycin group. So and if this sounds low, a mere reduction of 10.6% in the 60 milliliters cerebalycin group, keep in mind that there's a 12.6% increase in the placebo group, meaning a 23.2% gap between the placebo group and the cerebalycin group. So technically you could say that cerebalycin at 60 milliliters five times weekly for four weeks and then two times weekly for another eight weeks lowers tumor necrosis factor alpha by 23.2% again compared to the placebo aka baseline groups and cerebalycin lowers tumor necrosis factor alpha by 18% in the serum of diabetic rats and it lowers tumor necrosis factor alpha by 20% in the brain after seizure. I mean you convert that to the human equivalent dose, it's exactly the same as all of the other dosages which I mentioned earlier 0.4 milliliters per one kilogram of body weight by intramuscular administration daily. Now I know this isn't very actionable and tangible information to help you decide on a particular dosing protocol so I took the liberty to summarize all scientific evidence and combined the therapeutic dosages investigated in human subjects with the human equivalent dose stemming from the animal models and give you some sort of dosing guidelines based on body weights with 10 kilogram increments. So here are the neurotropic factor modulating cerebalycin dosages fully evidence-based. If you want a 20% to 41% increase in brain drive neurotropic factor you'll have to go with either 10 milliliters to 20 milliliters cerebalycin by intravenous infusion five times weekly or 0.4 milliliters cerebalycin per one kilogram of body weight with intramuscular administration daily and if you want to increase your brain drive neurotropic factor to 50.3% then you need to combine cerebalycin with five milligrams to 10 milligrams to nasa pill at least five times weekly to increase your acetylcholine levels in the brain. If you want 130 to 160% increase in glous cell line drive neurotropic factor you stick with the exact same dosing guidelines of 0.4 milliliters cerebalycin per one kilogram of body weight intramuscularly daily. If you want a 30% increase in nerve growth factor same dosing guidelines and if you want a 1.3 to 23.2% reduction in tumor necrosis factor alpha albeit that the higher percentage is a little bit duper extrapolated. Then you go with either 10 milliliters cerebalycin or 60 milliliters cerebalycin intravenously five times weekly or again the exact same dosing guidelines based on body weight mentioned earlier. That means that the dosage ratio is for cerebalycin or anywhere between 10 milliliters to 60 milliliters either by intramuscular administration or intravenous infusion five times weekly or again 0.4 milliliters per one kilogram of body weight intramuscularly daily which results for 100 kilogram bodybuilder again in a 40 milliliters cerebalycin administration intramuscularly or intravenously if you do so prefer five times weekly up to daily the rest of the calculations are on the screen and basically all these dosages falls within the guidelines of 10 milliliters to 60 milliliters cerebalycin daily by intramuscular administration or intravenous infusion. Since cerebalycin is considered a biohacking compound let's take that biohacking to the next level and prevent the breakdown of neurotropic factors in the hypothalamus and the neurons glial cells and inothelial cells of the blood brain barrier as well as in the bloodstream and various other tissues of the body by combining cerebalycin with the dipeptidol peptidase 4 inhibitor. Dipeptidol peptidase 4 enzymes break down various growth factors and neurotropic factors including the ones that cerebalycin are known to increase within the brain and the bloodstream whether the peptide fragments contained within cerebalycin are substrates for the dipeptidol peptidase 4 enzymes that I couldn't verify. Dipeptidol peptidase 4 inhibitors are a class of medications used to treat type 2 diabetes. They work by preventing the breakdown of two incontinence, glucogonol like peptide 1 and glucosdependent insulin tropic polypeptide also known as castric inhibitory polypeptide abbreviated to GIP in both instances which means that dipeptidol peptidase 4 inhibitors might lower appetite by increasing GLP-1 and GAP levels in the bloodstream. Although the scientific evidence is a little bit thin on this subject I was able to find a couple studies that show that prove that dipeptidol peptidase 4 inhibitors increase brain drive neurotropic factor levels in the serum of patients with either type 2 diabetes or Alzheimer's disease and might offer neuro protection overall and this has been scientifically proven for linagliptin, cytacliptin and vildagliptin but I couldn't find any evidence that this is the case for the other dipeptidol peptidase 4 inhibitors of which there are many. It seems that dipeptidol peptidase 4 inhibitors are associated with improved vascular function by increasing vascular endothelial growth factor levels and are also known to increase insulin growth factor levels in serum but I couldn't find any direct scientific evidence that dipeptidol peptidase 4 inhibitors influence ciliary neurotropic factor or cell line derived neurotropic factor or nerve growth factor so at least for brain drive neurotropic factor we've got that covered in case we want to combine cerebral ison with a dipeptidol peptidase 4 inhibitor and this might get a substantial beneficial effect from the dose of cerebral ison that we decide to go with so here's a comprehensive list of growth factors and neurotropic factors which are broken down by the dipeptidol peptidase 4 enzymes it breaks down angiopoietin ciliary neurotropic factor epidermal growth factor erythropoietin albeit that if you go through all the inserts of dipeptidol peptidase 4 inhibitors they're not known to increase hematocytes and overall rib blood cell counts. Dipeptidol peptidase 4 enzymes break down fibroblasts growth factor 1 to 23 glucose dependent insulin and tropic polypeptide aka gastric inhibitory polypeptide abbreviated to GIP and glucagon like peptide 1 abbreviated to GLP-1 it breaks down growth hormone releasing hormones so if you take a DP4 inhibitor you see that growth hormone levels in serum tend to go up and then downstream insulin growth factor 1 levels go up and then by taking an inhibitor you prevent the breakdown of IGF-1 making it go up more increasing overall insulin sensitivity and improving glucose homeostasis well beyond the inhibition of the breakdown of GIP and GLP-1 so again these medications are quite powerful and the dipeptidol peptidase 4 enzymes break down hepatocyte growth factor insulin growth factor 1 and 2 like I mentioned earlier mechanogrow factor, mouse statin, brain drive neurotropic factor, nerve growth factor, trombopoietin and vascular endothelial  growth factor. So based on basic human biology, by taking an inhibitor, you might prevent the breakdown of either of these growth factors and neurotropic factors. Here are all the FDA-approved dipeptidol peptidol as four inhibitors and numerically recognized dosing protocol to manage. Type 2 diabetes. The details are on the screen. We don't need to mention all of that. What I would like to mention is that linae-glyptin and c-taclyptin are often combined with sodium glucose-co-transporter type 2 inhibitors. So you might want to read the package insert before you start trying either c-taclyptin or linae-glyptin, which might be combined with an S-T-L-T-2. And thus, serum glucose and serum sodium levels tend to go down quite dramatically, but that results in better glucose homeostasis. But we're taking these to prevent the breakdown of brain-drive neurotropic factor, which might be heightened by taking cerebrolysin and thus get a synergistic effect. Now, these various dipeptidol peptidol as four inhibitors have various dosing protocols, administration frequencies, half-lives and active-lives, so please do additional research if you decide to go with the dipeptidol peptidol as four inhibitor alongside your cerebrolysin protocol. Unfortunately, I couldn't find an established half-life or active-life of cerebrolysin. This study shows that electrical activity of the brain revolving around short-term memory increased 15 minutes after cerebrolysin administration, peaked around two hours and lasted until eight hours after the administration. But again, this is an animal model and these results might not translate into humans. And this is the only scientific evidence that we have regarding the duration of action of cerebrolysin. Cerebrolysin's neurotropic activity can be detected in the bloodstream for up to 24 hours. After a single administration, this suggests that the peptide fragments of cerebrolysin remain biological active for at least one day. And this is further confirmed by the dosing protocols which are used medically with daily or at least five times a weekly administrations. Cetagliptin, aka genuvia, seems to be the most promising dipeptidol peptidol as four inhibitor regarding its beneficial effects by increasing brain drive, neurotropic factor, vascular endothelial growth factor, and insulin growth factor in serum as well as in the brain potentially. Cetagliptin has a half-life of approximately eight to 14 hours, which seems to overlap with the active life of cerebrolysin. And Cetagliptin is readily available. So out of all these dipeptidol peptidol as four inhibitors, if you have to choose one, I would go with Cetagliptin. Now personally, I always get a little bit sleepy when I administer cerebrolysin, whether that's five milliliters or 10 milliliters in a single intramuscular administration. So I would always inject my cerebrolysin about two hours before bed. I've gone up to five milliliters to 10 milliliters cerebrolysin for total course duration of two months with daily injections. And for the large majority of that treatment course, I combined cerebrolysin with 100 milligrams Cetagliptin before bed. Now I have a firm grasp on my blood glucose levels, because again, dipeptidol peptidol as four inhibitors might modulate your blood glucose levels. And I've a firm grasp on my appetite so I make sure that I don't miss any meals, even if my appetite is suppressed, allowing my blood glucose levels to stay in range while I'm sleeping. But I felt that throughout those two months of daily five milliliters to 10 milliliters cerebrolysin administrations, in combination with daily use of 100 milligrams Cetagliptin all before bed, that I got a more pronounced effect compared to previous cycles of five milliliters to 10 milliliters cerebrolysin for up to one month. So again, the scientific evidence isn't very conclusive. There's no direct scientific evidence combining cerebrolysin with a dipeptidol peptidol as four inhibitor, but with an anecdotal experience of one, I would say that it works. The beneficial effects that I got on my mood and cognition seem to be more pronounced. The beneficial effects that I got on my sleep quality seem to be more pronounced. And the long lasting, neutral, big benefits regarding my productivity, motivation, that kind of stuff are also way more pronounced from the combination of cerebrolysin with Cetagliptin, even though I discontinued both months ago. Needless to say, based on the anecdotal experience of one, I'm highly in favor of this combination of cerebrolysin and a dipeptidol peptidol is for inhibitor, albeit that I don't know anybody who's tried this particular bowhacking optimization themselves. I asked the longevity fanatic Brian Johnson about this when he called the InJourney Enhance Games seminar back in December 2024, but it seemed he was not aware of this potential drug interaction. And he also specifically mentioned that his cerebrolysin experience was hard to quantify, which is something I agree with, but we'll get into that a little bit later on in this video. I'll be sure to send Brian Johnson this cerebrolysin deep dive to see if he has something to say and maybe give a little bit more explanation about his personal cerebrolysin experience. Okay, let's proceed into the Mother Russia approved medical applications of cerebrolysin, which varies slightly between the dosing guidelines and the product information found on the official cerebrolysin website. I've linked both documents down below in the YouTube description section for your information, though. Cerebrolysin is not FDA approved in the United States, but it is available here in Thailand on prescription. GenOracle, the compounding pharmacy that I work with, if you sign up as a patient, you can have cerebrolysin prescribed if you suffer from the following medical conditions. Cerebrolysin is prescribed in Mother Russia for eczemic stroke or hemorrhagic stroke, in dose just between 20 milliliters to 50 milliliters daily for 10 to 21 days. Consecretively, it's prescribed in cases of traumatic brain injury between 20 milliliters to 50 milliliters daily for seven days to 30 days. Consecretively, it's used in the treatment of vascular dementia at 10 milliliters to 30 milliliters cerebrolysin five times weekly for four weeks in duration, for a total of two to four cycles yearly. So, that could be four weeks every six months or four weeks every quarter. And cerebrolysin is used for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease as well, in which case the dosing protocol is exactly the same as for vascular dementia. 10 milliliters to 30 milliliters cerebrolysin five times weekly for four weeks, repeated for two to four cycles yearly. Now, in all of these medical scenarios, whether that's stroke, traumatic brain injury, vascular dementia, or Alzheimer's disease, it's suggested to initiate cerebrolysin treatment as soon as possible. And when you go through all of the scientific evidence, you see that in many cases they start cerebrolysin at least in the case of stroke and traumatic brain injury within one to four hours after they arrive in the hospital. Now, obviously vascular dementia and Alzheimer's disease is a progressive disease that occurs over time. Still, when that's diagnosed, they apply cerebrolysin as fast as possible, which seems to help with the treatment outcome and the resolvment of this particular medical condition as fast as possible as well. Now, we compare this to the approved medical applications found in the product information. You see that the dosages are a little bit lower. So, in case of acute stroke or post-stroke, whether it is eczemic stroke or hemorrhagic stroke, the dose can start at 10 milliliters cerebrolysin versus 20 milliliters cerebrolysin found in the dosing guidelines. And it's the same for traumatic brain injury, 10 milliliters cerebrolysin is the starting dose compared to 20 milliliters as the starting dose found in the dosing guidelines. The top dosage range is 15 milliliters in all contexts. And when it comes to vascular dementia or Alzheimer's disease, in the product information, they say that you could start with 5 milliliters cerebrolysin 5 times weekly for 4 weeks consecutively for 2 to 4 cycles out of the year. But again, in the dosing guidelines, they mentioned that you should start with 10 milliliters cerebrolysin for vascular dementia or Alzheimer's disease. Long story short, the dosing guidelines are twice as high at the starting dose compared to the product information found on the official cerebrolysin website. But the top end of the range for all of these conditions are still 50 milliliters or 30 milliliters. So do a little bit of research if you suffer from any of these medical conditions in your liver, mother, Russia, where you can get cerebrolysin prescribed. And here are the guidelines of the various routes of administrations of cerebrolysin. If you go with an intramuscular injection, you can go up to 5 milliliters cerebrolysin per injection site, slowly administered over the course of 3 minutes. I'm going to have to interject here a little bit. Yes, I've gone up to 5 milliliters cerebrolysin per injection site. So if I wanted to take 10 milliliters cerebrolysin post leg day, I would split that up bilaterally. So let's say 5 milliliters cerebrolysin into the left cheek and 5 milliliters cerebrolysin into the right cheek. But I would inject that a lot faster because it's water based and it would literally go in like butter over the course of 30 seconds. And I had had zero post injection pain. So I think you could do intramuscular administrations a little bit faster than they would recommend on the website. If you go with intravenous injections, you can go up to 10 milliliters administered over the course of 3 minutes. This is considered to be a slow push, intravenous injection straight from the syringe. I've never done this myself. I've always stuck with intravenous infusions if I go up to a very high dose of cerebrolysin. But I've only done that a couple times because I get perfectly good beneficial effects from 5 milliliters to 10 milliliters daily over the course of 2 months consecutively. But I will get into the dosing protocols a little bit later on. So if you go with intravenous infusion for a higher dose of cerebrolysin, let's say 10 milliliters to 50 milliliters cerebrolysin diluted in at least 100 milliliters normal saline solution or 100 milliliters ringer solution or 100 milliliters 5% glucose solution, then you can infuse this intravenously over the course of 15 minutes to 60 minutes, aka one hour. Now from personal experience, if you go up to 50 milliliters cerebrolysin, I would rather have you dilute that into a 500 milliliters normal saline solution so you can have a slow drip nice and steadily and usually 500 milliliters normal saline solution would be absorbed over the course of 60 minutes. Okay, let's move over to the evidence-based unique characteristics of cerebrolysin and see what kind of beneficial effects we can extrapolate from scientific evidence. And I can't believe it took over 30 minutes to get to the evidence-based unique characteristics of cerebrolysin. It's probably a new record, but I had to get to the composition of cerebrolysin out of the way first so you guys understand that all of these unique characteristics are actually stemming from the peptide fragments or the free amino acids which are contained within cerebrolysin, even though cerebrolysin doesn't contain any neurotropic factors itself. I've included the dosage ranges and administration protocols where all of these beneficial effects are observed so you can make a decision for yourself and know what you need to aim for if you want to get a comparable effect. I took the liberty to extrapolate the human equivalent dose from the animal models wherever applicable so you have an estimated dosage or dosage range for each unique characteristic. And for your information, most of the animal models use intraparentonal administration straight into the abdomen, so I replaced intraparentonal administration for intramuscular administrations. I feel that that's reasonably comparable regarding the mechanism of action because that's not going systemic right away but has to diffuse from the injection depot whether that's intraparentonally or intramuscularly. For example, you're welcome. Like I mentioned earlier at the start of this video, cerebrolysin modulates the expression of endogenous neurotropic factors stemming from human subjects, animal models, and in vitro studies cerebrolysin increases brain drive neurotropic factor, nerve growth factor, insulin like growth factor 1, vascular endothelial growth factor expression, cerebrolysin potentiates glial cell line drive neurotropic factor, ciliary neurotropic factor, and insulin like growth factor 1 like effects and it lowers tumor necrosis factor alpha expression in the brain. And this is observed at 10 milliliters to 60 milliliters intramuscularly or through intravenous infusions five times weekly or 0.4 milliliters per one kilogram of body weight intramuscularly daily. Cerebrolysin targets cost-based 3T lymphocytes and myrogen activated protein kinase pathways again stemming from human subjects, animal models, and in vitro studies. Cerebrolysin is involved in programmed cell death aka apoptosis, cellular stimuli responses to heat shock, osmotic stress, and pro-inflammatory cytokines including tumor necrosis factor alpha and cerebrolysin is part of the signaling pathway that regulate cell growth, differentiation, and apoptosis. And again the dosing protocol where this is observed is exactly the same as where cerebrolysin modulates the expression of endogenous neurotropic factors. Cerebrolysin induces neurofilament L-polypeptide expression stemming from in vitro studies which should contribute to neuronal differentiation. Cerebrolysin protects against oxidative stress induced apoptosis in lymphocytes aka white blood cells stemming from an in vitro study which could offer potential neurodegenerative protective effects. Cerebrolysin offers potential neuroprotective effects in stroke, traumatic brain injury, and Alzheimer's disease albeit that the scientific evidence is not super conclusive. Cerebrolysin modulates endogenous neurotropic factors like alluded to earlier and reduces neuro inflammation in the brain. This is observed at 5 milliliters to 30 milliliters intravenous infusions 5 times weekly to daily for four weeks for a total of two to four cycles yearly. You can find a lot of literature revealed down below regarding stroke, traumatic brain injury, and Alzheimer's disease where some of the evidence is not super conclusive in these particular medical conditions but I'll leave it up to you to give all of that a read in case you suffer from stroke, traumatic brain injury, or Alzheimer's disease yourself. And if you don't want to do that here's a summary of all of that scientific evidence bundled together just leave me a like and a comment to show some love right back at me. Cerebrolysin might improve long-term rehabilitation after eczemic stroke stemming from human subjects with inconclusive evidence compared to placebo groups more effective when combined with neuro rehabilitation. This was observed after or concluded with dosius ranging from 30 milliliters to 50 milliliters Cerebrolysin with intravenous infusions daily for 10 to 21 days consecutively sometimes combined with 100 milligrams aspirin daily as a juvent therapy Cerebrolysin might offer preventative therapy and improve cognition in elderly patients with vascular dementia stemming from human subjects obviously Cerebrolysin slows the progression of cognitive deficits and lowers the conversion rate to dementia after amnestic mild cognitive impairment diagnosis. So a few administer 20 milliliters Cerebrolysin through intravenous infusion daily for 28 days repeated annually for three years consecutively that it might prevent the progression from this amnestic mild cognitive impairment diagnosis to a full-blown vascular dementia looks very promising based on scientific evidence Cerebrolysin improves recovery and cognition and Cerebrolysin relief symptoms of depression but not anxiety following moderate to severe traumatic brain injury stemming from human subjects in which case the dose of Cerebrolysin either 50 milliliters by intravenous infusions daily for five to ten days or in cases of severe depression that's longer lasting or severe traumatic brain injury that needs a longer period to be resolved the dose of Cerebrolysin is between 10 milliliters to 50 milliliters by intravenous infusions daily for 10 days to over 20 months so severe long-lasting depression or severe traumatic brain injury or both 50 milliliters Cerebrolysin intravenous infusion daily for over 20 months until both conditions are resolved and this one is a little bit speculatory Cerebrolysin improves symptoms of chronic sleep deprivation in traumatic brain injury and Alzheimer's disease stemming from human subjects and animal models Cerebrolysin offers potential neuroprotective effects prevents sleep deprivation induced memory impairment and prevents oxidative stress in the hippocampus from the human equivalent dose that's 0.4 milliliters to 5 milliliters per one kilogram of body weight through intramuscular injection or intravenous infusion in a single administration keep in mind that most of the studies showing an improvement in chronic sleep deprivation were performed by Hari Shankar Sharma who's had several of his studies retracted you can read more about his dubious contributions to the scientific community in the article titled Cerebrolysin Sharma's Musclea and Ever Pharma which is linked down below so you might want to take this scientific evidence with a healthy and hefty dose of Himalaya pink salt but it's all up and onwards from here Cerebrolysin prevents short and long-term memory impairment during post-traumatic stress disorder stemming from an animal model using rats where Cerebrolysin was shown to reduce PTSD induced oxidative stress in the hippocampus at the dose so which is very comparable to the previous dosage ranges we discussed when extrapolating from the animal models 0.4 milliliters per one kilogram body weight intramuscularly or by intravenous infusions six times weekly in this case for four weeks consecutively and this one is pretty interesting Cerebrolysin might offer a potential treatment of post fluerona C19 persistent anosmia which is taste flavor and sensory loss in human subjects Cerebrolysin offers a 61.5 recovery rate of olfactory gustatory and trigeminal chemosensory dysfunction at five milliliters Cerebrolysin intramuscularly five times weekly for eight to 24 weeks with 25 000 ios vitamin a daily as a juvent therapy so if that sounds interesting to you and you just watched the methylene blue deep dive a combination of Cerebrolysin and methylene blue at the investigated dosage ranges which again are quite high i will tell you that at these quite high dosage ranges Cerebrolysin and methylene blue perhaps in combination might offer you some relief Cerebrolysin might improve cognition and symptoms of type one diabetes and type three diabetes which is often associated with Alzheimer's disease this is stemming from an animal model using rats Cerebrolysin was shown to offer a 19.4 percent reduction of serum glucose and a 14.4 percent reduction of serum heboglobin A1c levels and again add to the aforementioned dose of 0.4 milliliters per one kilogram body weights and this one is pretty interesting for all of you party people out there you know who you are Cerebrolysin by intranasal administration in pro spatial and recognition memory synapse plus this D and increases antioxidant capacity at only 40 percent yes just 40 percent the dose of interperitonal administration in eczemic stroke and senescence so why don't we take Cerebrolysin intranasally instead of injecting it basically the day after you go out for hefty party session right you're already on the road might as well continue with that practice of what you were doing Cerebrolysin directly enters the nasal cavity and passes the blood brain barrier based on the molecular weight of the peptide fragments and the free form amino acids at 0.08 milliliters per one kilogram of body weights intranasally daily for eight weeks at these studies show that one milliliter Cerebrolysin per one kilogram of body weight by intranasal administration again this is the animal dose we converted that to the human equivalent dose already was just as effective as 2.5 milliliters Cerebrolysin per one kilogram of body weight by intranasal administration which is just 40 percent of the dose comparatively a k a two and half times more effective and again that's probably because the peptide fragments and free amino acids of Cerebrolysin can freely enter the nasal cavity and pass the blood brain barrier into the brain directly similar to how CELANG or SEMACS enter the brain now for your information 0.8 milliliters per one kilogram of body weight for 100 kilogram body weight older is 80 milliliters Cerebrolysin intranasally which is excessive and most nasal sprays contain about 15 milliliters of liquids so you could always dump three ampoules of five milliliters Cerebrolysin into a cookie cutter nasal spray that you can buy online and then I go through that nasal spray in two days seven half milliliters Cerebrolysin straight up the nose every single day and then you'll finish that bottle into or maybe three days if you stick with five milliliters and to further drive that point home for you guys on average a nasal spray delivers about 0.1 milliliters per pump 0.1 milliliters per spray so you get about 21.52 milligrams Cerebrolysin peptide fragments and free amino acids per serving but that also means you need to administered 80 pumps 80 sprays 80 sprays per day to get your eight milliliters in if you're a 100 kilogram bodybuilder so that basically means you need to bump every 12 minutes yeah and I'm sure that sounds familiar to you guys it sounds familiar to me but that's a part of my life is long behind me there are some instances of minor to severe allergic reactions to Cerebrolysin known as a porcine allergy which partially stem from an immunoglobulin e mediated response but these adverse effects are mostly observed when Cerebrolysin is administered intravenously so religious reasoning aside if you know you have an allergy to pork meat or gelatin products for that matter then I would avoid Cerebrolysin altogether and skip to the part where I discuss Cortexin as a replacement before you do any kind of intravenous or intermuscular Cerebrolysin administration please go with a conservative route and inject 0.1 milliliters Cerebrolysin subcutaneously to assess your response if you get post injection pain redness at the site of administration or you get some sort of an indication of anaphylactic shock that obviously means that an intermuscular or intravenous Cerebrolysin administration is not for you and please be patient please give yourself at least 24 hours for any kind of negative effect to manifest if after one or two days you don't get any post injection pain irritation at the site of administration or other kinds of complications following this 0.1 milliliters Cerebrolysin subcutaneous injection then you can proceed to 0.1 to 1 milliliter Cerebrolysin by intramuscular injection to assess for a similar response right post injection pain irritation at the site of administration or redness or anaphylactic shock again it could still occur a switching from subcutaneous or intramuscular administration if you suffer from a poor sign allergy so take it slow take it step by step and assess day by day or with two day breaks in between if you have an allergic response to your Cerebrolysin injections before before you do anything intravenously and if you do go intravenously on your first shot go with a 1 milliliter Cerebrolysin administration over a five minute injection intravenously to see if you have any kind of negative effects because if you go halfway through your injection over two and a half minutes of 0.5 milliliters and then you start to get the symptoms of anaphylactic shock then at least you're halfway there and you can and write it out if and only if you have an epipen on standby you might need a hefty dose of epinephrine aka adrenaline to get you out of this adverse reaction as fast as possible if you go with intravenous injections please guys please use either a butterfly catheter needle or a silicone catheter to prevent any kind of arterial damage and scarring assuming you don't get an autoimmune response from 1 milliliter Cerebrolysin intravenously then you can proceed to the dose that you're after dilute it into at least 100 milliliters normal saline solution and administer it over the course of 15 minutes to 60 minutes and again if you go with a higher dose of Cerebrolysin let's say 50 milliliters intravenously please dilute that into a 500 milliliter normal saline solution concoction and then take your sweet time and administer that intravenously with a silicone catheter and before I forget benadryl and zantac might be able to prevent any development of immunoglobulin E antigens these can be used preventatively before each intravenous Cerebrolysin infusion and with that out of the way let's get into whether Cerebrolysin treatments can cause a proun's disease or not prouns are infectious proteins which can cause fatal neurodegenerative complications known as prouns disease prouns can be transmitted through the contact of infected tissues contaminated medical equipment even by eating infected meat or by injecting animal-based peptide extracts prouns cause disease by converting normal cellular proun proteins into the abnormal infectious form this misfolded protein then aggregates and damages brain tissue leading to symptoms like memory loss personality changes and movement problems and I don't consider jazz hands to be movement problems but I'm sure you guys will let me know down below in the comment section whether I have prouns disease or not these diseases also called transmissible spongiform encephalopathies include Crutchfields Jacob's disease in humans bovine spongiform encephalopathy or mad cow's disease in cattle and scrapy in sheep there's no scientific evidence that Cerebrolysin is associated with prouns disease if there was some sort of cover-up within mother russia and other countries where Cerebrolysin is FDA approved for particular medical treatments at one point on rather after decades and decades of Cerebrolysin administrations in human patients you would figure that an instance of prions disease would come to the forefront at one point in time or another but I couldn't find any indication that Cerebrolysin contains prouns in the two studies which investigated the peptide fragments and the free amino acids which are contained within Cerebrolysin so I hope that puts your mind at ease somewhat that being said though any product derived from animal tissues contain a theoretical risk of contributing to prions disease if it's not properly processed to eliminate these infectious proteins and for your information you can also get prions from human cadaver pituitary extracted growth hormone formulations which didn't seem to stop the body but it's from using it up until the mid 1980s and before we get into the Cerebrolysin dosing protocols let's briefly compare the efficacy of Cerebrolysin to the efficacy of Cortexin which is a complex of low molecular weight water soluble polypeptide fragments derived from the Cerebrolysin cortex of calves. Unfortunately the large majority of the studies comparing Cerebrolysin to Cortexin are in Russian and not available as a full publication wherever possible I extrapolated some information from the abstract translating Russian into English but there might be some conjecture here due to the lack of fully translated publication still I did my absolute best to group and aggregate all of the information I could find comparing Cerebrolysin to Cortexin so here we go the sophisticated dosage ranges from animal models using mice with Cerebrolysin that was 0.8 milliliters 2.5 milliliters or 7.5 milliliters per 1 kilogram of body weight daily for two 10 day courses with a 10 day treatment break in between those two 10 day courses or daily for up to four weeks in duration and in these studies the investigated dosage ranges for Cortexin were 0.3 milligrams 1 milligram or 3 milligrams per 1 kilogram of body weight daily for the exact same treatment duration and it's only fair if you compare Cerebrolysin to Cortexin with the exact same treatment protocols and the investigated dosage ranges using rats as an animal model or basically one on one so the exact same dose between Cerebrolysin and Cortexin so that was either 1 microgram 10 micrograms or 100 micrograms Cerebrolysin or Cortexin administered through intraventricular infusion which is an injection directly into the brain's fluid filled ventriculars also known as an intra Cerebroventricular administration and converting that to the human equivalent dose using doscal which is always linked down below in case you want to do your own conversions the human equivalent dose of Cerebrolysin will be between 0.06 milliliters to 0.61 milliliters per 1 kilogram of body weight and for Cortexin there will be 0.02 milligrams to 0.24 milligrams for 1 kilogram of body weight in both instances daily so again that would mean a 100 kilogram bodybuilder would have to take up to 61 milliliters Cerebrolysin or go up to 24 milligrams Cortexin based on these animal models where the maximum efficacious effects were generally observed at the higher dosage ranges the mechanism of action for Cerebrolysin it crosses the blood brain barrier with an unknown uptake and offers neurotropic like effects in which Cortexin also crosses the blood brain barrier with a 68 uptake it acts an AMP-A kinate Mglo1 Gabba A1 and Mglo5 receptors and Cortexin offers glutaminergic and Gabbaergic modulation now comparing the beneficial effects regarding neurological recovery and memory formation with Cerebrolysin it offers superior improvement after embolic stroke and comparable improvements after acute an eczemic stroke or chronic eczemia and with Cortexin again it offers comparable improvements after acute eczemic stroke and chronic eczemias on this context for embolic stroke Cerebrolysin seems to be superior when comparing lesion volume reduction Cerebrolysin offered no significant reduction in lesion volume but Cortexin reduced necrotic tissue size when comparing cerebral blood flow either compound whether it was Cerebrolysin or Cerebrolysin  cortexin had no effect on cerebral blood flow whatsoever. Regarding antioxidant activity, cerebrolysin has a dose-dependent antioxidant effect, but cortexin has a superior dose-dependent antioxidant effect. Regarding cytoprotective effects, comparing cerebrolysin to cortexin, cerebrolysin exhibits cytoprotective properties on TNB lymphocytes, favors the vital of immunocompetent cells and stimulates immune memory B lymphocyte proliferation. But cortexin was shown to have cytotoxic and anti-proliferative effects on T lymphocytes. So regarding cytoprotective effects and the effects on the immune system, cerebrolysin wins. And regarding behavioral effects, cerebrolysin was shown to have moderate psychostimulant action, but cortexin has more effective psychostimulant action. The adverse effects are minimal regarding the differences in safety profile, but since both compounds are derived from animal tissue, both compounds could potentially contribute to prion's disease, albeit again, in both instances, whether that's cerebrolysin or cortexin, no scientific evidence that these compounds are associated with prion's disease. And when we're comparing the therapeutic effects from price to dose, it seems that cerebrolysin is less efficacious after eczemic stroke, whereas cortexin is more efficacious after eczemic stroke. So regarding the outcome of the study, cortexin is more beneficial when you compare that to the cost. However, this is coming from a Russian study stemming from 2006. So that's almost 20 years ago, and the full publication isn't available. So here's the two long didn't read. Cerebrolysin is superior to resolve stroke and has a positive effect on the immune system, while cortexin has superior antioxidant effects, reduces narcotic tissue, and is more effective in psychostimulation and might be a little bit more cost effective when we're comparing prices. Using some highly dubious extrapolation from these studies where the results of cerebrolysin treatment are very comparable to the results of cortexin treatment, I have to conclude that 10 milligrams lifelike protection equals about 25 milliliters of liquid cerebrolysin. And that being said, after 60 days, yes, 60 days consecutively, either five milliliters to 10 milliliters cerebrolysin intermuscularly before bed daily, I did not notice any beneficial effect switching from up to 10 milliliters cerebrolysin to 10 milligrams cortexin intermuscularly before bed for another 20 days after this initial 60 day cerebrolysin treatment, which you could consider to be two and a half to five times the dose of cerebrolysin I was running before, right? Up to 10 milliliters cerebrolysin is still two and a half times lower than the 10 milligrams cortexin dose I would take daily for 20 days afterwards. I did not notice a beneficial effect on top of the beneficial effects I experienced from 60 days on cerebrolysin by continuing and switching to cortexin for another 20 days. Now, this is again, an end of one anecdotal experience. I would not know if I would have started with cortexin if the beneficial effects would have manifested on a 2.5 milligram to five milligram cortexin dose. I guess I'll never know because the next time I'll run cerebrolysin or cortexin we're talking about a couple of years ahead because I feel that these courses have very long lasting effects. So based on this ratio, which I got from the scientific evidence where 10 milligrams cortexin being around $9.5 and 25 milliliters cerebrolysin being around $70 excluding discounts and shipping fees. I would have to agree with the 2006 study where cortexin has a more favorable dose to price ratio albeit that I can't vouch for its efficacy because again, I did not notice anything after the initial 60 days on cerebrolysin. Now, I'm sure you guys will let me know down below in the comment section that you would like to see a cortexin deep dive in the near future right after I finish a bottle of other deep dives which are currently pending. So if you want to speed up that process give me a little bit of incentive, share this cerebrolysin deep dive video with all of your new tropic loving friends bring the views up by putting a bottle of comments a couple of likes and sharing this all across the internet and then I feel a little bit more incentivized to get started on the cortexin deep dive. So you guys know exactly what to expect in case you don't want to run cerebrolysin after watching this deep dive or through religious reasons or a prance disease you're a little bit turned off of the idea of injecting purified pig brains. And that finally brings us to the dosing protocols everybody rejoices. For men, I would say that the sustainable and tolerable dose based on scientific evidence I'm a personal experience and talking to a lot of people who have used cerebrolysin over the last couple of years. The dose is anywhere between 2.5 milliliters to 60 milliliters either by intramuscular administration or intravenous infusion. Five times weekly to daily for up to two months and the deleterious dose well since it's never been investigated and the safety profile regarding scientific evidence it seems that it's generally will tolerate it besides a couple of instances of allergic reactions. The deleterious dose might be over 60 milliliters intramuscular or intravenous five times weekly to daily for over two months. And for women, the dosing protocol is pretty much the same albeit that I would still recommend women to use a lower dose of cerebrolysin simply because their body weight is usually lower than men unless you're a porky and then well I guess there's an applicable joke in there somewhere. You can combine cerebrolysin either with five milligrams of Donazapil or 500 milligrams of CDColing 8K CDPColing or 50 milligrams to 100 milligrams genuvia to get a more pronounced effect. And if you don't like to go with Donazapil or CDColing then you can obviously use AlphaGPC it's just about increasing acetylcholine levels in the brain and based on the scientific evidence I would say that AlphaGPC is a little bit more potent to increase acetylcholine levels than CDColing. Now speaking for myself even though that's not the case for everybody some people notice that they get an energetic effect from cerebrolysin. So you have to do some self experimentation we start with cerebrolysin treatments self prescribed cerebrolysin also always made me very, very, very sleepy. So I would take either five milliliters or 10 milliliters split bilaterally over two five milliliter servings intermascarily let's say one to two hours before bed sometimes in combination with a two IU to 10 IU growth hormone administration which would really improve my sleep quality I mean, cerebrolysin and growth hormone before bed sleep like a baby. Honestly, it's the best sleep stack even though it's reasonably expensive the best sleep stack I've ever tried and I've tried all of them. And I would combine the cerebrolysin administration with 50 milligrams to 100 milligrams genuvia aka C. tecliptin at the same time to potentiate the effects a little bit higher by preventing the breakdown of various neurochropic factors. Again, I have a firm grasp on my blood glucose levels my hemoglobin A1c levels, my fasting insulin levels and everything else that you need to pay extra special attention to when you start modulating your blood glucose levels with a dipeptyl peptidase IV inhibitor. So make sure you have a glucometer or a DEXCOM or another continuous blood glucose monitor available when you start combining a dipeptyl peptidase IV inhibitor with cerebrolysin before bed because the last thing that you want is to wake up in the middle of the night or in the morning with severe symptoms of hypoglycemia forcing you to slam an entire bottle of Gatorade or perhaps some bacon you found in the fridge downstairs and it might be some potential drug interactions regarding Proun's disease when you combine bacon with cerebrolysin. I've never combined cerebrolysin with Donazapil or CDP-Caulin or AlphaGPC for that matter because again, I always took it before bed and increasing my acetylcholine levels in the brain before bed usually keeps me awake. And otherwise it makes me dream quite unfavorably I would say. So whether this combination between Donazapil, CDP-Caulin or AlphaGPC actually improves regarding an improvement of cognition, I'm not entirely sure. I've never tried it myself. But if you've tried it, let us know down below in the comment section whether you combine cerebrolysin with a method to increase acetylcholine levels in the brain or cerebrolysin with another neurotropic factor, secretogolic like somax or saline. Again, I've never done that, but I know people who did that themselves. Let us know down below in the comment section. I would love to hear about it and I'm sure everybody else would love to hear about it as well. Personally, I would limit intramuscular injections to five milliliters per administration side. So if you go with 10 milliliters like I used to do, five milliliters on the left side and the right side, split bilaterally and it kind of depends on how big your glutes or lats or quads are for them to hold up to five milliliters of liquids per injection depot. Intramuscular injections are for lack of better explanation, smooth as butter. I've done hundreds upon hundreds of cerebrolysin administrations over the years and not once, not a single instances of redness, post injection pain or injection side irritation in any way, shape or form. And this is probably the smoothest injection I've ever done in my life. And I honestly wish that steroids or any kind of other peptide formulation would give me such a smooth injection experience as cerebrolysin does, but so far, nothing comes close. And beyond a 10 milliliters cerebrolysin administration, you would need to dilute the cerebrolysin into at least 100 milliliters normal saline solution, but preferably 500 milliliters normal saline solution and then administer that intravenously over the duration of 15 to 60 minutes. A nice slow drip. So you have adequate time to absorb all of that cerebrolysin into the brain tissue and then preferably use a catheter needle, whether that's a butterfly catheter needle or a silicone catheter to prevent any kind of arterial damage and scarring, especially if you administer cerebrolysin intravenously daily. What I noticed the most from cerebrolysin administrations between five milliliters to 10 milliliters after, let's say, one to two weeks of daily continuous use is that I'm calmer, I'm more composed, I'm a little bit more relaxed. I feel that I respond less stressfully to particular situations, whether that's a work stress or relationship stress, which is basically non-existent because I'm happily married, or a stress related to the cryptocurrency where I have financial funds invested and then sometimes the market dips by 20% and then normally you would panic and start panic selling but on cerebrolysin or SSRS for that matter, I'm a little bit more composed and I make much, much, much, much better financial decisions regarding the assets that I have to manage on a day-to-day basis. So that's personally what I noticed. Besides that, when I was still training, both of the wall and super insane on 10 milliliters cerebrolysin, it seemed to mitigate the post-exercise brain fog following leg days or back days almost entirely the next day, which also came with a problematic sites effect is that I started training harder. So I knew that a certain amount of volume I would be able to get away with it, then I could increase the volume by taking 10 milliliters cerebrolysin before bed after a leg day or a back day. So I increased the volume by let's say three to four working sets, two failure or beyond failure using a spotter. And then the next day I would be completely composed and I would like, maybe I can go eight sets extra. So I gained a significant amount of size during the time I was running cerebrolysin to mitigate the brain fog because the next day I would still be highly productive. So worked it and suffer as long as I was using cerebrolysin before bed after these strainy was workouts. And then when I took the cerebrolysin off, oh man, oh man, I was brain fogged for days. Yeah, so I really had to reduce the volume on those strainy leg days and kept a couple sets from failure just to make sure that I wouldn't have terrible brain fog the next day, and which is normal for me, otherwise with this level of training intensity, because otherwise my productivity would have been in the gutter and I wouldn't be able to make these a very lengthy and informative deep dives for you guys. So even though I discontinued the cerebrolysin a couple months ago, I think it's been, man, four months already, sorry, it took so long to make this deep dive. It's been four months since my last cerebrolysin injection, and let's say about three months since the last Cortexin administration, I dropped my training volume down to the point. I have a little bit of brain fog the next day, but it doesn't impair my work, but that intensity is still higher than the training intensity that I had previously where cerebrolysin was never used. So it seems that after a 60 day course on cerebrolysin, regarding my moods, my productivity, my sense of well-being, my reduction in post-exercise brain fog the next day, my improvement in sleep quality is still longer lasting even though I discontinued cerebrolysin, let's say three to four months ago, but some of these effects might be stemming from fluvoxamine, which is known to increase brain drive neurotropic factor. So while I was running a brain drive neurotropic factor secretagogue for a better lack of a sense of explanation, I'm still elevating my brain drive neurotropic factor with 50 milligrams fluvoxamine before bed. So that might potentially the effects that I got from cerebrolysin for months in duration. For me personally, I think one course of cerebrolysin, and maybe this is the case for you as well, one course of cerebrolysin per year, whether that's five milliliters daily for 30 days or five to 10 milliliters daily for up to 60 days, I think that's enough to get long lasting effects. Again, it might be some overlap with the other neurotropic factors secretagogues that I'm taking, but I feel that the beneficial effects are quite long lasting. And then when I feel that these effects are diminishing, I feel reduction in mood, cognition, productivity, post-exercise brain fog is through the roof or I'm making terrible cryptocurrency decisions, then I think it's time for another cerebrolysin course. And then I might combine that with the nasopil or another method to increase acetylcholine levels in the brain, but then I would have to switch to morning administrations. And if that makes me incredibly sleepy, then obviously that protocol is not going to work. And I'm going to switch to the previous protocol of cerebrolysin growth hormone and acetylcholine before bed. And before we close off this video, I just want to highlight two articles which I found online which questioned the efficacy and overall legitimacy of cerebrolysin, since it isn't very clear what cerebrolysin actually contains, which we highlighted at the start of this video. You can read about that in the article, what the hell is cerebrolysin actually? It's linked down below. And another article titled, cerebrolysin, Sharma's Musclea and Ever Pharma, which I highlighted earlier, goes over the unethical practices of duplication among various cerebrolysin studies performed by select few individuals who clearly have financial interest in making cerebrolysin seem like a magical compound that can cure all kinds of medical conditions. All of the studies which were highlighted in that article, I excluded from this cerebrolysin deep dive unless there was some overlap with other studies which wasn't mentioned in this article, showing a similar efficacious outcome. So some of the studies might still be linked down below in the description or comment section where all of the citations are. I would highly suggest you to read both of these articles, whether that's what the hell is cerebrolysin actually, or cerebrolysin, Sharma's Musclea and Ever Pharma article. Before we get into these cerebrolysin addendum livestream, I will give it another read again. So we have a little bit of a discussion point. I would also highly suggest you to give both of these articles before you purchase cerebrolysin for yourself, if this cerebrolysin deep dive somehow convinced you to use cerebrolysin. Because again, the scientific evidence is not super conclusive. The ingredients of cerebrolysin are not 100% known or what these peptide fragments actually do, even though scientifically it's been shown to increase various neurotropic factor levels in the brain, whether that's in human subjects proven with serum concentrations or animal models using actual brain tissue to confirm that various neurotropic factors are actually going up after cerebrolysin treatments. Yeah, you might not get the exact effects that you're after because there's a lot of, well dubious speculation, conjecture and incomplete information when it comes to this medication. Still, anecdotally, a lot of people swear by cerebrolysin. They say that it cured them from their depression. It cured them from their addiction, which I've had several consultations about where people need to overcome creative addiction or idle addiction or weed addiction or other kinds of addiction, in which case the dose just are quite high. So we're talking about 30 milliliters to 50 milliliters cerebrolysin, intravenously at least five times weekly for one to two months, while they're detoxing from their particular addiction and then they overcome it. Now that's not always 100% successful. Sometimes these guys need, ibogaine treatment, which I'm not very familiar with to be honest, but there's plenty of clinics that offer a ibogaine service in case you really need to overcome a particular condition and cerebrolysin treatment was insufficient to do that by yourself. So after watching this deep dive, if you're still interested in running cerebrolysin yourself, please give those two articles linked down below a read and then join me for the cerebrolysin addendum live stream video dropping in a couple of days from now. I hope to see you there. So who knows, maybe cerebrolysin is just a highly very expensive injectable protein shake from hydrolyzed pig brains. And it might be cheaper to increase brain drive neurotropic factor levels in the brain continuously by using a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor like fluvoxamine or vortioxazine, just like I did. Let me know if you'd like to see a brain drive neurotropic factor deep dive in the near future, subscribe so you don't miss it. As always, make sure you do your blood work. If you live in the United States, you can do that over at Merrick Health. They have excellent patient care coordinators and healthcare providers who can help you interpret your blood work results in case you're unsure on what's going on within your body. Make sure you do your blood work frequently, especially when you start experimenting with cerebrolysin or other kinds of compounds which could have a modulating effect on your blood work parameters. Health is wealth, so make sure you check your blood work frequently, especially if you're undergoing a lot of self experimentation. And if you want to increase brain drive neurotropic factor levels in your brain without doing copious amounts of injections multiple times per week in the daily, then look into Gerylamide. They sell curcumin C3 complex, fish oil called Omega 3 elixir, and Gerylamide smooth, which contains Bacopa-moniery and L-theanine, and the Gerylamide has several other products which contain L-theanine. All of these are known to increase BDNF levels in the brain. I've linked all of those products down below, and if you don't know where to get cerebrolysin, well, that's what the website is there for, or the link three on my Instagram page. Thank you guys so much for watching. They fully enhanced brain-drive neurotropic factor level in those canons from the website for you guys. Thank you guys so much for watching. All of my other affiliates and sponsors you can find down below as well. And I'll see you in the next deep dive, whether that's a brain-derived neurotropic factor, deep dive video, or a cortex and deep dive video. I'm sure you guys will let me know down below in the comment section to fuel that algorithm smoothly. Thank you guys so much for watching, and I'll see you in the next one.