With bodybuilders, what's most likely occurring is a couple things. When you weigh 300 lbs, your waist is obviously not going to be 26 inches anymore. It has to grow to some degree in order to hold yourself up. So, we're talking like Ronnie Coleman error. They were crushing your estrogen. When you bring estrogen to zero, boflow is impeded. And then on top of it, if you take orals at that point, which making the liver even worse, you literally can't digest anything. So now protein and fat can't move through the through the gut. So it's just it's sitting and it's pushing the stomach out. And then >> what people But let me interject real quick. What people don't understand is that Welcome to the Anabolic Round Table episode 19. We're almost at the 20 year anniversary or 20 monthth anniversary. It's been crazy um how long we've been doing this already. >> Dean Kurt, welcome to the show. Our own show. Steve, also welcome. [laughter] any uh any updates or you guys want to get right into the growth hormone discussion that we have on the menu for today? >> Sure. Gene, your nose is looking enormous. >> Yeah. No, it's really massive, isn't it? I mean, >> god forbid that you were to compare a 4year-old and a 14y old's nose size versus a 24 year old and a 38-year-old's nose size. Yeah. >> Um I guess >> is that adults growth hormone replacement therapy? Adult adulthood kids growth hormone replacement therapy. >> It's all it's all that growth hormone abuse I done for years upon years upon years. >> Yeah. [laughter] Yeah. No, it's funny. You've been broken it a couple times too, I believe. >> Yeah. Well, I mean that's the critical part that you might leave out if you were to compare my face to maybe 20 years ago to now. And you know when we're looking at this as like a straw man's way of arguing agrome um if you look at what happens to most fighters you deviate your septum and then all of a sudden fluid changes deposition fluid changes in terms of the structure of the cartilage in your nose. So your nose is going to look quite different if you've had a broken inside and out. And Steve, I'll send you a picture of how my nose looked before the nose surgery. Cuz if no one's seen my Instagram story before my nose was actually put back straight, >> they'll see how how bad my nose was broken. >> I remember you sent it in the group >> last year. >> You were not very pretty that day. >> Gold medal on my lap, but my nose halfway across my face. Uh so >> with that in mind, I think that's going to be a useful thing. We're delving into growth hormone and the potential effects. Like don't get me wrong, organ growth and agomegaly is a consequence of super physiological growth hormone use but like Kurt shared when you look at the FDA data on ser like 300page document Aramgley is like two sentences a short like mention >> share that right away >> you keep talking I'll fine >> basically you or you use high doses of growth hormone, your organs might grow. But in terms of the overarching safety data, when you search within that document for safety incidences related to like someone's nose growing or their face growing or their hands and feet, I think when we're when we're looking at like super physiological levels of growth hormone, you'd have to be taking a massive dose over a very very long period of time to see like the effects of gigantism on you. [clears throat] So it's actually mentioned once in this study document >> literally [laughter] literally there two two senses or two lines um >> of and only in the context of overdoses. So glucose intolerance can occur with overdos and long-term overdoses with growth hormone could result in signs and symptoms of agromegalene. Now what do we discuss? Uh overdos more than 18 I use six milligrams daily. >> Yeah. >> The usual starting dose of cerostim is uh 0.1 milligram per kilogram of body weight subcutaneously daily up to 6 milligrams. So I'm assuming they would consider over 6 milligrams to be an overdos. >> Correct. And there's a point of diminishing returns over six. A lot of bodybuilders, a question I get from some of the bigger guys are, can I take 24 units? Can I take 30 units? You can. Is it going to work better than 18? No. But if it's UGL stuff, you're not absorbing it fully anyway. So, who even knows what you're getting? >> Um, but if you were to use if you use pharmaceutical growth hormone, you took more than six milligrams, it's not going to produce a greater result than the six. That that's where the six came from. >> Right. >> Right. The results start for HIV. you you can see in those FDA studies the results really start around four milligrams right when you talk about the fat mass and then they kind of move to six with new cell mass created that's kind of the sweet spot in there right but hyperplasia occurred at 6 milligrams >> okay I think >> and more than that the most a human can absorb is is closer to 24 units >> okay and that's >> but that doesn't mean it's doing anything >> right does it go into like white blood cells or lymphosytes or something like that. >> Well, you have the binding you have seven binding proteins that are going to regulate both the the peaks and the trrows of the growth hormone and then they're also going to dictate where the growth hormone goes, right? So then they're largely responsive to things like estrogen. So as estrogen levels go up, the binding proteins increase to redirect the growth hormone toward other areas away from muscle and away from the fetus, right? because the fetus is getting IGF-2 from the placenta. That's that long acting I said this before that long acting growth hormone. I don't want to say the brand name that is not growth hormone. That's not some like estrified growth hormone. That's mimicking IGF-2. >> So that's why on the box it says for use in children under 12 because it the way it's bound is going to mimic the placenta and just allow for linear growth. It's not going to cause muscle growth. >> Right. You do should get muscle growth otherwise it can't fit out the birth canal. >> I used an equivalent of like 10 IUs of that long acting somatrogen in Jula whatever the [\h__\h] it's called with the ATCG subunit and I I found the results to be quite underwhelming. I mean did it give me fullness? Sure. But >> even fullness is like you can drink salt water and get fullness. Does that mean >> Exactly. Yeah. So creatine gives me fullness also gives me artificial fullness. [laughter] >> Yeah. So that's I mean that's how it was designed. It was designed to mimic what's occurring in a female's body. And again it goes back to why estrogen is not an anabolic hormone. It's an anti- anabolic hormone. It's a growth regulator, right? As it goes up, it's going to take anabolic hormones and bind them up so they can't be used. Mhm. >> When a female is ovulating when a female is pregnant, the the estrogen levels are going to go up which binds things to remove the the right you don't want a woman's metabolism to go up. That's why thyroid drops. >> It's why testosterone is more bound, right? Sex hormone binding globin goes up into the hundreds. >> Yeah. IGF goes up in serum, but all that's doing is holding it in the blood away from where you want it. >> And the IGF-1 binding proteins go up as well. Binding protein 3 goes up. Like I tested my wife every month when she was pregnant. You see the hormonal changes and it just it all goes up and you're like, "Wait a minute, none of this is bioavailable." >> No, it's keeping it away from the baby, right? Because otherwise your child would have been born enormous. >> Yeah. Exactly. And good luck trying to pop that one out. >> Yeah. So that's that's where the misconceptions are. Just the body's going to just respond to what the environment is dictating and and keep it safe. >> Yeah. Yeah. And I think with the with the organ growth, I mean, you would you would assume that the ears, right? Those are the only organs that don't stop growing, right? >> Correct. >> Do we see any bodybuilder with excessively large ears to the point you think they're dumbo? [laughter] >> No. No. I would say inklux if used excessively for long periods of time and a high dose could. Right. Because when you take growth hormone, what's the rate limit? The rate limit on IGF. >> Tell me, man. I mean, I I use more incry than anybody else. No, no. I don't mean you're not using excessive amount for long periods of time. If you were I would think that would be the only option I would think that would cause that because your liver is not your liver is the rate limit with growth hormone, right? You inject growth hormone. How much IGF you can produce is based on your liver, >> right? >> When you take IGF, you're bypassing that whole thing. You're just making the IGF level much higher. That could cause >> organ growth potentially, but we don't even see that. The guy's using two milligrams a day. You don't see that. >> No. And and like to be re realistic if you read the medical insert of increct you see that the medical dose the maximum dose to bring your serum level serum levels yeah to the top of the reference range in kids is about 0.12 milligrams [snorts] per kilogram of body weight aka 12 milligrams for a bodybuilder that's 100 kilos and that's why you generally don't see dramatic changes on on serum levels of IGF-1 when you start using IGF-1 LR3 or incollex because the dose is too low You use this at spot injections into the chest into the lat into the delta wherever you need some localized IGF-1 and then you pray to God that the IGF-1 or the IGF binding proteins don't bind it all up um you know and whether you get some beneficial effects through hyperpleasure insulin sensitivity that increases or insulin receptor activation which I think [clears throat] IGF-1 interacts with the insulin receptor approximately 10% of the insulin uh that you produce. So you probably get some overlap there, but in serum it's almost undetectable unless you take some growth hormone with it and then you can kind of see the the small numbers fluctuate. You go six I use growth hormone, your IGF-1 levels in serum go from 200 to 350 and then you throw the inklex on top um and then the next day it's 375 something like that. So we're talking about a sprinkle but you have localized IGF-1. That's why it's so anabolic in some people that respond well to it. Yeah. Does it grow your nose and your ears? Well, I mean, >> probably not. >> I don't know. I mean, Chase Irons did 18 serim for over a year and now he's off cycle, right? Trying to uh >> slim down a little bit. His face looks like mine. It's just like a little boy. It literally looks like a little boy right now cuz he came off everything besides TRT. And it you could see it my my face. So, I came everything to to 200 milligrams, no GH, no nothing. and and everything just shrinks. So is it is the nose growth and the ear growth and the and the the the cranial brows and it's just water attention. It's just water and it goes away. [snorts] >> I mean even like when you look at noses and the areas of growth within the nose and they've done studies with rats surrounding like growth hormones effects on nose growth in in rodents. Mhm. >> Two of the three areas that can technically grow in your nose didn't change with with rodents. And again, they've done similar studies with um humans with growth hormone where they've done tracer analysis to see you know what changed in terms of the growth of the the cartilage I think in the nose. it was within the paper and again similarly yes there was a small change in the the nose's structure in those using growth hormone therapy but statistically in terms of significance it was it was minor um and and again looking at water retention looking at structural changes like I said if you've had your septum deviated your breathing mechanics will change um that's not to say bodybuilder will have deviated septum, but quite a few might have it from either doing martial arts or doing contact sports or getting hit in the face with a football. And that's going to skew your breathing, which is going to cause inflammation around your sinus and your nose area. Everyone wears nasal strips now. Nasal strips are lifting >> Mhm. >> the skin of your nose. So again, you're encouraging a level of um fluid expansion to your nose by lifting out the end of your nose, the the skin of your nose. But I don't from all the data we see, like Kurt said, you have to abuse IGF-1, not growth hormone, to see potentially something like the nose or ears grow. Um, and it's and it's purely because when you take testosterone, testosterone causes bone mineral loss. Estrogen causes bone mineral recycling. So, they offset one another. That's why in females who take androgens, they end up with big square jaws because >> you have calcium being taken away from the jawline to leave them with that square looking jaw. But that calcium's going off elsewhere in the body to deposit into other bones or other even tissues you know even arterial plaque [snorts] that to put it down to you know changes in facial structure being growth hormone derived rather than well steroid induced. Even then your your facial structure if you had how you evolved in puberty let's say you had a really poor androgen status during puberty and now all of a sudden you go on cycle and you're making more DHT because of the the structure of the face and not having end caps to the to the bone structure of your face. Of course, someone who had a really poor puberty in terms of like androgenicity, their face is going to develop into a more male looking face. They are going to end up with a squarer jaw. So when you look at someone who has changed facial structure from steroid use, you have to view what was their androgen status when they come out of puberty into their 20ies and how that changed relative to being on cycle rather than oh well the steroids caused that 100%. You know, for some people, you might not see this facial structure change because what happened in puberty sort of defined their facial structure. Maybe they might end up with a a slightly, you know, less rounder face. We're going to lose some bone density off the chin, but for the most part, like you said, the facial structure changes that you see in men with being on high doses of whether growth hormone steroids is fluid retention. You know, I can look back at pictures of me at my biggest and I've got like full-on blow face, let alone the celiac inflammation, but you can see like that aged appearance to the face that when you when you stop everything and you come back to a relative physiological level, most of that water retention is dissipated. And and this is where people almost like deage when they come off. >> Mhm. Yeah. [clears throat] They are when they do a contest prep. So all the fat goes away and then of course the subcutaneous water retention goes away. You lose a little bit of water retention and the skeletal muscle including the muscles on your face and then people are like why does his face look so different on stage? It's well all the water retention that he had in the offseason or during prep is now gone for half a day. Well you have to look good. It's gone everywhere else too. You you see it in the classic physique guys, right? in offseason are kind of kind of lumberjack puffy, you know, big beards, hide it all and then on stage they're like look they look 10 years younger and then two days later they look puffy again like they did in the offseason because the rebound but it's it's just normal part of it and like I do see like a little bit of signs of acromegaly in some of the IVB pros that say that they use 4 to 6 IUs but I don't know when you look at their hand size you're like it's probably 30 20 to 30 for a very long time. Um, and it seems that those guys, they remain some sort of big head syndrome, whereas their nose and ears are still somewhat normal compared to the size of their head. So, you see that they have a giant head and especially when they slim down, it looks even bigger. Um, I'm not going to name any names, but it's a lot of [laughter] >> they have a giant giant head and a small body. I mean, those guys were all known to abuse growth hormone, >> you know. >> Do you want to talk about um the growth hormone gut? Cuz I feel like people are going to talk about the bubble gut and >> yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> So, I mean, most likely that's not growth hormone, right? Because you see the opposite like the the link that Steve post from the FDA on Sarah Steim, the original doctor who researched was was looking at Sarah Steim for HIV. What he found was when you take someone with HIV and you put them on antiviral drugs, it causes weight loss in the limbs and in the face and fat mass gain center mass. And he nicknamed it either a a pregnant skeleton or an apple on a stick. Neither are nice terms, but this is basically describes an HIV patient when they've first gone antiviral drugs. And so the patients were not staying. Um it it it has it in quotes in there somewhere. Um, so what was happening is the patients were not staying on these drugs because they realized they looked awful, right? They might have started to feel better, but that it was destroying their their physical appearance or you buffalo hump. They grow fat on the back [clears throat] of their neck. Um, >> and he realized that the growth hormone would basically so the growth hormone was doing the opposite of what people are blaming in body, but they're actually was actually reducing >> was actually reducing the fat mass in the stomach, >> right? You have pregnant skeleton apple on a stick. Mhm. Um, and so that that was the original the original use of growth hormone here was to kind of redo the body composition of someone on the antiviral drug so they would stay on the antiviral drugs. Then they realized later that the growth hormone had other positive effects as well. But originally it was just to keep people compliant to their their drug regime. Um, with bodybuilders, what's most likely occurring is a couple things. is they um when you weigh 300 lb, your waist is obviously not going to be 26 in anymore. It has to grow to some degree in order to hold yourself up, right? So, their waist is going to be bigger [clears throat] than than 150 lb guy to begin with. The before a contest, so we're talking like Ronnie Coleman era, right? Where this is the most prevalent. They were they were crushing the estrogen, right? So, they were they're bringing it to zero. They were removing tests. They were taking a ton of orals. So the so when you when you bring estrogen to zero boflow is impeded. You see that in postmenopausal women their stomach starts to distend and then on top of it if you take orals at that point which making the liver even worse you literally can't digest anything. So now protein and fat can't move through the through the gut. So it's just it's sitting and it's pushing the stomach out. >> And then what people let me interject real quick. What people don't understand is that the intestines are smooth muscle also that respond to androgens and hypertrophy. So that's why oral steroids especially at higher doses is probably not a good idea because you create a localized effect. >> It could. Yeah. [laughter] Well and with growth hormone people will talk about short bowel syndrome, right? So growth hormone is is you sometimes a short bowel syndrome. >> It's not making the intestines grow. it's allowing nutrient absorption through the intestine. So someone that's born with short bowel syndrome basically does not take the nutrition out of their food, right? So they tend to be shorter statue um just malnourished. The growth hormone actually allows you to take more out of the food existing. It's not lengthening the intestines. >> Right. >> Right. So like you said, it's that that could be from steroids if the intestines are actually growing. That that's not a that's not a growth hormone thing. Then on top of it, right, so before contest, these guys were then they were screwing with their electrolytes, right? They were taking a diuretic, they were cutting water, and then they were carb loading. So if you try to eat 1,000 grams of carbs with no fluid, the diuretic and electrolytes all screwed up, the food also can't move through the intestines and your liver, but like of course your stomach is going to be enormous as other do the growth hormone because we see all the time that growth hormone actually makes you way smaller. >> Yeah. Yeah, it's even proven scientifically where tessimillin and growth hormone are the only two compounds basically that have been proven to reduce visceral fat buildup and tesmarillan is a growth hormone secret. Now other growth hormone secrets were not shown to um reduce visceral fat and it's either because it's not been studied or it has been studied and there was no significant difference like GHRP for example could be because it makes you hungry. It doesn't help. So good luck trying to get rid of the visceral fat. But in the other growth hormone secret where it was studied, uh, visceral fat did not go away besides tessimelin and actual injectable growth hormone. Um, so you would assume that tessorin is thus the most potent growth hormone secret even though MK-677 ibuto raises IGF-1 levels more than tesarelin for the dosages investigated. Um, and that's probably because of the halflife, right? The active life of MK-677 is more than a day in teslone in just a couple hours. So that probably contributes. But I always find it funny that people on TRT they take two to three or four I use growth hormone. You would expect some intestinal upset and bloating based on the brolore. But in reality they just get leaner if they manage their diet correctly. right now a combination I will say this a combination of growth hormone and redditide does bloat the stomach and I think it's some water retention from the growth hormone and then the slowing of gastric function from the reiterate and more and more people have this issue uh that redit is now run all the way to the show right which I don't think is a good idea I think you should stop it two to three weeks before because it interferes with carb loading and intestinal mobility motility of the carbs that you're then going to load. Um, and that can then create a growth hormone like bubble gut again. >> Yep. I just sent you, >> sorry, I just sent you a picture in our chat of a guy using not my client, but just an example to show that the waist smaller. A guy using 18 units of Sarah Steim for 3 months. Not only did it make his waist smaller, but all of his loose skin. You could probably post a picture. >> Oh, right. >> All of his loose skin is gone. So plastic surgeons lose their mind because it actually did what they would charge $20,000 to do. >> Oh wow. >> With surgery. I don't know. You could probably put the so people could see because >> Yeah. I'll show I'll overlay. >> Literally changes entire physique just from using that. >> This This makes me want to take it 18 years. >> You even see in the lower chest that it lowers. Like I always have like a little bit of lower chest fat and sag, but in his case it's completely gone. >> Yeah. It's amazing. H >> sorry Dean I didn't mean to interrupt you. >> No I was going to say with with the the bubble goat issue as well [clears throat] from my own personal experience as a competitor um some of it is TVA dynamics. Most bodybuilders never learn how to control their TVA. So what they end up doing on stage is they end up >> not learning how to control their gut basically. So you will see a very good poser will be able to control their gut, suck in their their obliques and their uh abs in the quarter turns. >> But watch carefully as someone goes from the side relaxed >> to the rear relaxed. They let out a big sigh and the the gut comes out cuz because the gut's not on show from the the back. And so the TVA dynamics, most bodybuilders will train their abs, but they won't train the inner core, like the the inner mesh that's holding everything together. And learning TVA dynamics, it can be just a simple like laziness where you you don't have control of that. And then to add on top food volume or or gastric volume, add on certain foods that may be inflammatory. Like historically, um, again coming back to me not knowing about being celiac, I'd be baffled why I had no control over my TVA, over my like belly button region. It was just like a bloat. And at a couple of shows towards the end of like the 2022 season, I was really struggling on stage to really engage my abs and lower core. And it was because the previous night before bed, I was having, you know, um foods that had gluten, uh oats, even, you know, instant oats as your final meal before bed, before the stage. And the next day on stage, that inflammation, that intestinal inflammation is creating gas, creating distension. And no matter how much you try and control your TVA on stage, you're going to see this little round pocket. And you know, I'm [clears throat] only what 190 something pounds on stage. You exponentially increase that to someone who's 250, 260. Well, that little pocket of inflammation or distension is going to be a lot bigger than my little tiny little sack. You're going to see like, you know, a big big balloon basically with someone who's much larger and eating much larger volumes of food than me. >> Right. Right. And you know that was where the the strategy in my head of not eating on show day eventually came about because I was like if I don't put anything in I'll be able to control TVA I'll be able to control abs. So that that bubble go when you started linking it to insulin started linking to everything growth hormone abuse. You just look at how many top level bodybuilders train their core properly. They might train their abs, train obliques, but doing things like um medicine ball balances, doing uh dead bugs, doing things that actively train the TVA cuz a lot of time the the guys who can do vacuums are the ones who probably train their TVA. That's a good example. And that's core in in order to do a vacuum, you need to be able to suck your TVA in and up with your diaphragm. And even breathing, the last part like diaphragm breeding versus belly breathing. You know, most guys are belly breeders, mouth breeders through their belly rather than through their nose and through moving their diaphragm and then their chest. >> The East Block female competitors have perfected this. The [clears throat] bikini competitors like they suck it in permanently and they just breathe with their uh, you know, diaphragm. It looks amazing. It looks amazing. I think that Ken Skipp Hill and Dr. Marv just made an entire episode on Team Skip's uh YouTube channel about decreasing your weight size by uh training your transverse abdominis. So I'll link that down below for all the guys that still want to take growth hormone but have a flat tiny waist and I I was al also able to pull a vacuum you know and just keep practicing it. It's cost like 10 minutes per day to train your transverse abdominis, >> you know, do it in at the end of your workout or in the morning when your stomach is empty, you know, after your bathroom break. It's great. And they always look cosmetically appealing. Especially when you go to the beach, shirts comes off and you pull a deep vacuum. People like, "What the what the fuck?" You know, and I'm still an ad. I use a growth hormone, baby. [laughter] Yeah, it's good. It's good stuff. So, we have a long list of topics. We didn't even get to the first one yet. So, Dean, you kind of spoiled it for everybody with your timing of GH injections. Uh, maybe we should do a refresher on that because like I always said, hey, just take your GH subq before the fastet cardio, you get some fat loss and then here comes Dean. >> Yeah, wait a minute. Wait a minute. It takes hours for lipolysis to kick in. I'm like, [\h__\h] [laughter] I've been doing it like this for a decade and yeah, now I changed to before bed. >> Yeah. >> Let's let's dive into that again because GH for fat loss is is a bit of a timing issue. I mean, don't get me wrong, my I sort of sat in the middle when we we discussed this of there's no problem to IM, there's no problem to subq, but subq >> subq in the morning time because of how it's released within the body. It it just it was designed to be subq before bed to uh match the circadian output of normal nocturnal growth hormone. So the the the peak and the roll off of a subq injection of growth hormone is between 8 to 10 hours. So, you're sort of mimicking what happens where you get a spike in deep sleep from like 11:00 p.m. to 1 or 2 a.m. [snorts] and then it rolls off as we head into morning time like 5 6 a.m. for wake up where excuse me with with IM something caught my throat there. With IM, we're looking at a faster peak in that it enters the system within one or two hours and then rolls off very sharply within, you know, another 2 to 3 hours. But it still takes when we're looking at the absorption between the two, between subq and IM, it's still somewhere around like the 90 minute to 2hour mark for it to peak. So even if you do a IM injection of growth hormone before fasted cardio, it's still taking about 90 minutes to to get into your system. Now you can argue you're going to get lipolysis from it, that's true. But what you start eating then after your fasted cardio, excuse me, unless you're going to stay fasted for hours after doing that IM shot of growth hormone, the sustained lipolysis and the utilization of your body's own body fat for fuel is going to be overridden by you start eating after fasted cardio. So yes, you're getting some lipolysis that's occurring in the background because you've spiked your growth hormone level that morning. But my view always was thinking, well, if it takes 2 hours for a subq injection to peak, and we know circadium release happens between 11:00 p.m. and 2:00 a.m. If you do before you go to bed at 11:00 p.m. or or even 10:00 p.m., you're going to get some growth hormone secretion in your deep sleep and then the drugs peaking afterwards. So you're sort of getting like that oneplus 1 effect. >> Now obviously with with natural growth hormone release it's not going to be anything like your 4 6 10 18 IUs but it's still natural production. You're still getting maybe one IU two IUs naturally and then you're getting the the additive effect of what you've taken before bed. I think where people sort of hinged off IM being a better method was, oh well, IM gives a bigger peak. >> Serum, >> correct? You're looking at serum, but you're looking at a bigger peak of growth hormone in serum, but you're taking growth hormone for IGF-1 really from a an anabolic perspective. And if you >> need to Yeah. And if you're comparing IM versus subq, the IM will again lead to a potential bigger IGF-1 spike earlier. But if we're looking at the sustained creation of growth grow to IGF-1, the area under the curve of when you get the peak and then it rolls off between the two, the shaded area underneath the curve which tells us how effective the drug is is the same statistically. And again, I'll give you the paper of this where it literally gave six to eight guys um from what I remember was six six to eight I use of growth hormone and measured the IGF-1 between the different administration methods. >> Mhm. >> And statistically the results were basically the same. Uh >> okay, >> if you give me two seconds, I'll share it on the screen here. >> There's two other things. >> Go for it. I was just going to say there's two other things to keep in mind as well. So growth hormone is a cytoine. So if you put it into a muscle, you're going to get an immune response and you're going to lose a percentage anyway. So you don't want to put it I am just because it's studied IM. It's studied IV as well doesn't mean that that's how you administer it at home. >> Um the other and the way to look at it is the growth hormone receptor is is a cell surface receptor. It doesn't go in doesn't transllocate like the androgen receptor. it there's a downstream pathway inside the jack stat pathway when growth hormone receptors activated IGF IGF can go in so if you inject growth hormone into the muscle the muscle sees that as an immune issue and attacks it causing a loss of some growth hormone >> so not necessarily just because it causes a peak in serum doesn't mean it's actually causing an effect when companies like EMD Serrano did research on this drug they spent millions of dollars figuring out what the ideal way to use it was If if there were better ways to use it, that's how they would have recommended it. So, I'll overlay this. I'll find the study. >> But here here you see that it's pretty much >> the same between subtle versus hydrron, right? Mhm. >> You can see that the top picture is GH. So the the GH so yes you get a bigger level with with an IM injection of GH a bigger peak >> but the bottom table is the IGF-1 and if you look at the very bottom numbers between the IM versus subq group the the IGF-1 level measured is is pretty much you know identical. Let me just get up that slide for myself again. So the the mean for IGF-1 with IM was 0.75 at 0 hours and then it was 1.37 after 24 hours, >> right? >> 0.91 for the SC at 0 hours and 1.41. So it's literally 1.37 versus 1.41 with standard deviations of 29 and 22. They're basically relatively the same. So it whether you want to do the IM or subq injection before bed, most of us will prefer to use a thinner gauge needle than a longer gauge needle and the trauma that comes from it. And we have to view that when we're designing drugs, [clears throat] patient compliance is one of the the big things of designing drugs, which is why [clears throat] drug companies prefer to make oral drugs cuz they know people will swallow a tablet or a capsule or a pill or whatever. when it comes to an injectable compound because we are creating this compound for growth deficient children. Do you think after you know four or five injections with like a 23 gauge even an orange versus a blue >> that your child's going to let you near them to inject them pretty much every day versus a small thinner needle that's about, you know, a quarter or half an inch at most in length. that's relatively painless to speak. Quick pinch and done. >> Mhm. >> You know, from a compliance perspective, the subq is going to win. And again, they've done studies where they looked at change in even the injection sites of growth hormone between the abdomen, the quads with with kids. And they found that again, there was very little difference in terms of the response to the injection that subq into the belly of a child was a lot easier than putting it into the leg as well. So, it's it's compliance as well. Neither is right or wrong, but I know personally I wouldn't be a fan of doing loads of IM injections beyond what you may be doing already. >> Yeah, besides the steroids and maybe the injectable pre-workout, everything else goes subq, you know, injectable pre-workout, intramuscular and increlex. Hell yes. Did did they by any chance in those studies where they compared subcutaneous sites did they observe any localized fat loss or that was not investigated? We can't remember. >> I've never seen it in the the results. It's always just been on the the mean level of growth hormone or the mean level of IGF-1. I think you know like Kurt said [clears throat] I think sometimes you you you see it a lot when the the growth hormone as a cytoine as a a messenger a very small amount is going to go inside your cell as in like your needle is going straight inside the cell and people are like losing their minds over this aspect of like when you give an injection most of it's not going to go inside a cell but if If for example you do end up getting some of that inside the cell there is that that mediated response and there is there is papers if people want to go look it up about the the cytoine signaling with the immune system of of growth hormone and its effects there. >> I think people need to take like like a little course on how big the needle is versus how big the cell is. [laughter] The cell is like like when you put the needle in the body it literally destroys thousands of cells. Thousands. They will replenish. Don't worry, we got hyperlasia for that. But you're literally just slicing through cells. For the guys that have ever done IVF, look at the needle size and the the egg size. The usite is gigantic. It's it it's huge. And the needle is tiny. It's way smaller than the needle that we use for growth hormone injections. Even if you go with a BD microphone 8 mm, right? or the six millimeter ones that the tiny ones that feel like a finger prick or you're pulling some nose hair out. Um, so it it's hilarious to say when people say, "I'm going to do it intramuscularly because it's going straight in the cells." No, it's going to disperse and then interact with the cell membrane throughout the muscle tissue. But some of it is going to go systemic, >> right? Yeah. understand the size difference. >> When we when we talk about intramuscularly versus subcutaneously, we're talking about going between skin cells in terms of where the the compound is going to disperse from versus going into the deep musculature. So you obviously you've got your your dermal layer, your your vascular system, and then [clears throat] underneath you have the muscles system underneath it all, which is why when you give yourself an injection and you don't potentially aspirate, you're doing that to make sure that you've passed through the dermal air, passed through the vascule and into the deep muscle. The reason why the deep muscle is used is because of in terms [clears throat] of the capacity for storage of an an oily vehicle like a steroid based injection. You've got thousands of muscle fibers where this oil can disperse across and slowly move into systemic circulation into the the vascular system. So with with skin you're you're using like waterbased compounds because of that rapid diffusion where it moves from the skin straight into the blood system >> and then that's where you get the the distribution of the drug the the volume of distribution of the drug. So yeah when you're talking about like an IM injection it's it's not actually going straight into the muscle cell specifically. a small amount of it may and that's where you'll see that response like Kurt said where you have an intracellular response where the drug has actually gone inside one of the cells [snorts] but I think when you're looking at [clears throat] which one is even better for muscle building or fat loss you know even localized injections of growth hormone whether it's subq or IM the drug because it's waterbased or water you know it's it's a in a water vehicle it's going to disperse quickly into the the vascular system. So, it's it doesn't really make much of a difference. Same with any peptide, the local injections of BPC, TB-500, you're getting a certain level of the compound locally where you've deposited the drug into, but most of it starts moving quickly. It doesn't sit in the one space. >> No, diffuses quite fast. So, you know, and the only thing that I've seen has a localized effect is incre insulin and yeah, I know guys that use insulin like in body parts and it worked quite well. They also tend to go hypo because intramuscular injections of insulin. >> Yeah, it's kind of it's kind of it's kind of risque. [laughter] Well, that's that's that's a good example also of why you're told when you use insulin never to rub the injection site, no matter how irritated it might feel. Let's say you do like let's say you're you're feeling adventurous and you do 15 IUs of nolva rapid >> Jesus. you know, no matter how no matter how itchy or irritated it might feel having gone in, you just like leave it alone cuz as soon as you start rubbing, that's the dispersal. That's where you see the rapid hypo come on. Um, which is again similar to what happens with an intramuscular injection of of insulin. >> All right, let's see. Let me go through the topics. So we already touched a little bit about IGF-1 secretion. >> Mhm. >> And uh so it seems that there's no real difference between subq and IM but um it seems that more frequent growth hormone administrations might be better for IGF-1 secretion compared to a single dose. Now the problem with more frequent injections of IGF or of growth hormone is that it might cause some sort of insulin resistance. A lot of people are scared of that and I'm going to go full-blown diabetic. But I I I never see on blood work anybody taking growth hormone at higher doses, multiple dosages, that their fasting insulin levels change, that their hemoglobin A1c changes, that um you know they get issues with elevated blood glucose levels like blindness or or inflammation or whatever. Um it seems that the only people that really suffer from that are the people who are inactive. Yeah. >> And they don't clean up their blood. >> Or people with HIV that are laying in bed. Yeah. >> Exactly. Or or kids that are just short stature. They don't get invited to the running around parties at the block. Right. They're too short. You don't get to play with the rest of the kids. So I I I feel that this insulin resistance is blown way out of proportion. And I I've never seen it play out in real life again with people that just are moderately active. Um, can it occur? Sure. If you I think if you eat a pizza and you take 8 to 9 years of growth hormone, it's probably not a good idea, right? But, you know, most people are wise enough to not combine the two. [laughter] >> Like, I mean, you're you're saying it there like the the nail on the head of a lot of it's diet induced. Sure, the growth hormone is going to create a lipolytic effect. And now you've got more free fatty acids in your bloodstream. More free fatty acids in your bloodstream can impair the insulin receptors function. But if you're eating a very highfat diet on top of this high fat release or lipolytic effect, you're creating this double whammy. So again, it's like, was it the growth hormone or was it the pizzas, the muffins, and everything else you've been eating that's created your insulin resistance problem whilst taking growth hormone? You know, there's >> like like you're you're touching on here. People think that taking highdose growth hormone is is a free ticket to just binging because the growth hormone is going to offset atapose tissue gain. You know, I'm taking a very high dose of growth hormone. it's going to be very unlikely that I'm going to store body fat, which is a very false assumption to to have. And so the the insulin resistance, I normally see it in guys who have very poor nutrition who are abusing growth hormone rather than the growth hormone is the problem. But in order for it to correct the problem which is normally a high H1C that has trended sharply within you know 12 weeks you have to take the growth hormone away. You have to take away the the source of high fat within the nutrition >> during the pizza. >> And then you have to you have to do the stuff that people don't want to do, which is highintensity interval cardio and highintensity exercise and retraining your energy system between glycolysis and oxidative phosphorilation. So you're trying to gain back how your body is able to use these substrates for fuel. I I mechanistically, yes, high doses of growth hormone cause lipolysis and the free fatty acids impair insulin receptor function. But if you're following a a very good nutrition approach, your nutrition before bed is optimal. So again, before bed, think about the food you're eating and what's going to happen during the night in terms of digestion and that free fatty acid payload. It's probably better in theory to have a a lowfat, high carbohydrate meal as your last meal before bed, knowing that you're not going to add more triglycerides into the system. Don't get me wrong, carbohydrates can create triglycerides and triglyceride remnants from digestion, but it's not going to have interior the same impact as a very highfat meal >> like a big loaded burger and pizza and whatever before bed on top of your growth hormone that you're taking before sleep. >> You could just protein. >> Yeah. Or just protein. Yeah. like a dietary fat has to be really really high before it makes you lose insulin sensitivity. Um otherwise people on a ketogenic diet would have terrible insulin sensitivity and that been proven to be the other way around. If anything a ketogenic diet raises growth hormone levels. Um and thus your insulin sensitivity should be even worse. But but you know, let's be honest, people in this industry, they they do a little bit of cardio, they take some carnitine, and they're moderately active. And in which case, I I think growth hormone at one administration per day is a non-issue. Maybe at multiple administrations, like growth hormone with every meal, unless you're assuming you're not very physically active, but even if you're physically active, let's say you get 10,000 steps in and cardio and pausing practice and uh one or two workouts, I think two I use, four I use growth hormone multiple times per day is very doable. Your insulin sensitivity will be sustained. I think I see the only problem is with ibtomor and MK-677 where the growth hormone and the IGF-1 is just continuously elevated and the grein receptor is activated and then you start eating like a butthole right I'm doing a dirty bulk that it's MK-677 and the dirty bulk when you're 25 years old playing video games that's that's causing the insulin resistance you know >> yeah I and then I I mean, [clears throat] if if you were that concerned, you could go with something along the lines of uh my strategy of just on your rest days from training, just take it out, which ends up being a two-day break per week. If you don't want to commit to >> taking it every single day for whatever reason, just take it on your training days. And all of a sudden, you've created a gap where you allow your body to not experience that raised triglyceride level during sleep. Kurt, do you want to explain what the five days on, two days off strategy was from the boards? >> I mean, think it was just a way to save money. Guys are like GH was expensive and they couldn't afford it, so they took the weekends off. >> Yeah. Or you only take it on training days. But the funny thing is now we've come full circle and and taking a little bit higher doses of growth hormone on the training days to facilitate recovery and IGF-1 increase >> and then taking a day off to kind of car load back into it the next day. So the budget thing is is obsolete, right? GH is [\h__\h] cheap if you know where to look. You'll spend a dollar on generics and maybe $3, $4 on on pharmaceutical. Um I know guys that spend $2 on pharmaceutical. I'm jealous. I don't spend that little, but $4 is still affordable for me. So, but but I think it's funny that we've now come full circle that people take rest days from growth hormone where before it was for financial reasons and now it's for like tolerance reasons to reduce the water retention and and potentially offset the the insulin resistance. Um Kurt, I I know somebody in your in your circle was using MK-677 physically active. Mhm. >> Did he experience any any issues? >> No, he um 75 years old, so it seems to work better in older people or very young people, but not really a great thing for >> for our population. It's not going to do much, >> you know. I have weird dreams and it made me hungry. That was about all I got out of it. [laughter] >> So, this person at 75 years old, did the the appetite increase? Did he start eating differently? >> They ate healthy to begin with. they just didn't have much of an appetite like most 75-year-olds. So in that case I think it helps right stimulate appetite right one of the reasons why you see sarcopenia in elderly people is because they right there's [\h__\h] extraction so the protein they intake they get less of it >> right >> right and then and on top of it they tend to eat less especially protein so then the muscle loss is just much faster so in an elderly person if you can stimulate appetite and assuming they're going to eat healthy it's a good thing >> for their overall right for bone density and muscle mass and all those Um, >> did you see any any dramatic changes in IGF-1 and body composition? >> Actually, I haven't looked at I I have not seen labs in that person. Not they're not a client. Um, >> okay. >> I have not seen labs, but there were physical changes, uh, lack of arthritis and things like that. >> Okay. >> That occurred that seemed positive. So, I don't think it's a junk drug. I just don't think it's a great It's not going to mimic growth hormone in our >> It's not a bodybuilder drug. It's like it's it's it's something that you might consider in old age when sarcopenia might become a problem and appetite becomes a problem >> and then again this person that that you're assisting is following the lifestyle of staying active >> and eating the right foods and thus side effects are minimal to non-existent. >> Yeah, I was going to find you this study because it's in the FDA is working on approving it right now. Okay. >> Uh for that exact use. Let me find I think >> study overlays. My editor is going to be very happy. [laughter] >> The the interesting thing when you look at MK-677 like what I said earlier is you've created an an oral [clears throat] drug rather than a injectable compound. So again, telling an elderly person to jab themselves, yeah, maybe they might do it, maybe they won't. But if they're already taking a bunch of pills for heart disease, cholesterol, blood pressure, not that's not to say this drug is for that that type of population, but they're already taking several tablets in theory. So you're you're creating something that fits in with that that pharmacy profile. >> The uh >> here's the phase three. Looks like it was in 2019, so maybe it didn't go anywhere. That was what what we were talking about earlier that that that phase three trial for some reason was was halted. Um >> yeah, >> I know we we looked at there was a phase 2 trial um of MK-677 in elderly people with hip fractures, but like what we talked about like this is where being able to well to dissect your knowledge of a study comes in in terms of like what's the end point? What are they seeking to get from this study in terms of like an endpoint efficacy? What are you trying to prove? And if you're studying a drug in elderly people who have hip fractures to improve the outcome of the hip fracture, well, we already know in terms of the disease progression of elderly people with hip fractures. It's it's not a very good outcome for most who end up with with hip fractures. they end up the mortality rate of a hip fracture when an elderly person breaks their hip is quite high and and most people know that if an elderly person falls and breaks their hip, it's pretty much a death sentence. So when you're trying to figure out does this drug work properly for or work in terms of an endpoint for this type of population that phase two trial was ended because they seeing heart failure develop in the the drug cohort. But we're already within a a a population a study population who is potentially metabolically unflexible where they're stuck in bed now. They can't move. can't mobilize. They're some of them can resort to food as a comfort. You know, there's a lot of things in terms of psychology when you break your hip and you're immobilized that can quickly speed up the the progression of other diseases that if your end point is, well, does this drug help improve hip fracture elderly people? And then you start to see as the study goes on, maybe IGF-1 levels do sort of improve and you might see some level of change surrounding um bone density, but other people are having heart attacks in that cohort, you're probably going to say, "Okay, let's stop this because people are having heart attacks." But this is where when you're trying to design a study, it's very difficult to probably study it in normal people without a a sound endpoint cuz you're trying to you're trying to create a drug that can be sold to unhealthy people to make you back the profit that has paid for your study. So again it's when you get to clinical trials like when you look at at drug development and we covered all this in in our pharmarmacology course and the design of drugs the money that is required to go from a lead compound from something that you think could work to a phase one clinical trial in humans. So you've you've done all your pre-clinical trials, you've done your animal models, and you've thought, "Okay, this drug looks safe. If it's if it's a drug that is novel or has um it can improve the outcome of a disease that doesn't have a current therapy, the ethics of your clinical trial can change a little bit where you can go, well, there's not much therapies here for these people." >> [snorts] >> An ethics committee might say, "Okay, well, if you trial this drug and 30 people and 30 control and see what data comes from it, when you get to the end of your phase one, if there's no long-term benefit where that person's going to rely on that compound for a long period of time as a customer to buy that drug, regardless of you as a a scientist saying, "Yeah, but the drug works. We can see this happen if the higher up sales strategy business marketing guys are saying, "Well, this is going to fail." Like, "This person's going to take this for 3 months maybe, and then they'll stop taking it because they're the problem's been fixed or the fractures healed. Are we going to get the return on investment? Yes or no?" If the answer is no, they'll be like, "Okay, well, we spent five million getting it to this point. >> Let's just bin it." [laughter] And and when you look on the NCT trial website, you'll see a lot of clinical trials where they start and there's no study results published. It's like inconclusive or the trial started in 2017 and it was last updated on NCT in like 2020. You you just see where the trial was abandoned where it's like, you know what, preliminary data says it either is not going to work or it's not financially viable. And that's >> which which is in in most cases just the latter. >> It's not financially viable. That's why steroids are not being investigated anymore. >> It's just not interesting from a financial perspective. Like who the [\h__\h] cares about the results, you know? >> Yeah. >> You get from a drug development perspective, you get 20 years on on patent on drug exclusivity. So once you sort of file your compound, you're filing your compound at lead lead compound stages. So you haven't even reached human >> human trials. >> So you've you found this interesting steroid and has all these magical properties and you rush off and you patent it. By the time you've gotten through your patented paperwork and everything else and you've done your animal trials and everything, you've you've spent about four years, let's say. Now, you've got to do phase one, phase 2, phase three human clinical trials, then get your FDA approval or your safety approval to take to market. By the time you get to market, your your patent, your exclusivity, so that can't be generically copied. You have about 8 to 10 years to make your money back. And this is what drug companies are thinking is if we get this to market exclusively, we've got 8 to 10 years to make that money back and profit. And if we're not going to see that profit, who cares? Who cares if benefits? >> Yep. >> 80 million people in the world, it's not going to profit us. And they just bin it. >> You could see it with Reddit tide. So those studies have been around for 6 to 8 years. It's not FDA approved yet. I think it's phase three clinical trials. Uh results has just been posted. Looks like 28% uh body weight loss, right? Magical. Better than all the other GLP ones. And we've been using it for the last four years as a generic. They have not made a single dollar this company >> and we've all been using it before the phase three clinical trials was even completed. Oh, animal models look very promising. Okay, we'll start using it and no, nobody cares. uh but before they can bring it to market, everybody's already using it and everybody knows where to get it cheaply. So they're using a huge amount of money >> in this sense because China will just copy it. that well that's the thing uh looking at looking at like the future of drug development you know everything with with growth hormone and steroids and everything there there isn't really a lot of of targets to speak of where drug development is is very very interesting you know if you follow Medscape or any of these like online uh relatively easy to digest medical literature websites that send out newsletters every day. They're constantly posting about, you know, GLP-1 agonists and the future and this that and the other. But the the medical field are, you know, four or five years behind what the fitness community have been doing with these compounds that it only takes one person like in the fitness community to tell an an aunt or an uncle who's being prescribed like WGOI or Ombic of well, I can get this from China quite cheaply, you know, and it completely changes the dynamic of the pharmaceutical industry >> and a triple agonist instead [laughter] of a single agonist. So, you know, I I think, you know, in the digital age of where we're sitting, pharmaceutical companies, >> they unless you were at university level and you were watching, you know, printed publications or even website access publications. We have so many sources of information out. It's very difficult for a drug to stay as a lead compound unless it's something extremely selective that hasn't been released that as soon as you you see like even a patent pop up for a compound. And trust me, a lot of these chemical companies are looking at patents and figuring out what's what's being patented. >> Yeah, that's how SLOU came to our into our hands, right? is purely from a patent and and some studies and there's a couple studies they found a way to synthesize it. Solu 3332 they were able to synthesize but so PPP 915 they haven't synthesized um and and now it's being used by everybody >> and that's and that's all it takes is that information and then a good uh retrochemist to figure out well then how do we make this you know what what are what are the logical steps to making this compound and then is it viable to make it and as a research chemical and before you know it this research chemical is being utilized by people are research yeah research personally but but with that in mind we're we're like this is where from a like a drug development perspective I'm I'm a little glad that I never went into that area because there's there's very few opportunities I think currently from you know from a pharmaceutical perspective for for lead compound development Just got to pull a wrist for a troll, man. >> You know, it's [laughter] >> Look at all the scientific evidence that's fabricated. It's 800 million. >> You know, >> you're trying to get the money back. >> Think was like that, too. >> Yeah. that didn't made all those studies up, >> you know, that and again that's com like creating creating medicines for for humans, you know, for mankind whatever is a is a great thing and and obviously we're all very interested in it. But as a as a business model like this is where this is where my my sort of interest then of like conventional versus functional medicine came about of well conventional medicine is basically creating drugs to fix symptoms and then the functional medicine is well let's fix the root cause of the problem and >> and prevents from coming >> exactly and no sound businessman is ever going to want to cut off his supply chain. So you're you're sort you know you're sort of left with you know I I often laugh from a a drug development perspective. They're always trying to develop drugs to offset highfat diets and obesity. Like coming back to the insulin resistance thing creating drugs that offset insulin resistance or type 2 diabetes that comes from a highfat diet and obesity. And it's it's sort of like the you know the the duh moment is well then why don't you just stop eating a highfat diet and >> all the unreit side baby >> you know like I found a solution for it >> you know you know it's it's it's [clears throat] one of those things where the most obvious solutions are the ones that people don't want to do and that's why then they end up wanting to take compounds for four problems. >> Yeah. And you know it's the same where if we look at this insulin resistance issue with h growth hormone or even the the thyroid down regulation all of a sudden it becomes polyfarm pharmacy of I'm taking growth hormone so now I need metformin [clears throat] >> and I need >> that's the dumbest thing ever. I don't know why people [laughter] do this. Why why would you why would you take the the jerk that lowers IGF-1 the most? Why? Why? I [laughter] >> Whoa. Who came up with this idea? If you want to take metformin once, once a week because you ate like a [\h__\h] [\h__\h] >> Okay, sure. Fine. Slow gastric emptying, dispose of glucose. Fine. I get it, right? You [\h__\h] up. You need metformin to offset it. But take metformin a thousand milligrams every day before bed and then your IGF is 80 milligrams per per what diliter and you're like or nigrams per diliter and it's it's it's super low and you're not recovering. You're [\h__\h] your [\h__\h] brick every day. So I don't know, man. It's pissed me off and I I still have to tell people to stop doing it. Like if you want to improve insulin sensitivity, >> eat a little bit less carbs. >> Yeah. Lose weight. lose weight. Omega-3 fatty acids, magnesium, cardio, cur bourberine lowers IGF-1 a lot less, right? And just just add a little bit of fiber. >> I think that's another interesting thing of people sort of equate that bourberine is like the natural form of metformin, but they work they two complete different mechanisms. I know, >> you know, like it's like just take bourberine. It's it's natural metformin. It's like, well, bourberine activates, which makes your cells effectively use glucose more efficiently. It's it's a a an an energy starvation mechanism where your body's then told, "Oh, we're about to starve. Start burning energy." And it starts burning the energy from glucose. >> Whereas metformin's acting on your liver hypatices to improve glucose uptake. So liver glycogen synthesis. So comparing even the two of them, you know, the it's like apples and oranges. They're completely separate drugs that you can't say one is the same as the other. And and that's where, you know, with both of them, like you said, Burberry and metformin will cause in theory can cause disbiosis because they are gut toxic. They kill beneficial bacteria within your your gut. >> Mhm. And the other thing that metformin does also in your gut is raises gut histamine which again makes you [\h__\h] yourself. So >> and it's toxic to the mitochondria. >> That's one side of it as well alongside potentially you know >> what what burns glucose. >> Here we go. You know that like that's that's again, you know, thinking down deeper into root causes, >> people like when you do an an insulin sensitivity like strategy. Even if you if you go lower carb and higher fat in theory, that higher fat might cause issues with triglycerides, which again is going to blunt the insulin's receptor sensitivity that you're trying to improve. If you were to combine that reduction in carbohydrates with maybe a change in energy balance with your fat intake and using maybe more so, you know, polyunsaturated fats from omega-3s to to offset that energy balance loss and then do something like a mitochondrial strategy with highintensity cardio. You're coming at it from both angles. You're coming at it from the substrate going in, but you're going to the fuel source which is burning the glucose which is the mitochondria. And that's, you know, even looking at MOS C as a a peptide potential peptide that's used for insulin sensitivity. Matsi's like theoretical uh mechanism is from an EMPK side but also you're increasing the density or the amount of mitochondria from PGC1 alpha that you're you're you're improving the overall cells dynamics for burning glucose and that's where the the investigations for type 2 diabetes have come in with that as well. So the insulin sensitivity issue with with >> abandon though >> Marsi investigation has been abandoned because you you'll offset the entire diabetic >> [laughter] >> um industry and insulin is a big big player man in the pharmaceuticals you know how many how [snorts] many kinds of insulins are there I mean the guy of uh what was it nolva Nordisk or Ellie Lily he literally fainted when Trump RX was announced and he fainted in the Oval Office just on the floor. [laughter] Trump was like, "We're going to make this affordable for everybody." The guy just fell to the floor. [laughter] It's like, "Fuck, there goes my There goes my end of year bonus." >> Yeah. >> And it's funny like >> Yeah. Yeah. And it's a third wife. Yeah. Also, I'll also go. So, I was doing research in SS31, another mitochondrial peptide, right? It binds to cardiopin in the mitochondrial membrane and protects the mitochondrial membrane from oxidative stress. And um it's a lot of promise in kidney injury studies like chronic kidney disease or diabetic nephropathy um or acute kidney injury from iodine radioactive iodine contrast. So actually it prevents the damage that radioactive iodine does to the kidneys if you were to undergo a CT scan >> um with contrast obviously prevents against smoking damage, inhalation damage. Very very promising. a [snorts] lot of uh clinical trials and none of them have been performed on restoring kidney function even though in the clinical trials it shows that it lowers serum creatinin and bloodior nitrogen. So I'm like what the hell is going on here? And and this this company that patented um SS31 like they invest I got my notes right here. Stealth Biootherrapeutics incorporated let's see I made I made an entire deep dive just on the clinical trials because it uh it made me laugh. So they check the safety, tolerability, activity and efficacy of subcutaneous SS31 in patients with Bart syndrome. Okay, this is now what it's been FDA approved for. Treating vision loss in Fredic atexia. No results posted. Age related macular degeneration uh with atrophy of the eyes. Uh results not published. Let's see. um uh left ventricular function in patients with stable heart failure and reduced ejection fraction results not published and it goes on and on and on and on and on. Um and and every time the results are either that the results are not published or that the results are inconclusive that it showed no benefit even though in several of these papers it shows that it lowers serum creatin and blood nitrogen. You would think, you would think based on these studies from 2007 to now on um on kidney benefits that they would investigate it as a method to resolve chronic kitine disease, but then the entire dialysis market falls apart. It the rabbit hole goes deep with this [\h__\h] It [laughter] it it does it does like you and it's not like it's basic economics I think you know it's not even like conspiracy theory it's just basic economics at like at its top level it it's we can make money from this strategy >> or we can cure everyone and not make any money which one do you want to do and >> I think you know from from a legacy perspective you Eradicating a disease leaves you a legacy of humankind, but it doesn't leave you a legacy fund that your great great great, you know, your your great great great grandchildren will live off your legacy. It be like, "Oh, that guy cured kidney disease." And then you're forgotten about. [laughter] So, so and you you have your like your moment of fame for 4 to 8 weeks because it literally takes 4 to 8 weeks at 10 to 40 milligrams daily to reverse um the fibrosis in the kidneys and mitochondrial uh function restore that and improve glomeular filtration rate and renal blood flow in all these injury studies and you're like what the [\h__\h] this is like a magic drug maybe this can prevent us against uh the baldone induced kidney damage. damage or trimmolone induced kidney damage if we just run a maintenance dose and prevent the the mitochondrial membrane from from misfunctioning and and they just don't want to do it because in Bart syndrome that's continuous 40 milligrams per day right until it till the patient pass away because there's no solution for it just makes it more tolerable like every other drugs it makes the condition more tolerable whereas this could actually fix it or prevent kidney injuries in in cases where kidney injuries can manifest like a radioactive iodine case um or or what is it the galanidium contrast that they do for the MRI. >> It's also pretty kidney toxic. So you could prevent kidney issues from manifesting or resolve it in as little as 4 to 8 weeks. But that that's not where the money is. [laughter] It's hilarious. Yeah, I'm putting that in my deep dive. When it's done, I'm not sure because there's like 260 studies and I I I am thorough with this [\h__\h] Um, but yeah, the this week I was researching and I'm like, hm, this doesn't doesn't look right. And it's already the FDA is coming down pretty hard on it because it's FDA approved. And that means a lot of the peptide websites had to pull the SS31 because they got cease and desist letters from uh from lawyers. [snorts] And you know what's funny to to bring it back a little bit like there's so much Trojan and uh and Gena stuff it's not available as a generic and you would think that China would be able to make it unless there's no money in it. >> There's probably no money in it. >> Yeah, >> because it doesn't what they doesn't work. >> I mean it does something. >> Well, yeah, but it's [laughter] >> not did more than anti-obesity drug 9604. Well, there's no generic for growth hormone either. Technically, there's underground growth hormone. There's no technical generic because it's not made to the same by by law to be considered generic. Has to be made to the same standard. The stuff that's made in China is not to the same standard as what's made in Switzerland. >> No, it's missing a lot of coact the the the Bloxmer 188 and whatever and >> because the machinery is different. It's not made in an airtight vacuum. So, they have to add all sorts of stuff to >> make it stable, >> right? You know, >> and also the FDA would never approve anything made in China. Not in the United States. There's no pharmaceutical drug made in China. >> There's none made in Mexico. They don't do that. >> So, wait, wait. All the peptides that are being sold, it's Wait a minute. All the all the peptides that are being sold that are made in China in America, that's not >> those not FDA approved. >> No. [laughter] >> How can it be resold then? Loop loopholes. >> Great. Yeah. [laughter] >> Oh, man. Uh do you guys want to touch on the plugs from 88 and or 188 and some of the um other ingredients that pharmaceutical growth one has? >> Sure. >> Yeah. I think what you were covering there even with like when you look at generic medicines and when the the patent expires on a on a medication quite often the like the parent company who held the the actual like drug name, the brand name versus the generic drug will try and maintain their customer base because they'll talk about the exipience and the formulation of the tablet and the superior formulation versus the generic. And when I worked in a pharmacy, you often saw this play out with with patients that were like really demanding that they got the brand drug over the generic. Even though when when a patient well in Irisharmacies anyway when they have a a choice the pharmacy is always going to give the cheaper option to the person rather than the brand name unless the the doctor has specifically said the brand name the prescription >> they can't do the substitution like Kurt said there legally >> but you'd get people like say well I had the brand version like let's say Lipur and then they just had regular aturvvisatin And they're like, well, the lipur was much more tolerable and that a tova statin generic gave me muscle pain. And you're thinking like how? But there interior there can be some mild changes to the formulas between what the pharmaceutical company who developed the compound versus the copycat company who is synthesizing it when it's off patent. There might be slight differences. And this is where in theory when you come to something like a pharmaceutical growth hormone versus um an underground if the underground is is operating to the same pharmaceutical production standard like Kurt said in terms of lialization and everything else they in theory can be like for like but then it comes down to the exipience of what you sort of see here like the exipience between pharmaceutical growth hormones between genotropin omnotrope size and they they're all similar but also quite different. >> Yeah. And this plays into the the what we hear anecdotally like this growth hormone makes me a little bit watery and this growth hormone makes me a little drier and this one makes me a little bit fuller. I think it's the exient and and maybe the concentration >> uh because that varies also right I mean we have like genotropen for example in in 5.8 8 5.3 12 milligrams and even 2 milligram servings but it's all like 3 milliliters or 1 milliliter so the concentration varies quite a bit and then genotropen I just did a little quick comparison like you have all these exipients here metacressol is not available in the lowd dose >> formulations >> metacress is what makes it smell like band-aids >> ah makes it smell >> you know yeah you know the way genotropin has that plastic smell >> yeah uhhuh What's funny is the fake ginotrop and they add metacarres as well to it to give you that same smell because they know people associate that with real ginotrop. >> I thought it's a metacristle. >> So if you take if you get a lowd dose uh ginotropen pen single serving 0.2 to2 milligrams >> and it doesn't smell then it's good but if it does smell I've never seen those by >> I've never seen either. >> No. So I don't think I think the problem at least in the United States of generopen is if you look at the way it's prescribed now that Nagella is here it's very rarely prescribed to begin with it's only for pediatric patients right so the the standards are ser for HIV amnotropen for adult uh growth hormone deficiency and genotropen in the rare case now for children with delayed growth right which most endos are going to prescribe the negella instead of genotropin so there's very few genotropins coming to the United States because they're not prescribed anymore Right. >> And the ones that are only that one size. And then on top of it, how many parents like you both have kids. If your if if your child had a growth hormone deficiency and you had a prescription for genotropen for your child, are you going to turn around and put that on the black market to make money? Probably not. You sell your kids drug for 600 bucks. >> I'd buy more >> faster. Yeah. My point is you're not going to sell your kids drugs. So most of the geotropen on the market here is not real. There's just there's not a supply of it. It maybe in Europe because it's made in Europe or maybe in Asia, who knows? But like the Turkey and Egypt they come from Turkey their armpits, you know, they're like, "Yeah, you want Yeah. >> Yeah. So most >> Most of it's fake, >> right? And sim and on the tropen you never see because again, it's only prescribed for adults with growth hormone deficiency. These insurance doesn't cover it. So you're getting like two IUs from your doctor and you're paying $5,000 a month for it. Who in the right mind's selling it? Cuz you can't sell for $5,000. You're going to sell your $5,000 prescription for 500 bucks. >> It doesn't make any sense. Again, you don't see omnipotrop on the market. Uh in the US, Sarah Stem is if you have Medicare, it's given to you for free if you have HIV. So these guys, half them don't want it. They're junkies. They'll sell it. So that's why you see that on the black market. You don't see the other ones. >> No, I know. That's that's the the people that I know that get aoste. That's usually the route of of you know acquiration. It's the same when I got my genotropen in uh in Holland. I had to go to Germany and meet a couple guys >> and then took their prescription. >> Yep. >> Yeah. The only real genotropen I've seen in the US is from Brazil >> because it's they can prescribe it there. It's pretty open and so but they don't even give you the pens. The doctors you got the uh just the ins >> the cartridge. So you get a box of the cartridges, right? Because the assumption with grope is that you're going to replace the cartridge. They they give you one pen and you're constantly changing the cartridges until you break that pen. >> Same with Omnitro. Yeah. I've seen the Omnitro here and it's it either came from Russia or it came from Turkey. Yeah. >> And uh >> and if you can't the fake ones a lot of times if you want to test it, if you unscrew, you can't unscrew the cartridge. It's glued in there, which means it's not real, right? Because the cartridge is made to come out. >> All right. Okay. >> It's probably just not threaded because whatever factory in Turkeyy's making it doesn't thread the thing. They just glue the insert in there. >> Right. And they just >> It's real It's real growth hormone is just not genotropen. >> Right. So still detect >> along with it per se. It's just not generopen. >> Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Yeah. It's kind of hard to um find real pharmaceutical growth hormone. And even there's so many good counterfights out there that a lot of people don't understand the difference, you know, until they until they get real real real growth hormone and they're like, "Oh, wait a minute." But it's trying to hammer that into people, you know, with limited supplies. It's uh why bother, you know? >> Generics works fine. Yeah, it works fine. I mean, I use generics, too. I just don't want to spend the money on pharmaceutical because I'm not a competitor. >> It's usually in the US, it's about 10 times the price. >> Yeah. >> On the black market. So, like, if you don't have that, >> forget supply, if you don't have the the income to support that >> funds. Yeah. So, doesn't make a lot of sense, >> right? And especially with the price for generics now. I mean some some sources that are good.7 cents per unit. >> If you buy in bulk, you know, and just run a little bit more. Like I I just go by the vial now. >> I just do a vial. >> Yeah. Just check your with the Bloxom. Just check your just look at your labs. Make sure your kidney function is not going down the toilet. >> Right. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Because I mean the weird thing is some of the pharmaceutical um growth hormones also have the poximer 188 in there. >> So ploximer 188. So that's not found [snorts] in genotropen but it is found in omnitro. >> Yeah. Omnitro has it. Um and caizen has it >> and norditroppin has it. >> Yeah. Which is interesting because sizit is made by the same company that makes sistem but the formulation's different. >> It's different, right? Yeah. Because >> well it's for different use as well. So it's possible they change the formulation because they're looking for a different outcome from the drug. >> But you see also here when you when you go through the size in um different products you have 3.3 milligs per vial. That's completely different exient than 5 milligs per vial or 8.8 milligrams easy clicks. It's it's completely different between different formula different dose formulations. So, and I wonder why that is because maybe every dose is prescribed for a different reason. >> Yeah. Beristim though is the same regardless, right? The four, the five, the six, and then there's a gigantic bottle too that I've never seen. Um there's a multi-use gigantic bottle that I don't know where whoever gets that. I've only seen the five and the six because to get the four milligram you have to weigh like 80 pounds or something. >> Oh wow. >> So it would be used in like pediatric >> I know a couple girls here in Thailand that were weigh less than 80 pounds like >> so they would get the [laughter] 4 milligram bottle. >> Yeah they get the they probably can't lift it. The bottle is so big comparatively [laughter] >> and nordropin has puxr 188. Okay. So there was one study I think that showed that pox 188 was uh or a few actually. So it says here in early clinical studies blockmer 188 yielded unexpected renal dysfunction. Here we explore the nature of renal dysfunction associated with pluxmer 188 and use a purified more homogeneous form of plux 88 uh pp8 I guess to show the removal of substances is associated with some substantially less renal function and then they go over the various >> um forms of blocks from 88 whether that's pure the purity related >> I think it's the it's the form of the the 188 that matters not so much the 188 Yeah. >> Right. Like so the my assumption is the the Chinese companies are buying a $50 drum of it >> that's industrial grade that's not for human consumption. Right. And the ph like Norditroen or whatever is not buying that. They're buying stuff that's UPC grade that's allowed you're allowed to inject. >> Exactly. >> Right. Just the supply of it. >> Just like oils. Right. We talk about carrier oils. It's not so much a like with steroids as much a function of the carrier oil per se. Is is it a food grade oil or is it a UPC grade oil? Right? Like Merc can't use food. Merc isn't going to shop right to buy olive oil on the shelf and putting that in their drugs. They have to use UPC filtered oil that doesn't have bacteria in it, right? It's milled to a different degree. Same with these ingredients for growth hormone. They're it's a different it's not the crap you buy at the grocery store. >> It's it's pharmaceutical grade things. >> Yeah. and and and of course the western standards of United States uh pharmacopia is different than the Chinese version that's made for export where nobody nobody checks it. >> There is a standard >> then then they export it and at most we're going to test the active pharmaceutical ingredient. So we're testing >> growth hormone for growth hormone and not for prolux 188 and monito heavy metals. Yeah. So, I check my heavy metals every 3 months just to make sure that I'm on point because I'm I do use underground labs. Now, luckily for me, the only heavy metal that I see elevated was aluminium. It's because I used oral aluminum uh because I used the aluminum foils on my uh cooking >> that I I was like, okay, maybe I need to make a switch here. So I took you my EDTA dodium chilate to take that out and um and so my aluminium aluminum levels came down and I changed the aluminium foil to uh just regular baking uh >> foil. Yeah, the paper and then everything was okay again. >> Uh but again I I have good hookups for peptides and the UGL. >> But I don't I've seen I've se I'm sure you've kind of seen it. You do heavy metal screening in the client or blood work analysis and you're like, "Wait a minute." Now, a lot of that is coming from methylene blue contamination, not from steroid. >> Some of it >> Well, some of it's coming from drinking water. >> Oh, yeah. I before when we moved into uh this house, I done a heavy metal analysis on on me and Morgan and both of us came back high on arsenic and obviously arsenic would be like dark chocolate, rice, like their dietary sources of of arsenic, but she wouldn't eat the same diet as me. So then I was sort of like, well, what's the the one thing in common between us? >> Drinking water. And I was drinking water. You know, the water from our t our tap at home, even though we were filtering it, you're not going to remove heavy metals without doing ion exchange. So, obviously, we upgraded to the reverse osmosis setup we have here. But like you're drinking water, you know, if you're not even if you're running drinking water through a Brit charcoal filter, you're you're removing some things that are going to absorb onto the the charcoal as it passes through, but it's not going to remove everything. So drinking water can be a thing where you're seeing toxicity where steroids out of the equation, your own drinking water. If you're drinking out of a tap, which I think at this point most people don't drink their tap water [laughter] >> or try and not drink. >> Yeah, I know they did. >> We have a well. So I I drink mine cuz it's out of my backyard. >> You have a well [snorts] in your backyard. >> That's >> Well, I don't go and like I'm not cranking up a bucket. [laughter] I feel well pumped >> in the cold and you're walking home by the time you're home it's frozen out >> and the the what is it called? Out. >> Outous. >> Yes. Right next to them. [laughter] >> Meanwhile, the horses they got grazing around it and it's >> I mean they like it. >> Why does it smell like ammonia? >> I know a lot of people in Vietnam they got arcenic poisoning from the coffee that they drink. one of the reputable brands there has uh longlasting issues with arsenic >> in in their u in their products and they're not changing it. >> The cool [snorts] thing about arsenic is the slow longer exposure to arsenic then makes you sort of tolerant to it. So this was, you know, similar to cyanide where they'd like slowly build up their exposure to cyanide >> to offset offset like being killed by hidden cyanide poisoning, you know, secret agents and whatever. Um, it it it comes back to like I was going to say before that was the the exipients, they're there normally to bulk out the pharmaceutical. Like if you imagine trying to have two or three milligrams of growth hormone like inside a vial and then you're going to suspend that vial with a certain amount of fluids. It's it's a lot easier for someone to see a liophalized poke of manitol um and and other things like the phenol acids that are added for sterility knowing that they're they're generally in earth to the body. Now obviously the ploxmer data shows that these exipients aren't like benign substances. You are injecting this substance into the body but from a a chemical perspective or or a pharmacological perspective they're relatively inert that they don't cause a biological change like manitol. Okay, we might see some water retention or localized irritation from the manitol, but it's overall generally benign. So, we add these exipients in to bulk out and and make it possible to be able to liopilize something into an actual measurable weight. >> So, yeah, [snorts] because the freeze drying process, you need some binders. You can't just squirt the growth hormone in there and then and then let the the the fluids evaporate. It you need some sort of binder. Same as with any kind of supplement. I mean, look at the ingredients. Magnesium steroid, blah blah blah blah blah. It's all in there to kind of bulk everything up because 1 milligram or 20 micrograms of something is tiny. >> It's t and it's like supplements as an example, you like for us with when we're doing formulation and lab work, you're you're putting in like magnesium sterate or silicon dioxide as a flowing agent to allow allow the capsules to be filled. Otherwise, if it was just the the raw ingredient, depending on the friction that that ingredient causes a high flow, it could either clog the machine or it could um burn, to speak, you'd create a high temperature that would destroy the supplement. >> You know, you're you're trying to control the flow at a specific um volume. And that's sort of where you you add in these exipients to allow you to have like 20 milligs of a certain polyphenol or whatever inside a one gram, you know, double zero capsule. But you have to have those additives to to get it to flow because uh we we tried it before with we have a PM priming stack which is a phosphatidil seran powder and I thought well why don't we try and release as a capsule version and so we took the the sort of the formula which has 1.2 2 g of phospatil serarine per serving to try and upscale that into a four capsule serving. So you're getting 300 mg of phospatil serarine >> and the the machine literally just seized all the ingredients basically just absorbed water from the air and just clogged all the the machines. So basically >> no matter what we tried in terms like flowing agents it was absorbing water from the the environment and basically like crusting on the machinery. And then it made sense why if you look at any phosphatiler capsules they're no more than 100 milligrams cuz that's the the tolerable level for flow. But we we thought we'd try. But >> three times they had to strip the machinery when we tried to run it, thinking that oh this will >> and blasting the dehumidifiers inside. It doesn't work. >> Try we tried everything. Tried slow filling, tried more exipients. >> Um literally it was the machinery was destroyed. Full strip of the machinery like the filling machinery. Um, which then tells me if you ever see, if anyone's watching this, if you ever see a capsule with more than 100 milligrams of phosphotilic in it, it's probably not phosphatilicerine. >> Interesting. [clears throat] >> Okay, that's interesting. And you don't think you could have a higher concentration in a place that's less humid? I don't I mean it in terms of like like a filling reactor because obviously what you're doing is you're mixing everything and then it sort of drops through a chute into a filling line. No matter what we we thought about it it didn't it didn't manifest. Um but again that's why when you look at companies who have phospatil serarion as a supplement >> I see 300 milligs all the time. I didn't know this. >> But normally that's 300 mg with A-50% yield. So it's around 100 to 150 yield of phosphotiler. >> So this again we were using 1.2 g of 50% yield which is 600 mg of total phosphotilerine. >> All right. Okay. But that's over four caps. >> You know over four caps. It was still >> Yeah. So it's still 150 each. Yeah. Okay. >> It was still it was [clears throat] still enough to to cause hydroscopic issues. So that's where like your your exipience when you're trying to figure out your exipients like a growth hormone, what's going to create the most stable compound for shelf life, but it's not going to interfere with biological function in the human. And that's where like silicon dioxide and magnesium sterate are in most supplements with rice flour because they're they're relatively benign. But we do know their physicochemical properties of like flow um absorption um humidity or water absorption and you're able to >> starches man it prevents the absorption of like with rice uncooked rice resistant starches and that prevents the the absorption of micronutrients and medication. So maybe it's it's a terrible idea to put rice flour in there. >> But it's not cooked, >> so it should be okay. It's uh it's interesting when you get into this whole exipient science, but that but that's where like when you look at a generic drug versus a brand name drug, quite often there is um exipient exclusivity or or some level of of intellectual property that they know surrounding the mixture of their exipients that makes their drug um the bioavailability or the absorption of the drug in the intestine more efficacious than a a generic drug that's basically a copy pasteed a recipe. >> I would like to see somebody test generic GH to see what's in there. You know, reputable generic GH that comes from the gin tropen factory for example. >> I can tell you what's in I can tell you what's in metatrope. >> Yeah. Okay. >> So, Metatrope you guys have metatrope in your country? >> No, I would have heard about it. >> Metatrope is one of the bigger higher. >> He's gonna go out of stock again. What are you doing? [laughter] >> Well, you want to know what's in it? So I know it's So I know what's in it. It's um >> uh dodium hydrogen phosphate um >> sodium phosphate dibbasic dihydrate glycine of ploximer 188. >> Yeah. >> Manitol and doodium EDTA. >> Dodium ETA. >> Ah interesting. And it's generally 98% pure growth hormone or better. >> How much ADTA is in there? >> I don't know the I don't know the amounts. That's but it's in descending order. So the that would be the last ingredient. >> The last thread it says it's very small. Yeah. Yeah. It's very small amount. Yeah. >> And that was analyzed. So I analyzed the bottle. So that's what I got back. I don't remember what the amount. I could probably find it. Remember when um Paul said that he saw like iron deficiencies from reatite? >> Yeah, it's the EDTA sodium. >> A good catch. No, it wouldn't be enough. You would need like 1,800 milligrams of EDTA daily to really excrete >> because it's 600 milligrams three times per day. Uh that's the protocol that I follow to really see a significant change. But yeah, it's it's surprising sometimes you see this EDTA in there and I've seen it on several other formulations as well. And I wonder why they put it in there. >> It's a buffer. It helps a buffer. >> Yeah, it's a pH buffer. So helps to to maintain the pH and obviously with with a peptide again this comes into the whole to not get into it too much but the the clo and glow peptides of mixing copper GHK-Cu with BPC and TB-500 people arguing that GH you know the PH GHK-Cu is going to destroy BPC57 and TB-500 because copper is an oxidizing agent and it causes displacement and it can no doubt. But >> in in terms of like the treat them together in a voil, making up a solution of glow or clo and using it relatively quickly, let's say 3 or 4 days stored in a a fridge, the oxidation of that that copper is probably going to be quite minimal. That's not to say that the the the the copper chemistry won't happen. But if we look at using bacteratic water which has a pH of around 5.5, we look at the the chemistry of the peptides and how acidic or how basic these peptides are. So you've got this value, the pKa, which tells you how acidic or basic a compound [clears throat] is and how likely it is to be dissociated. So if if a compound is acidic, it will donate hydrogen. If it's basic, it will accept hydrogen. Like it people think about acids and bases in a very different manner. At at its core in chemistry, an acid is something that donates hydrogen. A base is something that accepts hydrogen. So if you're looking at these peptides then in terms of their stability the the exipients within the peptides so if they're making up you know GHK-Cu TB-500 BPC they're liophalizing it with these exipients like manitol or sorbital or whatever they choose and you're you're constituting them with the correct pH. So again, bacteratic water, 5.5 pH, you're storing it in the fridge and you're using it within 4 or 5 days because obviously most of these vials are 5 mg. So you're doing 1 millig every day basically if that's what protocol you're following. It's unlikely that it's going to get get broken down, you know, or dissociate. And again, we're looking at the bacteratic water being the buffer which is controlling the pH of the solution to try and offset that breakdown chemistry. So when you add in something like EDTA, I don't know off the top of my head, but let me quickly just pull up Google um EDTA >> like in the meantime when peptides denature the solution turns cloudy. It's very easy to see >> or you [clears throat] get some flakes in the bottom, right? >> And when when electrolytes or minerals react and oxidize, they usually change color. >> Mhm. [clears throat] >> So, you would expect the copper peptide to go from purple to green. >> Yeah. From something. >> Yeah. Yeah. Or something similar. Or some mix of, you know, the old Nokia color, right? Blue, purple, green Nokias. [laughter] 3210, the the indestructible Nokia with the dual tone or the Matchbox uh cars. >> We all remember those. We're old enough of those. Um >> yeah, so you would expect some sort of color change or like particles from the denatured like I've mixed so many peptides together and then sometimes you hit the lottery and the whole thing turns into a lava lamp of white. Like I mix nordropen with insulin for example like like four I use nordropen and and five I use insulin. I wanted to do it sub cube preworkout and then the whole thing turned cloudy then like there goes my 16 or $20 [laughter] and I was like [\h__\h] man. So I you know and then other peptides mix well together. So the only peptides that I mix are the ones that are premixed like I got a TB-500 and a BBC57 uh lifelized formula here or the glow or the glow. Uh but everything else I keep separate like when I do did growth on one screen I primarily just inject them you know and opposing body parts subq keep some space behind it you know and I I sometimes you accidentally mix something and you grab the same syringe for example you like drawing drawing I prep all my peptide injections and I start slamming them in and then some things just don't mix well right so >> you you would see it right away. If something denatures, it will happen right in front of you. >> So, EDTA tends to uh keep your pH around 7.5 to 8. >> Okay. >> And most growth hormone solutions are maintained in a a a t or tris buffer which is EDTA based to keep it around 7.4 to 8. >> Mhm. Okay. Um I wonder what is let's see the pH of an insulin solution just out of >> in interest after Steve said it there. So insulin solutions tend to be around ah that's probably why [laughter] >> that's why it's acidic. >> So it's acidic. Yeah. >> Yeah. So when when you uh mix the two of them together, the acidic environment of the insulin solution started cleaving at the the growth hormone. >> Which influencer out there was telling people to mix growth hormone and insulin together? >> Okay. [laughter] >> Well, he was I think he was saying to mix steroids with it, too. >> Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> Yeah. Put your DHB DHB specifically, but DHB and Oh, Master. Use two grams of Master with your growth hormone. >> Yeah. >> In one one injection [laughter] >> and stick it right in your bicep. All of it. I have >> all of it. Yeah. Yeah. Localized effects. >> And that's that's one of again touching on this one of the uh G8 fragment growth fragment uh >> 176 that needs um a slightly more controlled pH. So if you've ever made up GH frag and it's it's a very concentrate like a 5 mgram solution and you just add one mil of water into that it forms like a gel if you ever notice >> because of the change in the physical chemical properties of the peptide. So quite often they they suggest that you dilute it quite harshly like 3 5 ms >> or you you use a very small amount of uh acids like acetic acid to >> control the pH in that like five region like bacteratic water is is useful but it might not achieve the the correct pH buffer. So then all of a sudden the the growth hormone fragment starts to cleave and starts to gel. M >> um I've had it happen in the past where you forget that you've you've diluted a a GH frag vial and you've left in the fridge and you come back two or 3 weeks later and the whole thing is just jelly inside. It's like well forgot about that completely and it's it's messed itself up from its own chemistry. But again, it comes back to the exipience within it and the peptide structure and what it prefers. Did you ever try to put more bacteratic water in there and then see if it would dissolve or >> at that stage without being all gel I haven't [clears throat] got a clue without without without a [laughter] h without a HLC or or spec >> well it's possible >> I'm I'm looking at this $20 or 20 euro vial and thinking is it really worth an extra 0.4% 5% fat loss like [laughter] >> Yeah. Exactly. Yeah, it's possible that the the additives that they're with the different pharma growths are also due to how the dosing is used, right? So Cristim it the instructions are to add.5 mls of water to the whole bottle. So 6 milligrams and inject the entire bottle. If you tried to dilute something with all those fillers in it with.5 mls like he's saying just going to make a gel like it's never going to become liquid. So you couldn't inject the whole thing, right? Versus all the other brands are much smaller doses, >> right? >> Right. like I'm not saying do the whole bottle. Genotropen, you're not using the whole pen. >> Um so they can they can you know put more things in there to to keep it stable, but it's also going to mess with the injection volume. >> Yeah. And it's multiple administrations, right? So you want to maintain one of >> Yeah. Yeah. SERM is just one shot. Yeah. >> Yeah. I treat my generic GH like seren just reconstitute and >> put it whole thing. >> Yeah. Shoot. I accidentally the whole thing. >> I did that with Yeah, [laughter] I did that with IGF13 too. Yeah, you need 100 micrograms. No, you don't. Just a whole V. Come on. [laughter] >> And IIICAR as well. Like IIICAR doesn't dissolve. So you need acidic acid for that as well or or 3 cc's. Um, so I' I've tried Iicar from several brands to kind of help with the you know the fat loss and the performance and it it works quite well at 50 milligs even though clinically you need 500 milligrams but a little boost is appreciated but it doesn't dissolve. So you need to dilute it quite heavily with bacteratic water like two or three cc's per 50 milligrams or you need to put like the what is it 0.5% acidic acid >> in there. Um and then once you see goes quite well doesn't turn cloudy. Uh yeah where the they say that you need to dilute IGF-1 with acidic acid but IGF13 dilutes just fine and ink already comes with the acidic acid. >> Um so that sense you're you're golden. It's already provided [laughter] >> and that that [clears throat] acetic acid is a a stability mechanism as well for when you like reconstitute straight IGF-1. Um, where that came about was making up big massive stock solutions of IGF-1 to do like cell culture assays in the lab. So, you're you're buying in you're buying in IGF-1 from a research chemical company, you're making up a stock solution, but because you're spending thousands of dollars on X amount milligs of IGF, you want to make sure that your stock solution can last the the length of time of your study. So you're you're trying to figure out how to >> exactly or it could be year. It could be one or two years as a as a student. You know, you've got a budget >> for chemicals. You might make up a stock solution and think, okay, this stock solution has to last me 12 months till my next funding round or the next. >> You're not shaving a little bit of off the top. Just [laughter] >> that's what I would do. I got this bottle of ink. It's 100 milligrams. I only need 40 for the study. And it the study is 60 days. So I'm going to run one milligram every single day. >> They say, "Yeah, [snorts] it expired. I I don't know what happened to the Why do you look so big? Why can't you present in your previous shirt?" [laughter] Hey man, [snorts] it's a legit stuff. Yeah. So, so acidic acid is just for like preservation of the the molecule, basically, >> maintaining the pH of the environment. So it slows down. science out there, man. [\h__\h] >> the the hydraulysis. Well, that was where like when if you make up something like IGF-1 LR3 or IGF-1 DEZ or you know if for some reason you got some type of generic IGF-1 and you made it up with bacteratic water. It's not all of a sudden going to rapidly break down. But because of the the stability of the peptide is influenced obviously by the pH of the environment and the the acidity of the environment. If you're in a more basic environment, which is a pH above 5.5, whereas with acetic acid, you're bringing it down more towards 3.5 to 4.5 on on average, >> you're you're preserving the quality of the peptide over a longer period of time. But like if you're if you make up IGF-1 LR3, you know, in your example, like make up the whole bottle with bacteratic water and take it all in one go, you've not destroyed the peptide by putting bacteria static water in there from it. So >> you're you're using, you know, you're you're you're dissolving it. So solubility is one aspect based on pH. >> Mhm. And >> you're getting it into solution, which then carries it into your body. If if you use acetic acid, you're improving solubility, but you're also improving stability within solution because of the pH sensitivity. So, it's not that people who are making up IGF-1 um analoges without acetic acid means that it's bunk. It just means that you you want to use it very quickly when you've made it up. >> Yeah. And why use them very quickly? >> Good to resolve kidney stones. The acetic acid >> two or three days. I mean, well, acetic acid is just vinegar that you pour in your >> your potatoes and everything else >> remedy, right? The apple cider vinegar for uh to dissolve kidney stones. It's actually been proven that acidic acid can dissolve it over time. So, instead of laying there on the floor cursing at the sky wondering what's going on internally, um maybe there's something to say for injectable acidic acid. keep your kidneys clean. [laughter] Uh, last thing I want to touch on is um, body protection compound 157 upregulates growth hormone receptors in the fibroblast of connective tissue. And now everybody thinks that you can run BPC57 to improve the efficacy of growth hormone if you run it year round. Um, >> this is a new this is a new I've I've not seen. But honestly, >> I know three pros that are running TB-500, BBC 157 year round now. >> Why TB-500? >> I don't know just to lower inflammation, promote angogenesis. >> They thought that was only for like acute injuries. >> Yeah, that's what I told him. And then I take it pre-workout. said, "Why would you take it pre-workout if you already get a vascular endothelial growth factor release >> from training? Take it before bed with your growth hormone then, you know, at the same time." >> So, >> yeah, >> I take it every day too, but I'm trying to heal my knees. Cartila didn't do [\h__\h] by the way. [laughter] >> You can't do anything, Dean. Yeah, sorry. 2 milligrams bilaterally, four milligrams per day. I couldn't extrapolate the dose from the scientific evidence because it's >> thinner than she sheet of toilet paper, right? So you're touching touching ass [laughter] with this protocol. Six studies six studies I was able to find and I did like a perplexity deep dive. They couldn't piece it together either because it went with capsules in the Russian studies and I couldn't find the dose of the capsules. So I'm like okay 2 milligrams cartillex bilaterally uh close to the knee with TB-500 BBC 157 after 20 days. >> So the cartilage didn't do anything. No, no knee improvement. We should I mean I think it's uh uh what is it? Uh uh man, what's the [\h__\h] word? Not connective tissue, but um the stuff that protects your joints, protects your bones. >> Synovial fluid. >> No, >> the other one. Not not the not the fluid, but the cartilage. Jesus Christ. >> Cartage getting 11 30 years. Give me a break. So cartilage, I would expect some improvement in the cartilage and reduce pain. And it's showed in in the in the trials or the studies in Russia that it reduced joint pain, nothing. And I add in the TB-500, the BBC57, literally in a week, it feels better. Now, is that a delayed response from the cartilax or that TB-500, the BBC 157 is actually doing something? I had a little wound on my calf from touching the exhaust on my Triumph Rocket 3. You get like a little kiss and it [\h__\h] burns the skin off, right? So like I'm running cartilax, I'm doing an experiment. I can't put it the DB500 in the BBC in a growth hormone because it will mess with the results. And then after two weeks, 3 weeks, I was like, you know what? [\h__\h] it. It's not working. So I put in the TB-500 and BPC57. And this wound is literally closing by the day. It's insane. So I know what's doing what. So yeah, I'm I'm a little bit Dean. Maybe it worked for you, but it didn't work for me. Well, that that was why I made after trial in the experiment, I didn't make any claims of o cart heals the nose. Like in saying that, >> it's now pretty much >> Yeah, you look attractive again. >> Yeah, I've got [laughter] >> And now less with the glasses, >> you know, the the the the sort of little ridge there where where it was broken again is sort of smoothened out. And you know before I couldn't even tap it was that that painful but >> we're what it must be about 15 weeks since it was the surgery. M >> um I took the carts a bit higher than you. Like I went up to six six and 8 millig. [clears throat] which >> which I think when I when I tried to work on some of the patents surrounding cartlex I think the dosage of it was somewhere between 10 and 15 milligrams per day >> which is a >> dose high >> which is a high dose but like we talked about cartlex works on an epigenetic level you know these these bio regulators work at a DNA and like a histone deacetylation like opens up your genetics again to allow you to access genes to be transcribed. >> Um I don't know my that's where I'm hyped up as though this isn't a brilliant compound. And it was just what can I use based on some level of evidence whilst I'm healing this big crack across my nose and if this has some efficacy that within that that sort of 3 to four month mark that the nose is is healed um more than a natural person you know going back to sparring and kickboxing and karate >> what what can give me that that quicker outcome because again that's where you're using TB-500 and BPC is to heal an injury at a faster rate versus like day-to-day normaly. Um, with the with the TB-500 normally it's added because the cell signaling pathway for androgenesis from TB-500 is slightly different to the the growth factor expression from BPC. Mhm. >> And then obviously with BPC you get that increase in growth hormone receptor density which allows areas with poor growth hormone receptor density to become upregulated. So we're talking um collagen rich tissues like >> um your ligaments or your tendons or in theory cartilage. I mean cartilage out of all the the structures of the human body cartilage is is very difficult in terms of stem cell overturn to to create cartilage again. I don't know what I've read a good few papers and and most of the theories on cartilage regeneration are surrounding scaffolding systems rather than >> donors donor donor [clears throat] >> donors and using actual like synthetic cartilage scaffolds put into the area that effectively model themselves with the existing cartilage. um like supplements when you look at like chondroitin, glucosamine, MSM, hyaluronic acid even, you're you're looking at things that might incorporate into the the cartilage. But again, once the cartilage is worn away, it's very difficult for us genetically to rebuild it. Even with increased androgenesis, you know, with with androgenesis, you yes, you're improving blood vessel creation, but at a genetic level, rebuilding the the condraittes, the things that create the cartilage, it it's something that appears to like once we are developed as adults, those genes are very difficult for us to to access to repair the cartage service. I'll have a look and see if it can get like an oral version because it seems that it's orally bioavailable. I mean, it's a tripeptide and I wouldn't mind running like 100 milligrams per day just to see what it does. Um because I mean the six studies that are out there from Russia do so show some promise but it's all orally. It's none of these subjects were administered subcutaneously. Well, we'll we'll know if uh after 6 weeks of oral 100 mgram carts if your nose starts coming out like Pinocchio. It's already [laughter] >> Yeah, it's already coming out a little bit. It's very pointy. >> [snorts] >> But that that strategy using BPC and TB-500 like prophylactically year round, I I I just see as on top of elevated IGF-1 being a potential recipe for >> and mitochondrial peptides without antioxidants. >> Exactly. We're we're heading we're heading into danger zone territory. Yeah, that's uh I'm I'm happy that nobody has reported any cancer so far with this mitochondrial stuff. That's what I'm happy about because like people are now taking like 400 milligrams SLU and and I know guys that take 10 milligrams MOS C and 25 milligrams methylene blue and way higher dos just than we would recommend. But you know, so far nothing. But maybe they spend all their money on these peptides and compounds and don't do the imaging. I just did an MRI 6 hours uh 3 hours per day, two days in a row. And the worst thing I had was slight uh slight prostate enlargement, which was to be expected, but everything else fine. Yeah. All the organs fine, so that's good. >> Yeah. Full full body MRI is something I want to do as I get to 40 and let's just >> do it do it do it in the US because we don't have this AI upscaling. So, Prnuvo has AI upscaling with 1.5 Tesla. So, you just go in there for one and a half hours to 40 minutes to one and a half hours depending on what you want to get done. And then they use the AI to upscale and increase the resolution of the thing. I [clears throat] had a three Tesla machine with no AI upscaling and they checked every organ including my testicles. Why the [\h__\h] not? Um, and it took me six hours in total. >> You have to lie dead still for those three hours. Yeah. Breathe in, breathe out, hold your breath [laughter] thousand times. >> And the machine is very loud. [snorts] >> It's very loud. Yeah. >> They are. >> I've I've only had it done on my ankle years ago when I I broke a kickbox and and it's it's it's loud. And I'm sure when you're inside it, it was even louder when you hear it. It's close. >> And you hear the mic and I >> get like like you get like earplugs and then you have the the the [clears throat] headphones on so they can give you instructions >> and you have a little buzzer in your hand and then after a while like hey get me the [\h__\h] out of here. [laughter] >> Yeah. Now we can't get a clear image because you keep moving. He said I'm not moving. What are you talking about? Anyway, all all to find out that I have slight proet enlargement but at least I know that all the crazy experiments that I've done so far. No, no liver carcinomomas or uh any kinds of weird symptoms cuz well I I did go pretty hard on the SLU. So, better go check it out. [laughter] >> Did you guys ever find that like like healing protocols are better when you combine the TB-500 with the growth hormone? Because that's what I certainly found that it's if you stack those two together, healing is almost instantaneous. Well, that's normally what I [clears throat] would suggest someone think about that if you're using BBC57. It's for that growth hormone receptor density increase as well as deand androgenesis. So if if you're willing to utilize BPC57 as a a subq injection, you've you've probably lost your virginity to PEDs, that growth hormone, you know, as a as another adivant to speed up the injury healing, you know, is is something on par to the same. But again, the the interesting thing I think with with BBC57 though is when you look at the the animal models, cuz again with all the FDA and not having human data, >> you're looking at increases in androgenesis, but in the animal models where there was cancer, they found in in the road models anyway that the androgenesis or the the the creation of blood vessels to tumors was actually reversed. So the the compound was inhibiting the creation of androgenesis towards tumors. >> So when people are arguing that BBC57 creates tumor growth, the the animal models anyway tend to disagree that it actually downregulates blood flow to to cancer tissue and upregulates it to healthy cells. >> Whether it happens in humans or not, can't say. But >> yeah, you don't know. The weird thing is like with SS31 when you look at the kidney studies you see that vascular endothelial growth factor expression and secretion is really upregulated in damaged kidney tissues and then SS31 brings it down to normal because it improves mitochondrial function and then the renal blood flow improves and then VGF goes down and the inflammation goes down and the the antioxidant status improves. So, and it's the same with cardine, right? Cardine also was shown to have some anti-cancer effects. So, it's sometimes a little bit hard to extrapolate what's going to happen in a human if if you read these animal studies because either it might be conflicting based on basic human biology and the results of the studies or the studies in in how they set it up might be procancer or anti-cancer. Um, yeah, of course, it's not something you're going to [\h__\h] with when you do have cancer. A little bit of caution is advised and I would still check your cancer markers if if you're going to use these these compounds that promote growth and that's anything from insulin to increlex to TB-500 BBC 57 GK copper growth hormone etc to check your cancer markers and do some routine organ imaging because you better you want to be there early than a stage three obviously. Yeah, >> cuz I do know people that used growth hormone excessively and then they got skins cancer and by the time they diagnosed it, they were stage three, you know. That's that's pretty rough. So, did the growth hormone accelerate it and it probably didn't help. >> Yeah. Nothing to know. >> No. >> Yeah. >> Anything else we should discuss about growth hormone and the misconceptions or pretty much done? I can't think of anything. >> I think we we've covered pretty much everything in terms of like we have that nice uh other round table for anyone who never seen it where we discussed like the rankings of some of the peptides, the fat loss peptides. So >> we we've covered some of the thoughts on on like CJC morel and >> that paper that we can link that has all the the studies and the the clinical date or the summary in 2020 of all the secrets will give you quite a good background into why some of them got approved and why some of them didn't. Um, like you said, when it when it comes to to growth hormone, I I would highly doubt that it is the main cause of facial change. I would say that if you were to compare someone who's in their 20s versus someone who's in their 40s, um I think aging as a consequence would would naturally occur that you can't just compare how you looked at four versus how you looked at 14 or 24 and said, "Oh, look, your nose grew bigger." It's like, well, no [\h__\h] my face grew because I got older. >> Not not as a cause of agromeia, which again Looking at the FDA data, can your nose grow from growth hormone use? Well, yeah, of course, because it the the bone structure isn't sealed like your arm bones or your leg bones. Um, >> yeah. Diaphragm, scapula, and face, hands, and feet, flat bones. >> Yeah. So they they in theory can but from the the human data we know about again I'll give you the the paper when they do tracer tracking of nose [snorts] growth in people using growth hormone. Yes there's a slight change in terms of the the nasal feature but quite often from a an environment perspective it's not that your face grew from the growth hormone. It's probably a combination of a lot of things between nasal inflammation, deviated septum, um fluid accumulation from the if you've chronic sinusitis. If if agramlia was occurring in someone and their nose was the main focal point of growth for GH abuse, well then the bloody ears would be massive with the nose. Considering the ears are the one organ that never stop growing and again we can link that paper here that shows that your ears don't stop growing just that it takes a very long time for your ears to actually increase in size. >> Okay, last thing last thing before before we close it off. There's one thing that does grow in growth hormone. That's your penis. No, I mean the feet. >> Feet. Let's be honest. We all had to buy bigger shoes. Yep, >> we all had to buy bigger shoes. So, we can talk about the nose and the ears and the shoe size comes down a little bit, but not a full size. And it's mostly in width, not in length, right? Of course, we want that for the penis size also. Like width, girth, length, all the good stuff, right? To the point the wife says like please reduce the serim to 3 milligrams instead of six cuz two boou. Um, but with the shoe size, I went up like two sizes. >> Me too. >> Yeah. I personally never experienced it because I have big wide feet. >> I've got like >> You were 13 to start. >> Well, well, not like in terms of length. My feet I always had to buy the wide version of a shoe. So, when you look at >> You're a hobbit. >> You know, when you look at runners [laughter] Well, I mean, I'm a size I don't I'm not sure what size you guys use from like US or UK or whatever, but it's pretty close. It's pretty close. My my my size is like a 9 and 1/2 or a 10, but whenever >> What's that thing, man? I'm an 11 and 1/2. >> Well, there you go. But [laughter] but I used to have to buy like either a a 10 or even a 10 and a half sometimes because the nine's width wasn't wide enough for my feet. And so you're walking around with big clown shoes where the the toe is all floppy, which is not good for your gate. So, normally what I do now, if anyone's here and you've got really wide feet, Brooks runners have a wide version of the shoe. So, you can get a 9 and a half that has like an extra, it's about an inch width. So, I've always had like from teenage, I've always had wide feet that has made trying to find shoes a nightmare because trying to find a wide shoe with your your size of your foot meant that you had to go up in size to get a wider shoe. It's like five. >> I just sent you two pictures of my shoes that I ripped out. >> Yeah, I saw >> football. [laughter] Football. >> That's That's good. >> I used to have to buy uh like nearly size 11 football boots to get a football boot that was wide enough for my foot, but then like the top of your toe is like an inch or so behind the tip of the boot. That's what I have. That's [laughter] what I have with my shoes as well. So, I wear 11 and 1/2, but I should be wearing like a 10 and a half. >> So, they got [clears throat] size bigger cuz my feet are wide and I have flat feet. I had that my entire life. >> And uh so it's basically like you're stepping on your hands on the floor. >> Super. >> I tell you what, bro. >> Your hands screw. My hands stayed the same. >> Not the leg, not leg thickness. My ring finger went from a seven to anywhere from like an 11 to 15 depending. I noticed that on my rings as well and with the shoes as well like the difference between on growth hormone and off growth hormone is quite bad. So I I bought my rings when I was on growth hormone then I'm a size 11 also I think. >> Okay. >> Um or 12 and then now they fall off cuz I only take growth hormone once a week. >> Yeah. And it's the same with my shoes. I bought like super nice shoes in Vegas like fancy fluorescent colorful like like a Nokia phone like triple color uh fluorescent shoes. for parties and stuff when I was in highdose growth hormone and now I need to wear two socks >> to fit it because it's just too loose. Um so and that's again not actual shoe feet size but water attention. >> But I did go from a 9 and a half to an 11 and a half since I started gear and grows Brooks Ghost extra wide runner. If you're looking for something that's really comfortable for >> standing at expos, >> they're the they're the runners that most >> better order those. I got three days at the expo. [laughter] >> Most most medical doctors wear Brooks Ghost for for long residency times. >> Okay. >> So, they have a really nice air pocket in it, but they've al they're not they're nice and structured. So, they're not like like your typical like air cushion where you're walking on the clouds. These the Brooks Ghosts are really nice. Every every year that's one of my non-negotiables. I'll get the newest Ghost runners and throw the other ones out. >> Okay, I'll have a look cuz I got three days at the expo at Chase Iron's booth. Omeos code vigorous [laughter] and uh talk about peptides and uh that's going to be painful that I'm sure about. All right guys, let's wrap it up here. Uh this is a absolute joy as always to discuss uh all the all the fun stuff about the growth hormone, all the the tried and proven protocols and the uh all the [\h__\h] that's out there. For the audience, suggest us something. What would you like us to discuss in deep dive next? Because I think we've done everything we wanted to do in 20 episodes. So now it's up to you guys, right? But we're not going to talk about um healing protocols. We've done that's enough. and the MK-677 again. All right. So, no no SARMs, no pro hormones, just real hardcore stuff, please. Okay. Thank you, uh, Kurt Dean. It's been a pleasure. We'll see you next month. >> Yep. See you. >> Peace out. Bye. cat.