 once your neuron is dead, it is dead. You're not growing a new neuron, you're not replenishing neurons, you kill brain cells, that's it. Once the actual nerve has died, the capability to store more neurotransmitter in your brain instantly diminishes because most of your neurotransmitters are stored in vesicles at the end of your neurons. So you've now reduced the capacity of your brain to retain neurotransmitters for firing, which again can contribute to blunted moods long term. Or learn something new because you also diminish the capacity for your neurons to make new links. Not just on the neurochemical part, but the physical part, the hippocampus, the amygdala, and the prefrontal cortex, they actually change shape and size. So things like your memory, your decision making, your emotional control, those things go out the window. Welcome to Anabolic Ground Table, episode 17. We're joined by Kurt Havens and Santa Claus. Happy New Year. You guys remember Home Alone, that intro, that little video where you had the guy with the Tommy Guns shooting everybody, Merry Christmas and Happy New Year, Motherf**kers. Please plop that out so we don't lose monetization. Andrew, my favorite editor. Why are you so festive, Dean? What's going on? It's the third of December. Please get into the Christmas mood. Three weeks ahead of time. Do you guys put up the Christmas tree already? I did. Why are you so... I'm a family now. Wait until you're probably in the honeymoon phase of the little baby that doesn't know Santa Claus and presents. Wait until they're like four or five and then as soon as Halloween finishes, it's Christmas time. Oh yeah, you do that soon. We have sweet Thanksgiving there. We have wait until after Thanksgiving. Yeah, we have the same thing in Holland. We have Santa Martha. So it's a little bit before Halloween. We go around the houses and sing. So we don't do trick or treat, but we sing in front of people's doors with a little lantern. And then we get candy, obviously. And then as soon as that's over, then Christmas starts. But you come home with buckets and buckets and buckets of candy. And then by the time Christmas comes, you still have so much candy that you don't really need any gifts. That's what my dad always told me. That's why Santa didn't come. You still have candy from Santa Martha. I think I'm going to raise my kids that one day there'll be receipts in there. And then with my credit card statement and just say, hey, no, Santa isn't real. I bought those gifts for you. I did that. You see that $100 gift, that $100 Lego set that we're going to build together? I bought that. And let's see if they're grateful or mortified. I bet you're going to change your mind in a couple years. Yeah, probably. I enjoy it. I want my kids to believe that crap is as long as possible. Yeah. Did you tell your oldest already? She's 15. She'd have serious problems. I don't know. You can keep up this illusion. She figured it out probably when she was, you know, nine or 10. Did she thank you for buying her all the gifts? No, of course not. I'm grateful. My sense of the end, he still believes in it. We have the little elf. I don't know if you guys do elf on the shelf. Oh, Elvish. Yeah, yeah. Which is fine. It's great. That's amazing, dude. So we inherited an elf on the shelf from my mother's house last year. And elf on the shelf in this house was swiftly executed. Because the whole premise of it then is the kids get disappointed. Like if elf on the shelf does something good, like the whole point of Elv on the shelf is to do naughty things and blame it on the elf. Morgan wasn't a big fan of having a destructive elf. So Elv on the shelf was a band from this house, unfortunately. Or did he end up in a trash or like in a thousand pieces? The two of them are up in a wardrobe. They're still up there. I think how it ended last year. And I said, I'll take a bite to the abster, go back to the north pole. That was the end of the day. I gotta read a bunch of cultural stuff because I haven't had a Christmas in like 20 years. It's moving to Thailand. There's a fake Christmas tree in front of the mall. And that's about it. But yeah, I guess it's time to brush up on my history and see if we're going to do the Dutch traditions or the international ones. Probably international is more fun. More Christmasy. Santa starts off relatively easy for the first few years. Kurt's presence probably have gotten like like like with mine now. Callum Callum v seven extra and it sort of changed from toys to like a Nintendo switch or a games console. And we all were probably in that position when we were younger asking for big presents, but it tends to escalate quite quickly. Yeah, that's why we have the Black Friday sale so I could save a little bit of money for Christmas. So he affiliates hills and discounted consultations. Laundry gets into Christmas presents. So yeah, yeah, maybe I won't do the Christmas tree at all. Save some money. Just give him like a little stick with cryptocurrency on it. So it will appreciate over time. It's collected when you're 18. Yeah, I'll have to see probably by that time you have like a Nintendo switch for $2,000 a pop. Trying to convince Callum the difference between switch and switch to and then he asked, well, I want both. And then you're like, but they're two separate, but you do the same thing. And you're trying to explain this to a six or is like, but Santa would bring me both. And like, I'm a good boy. I did. If you want, I got a switch one. It might be a region locked though. I don't use it. I could send it to you. If you're short, if you want, if you have to give both, at least got like two zeldas, three zeldas, and the Mario Kart and Super Mario Galaxy. Yeah, I managed to get one from one of my with Lee who I work with supplementary theater switch and same hadn't played it in a while and said, well, why don't you take this off my hands? So yeah, crisis averted, but it does get expensive. The already get and I'm sure I was no doubt to my parents. So if my parents are watching this, thank you very much. Yeah. Yeah. I do remember getting some presents for Christmas here and there. I did get a super Nintendo at that time when I was 12 or something. That was insane with like three games. I was so happy. Should have thanked my parents. Should have thanked my parents. F zero and Super Mario World. Yes. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Good times. Dean has everything on your end. Good. We went back. I went back training about three weeks ago, was it? After we spoke, I think after about two weeks, the nose splint came off. So I think at the nose splint on the last show, no splint came off. Well, actually fell off and I found a consultant and said, well, what can I do here? And he said, well, I only told you to wear for four to six weeks. Hopefully get to the six week mark with the review. But he said, it was only to stop you banging your nose off something. He said, normally two weeks after a nose surgery, the splint can come off. So that's been off since that last episode. I'm still running the same setup cartlacks. It's now up to five milligrams per day. So I'm going to run this another two weeks. And then that'll be, I think six weeks total, five, six weeks since the surgery. I hope until the review anyway, to consult and put like I was saying before we joined, we've got a small little bump of like cartilage down the side of my nose that's deposited over the last probably 10 days, obviously where the crack was on it. I don't know whether that's normal healing or that's expedited healing, but my nose like now it's not even sore to touch and seems to be in a good position. Although we're not going to volunteer getting punched in the face to test. Is it fully set? Are you going to do an MRI on an x-ray to kind of see what's going on with the healing process? I'll see what they, so obviously when it happened, they don't a CT scan to see the extent of the break. I might see about another CT scan later in extra once it's all fully settled, but then you have to put into consideration what a CT scan is and putting your head inside one of them is probably not one of the smartest things to do unless you have good cause to need a CT scan. Yeah, but yeah, don't necessarily do the contrast, right? No, you're not going to do the contrast. No, I think like that ties in with today's episode on brain health, but CT scans, x-rays, you know, a CT scan is basically, I don't know exactly how many x-rays, but it's a 3D x-ray of basically using a 3D, rotating x-ray to draw an image. So you want a CT? That's a lot of radiation. Yeah, I think you're allowed safety-wise from what I remember reading about coronary CT angiograms. The radiation you're exposed to with a CT scan or an angiogram is the same equivalency as, I think, five years background radiation. So if you weren't, you know, day to day, the same radiation that you get exposed to in a CT angiogram would take five years to naturally accumulate in your body. So it is quite, you know, it's not something that you would do without reasonable cause to have to do unless you wanted to be exposed to a lot of radiation. Yeah, and I think in your case, it's not necessary because, well, you're expediting the healing process. You know, and you would feel it after a while. It feels super solid just like when I broke my leg in a motorcycle accident. After a while, it just feels normal and you can walk and, you know, you get your CT will tell you at one point when they kind of touch your nose. At one point you don't have to like, oh, did I break it again? That is, that's obviously the worry at the moment is consistently dodging, flying hands or whatever. Watch daddy's nose. Drop kicks. Yeah. I mean, like I still plan or still some competitions start of February, some Nord Nars competitions, like national competitions for the Irish team and kickbox and so hopefully go back before then competing, but obviously face mask and I still think at some point, even when I get the face mask removed or I stop using it, I probably get a nose shield where you literally just get this hard piece of plastic that covers your nose, that's wrapped around your head. And that just protects the nose moving forward. I think I go away lucky, no septum damage, no breathing difficulties. Best case scenario. Yeah. And do you, you don't wear nasal strip just to kind of help with the breathing during the exercise? Well, at the moment, I was actually a bit cautious of putting nasal ships. I have nasal strips that I'd wear training normally anyway, before I became a big sort of fad. So I think I'll wait another couple of weeks until the consultants as you're all clear. And at that point, even bedtime, I'm sure Morgan has fed up now of me snoring a bit in my sleep with not doing any like no strips, no taping, you know, stuff to improve sleep quality, because I'm afraid of with the nose where you have to sleep in a sort of slightly upright position for the time being. Okay. How's the cartilex review so far? Do you think it was worth adding in? Is it hard to tell? I think it's very hard. Like what you said, with these bioregulators, anecdotally, I guess this is the first time I've ever broke something and had to rely on this sort of like a broken fingers, arms, legs growing up. I guess what would be interesting is to ask the consultants opinion and trade time, what how it's healed versus what his relative expectation would be. And then draw some level of conclusion from that. But it is, it's quite like what we call it, it is quite expensive. It's getting in bulk, you know, five milligrams of cartilex per day, it normally comes in a 20 milligram vial. You know, you're going through and vial every four days. What's the damage on that? Vial is normally about 35 pounds, so about 40, 45 dollars. You know, to add that up to a six to eight week period. Obviously, I started at two milligrams and then worked up to three, four and a half five. And that's not the only thing you're writing, let's be honest. TV 500 BPC. G H the nighttime protocol. For a use replacement does. Yeah. For young, young, young parents ramp ramp up ramp up college and deposition. But like, I think all things considered were, were lucky what happened. It's been fixed to tailing properly. Just won't let it happen again. I think once you're recovered, you'll have a lot of MMA and boxing consultations about this problem. Maybe you should write an ebook, you know, and just like how to fix your broken nose. 60 days. That might, that might be a good seller. You know, there's a lot of people who do MMA and karate and get her getting her nose fucking knocked off. I just saw a video of a girl getting that done in MMA. Oh man. It's like here. Like, like I said, the way I was hooked across the face. I am in hindsight glad that was across my face and not straight into my face. Because fixing bones that fix some bones that have broken clean across, probably a walk in the park for a surgeon put two things up the nose and just click it back across trying to repair someone's nose shape. But after it's been mashed into their face, probably a little more technically difficult alongside the septum. So again, more things to be grateful for. And that little scar that you had here, like where the bump pairs the skin, it's gone, right? That's gone. Yeah. Just up here, right, literally on the left side, I said, you can see it when I take off my glasses, it's a small little bump. Some of it's probably pressure from the glasses. But you can definitely feel like the cartilage right there has gotten like ticker. And I had to say him with my baby finger when I broke my baby finger, your left foot like a lump of cartilage on your finger. Yeah, I got the same thing. So it's okay. I still got married. I'm off to work at red, it doesn't matter. There are war wounds that remind us with little memories of what's going on. So of the stupidity we got ourselves. Kurt, what's new on your end? Nothing, man. Just nothing. Just living healthy and coaching and doing the good stuff, living the good life. Yeah. Did you make like a little snowman over there in New York? No, it's snowed like. Oh, okay. Just enough to get on. Yeah. Just I can't complain. I'm ready to put my cycle to a close. The train is starting to hit me in traffic. What's the stack again? 600 tests, 600 deca, 150 men, 150 train, and 210 injectable YK-11. Could be the mix of the deca, the men and the trend that's going. I think so. Yeah. It's just the last week that I'm getting a little bit irritable. So I'll decide at the end of the week when I ran through my sterile valve that's preloaded and then see if I want to mix up another batch or like, you know, if I could Christmas came early and I'm on the cruise now. Yeah. But I've made some serious gains. I'll tell you that. I see it on your story. Your arm's working. Yeah. Yeah. I wish my legs grew a little bit more. I wish my legs grew a little bit more. It's not for the lack of trying. It just, I don't know, man. It's getting old. It just doesn't really grow. But the upper body came came back a lot. Super strong. And doing one one sec per exercise. So that's six sets, six exercises. And then onto the next body parts. It works quite well. Are you one? Is this the biggest you've been? No, I've been I've been way bigger, but just like the best package that I've had in the last two years. Cool. Well, two years ago, I was off cycle and skinny, like a little girl. Two pounds. What was your most productive cycle you've done? Two and a half grams of test. Okay. Yeah. I don't even know I'm running all this garbage. Should go back to testiation insulin, but it's so unexciting, you know, but that was probably the best cycle I've ever done. One ampule of tests per day. I want to rummage in or want to remit. Yeah. I want to Robinson per day and then four to eight. I use a growth. There you go. There's some insulin on the side. Yeah, it was a good cycle. Nice and easy. It was nothing else available. So just ran pharma Pfizer, Robinson pharma, Bayer, it says the fire and pharma, Nordic tropin. What a little fuck up. What was your size then? 245, about 8% body fat. Yeah, maybe nine. You did a video about that a long time ago. Yeah. Yeah. I remember watching that. Yeah. And then I kept dieting and ended up at 230. Priline not competition lean, but pretty lean lean for lean for the Instagram. Yeah. Oh, listen, lean enough. Lean enough to get clients. More than that. Yeah, it was very simple cycle, but there was nothing available. So and then now now test isn't even available. Oh, yeah. Is that not with testifier anymore? No, that testifier is available, but I don't see testy and the raw providers. Yeah, there's no rows. Nothing new. I heard some rumors that it might come back until I see somebody actually brewing it and third party testing and say, hey, I got a batch of primo and then selling out in a week. Yeah, I haven't seen anything new. So now, well, it's always EQ. There's always EQ. There's always a Q. So we can high test. I mean, yeah, what's EQ going to do that test is not going to do? Not much. Yeah, aromatization. No, I'm just, yeah, but you can control that. You need that guy, no man, to get high IGF. That's all down. Don't do anything. Yeah. So in a balik, you get a second chest. Yeah. Hey guys, before we do all the podcast again, let's get into brain health. I tried to look for some scientific evidence and steroids in brain health and it's probably the thinnest out of all the organs. So we're going to have to do some biological extrapolation. Luckily, we're joined with the smartest guys in the industry. So I'm sure we can get by without too much scientific evidence. Where should we start though? Because it's all negatives, right? It's all negatives. Yeah. It's I haven't seen besides that testosterone replacement therapy or higher doses of testosterone cure depression. You know, everything else is kind of negative. You know, testosterone is excitotoxic, but since it converts into estradiol and since estradiol is somewhat neuroprotective, testosterone is not as bad as some of the other compounds. Deanna bowl is apparently neurotoxic, tremolone, nandrolone, but it doesn't mean that the other steroids aren't neurotoxic. It just doesn't mean that it hasn't really been investigated. Like not rebalton on two studies. Well, yeah, meant a good amount of animal or human data, but never studied in the context of the brain. So it's, it's not so much to work with. Well, we could, we could break it down into different sections. I mean, like the first is to be like the dopamine serotonin GABA part, what it does there. And then we could talk about neuro inflammation. I know, Dean is big on that. Yeah. And then also that if we can talk about actual brain mass and the changes in size of the different parts of brain. All right. Yeah. Sorry. You there's, I mean, those are the three main things at least we're aware of that we can see the problems. You know, can we do a biopsy on someone's brain while they're on a cycle? So you can't really see what's going on. Does it have any time before and after? Yeah. Yeah. So I mean, if we can start with that, I mean, right, because they definitely affects serotonin, dopamine and GABA, right? And there's going to be structural and functional changes to that prefrontal cortex that occurs with long exposure and dose. Yeah. And Dean has talked about in the past, especially guys that start younger that don't have a fully developed frontal cortex yet. They want to start taking steroids and their whole, you know, neurotransmitter system changes that they, well, as soon as they come off their shelf, their former cells. Yeah. And we can, so to simplify it, I think two weeks because people might understand. So estrogen has a large role in serotonin production and testosterone has a large role in dopamine production. Right. So as you, as you move those ratios around, you can find some of the issues that come from the different drugs, right? Yeah. Yeah. I think when we look at the positives, if we want to start, because they are so few, but there are positives to if someone is hypergonadol, they're going to have low dopamine tone or dopamine turn, turn over in their brain, which more androgens will incite more dopamine release or more dopamine production, then gives you better libido because of the intrinsic link between dopamine neural health of the eyes specifically. So we're stimulated through our visual system. And that linking to obviously erectile function and being able to get sexually stimulated. When we improve someone's testosterone level from a hypergonadol perspective, we end up in a position where they have some positive benefits. They have better motivation, they're able to work better, they're less depressed, they're able to train with higher intensities than before because they're more motivated to go to the gym. But on the other side of its left, unopposed in terms of aromatization, too much estrogen now coming from the testosterone replacement therapy, you're going to swing the pendulum the other way, like Kurt said, where you're going from testosterone is linked to dopamine, it's linked to serotonin. It's not that they exclusively control those neurotransmitters, but to make a very simple testosterone high dopamine, high estrogen, high serotonin. When one or the other is in dominance, the relative theory is that they operate on a seesaw position. So when your dopamine is very high, your serotonin compensates and drops. Your serotonin goes up, your dopamine will naturally drop as well. So there's a nice paper, I'll send it to you after the show, has a really nice pictogram of what happens when we have the seesaw relative to libido and sexual rewards based on high testosterone, high dopamine, high estrogen, high serotonin. Can I just touch on the sex drive for a second because I think it's misunderstood. So the drivers of human male sex drive is DHT and allopregnenolone, where estrogen comes in is through the modulation of serotonin. So it basically allows you, you're more receptive to the act if your serotonin is in the proper place, right? And your genitals have serotonin receptors on them that need to basically see some serotonin order for sensitivity and those things to occur. But the drivers are DHT and allopregnenolone, which are both created from testosterone through reduction. So in theory, what is functioning properly and you have adequate testosterone, you obviously 5-alpha reduced to DHT and 3-alpha reduced from there to pregnenolone right across the blood brain barrier into the brain and there you have a sex drive. And there's some aromatization that will naturally occur and then you have some level serotonin. That's male sex drive. I think once you start throwing a bunch of steroids and it gets kind of confusing what's going on and certain things might magnify that response or take away from it. But that's really the basis of what sex drive is in men. And then I think, you know, from there, having a higher dopamine reward circuitry combined with some dodgy practices, so more so having high function in libido that starts making you go down the wrong path, your sexual expectations change. So from your normal psychology and now that can drive a rectilus function from a psychological perspective because of what's been impacted from testosterone improving dopamine neurotransmission. And this was the warning I've had before of your neurons have a firing threshold and electrical potential. You start overstimulating those nerves, the electrical potential moves higher and now you need more stimulus to get excited. And so guys end up in a position where after they use steroids and come off, they find themselves in a position where they have no libido or normal sexual encounters don't get them aroused. And they're trying to figure out what's wrong with my libido. And it's like you've done some probably dodgy things on cycle where you've watched a ton of porn or your your environmental expectations for sexual stimulus is completely different to what's going on in the room at that moment in time. That of course, now you're not going to be sexually stimulated by a naked woman if you're watching like some crazy porn stuff that gets your brain all excited. You're, you know, in that instance, was it a steroid that caused the problem or was it the behaviors that were caused from the steroid use that have now created the issue that to be honest, it's the behavior if you really look at it because when you then abstain from over sexual stimulation and create a more dopamine fasted environment, normal sexual expectation or normalcy of libido can return. But the problem is guys get stuck in this loop of instant gratification of then just picking up the phone and keeping that keeping that addictive quality going. And that's sort of them where from that positive comes another negative in that back in I think it was 1986, from I remember from writing this in my book that they back then started to suggest that these drugs were psychologically dependent compounds that when you stop using them, there is a level of psychological dependence that generates as a consequence of the changes to your neurochemistry. Now, does that mean that you need the compound to function day to day like someone who's addicted to opioids? No. But in the scheme of it, people will feel flat and then they feel, you know, not themselves, and will naturally make the association. Well, when I took a load of gear, I felt normal. I'm going to start taking a load of gear again, special on trend. You know, and this is the thing with with with trend, because of how androgenic it is, it's binding efficiency. And everything that plays off that and then the increase in dopamine neurotransmission and creation. You're, you're also compound and that I often joke and counsels about this, but if you have a rampant sex drive on trend where you want to have intercourse three to four times a day, and then you stop trend and you go back to TRT or a cruise, and now all of a sudden you don't want intercourse or you're frustrated because you feel that you should be having intercourse three to four times a day, or you can't get an erection is because of what you've done to your neurochemistry on trend that that normalcy and that expectation, again, your neurochemistry is completely different. It's completely misaligned.  basically, you ramped up all the dials and now suddenly they all drop. You could fix it to a certain extent with neurotransmitter precursors like L-tauracine or Aldopa or vitamin B6P, P5P, right, to help with the conversion and even serotonin and, you know, some 5-HDPs or L-triptophen and 5-HDP supplementation can help, you know, offset that depletion that occurred. But it's, and it's not just sex addiction, dude. It's shopping addiction. It's fast drug addiction. I can vouch for this because I'm on 150 train a week and I buy way too much shit online and I know it will go away as soon as I'm coming off the train. Like, Facebook Marketplace is my curse or AliExpress. I want to buy this and this and this and you get some dopaminergic signaling from that as well and I only have it on train, only on train. So it does mess with your neurochemistry, you know. Can I put out for Black Friday? Exactly. Sex of money. I was going to put something out there for guys. We talked about sex drive real fast, I think guys on TRT because this is something, they see more clinically than through coaching, but it's not as rare as possible. Part of the reason why the standard TRT dose is like 200 and not 100 or 75 or whatever some of these really low amounts are. In certain people, that amount might be adequate for you to function and carry on and look great. But for a lot of guys, it's not enough. What happens is their sex drive will go to shit and they'll look at the estrogen. The rest of the dial is a 30, which is totally fine, but there's not enough DHT to offset that. So what happens is they then try to manage the estrogen and then they drive it too low. It's still in range, but it's too low and then they've crushed the estrogen. The answer to that situation is to only raise the testosterone and then worry about the estrogen. Don't try to manage the estrogen if your test is so low. Right? Yeah, right in the ATG and then you get a little balance between all of these hormones. Yeah, you just need a ratio in there that's more appropriate versus 100 milligrams of test. If you try to control estrogen with 100 milligrams of test, most likely you're not going to have any sex drive at all. Yeah, or you're just too fat. It's just not enough room. Higher low test. So a little bit of test. That's why I like Dutch. We've gone about before the journey tests for comprehensive hormones because you get a ratio of pregnant dial metabolites, DHT, whether it's going down alpha or beta, five alpha reductase or five beta reductase. And then you get a picture of your estriol, estradiol, estrone levels and the metabolites from them that, like Kurt said, you can have a perfectly normal serum estradiol. But then when you do something like a Dutch test, you see sky high estrone or you see sky high out to four or 16 hydroxyestrone. That's telling you, okay, well, in serum, yeah, there's a normal amount of estradiol. But really in the bigger picture inside your cells, you're making a lot of estradiol. And that is either taking effect, turning into estrone and being metabolized. So you blood work is amazing for figuring out some problems. But when it comes to hormones, you're looking at a snapshot in time and trying to go, aha, I caught you at the right moment. And most of the time you never catch it. That's a problem with serum, right? Is serum test DHT and estradiol basically are the trash, right? Those two hormones are created inside the cell. The serum is what's been spit out back, right? So like you're saying, there could be a ton inside the cell that's just not getting thrown out. It would be like you making a grocery list based on how much garbage you put on the curb. It doesn't make any sense, right? Like you need to know what's actually going on inside, you know, to judge that accurately sometimes, not just what the waste product is. Yeah, and a hard part about that is that you can't really do biopsies every single time. It's kind of seal it to your celloplasts and they have to take that from multiple organs. And are you going to go in through the nose and see what's going on in your brain? You know, I mean, lobotomies are... I'm not a biopsy. I think, you know, in terms of like what we said about studies, what is interesting is I've seen quite a number of studies within some UK universities who are doing MRI brain imaging and I've requested for current users, past users and then obviously natural controls to see on an MRI anyway, functionally, what parts of the brain have theoretically been damaged or saw his difference between different areas of the brain relative to a normal control. I think that was one of the... one of the comments on a post when I discussed this with Drew about like neurotoxicity of the brain. It's not something that you take a load of tenure 20s and then within six months, you've got Alzheimer's or neurodegenerative disease. It's something that's going to slowly accumulate over time. And the scary part is when we talk about like stem cell infiltration before the liver and whatever else in the body, once your neuron is dead, it is dead. You're not growing a new neuron. You're not replenishing neurons. When you kill brain cells, that's it. What you can improve thereafter is how they transmit through neurogenesis and neural branching. But once the actual nerve is died, the capability to store more neurotransmitter in your brain instantly diminishes because most of your neurotransmitters are stored in vesicles at the end of your neurons. So you've now reduced the capacity of your brain to retain neurotransmitters for firing, which again can contribute to blunted moods long term. Or learn something new because you also diminish the capacity for your neurons to make new links. And that's what you need for memory formation. Not just on the neurochemical part, but the actual... the physical part, the hippocampus, the amygdala and the prefrontal cortex actually change. The morphology changes. They actually change shape and size when they... on the few instances that we've seen brains of people that have long steroid exposure. So things like your memory, your decision making, your emotional control, those things go out the window. And you see similar effects with recreational drugs and alcohol, where certain parts of the brain just shrink because of the damage to the neurons. And so in what sense are steroids worse or less destructive than other compounds that people might take? That's a little bit hard to pinpoint, right? I mean, you have TRT versus a two class of wine per week versus the occasional, you know, LSD or a mushroom trip, which might actually potentially have neurogenesis to a certain extent and help with depression that sense. First is like hardcore cycling, like what I'm doing or Kurt has done in the past and Dean is trying to stay away from. And then, but Dean is also from the UK. So I'm sure you dabbled in a little bit of alcohol here and there, right? Or no? Yeah. Yeah. Well, I was at college, yeah, plenty of alcohol. So how much damage did we do in college? Like I drank like a fucking lunatic and which damage are we doing with the steroids on top? Yeah. And they can measure this stuff too. So the article thickness of this three regions in the left hemisphere and five in the right that change shape, like an MRI can actually determine what is assuming you had a baseline can determine how much your brain has actually changed from steroids. Well, what do they typically see in the studies already? Investigate starred users regarding their brain, which parts? Yeah. The frontal occipital temporal will change. I don't know off the top of my head, the other ones, but there's there, I do this, there's three and five that will and each side of the brain that will actually change shape. And that's probably the one said have to do with reasoning. Yeah. Yeah. And emotion and emotion. So and even right reach, right? We always think of right reaches as a cute thing. You take trying to get angry. When you change the shape of these, these parts of your brain, it actually can create that situation long term. Yeah. If you, if you, if you stopped doing steroids now and you just went on, you know, low TRT, you basically set your baseline back to like normal. You would notice even in a few years from now that your thought process is still different than it was when you were younger. Yeah. Like my brain, yeah, it's hard to compare. But right. How, how would your thought process change over the years as you get older? You know, like, I think most people has to get older to stop giving a fuck. And I think with steroids, you get so, so dopaminergic signaling that you stop giving a fuck also. But I think it also comes with age. Again, when you're younger, you're so insecure and worried about what people say. And then as you get older and more solid in your routine, you're like, yeah, whatever, man, get that little confidence that comes with age, but could also be started in deals like steroids give you a boatload of confidence, especially when you're in shape. You know, reflections put some padding on you. That that's both dopamine and serotonin that get influenced in that aspect. That that confidence. And I guess that's when we view things as being normal, like as you get older, and you start slowly forgetting things, that's normal because of aging and aging is cellular destruction. So, you know, really, it's not normal. But it is normal because as we age, things will die. We can't live forever at now. But you know, with that mind, what we perceive as being normal that, let's say you're you're 45, and you've done a load of trend in your twenties, and you're starting to forget things, you're like, I that's just because I'm like my age, as of age, you don't see this as a warning sign that something is occurring in your brain or has occurred in your brain. And now you're starting to see it with the aging brain as a problem. And I think, you know, I do hope, and I don't obviously, we're not going to get or CTs with ethics, but we're going to see more case studies in the literature of from what I think, and I said this like five years ago, and I'm starting to see it emerge in terms of like social media and social trend, not necessarily someone sitting down and writing a paper. And, you know, Dr. Imran, who we both know from enhanced, he, he has seen a lot of things case study wise. He has asked me a few times to write some papers on this brain chemistry stuff that at least then you're, you're reporting on case studies that have occurred that are not out in the public domain to basically go when someone presents themselves with some level of psychiatric illness, that steroid induced psychosis or steroid induced depression, steroid induced hypermania, any of these sort of things that happen clinically, that they ask the questions on like steroid brain induced damage. And so you, you then start to potentially move into an area of a cautionary setting where people don't see this as, you know, one point is was very taboo to talk about. Then we moved into like the mid 2000s, teens, 2018, 19 and Facebook and everything. And slowly became a little less taboo, bodybuilders are more open and discussing it in a public setting. And before you know it, you've got influencers talking about micro dosing trend and how great it is for their mental health that that as a message piece of content, that doesn't really sit too well with me that. Yes, we want to do things as, as responsible and risk mitigated. But we shouldn't be like glorifying that nothing's going to happen to your brain. Like that was the whole point that the post I put on my story today was in the past was two steroids, oh, you're going to get a heart attack. Like the main thing was steroids equal heart attacks, you're going to get heart disease. And yeah, we learned that correlation fairly quickly, but you can do things to offset that cardiovascular disease risk, true nutrition and lifestyle and all the basics. We made a whole podcast about it. You know, in terms of the brain now, like you said, we don't have research. So when we're talking about this, we're talking about a pure mechanistic perspective of what what we observe in animal models, what we know from real world settings of talking to real people who have ran high dosages. And, you know, people are going to be shocked by this, but from that story about, you know, your responsible decision, if you want to whack in one mil a train every day in a week, go for it once that's your responsible decision. I had about 30 people that sent me DMs about their mental health being messed up from steroids. And again, that's not saying steroids cause mental disorders. But these were people who told me prior to doing any of this stuff, you know, I had no real issues between bodybuilding lifestyle, you know, competing food practices, there's a lot of things that play into that. You can't just say there's a casual link. Yeah, they're all resounding. Like this has messed with my neural health. And then one of them actually even said to me in terms of their memory that they've noticed in the last five years, their memory getting progressively worse as they ran more and more competitive cycles for like USA nationals. And it's sort of, you know, we talk about these risks of you do steroids, you end up with heart disease or kidney disease or rare cases, liver, known as turn around and saying, Oh, you do this. Fair enough, you might be alive when you're 60. The cognitive decline very noticeable. Yeah. And all you have to do is look at the pros from the 90s. You, you don't want to, you don't want to get to your 60s and 70s and be a cognitive mess, because you're not able to enjoy life because you're basically stuck in this loop of your brain is trying to survive. But you can't remember things that have occurred five minutes ago, you might remember the past, which is great. But your your short term memory, again, that can then lead to order consequences and delusions and everything else. Yeah, we have, I can try to PDF it from textbooks. We have studies on the hippocampus, which is what you're talking about, that the steroids will cause the hippocampus to actually shrink. So they've done memory studies with people, steroid users and non steroid users, and steroid users tend to perform much worse on memory tasks. Yeah. And when they did scans, they found the hippocampus was reduced. And most likely through it's speeding up the reduction of neurogenesis. So the brain just literally can't reproduce there. And the amygdala is the opposite, the amygdala actually has a ton of antiretron receptors, and it will hypertrophy from prolonged use, which can that that's like the long term red rage. So you find even in former pro bodybuilders that did a ton of drugs, even if they're on nothing now or on some sort of TRT, that their aggression is just still much more elevated than it would have been before they went down that road. Right. And that's because that brain structure has changed in shape. Yeah. And you see clear cognitive decline in a lot of these guys. And you notice that with some guys over the course of their career that they start out reasonably smart. And then later on, they start slowing your speech and showing clear signs of neuro degradation, which is a shame. But a lot of people don't realize that you're just basically slowly killing your brain over time. Yeah. But again, is it much different compared to alcoholism or recreational drugs? That's not really sure. Getting punched in the head. Repeating. Yeah. Or you have boxing, contact sports. It's probably also not the best. Yeah. Motorcycle riding. That's why men just don't live long because regardless of the path we chose, some sort of dopaminergic signaling that we're looking for, and then we kind of drive ourselves into the ground. Do you know what the reason why women live longer than men is? It has nothing to do with habits and risk taking and dopamine and all these things that probably plays some role into risk. But actually, because women have two X's, they have a duplicate set of DNA that we don't have. Yeah, they have to backup. These one sales, they have a backup. We don't have a backup. They did a 10 year long study and they found that that was the basically they can replace damaged DNA that we can't. We're much more disposable. Yeah. I remember figuring that out from the research I've done over why male or why bodybuilders usually get daughters. Yeah. Because the male chromosome, the Y chromosome is just more susceptible to oxidative stress and there's no backup. So you get a Y and X and when we got two X's, one is inactivated unless the other one is kind of broken and they both kind of contribute. It's amazing in that sense. Yeah. But yeah, we drew the short end of the stick. We're missing a whole part of this X chromosome. Yeah. They discovered it in birds because a lot of birds, the male is the double X and the females the Y and they noticed that in that species, the male lives longer than the female. They were like, well, that doesn't make any sense because across the animal kingdom, it's generally the males that die. Animals aren't taking the same risks necessarily that humans are. Not usually fighting. Right. It was a backup DNA thing. Ah, okay. So regardless of what I do, I'm just genetically fucked. That's nothing to do with my decision making. You're taking risks. Do you like my risks? Do you like my risks? So regarding, like maybe we can discuss a little bit what we see anecdotally, right? In the bodybuilding space, like a lot of guys that stumble over their words and have trouble remembering things. And I can notice it in myself that when I'm on high cycle and lifting a bottle out of weight, that I'm more cognitively impaired than when I'm a little bit smaller running a TRT protocol and not training so hard. And I'm not really sure if it's neuroinflammation from the insane training that you undertake when you're on a bottle out of gear because it feels so satisfying. And the reason why you're on a bottle out of gear is to make progress. And for that, you need to eat a good amount of food and train super hard. So that's probably a double whammy in that sense. You could eat the stress from the steroids and then additional stress from all this crazy training intensity that you're undertaking. And then the opposite end, while you're cruising, you're much more productive and cognitively present. Some could be lack of sleep, right? On a cycle, you're probably not sleeping as well, even if you think you are versus TRT. It's possible that during sleep, right? Because then when you're sleeping, the brain flushes itself, right? And basically is recovering. If you're not recovering, especially on something like TRN, or the common thing I see is guys are waking up to P3 or four times a night, right? That's not good sleep. I don't care if you're in bed for eight hours. If you're peeing four times a night, your sleep is not restorative. Same way, obstructive sleep apnea and the cognitive decline that comes from that. I mean, look at the research that's coming out surrounding one of the biggest hitting risk factors of Alzheimer's that has been completely unrecognized medically was unrecognized or undiagnosed obstructive sleep apnea. You know, I had a conversation with someone recently, and like very high hematocrites sort of put down to steroid use. And you asked the question, like, do you snore? Not really. And then you're like, but... Ask your wife. How do you know you've not got apnea? You know, if someone's not... If someone isn't watching you sleep and observing you stopping breathing for five to 10 seconds in your sleep, just because you don't snore doesn't mean that you might not have sleep apnea. And you know, that's one of the biggest risk factors of an open-weight bodybuilder is OSA and what it impacts not only on your brain health, but on your cardiovascular and renal system. So, you know, even if you've got no suspicion, do a sleep study. And that, you know, that's one strategy to protect your brain health, because if you do have OSA, you just get sleep, C-PAP, improve sleep biomechanical position, and C-PAP instantly removes that hypoxia and hypoxic environment from your neurochemistry. Yeah. You also can't hear yourself snore. Like, if you're snoring bad enough that you can hear it, that's beyond like a normal level. And that's the particular formation in your brain doesn't allow you to have that sense, right? So, why you don't feel your clothes after you put them on. It's why you don't hear your heartbeat. Yeah. That's why marijuana makes some people paranoid is because it messes with that part of the brain. And all of a sudden, your senses are elevated. Do you just feel everything? Right. But that's... The guys that... We've got sleep studies sometimes takes months to organize. I have a video on my YouTube channel on how to solve diagnosed sleep apnea. Basically, you get your laptop or a computer with a webcam. You record yourself the entire night, and you don't have to turn the light on to look at you and look at yourself breathing or not. You just go by the audio. So, if you get a decent microphone and you see the audio just flat line, and then suddenly it peaks because you're breathing in like, right? Suddenly you have that deep inhale. If you just count those peaks over the audio track of six, seven, eight hours, and then you can see how many apnea episodes you have. And then you can easily get a second hand CPAP online. You don't have to wait for a sleep study because, again, I've coached guys in European countries in the US, and it takes weeks to get an appointment and then weeks to analyze the results. And then it takes two more weeks to get a CPAP prescribed. That's another three months ahead. You can do a lot of damage in three months. So, I would rather just record it one night if you see any kind of apnea on your audio track of the webcam. Just buy a CPAP machine second hand and then wait for the new one to arrive after you've done your sleep study, but then at least you can use it for two to three months while you wait for the medical system to semi-fail you in that sense. I just bought one here in Thailand. I got it the next day, but this is Thailand. Spent $15,000, fresh new one, fallen off the wagon, and I was ready to roll. Well, there are a few look on Google. If you put, if someone put CPAP and Europe together into Google, they might get some answers, but there are companies like what you might find that will honor a prescription, take a questionnaire and depend on the questionnaire. The computer says yes, and there's your brand new CPAP once you're willing to invest the money. I'm sure Proplexity or GROC or ChatGPT can help you with how to fill your prescription. Sir, sir, sir, which questions do I say yes and no to? Dear GROC, it's like a TRT clinic in the US. Are you tired? Yes. Are you depressed? Yes. Do you have a little bit of yes, you qualify for TRT, sir. Get the fuck out of here. Oh, $1,000. You know, I think in terms of brain strategies, I get, again, it was interesting because there was some level of what they sort of call survivor bias or survivorship bias of, well, I don't allow that and I'm fine. And it's sort of like, well, are you really fine relative to how you were in the past? People that have done self-reflection, that's the problem, right? The ego prevents them from looking at themselves. I mean, I can clearly tell that my brain physiology has changed over the years and I can feel that it changes when I'm running particular compounds, right? I'm a shopping addict on TRT. Not really a six addict, but I'm a shopping addict. And off the train, I'm done. I don't buy any Legos, I don't buy any shoes, I don't buy any motorcycle parts, I just don't give a shit. But I'm on the TRT sandwich, man. I'm spending thousands of dollars on bullshit and I use it, obviously. It's not like I'm not using it, but I mean, I got the Enterprise D Lego set sitting here. But I was salivating on that thing for a month, you know, looking at Lego, like, oh, it's just, the Enterprise D Lego set is coming. I got to buy it first day. So I went there first, I got it first day, of course. It's a trend, man. It's a fucking trend. Because otherwise, I would have bought it like, I'm going to, you know, shop him over the Lego stores four weeks later and figures across to have one and otherwise I ordered it online, you know, there's no rush. But now there's, there's an immediate need to get the thing in the house. I think like the, the, the role of inhibition in our brains, like we've sort of spoken about that, a normal logical brain might sort of say, yeah, I'd like that or I need it, but it will sit on the decision. You tend to be your, again, it comes back to the brain chemistry, a lot more impulsive when you are running higher hundreds. That's why training TikTok is such a bad idea. Because you, TikTok gives it to you now. Or thank God, I don't have TikTok anymore. I got banned. And I, I learned how to, you know, take social media out. But I clearly noticed it to myself and I started with clients when I was still coaching Europe. They're so impatient to it. I order motorcycle parts in the US, it takes a week to deliver to my shipping forwarder and then three weeks to come to Thailand, right? So it takes a month. It's so hard. Every day I ask, I check the shipping forwarder, is it here yet? Is it here yet? Is it here yet? So that's why I wanted reasons. I can't wait to get off the shit because I'm just so impatient. I'm just getting upset for no reason. Why is my helmet not here? You know, it's not going to go any faster, but the trend just ruins your perception of time. And if I can tell it, then I'm sure other people can tell. But a lot of people can't. And they're like, why am I so angry? Why am I so impatient? Why can't, why doesn't the world work the way I want it to be? But it's all in your head. Your perception is just completely warped. Yeah, I wish more people have that self reflection to understand what's going on in their brain so they can make a little bit better decisions in the long term. You know? Yeah, it's, I think, as I said, with like the studies, I think over the next 10 years, at that point, we will be wise men and we will be looking back and saying, well, we sort of warned this was happening back then. That's like when we wanted the master and the pre-most kind of. The nostridamus of the anabolic. So that we talked about. Guys, guys, be careful. Stuck up. Yeah. Nobody do, I mean, I see it happening around me. I mean, I see it happening on social media, the cognitive decline is just trotious. You know, especially on the guys that promote certain cycles, you know, low test, high masteron, I mean, the cognitive decline is clearly there. And then you're, you're, you're heading into I think a bright held discussion wouldn't go amiss without mentioning Roydrage and how not made up the term is, but in terms of how androgens amplify personality traits that already existed. And I remember I gave a CPD lecture to a load of medical professionals before one of the slides was about brain health. Basically said, if you're an arsehole before you took steroids, you're going to be an even bigger arsehole on them. It's, it amplifies. So you could have someone who's completely placid and then turns into the most aggressive demon using steroids. That the steroids made them turn into that person. It was that trait was already there. Their placid nature, they probably kept it suppressed.  and now steroids make them more confident, boosts air toning, make them more volatile. And now you've got a personality that a person sort of cognitively and emotionally was able to keep in control or wasn't confident enough to bark at someone or stand up for themselves, that all of a sudden you see the actual like Jekyll and Hyde split of what it's done to amplify the personality that was always there but was suppressed. Yeah, with the steroids since you gain so much confidence you're super convinced in your own correctness and justified in your right rage, because who are you to cut me off in traffic? You're completely convinced that you're in the right, but in reality you're probably the one making a mistake, but you don't see it that way. You need a little bit of self-reflection for that. Come to Thailand, drive around here and you'll get cut off so much that it doesn't face you anymore. And then you're like, yeah, it's number seven today, it's fine, I'll break, you know, even on the trim block in sandwich. Will you see that in interactions, if you interact with people on Instagram and stuff, you'll see the overconfidence of some of these? Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's why I stay away from the comment section because it's all guys on the trend, convinced of their own correctness. And I say, you should forgot this. It's a one minute reel. Slow down, watch the full podcast, bro. You forgot about, yeah, but this study said, it's in the citations in the full video, bro. Just watch the full video. It's there, trust me, it's on the screen, you know, so but yeah, you see it clearly in our space, the cognitive decline and the correctness or the, and I remember Phil Viz of one of the podcast, he said, I just love arguing with people, even if I'm wrong. And he described it perfectly, not particularly fond of Phil Viz, but he described it perfectly. That's what people do. He argued with Tina and I about the angstrom receptor. Yeah. Good luck. It's rolling in the mud with pigs. There's a market for that. But basically what he described, it makes perfect sense. And that's, that's a lot of, that's a large part of the fitness community. That's why I left the boards because people just dare to argue for the sake of arguing, even if they're wrong, they can't stop the raid. That's, that's the ultimate right range for it basically, right? That, that if people argue with Ronnie Coleman or, or, um, uh, this my cognitive decline, Jack, Ronnie Coleman, Dorian Yates, which has the bigger back, you gotta get big and you see a thread like a hundred thousand pages long of two guys just arguing back and forth. That's prime steroid, man. Prime steroids. People could not, cannot let it go. You should go to the temple for a week and not talk and live off, you live off, uh, you know, apple, apple juice or apple sauce and, uh, you know, a little bit of rice and some vegetables. I mean, like as I've gone older, probably as I've gone older, I've done stuff like what I've said on social media, like, um, counseling, talking, you know, talking about trying to process and do self reflection, ego reflection, try and understand, you know, I was quite an angry person, but I was able to control it. But as soon as I went into a gym or martial arts, that anger could be released in that setting. The, the thing that I always laugh about is probably when I was younger, Morgan used to say to me, why are you wasting so much time arguing with people who just want to argue for the sake of arguing? And eventually I realized I'm wasting a lot of time here. My wife was fully correct. In the moment, you're just like, yeah, and you're just staring at your phone, talking, talking, like arguing with someone. Like in reality, this is how stupid is you're arguing to a phone to someone who's probably 10,000 miles away from you. That won't even come up and say it to your face, but you're willing to like argue back through messages. That's probably the guys that come to the expo takes a picture. So D, I really respect, I really like what you're doing, bro. But then online, they argued to death, you know, because I don't know, I don't know why the two face behavior though. And like everybody needs a good wife in their lives to tell them like, Hey, cut crap, man. Don't play video games or go to the gym, release your anger there. But I guess a lot of people are just too single. And then they don't have a wife in their corner to tell them, Hey, cut crap. Don't waste your time. If you want to argue with people, make sure you get paid for it. And otherwise, you know, but yeah, that's a community, man. And if for every guy that figures it out, to that learns to let it go, there will be 10 new guys to take its place. That's, that's the Trimbalonia Hydra. I think, I think, you know, even, even in terms of like that getting older, the worst thing you can do and on some parts it is, is genuine and other parts that is being a little bit tongue in cheek sarcastic is just an arrogant witch. And you just say to them, Love you, man. Thank you for your comments. I'm sort of left standing there going, what do I argue back to that around? And I've just learned it's like how you kill it with kindness. Yeah. But how you, how you parent a kid when a kid is having a tantrum, you sort of like trying to understand the tantrum as opposed to fueling the tantrum with behave this way. What are you doing like that? Try and understand the person. So you're joining the tantrum, but on their side. Yeah, exactly. I mean, I said, you don't have anybody to order to you just take a 180 you stand at their left. I think, yes, you mother, but there's nobody to call motherfucker because you switch sides. You know, when we incurred to under fire about our stance on a certain toxic oral. And I got drawn into a certain comment section. I just said, I love you, bro. Please send me the references. Much love, love hearts. I just left the conversation. Exit the chat. Yeah. The video we made about me where he was like visibly shaking. Yeah, it's crazy, man. I feel bad. Yeah. It's okay. People learn. Look, you gotta learn. Everybody's gotta learn. But yeah, in this community, it's just that's the nature of the beast. That's what the steroid does. And it takes you out to master it. But of course, you know, there's plenty of guys still running high dose cycles or that got that permanent brain change. And I see that quite a bit. You know, I use the cycle in the past and then they turn into something else. They let go bodybuilding, but they're still a little angry man inside trying to prove a point. It's okay. And that, you know, aside from that as well, I've talked about even my own journey that dissolving the competitive bodybuilder ego is a big mental feat of being able to detach from what competitive bodybuilding requires. And the androgens are one part, being able to, after all those years, from a dopamine and serotonin perspective, have peace with not being a competitive bodybuilder, knowing that you don't have an offseason, knowing that you don't have a contest prep, able to yourself permission to live your life. A lot of people that leave competitive bodybuilding, I'm not going to say the majority, but we're probably close to it, end up exiting their career as a consequence of some form of injury, whether that is mechanical to their body to tenons ligaments, whether it is biochemical with their heart or their kidneys or their liver. The third aspect is they've just been alienated, where they've been left no choice of either keep bodybuilding and lose everything in your life or leave bodybuilding and try and salvage what's in your life. The ego, like you said, they're an angry little man is probably never been addressed, you know, in certain aspects that they never got to hear. Yes, yes, yes, yes, I've amplified that personality. And again, that's the other side of being able to face that ego and being able to sit down and, if needed, talk to a counselor. You know, one of the things that we're very taboo in the anabolic community is we talk about taking alpha GPC and lion's mane and things that improve neurogenesis and saline can semics, but no one turns around says, well, how about you go and sit with a counselor for 60 minutes and discuss your childhood, you know, just intrinsically motivate you, depending on how you're brought up. No one has this, you know, because it's sort of like, and I'll openly say here, for about two years, Morgan kept saying to me, go speak to a counselor, try and understand, you know, some of that negative emotion that's present. And eventually, I just swallowed my pride and said, right, I got to lose. And, you know, I've kept that practice up. I see a woman who's about 30 minute drive away, see her for an hour, every few weeks. And if anything, it's like talking to yourself, you're able to get, get your words out into the open. And someone who has a degree or background in human psychology is able to make you understand what you think that way or why your behaviors were that way. And then you're able to take that on board and go, okay, well, that makes logical sense or a process that emotion that's driving a certain action and put in a practice in place. So, you know, we're talking about brain health, the steroids, don't rule out like personal development, sitting with a professional psychologist, because I guarantee a lot of guys are going to be like me for a long time, not in denial, but like, why would I go talk to someone? That's sort of what was in my head. It wasn't like, I'm too big for counseling. What was sort of cut went through my process was, but what would I gain if I sat and talked to a stranger for 60 minutes, like a psychologist? What would I get out of the experience? And at the time, I kept saying, noting all good. But, you know, within two or three sessions, being able to talk about certain emotions and behaviors, she's able to say to her, have you ever thought about this? And they're like, well, yeah. And then you try to connect the dots and you make sense of the overall picture. And you know, I think some of that, because I started that towards the end of last year's prep, it made it a lot easier to accept. I knew I was going to retire with the British championships except the dissolving of the ego, because a lot of the anger that was driving the training was resolved. Like, just still anger, like for guys, listen, this anger is an outcome. It's a secondary emotion. So, anger isn't a primary emotion. When you feel anger, there's a trigger to being angry. And it could be sadness that makes you feel angry. It could be frustration. It could be confusion. But most guys just say, I'm an angry person. They never say, I'm an angry person because I'm frustrated because I hate my job. Or I hate this in my life. They don't actually sit and truthfully speak to themselves and say, well, I am angry because of this secondary emotion problem. Fix that problem. You might have stale some periods where you're frustrated and become angry, but you can then understand, well, where was the trigger from the anger? And then obviously, the rights will amplify that. Yeah, bodybuilding keeps the anger going. I had it for years. The bodybuilding fuels the anger and the anger fuels the bodybuilding. You got this synergistic, symbiotic, parasitic relationship. And it fuels on both ends. It's great for bodybuilding, but it's not good for your mental health. And then I think you need to let it go all of it for about a year. So you need to retire, let the anger go, maybe talk to a therapist or travel, where you have a lot of time for introspection, which is where I resolved most of my drama and sadness for the past. And then you can bodybuild without this bullshit, but you need to let it go completely. And that's very hard for a lot of people. And even before all this, I started to realize how we intrinsically motivate ourselves to train, even when we're on or off, but more so on is another big thing is you need to put on like a slipknot to do it, like a heavy loading set where it's just pure rage filled aggression to lift. How can you replicate that if you forget your phone or your MP3 player for your music? And you have to listen to the Jim's music, but self will drive more aggression because now you're more frustrated with yourself for leaving your music job to trauma. Yeah, and now you've, now you've, now you've, now you've not got the trigger that allows you to psychologically create strength. Because a lot of a lot of things we do, bodybuilding strength, it comes from obviously neuromuscular, but it's also psychologically driven and being able to debate that strength. And I used to observe this all the time, if you listen to like, like I said, slipknot or really intense heavy metal, you do your heavy loading set. And then when you're leaving the gym, you just feel like flat. You feel like you've released all of that negative energy, but now you're in a position where you're just like, it's the best way to describe you. You've delved with depleting that negative energy in an outlet, but there's nothing to fill up the cope positively with happiness or whatever. So you just feel as job done, go home, eat, it's, you know, just, you know, I think I did it for like seven years, right? The first thing in the morning, coffee, meal, and then go to the gym to release. Otherwise, my whole day would be ruined. I'd be angry all day. And then you go to the gym to kind of numb yourself. And I was like, oh, I'm good now. But this is positive enforcement. And I really like, I learned this after the non-alcoholic philly liver disease where it came off everything basically, and I fasted myself into healthiness again. I couldn't tap into the craziness anymore. And that may be a worse bodybuilder overall, but a much happier person and a much more productive person, and a much more caring person, because I didn't have to go through this phase of like anger management in the morning, by literally making myself tired in the gym and releasing everything there. But yeah, my physique also declined because I couldn't bring that intensity to the gym anymore, like the craziness of burying yourself in heavy weights and somehow managing to, you know, muster up six to eight reps. Now I do six to eight reps with a lot less weight, because the anger isn't there to fuel it. Yeah. So for the sake of bodybuilding, you should want to be a good bodybuilder. You probably need it, but it's positive reinforcements to the point you're in this perpetually angry state. And this is always looking for an outlet. And whether that's masturbation or did you get a release somehow. So now I only got online shopping left. It sucks, man. It sucks. But it's a quality of life has improved. I will say that. I think if we're looking at, you know, someone asked about strategies of improving brain health with mysterious obviously you've done a series with tier lists of supplements and maybe peptides and medications. I guess one thing we have to view with neuro inflammation. And I found this fascinating when I read about years ago was depression as a biochemical reaction, if you want to put it that way, is an outcome symptom to an underlying problem. So depression isn't like heart failure or kidney disease. Depression is a symptom to neurological dysfunction. And so you view it that way, you then see that neuro inflammation doesn't really have the best way to describe it is if anyone has ever watched Hannibal the second like science and alarm failure, where he basically eats the guy's brain with his at the very end of the movie, he removes the guy's skull cap and he's eating the brain and feeding the guy his own brain. Your brain can't feel pain. It's well known. You can't feel pain in your brain. So when you feel pain from a headache, neurotransmission signaling pain to the brain, it's not the brain saying, oh, I'm very hurt here. So in that regard, when your neurons are inflamed, you don't tell you I'm inflamed like when you've got tennis elbow or tendonitis, it creates a dysfunction towards mood, it creates some level of symptom to tell you is not right here in terms of our chemical balance, neurochemical stress, oxidative stress, whatever. So then you start to go, okay, well, if I have signs of neural dysfunction, like aggressive behavior, depressive symptoms, you have to start to sleep. You then delve into the bigger picture of, well, what is happening in my brain? My brain is trying to tell me there's a problem. No, for me, the cue is music. So I noticed that after all your neuro inflammation is pretty high from the heavy training, maybe after four weeks or six weeks of kicking us in the gym. And then the songs that I usually go like, you know, yeah, this is my jam going to the gym, going to go train, then you're like, I hate this fucking song. That is time for a week off. And then as soon as you take a week off, you let the neuro inflammation come down, right? You take a little break, you don't eat so much, you let your digestive tract come in, all the inflammation in the muscle goes away, maybe fast a little bit, take a little break after a week, right back on the motorbike, I'm like, yeah, this is my jam. And that's a very easy way to tell, but people never want to take a break. And that's the neuro inflammation remains. And they never get that sense of, you know, ah, you had a good night's sleep last night. Oh, I'm really enjoying this sense of music. Oh, I'm really in a good mood, just for no reason. I'm happy to be alive. I mean, how many bodybuilders can say that? I'm happy to be, you'll be, no, you'll be surprised, dude. Many people are just fucked. After years, why do you think I stopped coaching? I couldn't deal with the chip anymore. People were just so angry, like, fuck, dude, just take a week off, go on holiday, let the stress come down and the inflammation and the intestinal problems. Your life is so much better if you just take a week of vacation from the bodybuilding stuff. Yeah, I'm in a good mood because last week I took a deal. So it helps. You know, even in terms of like, not band-aiding, but then when you delve into like, no improving neural outcomes, you then start looking at our medications, whether they are SSRIs or for the enforced. The NDRIs, you know, what I found fascinating was when you look at the mechanism of SSRIs in terms of improving total body serotonin content, as opposed to the classical way we were taught this week, a whole module on neuropharmacology, was that antidepressant medications improved the amount of serotonin in your synapse due to reuptake inhibited the SAT. So you don't serotonin back into the signaling synapse. But now they're starting to like completely change their viewpoint the last four to five years that SSRIs actually hang on a minute, improve mitochondrial function and creation of serotonin throughout the whole body, not just in the synapse. Some of them promote neurogenesis as well. So you're actively healing your brain. This is why I came with fluvoxamine because fluvoxamine and fortioxidein is a little bit more potent regarding neurogenesis. But I just felt that this perpetual like foggy clouds over my entire life was lifted. But again, it's a band-aid because what happens is you just start training harder. With cerebral ison, it removes a lot of the brain fog from the crazy training. And they're like, oh, if I don't need to do six sets and one rep before failure to be functional the next day, because cerebral ison takes that cap off, right? I can now go to failure and beyond and do a couple of drop sets. And the next day I'm fine. They're just postponing the inevitable. You still end up angry and fatigued. It just takes two weeks longer. And you don't recognize it anymore because the edge is that signal that your body gives like, hey, bros, cut the crap, throw the towel, take a deal out. It's no longer there. So you just, you just keep going and going and going. And that's the downside of a lot of these guys experimenting with some axolank phlovoxamine, vortioxin, cerebral ison cortex, dihex anything. Right? The funny thing is that exercise also increases brain drive neurotropic factors. You have a little bit of a, you know, band-aid there, but most people just really work themselves into the ground by taking more drugs. And that was not my intention when I made those deep dives, but that's what happened. Like Steve, I don't understand why I'm taking all the drugs you recommended for neurogenesis and I still feel off. So when was the last thing you took a deal out? Yeah, six months ago. So maybe the neuro inflammation is just at a point where you need a full block of vacation, dude. You need to go to the Maldives or Bali if you can't afford the Maldives. Like, and that comes back to the whole thing of your brain can't tell you it's inflame. So when you need to look for the signs, and again, you need to go through a couple cycles of, Hey, wait a minute, I'm fucked. I need to take some time off or I need to take drugs out. And but most people don't have that reflection process. They just keep calling, keep going, keep going, because with bodybuilding, keeping train going is somewhat rewarded. You know, I think even with SSRI is aside, like, like I said, then with protecting the brain, if this is a consequence of steroid use, like what you've touched on with like alcohol induced damage, recreational drug induced damage. I think this is going to be just like the heart and that going to have deficits occur into your cognitive health if you're using steroids, like it's it. The point of the message I put out your day was you accept that responsibly that you're going to have some level of cognitive decline is on the cards genetically also, then you better start paying attention to basics like omega triphid acid intake, your sleep, all these stupid basics rather than peptide, can I sniff up my nose and ketogenic diets, right? I mean, it's like melatonin and ketogenic diets do wonders for Alzheimer's. But if you promote amyloid plaque buildup with copious amounts of tremolone, then you need to put some preventative measures in place or limit the amount of tremolone that you take and just take it for special occasions, or make sure that you make money because of your appearance. Yeah, like, there's no reason for me to take train, but it's I make money talking about taking train and mint and, you know, Deca and YK-11 together. It pays my bills. I'm not going to lie, you know, it's entertaining. Crazy experiment is Steve going to do next. Can't wait to ask him on the vigorous Q&A. And I see the mint sales and the tremolone sales go up when I talk about it. I do it responsibly, but like, I wouldn't be doing it if there was no financial benefit. I would just be on test, you know? Yeah. And then I get, you know, I'm, ever since I got involved with this from whatever, a 23 or 22, it just fascinated me. Even back then, a lot of it was anecdotal stuff that you read online that you looked at the animal data and what was being said in forums. Like I wasn't really a commenter on forums. I'd read and be fascinated with what was being said. But what we observed back then, a lot of it is slowly coming through. And what we're seeing research wise that, you know, 10 years ago, when I roughly 10 years, 2017, when I got on social media, I talked about this brain health impact. Like someone commented during a dreams that Dr. Dean is very like negative against steroids now and this time you're, may have been talking about neuro degeneration for the last eight or nine years on social media. You know, this isn't something that I've decided on an ex bodybuilder. So I'm going to bash this it's trying to deliver this level of education that you guys then can listen to and think, well, fuck what he's saying is really, you know, very important for when I'm in my 60s that I don't want to be a vegetable to put a blunt leaf. And you don't have to be because I think if you're very preventative, like, like all three of us are, you know, pretty smart. The podcast is still going around very popular. So people enjoy listening to it. And I met a boatload of very highly intelligent people through bodybuilding that take steroids, but also take the preventative measures in place to do not mess their brain up too much. Is there signs of cognitive decline? I mean, you got to be a little bit crazy if you want to be a bodybuilder, you know, he can't be a normal person. You know, but it seems that they're still intelligent, their business is, you know, flourishing and they can put very complicated ideas together for the bodybuilding community and make that work. But it's not like that the cognitive decline is all around and everybody's stupid. Just some of us, sometimes or all some of us are stupid all the time. So so I don't think you can do bodybuilding without making yourself a vegetable. But again, the lifestyle and those stupid things that we always preach need to be in place. Yeah, I mean, I could sleep sleep at the very top, like Kurt said, an architecture of protecting your brain. You don't get a badge of honor for sleeping less if anything, you're just reducing the reducing your life expectancy and broader scheme of things. And you're also then in player and your cognitive ability. You know, I learned that very quickly when I was a shift engineer, a wage is like 20, 25, and you're sat down by like occupational health and they're like, they're trying to coach you on how to sleep at night shifts. A lot of stuff they're telling me are just like absolute garbage that then I was like, please see what's the most beneficial way to sleep properly if I do work night shifts, sitting sure that I sleep eight hours. Do I want to do you know, the occupational health nurses saying of you finish at 7am, just go home and you know, live your life like would be a normal night stay up until 10am 11am. And if you drink some alcohol in the evening time, why not relax when you get home and I'm thinking, Jesus Christ, my protocol was as soon as 7am cam, if I had to go out and daylight from the office, I'd be wearing blue like blocking glasses from, you know, four or five am. So as I got in the car, you'd be wearing blue like blocking glasses, although that's your responsible decision to make because it can't  amicimortired. That sort of was then setting up the environment for getting home to be drowsy enough to then feel okay, I need to go to sleep and you're taking all like precursors of sleep or the, how I develop sleep stacks. I looked at, you know, what nutritionally supported sleep and I was able to sleep whether it was 9pm at night or 9am, I'd sleep till 30am or 430pm, it made no difference, my, it was just reversed 12 hours. And I'm sure you have blind curtains and temperature control and all that stuff. Temperature control, sleep mask, like, silicon air plugs, all of these things to ensure that, well, back then the cognitive demand on my job was very high and I was in a very high position and what was expected of me was competing also. So I couldn't go in on night shift and be like operating at 30% capacity when some of the machines I was in charge of were like operating at like a two or three million euro per hour capacity. So if a machine broke down, you know, every 15 minutes, that's quarter of a million, you had to be quick and making decisions and understanding the problem and putting the solution in place that blame it on, I'm taking an anabolic cycle. I've gotten per sleep, I've not taken care of my sleep hygiene, my brain is neuro inflamed, in the middle of the night, because we had a gym that you could train in during your lunch break. Things I had to figure out, well, what's the number one way to support my brain health that allows me to do my position properly because that is what pays your bills. What I was making sure that my sleep is immaculate, that's one variable without looking at supplements that really will make sure that I can operate to my full capacity each evening. Yeah. It goes for like, that it's no video games before bed. Unfortunately, back then, if we're on the run day shifts, when I was going to bed at maybe 10pm, you could sneak in 30 minutes without the strike. You're now shown, I only had a conversation with someone here a day of Counter Strike used to be one of the more all of the internet mods where you couldn't, we had to be very politically correct on a microphone to some level of language on Counter Strike online of people remember back then. That's a good time at a uni. Yeah, the Europeans more so you'd get like very aggressive French people. No offense, he's been so aggressive on Counter Strike. I learned a whole new vocabulary on Counter Strike. It was not the right vocabulary. That's why I got my literacy from Counter Strike. Yeah, it's like managing all this stuff is it's almost a full time job. And I think that's why people prefer not to have a real job. Like, I mean, I'm going to be honest, like after doing coaching and then making your own hours, it does make you a better bodybuilder because you don't really have to think about these responsibilities that you have for work. I mean, I was a fucking business consultant for six years. And then you put that first, because you think you're going to make career in an environment that is not conducive to, you know, making money really, you're just trying to keep somebody else going by working for their business, but you have to learn the hard way, right before yourself and plot. But that means you're like you're always on edge, because you might lose your job, especially now, economic crisis run around the corner guys. Look at your black Friday sales if you don't believe it. So you have these responsibilities as a person and then you're trying to juggle this bodybuilding stuff as best you can with your responsibilities. But that basically means that you're not good at either of them. And that it tracks from your overall productivity, your cognition, which is just sacrifices, I guess. But as back to what we talked about with emotions and now you hate your job, which fuels your anger, which fuels your training, which just perpetually drives more and more information. It makes you stupid. I do feel that people that are self employed in this space are a little bit better off than the people who are employed and just trying to bodybuild on the side, especially when they do it seriously. And I'm sure you guys see that, which are clients, are the guys that are like working for somebody else and have to make ends meet and, you know, financially not as secure yet because they're moving up the ranks in bodybuilding and social media presence doesn't really give them much affiliate sales or coaching income. And those guys are struggling man in all fronts, financially, emotionally, from a productivity perspective, and then the bodybuilding suffers. It's not easy, man. It's not easy. I mean, in court, I'm sure you see that quite a bit. I mean, you're coaching both a lot of people. And it's, it's, I think it's very hard to make that transition where you can live a fulfilling life that doesn't make you stupid. Yeah, it takes a bit of a leap. And not everybody's able to make that. I'm in a very luxury position where I can sleep whenever I want. I could take all the supplements I need. I can take all the drugs I need because they're free, right, or deciding not to take them. And, and, but a lot of people are not in that position. And I think that quality of life and cognition suffers for it. Yeah. Tokert, maybe, maybe as a coach, you have some solutions for that. Like, what would you tell a client that is like, you know, grinding in all fronts and, and might be sacrificing their brain health in the long term because of it? They probably need to just re-evaluate what matters. Yeah. Doesn't, you know, especially if they're trying to compete and do that at the same time. They'll say for me, now that I'm so busy, I probably get less sleep now than I did when I was working for other people. Yeah. There's definitely a fine line, though, where, you know, working for yourself definitely allows you at least to function, someone on your own schedule and manage these things. I just think you can't, you know, most, a lot of the guys, they'll, they put a, they'll put 100% into all these other things, but they're not showing up for their family. Like they'll put those things that are actually the most important on the back burner, right? Cause they spend so much time in the gym and so much time working and all that other stuff. And then they're just not present when they come home, right? They're fried. Yeah. You know, they, you know, it's also a shame, which is a shame. Yeah. Because adults, people will be around anyway, till they're not. Yeah. And that's, I mean, how many divorces do we see in this space? Yeah. So then the hard decision is like family, work or bodybuilding, but usually it's bodybuilding work and then family in that order. Yeah. Probably not a good place to be a bodybuilder. No, which is fine. It's at the end of the fucking world, right? I'm not a great bodybuilder either, but I still make it work. I still show up to the gym, but it's just less of what it should be at the highest level, but I'm not competing at the highest level. So why would I, you know, I have a family to take care of first and then business and then bodybuilding. And the business now is a little bit, I know, just chilling and taking my six months of radical after 10, 15 years of grinding. I kind of deserved it. Okay. Well, eventually I'll get back to it and then body, like right now, bodybuilding is more intense because the business took a little bit of a beating. Family didn't get sacrificed. If anything, I have more time for my family now. And eventually I'll put bodybuilding on the back corner as soon as this cruise starts probably next week. And guess what? Videos will return. The scientific evidence will get reviewed. The guys will come back. Yeah, because, you know, sometimes you just need to take some time for yourself. And that's what I did the last six months. I bought motorbikes, took care of my daughter, all the diaper changes and stuff. I didn't leave it just to my wife and my wife's mom. I was there too, you know, and then, yeah, bodybuilding had a little bit of a stint. And now I just reverse that back and go back to business and less bodybuilding. You know, yeah, we probably did a lot of damage with this stupid bodybuilding cycle and my brain needs rest. You know, anything else we should discuss about brain health because it's more about observation than the scientific evidence. And I'm sure people start throwing studies at us. But I've read most of them and it's not so much you can do. It's better to avoid the animal because it's neurotoxic. And it's better to avoid a cabana compounds which are neurotoxic. But are people really going to do that? I still take Trimbalone, which I know is neurotoxic. But also I think limit my exposure. Yeah, and cruise and take labs and eat a balance. Right. But I think one thing to I guess, try and make clear is I don't think in a very technical sense, I don't think something like Trimbalone is of itself neurotoxic. It's what it induces. So take Trimbalone itself doesn't cause your neurons to die. What will cause the neurons to die is excitato toxicity from too much dopamine frying the neuron. That sort of where very high dosages of Trent can make you feel godlike have an amazing libido for a period of time. And like what we've said, you know, sometime last year, the first time you take it, every time thereafter, you're trying to chase the tread high of what you had when you first took it in terms of like sky libido, or eyes, but chose to take like a dopamine agonist like Caber golly into drive that high sex drive and allow you to do more performance. All that sort of stuff then will eventually catch up with your nerve. I just feel flat. And that flatness is a consequence of obviously coming away from the compound, but also the neurodegeneration that potentially has happened. It happens on train also, but that happens at high dose. Yes, where you start to feel flat, you feel dead inside. And that means that the neurodegregation is already taking place. Why do I feel this way? It's because you've untrained too high and too long. And that's why me and Dean were talking about like 25 milligrams, 40 milligrams a week to get the job done. And the only reason why I'm running 150 milligrams now is because my mood is still managed up until this week. And I wanted to see, you know, how my physique could change. But again, I'm not scared to pull the plug when I feel that the adverse effects are catching up to me, which is happening now. I can't sleep. I can't sleep properly. Night sweats are not too bad. But if the air stability starts to group up on me, okay, fine, man. Don't need to look at the calendar and run the train up until Christmas. Like a plan to, I can stop it right now. Like a fucking adult. Yeah, that was why when people are arguing like anything from 25 milligrams or train or 40 or 50, I was like, I'll absolutely know shit that you're going to see more effect for more drug, but now you've got more drug interactions that can be negative than positive that. So that trophy that you got is not tangible evidence that it worked. Apparently not. Apparently. Well, apparently, what would I know? I've got classes and I'm an nerd. I've no experience and I'll be cabin out of tree finishes at nationals in Ireland. But I got about 200 people doing it right now and they're said to feel great. It's all the benefits and none of the side effects. Job done. Right. I'm here to educate, do it on myself first. And then you spread it to the masses. And if people want to copy it and then get a better results, okay, well, you get a bodybuilding physique that's worthy of winning the Olympia. Of course not. Of course not, bro. You need a little bit more and anodrol and everything else. But if you want to have some good results with minimal side effects, you know, low dose is one way to go. And now use a higher dose. I get a better physique, but also get more side effects. I had no real irritability on 25 milligrams and under 150 milligrams yet. Driving is not a good idea. You know, but I'm well aware of what's going on. So even then I can suppress it. So today I drove very slowly. Very calm. Sure. Cut me off. It's fine. It's fine. It's fine. The Mozart music you listen on the way to the gym is the only way you're jammed. Just to keep the edge of it. You know, kind of a lecture list of the Mozart too. So what is that? It's very, it's very soothing. You know, yeah. Yeah. Some, some side, you know, pushing the right move. So is there anything else we can contribute to the brain health stuff or do we have to fall back on limited compound exposure, shorter duration, lower dose just and just taking a breather and then sleeping well? Because I think that pretty much sums it up. I think, you know, self awareness, if there's more less than that, most body builders can learn is awareness of themselves and what's inside, right? Not the reflection. Like you do a lot of bread and like, look at the shit pop, bro. I'm so self aware of my lats being flexed. I'm really flexing my lower lats and so what? Listening to, you know, your inner critic or ego and being able to, on one part, again, this is something that may come out in the future is how anabolic serads are influencing our inner talk processes. Like no one talks about their inner psychology of that little voice in your head that's like telling you you're a pussy for not doing that last rep or making you take that risk of nearly getting cleaved in half by a leg press. Like it talks about that psychology of where that voice comes from internally and your ego. That's a whole other conversation of what steroids could be doing to fuel fuel how you're how you're behaving. And let alone we're talking about brains and physical properties, psychology and the amplification of those traits, the ego and that self reflection of being able to understand what is a caramature ego in response to the steroids. You should do that get a fourth person on board and do like an anabolic anonymous grand table and just talk about our feelings. I would be very cool. Like obviously we had some guests lined up to see if there are any clinical psychologists who are watching this who have had patients obviously completely anonymous case study but who have had people who have had a lot of trauma gone to therapy and then the trauma has been amplified by steroids and obviously healing trauma and with therapy and counseling and talking out and trying to reason some of that recovery might not occur without removal of the thing that's actually driving the mental top processes that are egging you on day today. Yeah. Yeah, for that you might want to consider coming down to TRT or removing it completely so you can actually have some introspection because I was the most calm when I was off or an ATG monotherapy. And with that all this testosterone and whatnot signaling and all this anger that was required for heavy sessions at the gym. You know, it's you look at bodybuilding vacation is probably the best thing you can do for your mental health. But that's so hard. Even looking at anxiety, we haven't even touched on like anxiety. Maybe we do a thing about anxiety. I mean, another thing that we haven't touched on in terms of the excessive dopamine signaling is the potential Parkinson's risk and the induction Parkinson's disease from steroid use, which is completely unanswered of a correlative risk. Anxiety is normally like when we don't know our pharmacology, schizophrenic and paranoid states are excessive dopamine states of the brain. And so when you look at your taught process, taught processes of your brain between what was in forgetting the name of the author and that's not taking my cognitive ability. Yeah, too much too much. Yeah, alone. Dean, worse person when it comes to remembering names. If I looked at the book case, I probably tell me man, I can't for the life of me remember the names of movies or actors. That one movie. Yeah, people like, Yeah, sure, Steve. The book, thinking fast, thinking slow, looks at the two different systems of your brain and like you've got obviously your primitive brain, which is always making assumptions of you're going to die, don't do that. And then you've got your logical brain, which is trying to tell the primitive brain shut up, everything's under control. I've had a whole time when I'm driving motorcycle too fast. You know, in terms of that primitive brain and that that thinking, reasonable brain keeps me straight. Yeah, that foot on that break. You know, in terms of the dopamine transmission steroids, again, we might be able to at some point modulate where they target in terms of that new sort of thinking processes. But when you have anxiety, anxiety, from my understanding and looking into like the neuro pharmacology, it's a high dopamine state where you're trying to predict things that aren't in your reality that are not going to occur. So like you feel like I'm going to die. And that's because you've got sky eye dopamine and your primitive brain is saying, I don't like the look of that piece of dust on the wall, you're going to die. And that's a stupid that part of your brain is that that's where again, doing self reflection and trying to engage the thinking part of your brain, where you're not completely amygdala and emotionally fueled, you're you're able to then understand, well, why do you feel anxious? And then again, when you're anxious with steroids and that neurochemistry comes back to COMT that we talked about before, a magnesium deficiency, like if you're boiled up anxious with steroids in your system, just have a look at how overloaded COMT is between dopamine, magnesium deficiency. There might be some GABAergic signaling that it's that's impaired because it helps the relaxation as well. We understand this with boldenone, but it could very well be the case with all other steroids. You know, now is are we going to supplement with more GABA the whole day? No, I don't have to. I mean, you could look into magnesium or not take so many goddamn steroids, which is always the probably the first thing you should look into. People always ask me, I have side effects XYZ from this compound. Take it out. Yeah, but I need I need a new fee, bro. Like it's air, you know, water. Yeah, for my joints. Yeah, I need it for my joints. Take fucking so much other shit you can take. But it's if you have a problem with the compound, it's okay to take the compound out instead of throwing three more supplements on top or fucking Valium to take the edge off. But that's that's where we are now, right? It's drug industry, not the fitness industry. Yeah, I mean, even from that take to so I could keep taking MVP. A brace to take a break, take a break, take a vacation from the MVP. You know, even from that perspective, a whole other side is then dependency on Zed class drugs, like, like zippy clone, how many bodybuilders take zippy clone to help them sleep? To remind you, you know, so many so many so many of these drugs out there that I never even heard of. Just take the drug out. That's the culprit that makes you not sleep or that makes you angry. Like if I can piece it together, I'm fucking retard me to head also. But if I can piece together that 150 million guys with trend that I'm taking right now after four weeks is doing my head in. I have all the experience to make the side effects go away, right? But I'd rather take the trend out. And if I can come to that conclusion, then I'm sure other people can, you know, yeah, but see if you're not competing. So let's take something else then, dude. Fuck. Yeah, it's a shame that the introspection on that sense is lacking. You know, but magnesium is a good one. Yeah, besides blood pressure management, don't have to go to Thomas Hartmann right away. You can take magnesium to relax you. I take 300 milligrams five times a day. You know, it's and that's a simple strategy and micronutrient and measurable with blood work that I think where we are, you know, two hours into the record, people probably expected like Odin and Steve and Kurt. They stop listening after you mentioned the benefits. I mean, at 24, you started talking about the negatives and they're like, see the audience, plummet. Yeah, exit. It's not that. I mean, look at the views. I love to fucking talk about it. Look at the views. We started talking about health, right? And I'm sure you've noticed that we went from 30k views to 10. Yeah, there's a certain drop off. Don't give a shit. Okay, so the next episode, now that we did all the organ health and the ancillary management and blood pressure management and stuff, next episode, we're going to go hard and talk about drugs and you'll see the views skyrocket. I'm willing to bet money on it. Yeah. How about we do 10k, 15k views and the next I'll put it in the fucking title to I'll rub it in nice and deep. We'll talk about like the most productive offseason known to man or something like that. And we'll go into hard in the insulin and we'll have a little debate and we'll talk hard about the test only cycles or combining tests with Decay and whatever and people will love it and the views will be like 50k. People don't care about being healthy. Just small parts of our industry, really. I guess to caveat that whoever is listening, you're doing a good job listening and taking care of your health. The future of the bodybuilding space is still listening. You know, and they're the ones that are thinking of they could be in their 20s and if you are, you know, you've got a great journey ahead or they could be guys in their 40s who are masters athletes who are thinking about when their grandparents, if not already, of, you know, how can I stay alive for my grandkids? With what we sort of started out with this, we could have listed so many different things to do to protect against your brain. Take, you know, someone commented underneath the trend video reel from the other day of, well, take fluvoxamine and denepazil and serabilisin and cortex and cortigin and start listing off all these things. Like we said, one interest takeaway to think that's causing the problem, resetting and going again and figuring out where to sweet. People understand that with their cars, but not with their bodies. And all those other drugs have side effects too. Those are side effects. And they batch and they are on another bigger Steve stack of like 17 different compounds. You're like, what the fuck are you doing? I see doctors now around here, right? Trasidone. So people could sleep that'll destroy your liver. So then you see the liver enzymes worse than if they're on halo. Yeah, I know. And people still pop it like candy, dude. It's mild. No, it's not. No, we're fucking medical insert. Jesus Christ. Just some research on what you're taking. What can you do, man? The health is not for everybody, just like wealth is not for everybody. Some people don't get it. And that's why they destroy themselves. And I guess everybody has to make their own decisions. We're all fucking adults here, you know? So I guarantee you, I guarantee you if we had a web page that somehow correlated worldwide deaths every day of people from silly steroid decisions that it would soon put people off of looking at how that counter is just doing this day on day climbing and climbing and climbing of silly things. And they're not probably higher than the actual deaths from steroids in their side effects. Like people doing dumb shit on steroids, driving too fast, right rage, getting into arguments, getting shot. The death is just cardiac because it's what manifests first. It's not, you know, brain cells not going to kill you directly short term. Your heart's going to go first. Derek's going to go first. And it's probably before the cognitive decline sets in. That's what I mentioned in some of the deep dives. So you'll probably get a heart attack before you really see tremendous cognitive decline. And they don't necessarily do an autopsy. If you die alone, there's no autopsy done. So they don't know how... This is anecdotal, but I remember on one of the boards before there was a whole discussion around induction of morbid thoughts when you're on cycle. And I can't remember what the biochemical outcome was, but when you're on a high level of androgens and you're less impeded or you're more impulsive thoughts come into your head of like, what would happen if I drove my car off the edge of the road here? Or what would happen if I overtook this car and tried to test? Can I get into it before the other car hits me? The impulsivity of making those decisions. Again, we don't put that down to stare at induced death when it's fully a trip in terms of the psychology that drove it. Yeah, and I don't think it's unheard of. It's just poorly discussed to report it. Yeah, I drive safely though, guys. I don't have any of those thoughts. Like, what if... Can I make this turn? Can I overtake this car? I drive very carefully. I got a daughter, I got I got no time for this kind of shit. If I drive fast, it's on the track. And that's relatively safe. Control. Control demolition. They have like these skid areas where you can kind of roll out. You got protection on, you know, so it's a calculated risk. I got a go guy, I got a go guys, because tomorrow I got to wake up early and look at another motorbike. There you go. So I'm going to have to cut it short at two hours, but this was a great discussion as usual. Next time we'll do some actual steroid talking to get the views back and the likes on them. Because AdSense is atrocious now. Can't even afford a dinner with you guys. You want me to... I can have some clients on. I have a bunch of guys that are game between 30 and 60 pounds in a year. You want me to get them on? Yeah, that would be cool. Yeah. Now, can I get some anecdote reports? Like, for me, it's 60 pounds down, but I would love to talk to a guy that gained 60 pounds. Why did that guy that gained 64 pounds a stage weight? He gained over 85 total. And then you're going to tell me that the cycle is totally uninteresting, probably. He's got some good genetics. Well, I'll let him talk. I'll have him on. Okay. Yeah, sure. Yeah, we can do that early January, right? We've got Christmas and New Year's coming up. My editor is going to be gone for like two weeks. So early January, if the guy's up for it. Yeah, or he can, I can ask John Revis. I don't know who that is, but he won his pro card. He's going to, where he works with Justin, but I've been helping him on the side. So we can hang with the open pros. Yeah. Yeah, because putting your pro card, you basically started zero again. Because people don't realize that. Yeah, I'll throw it out there. Yeah, yeah, sure. Just ask them if they wanted this guy so we could be like, like crazy offseason gains podcast. We get those views up. I'm sure people will be interested. I'm certainly interested. Yeah, I will be. Guys, your social media links are down below, as usual. This was great. We'll see you guys in about a month. And until the meantime, I guess stay safe. Don't do anything we usually do. Unless it's Dean. In Curtis. I'm the most irresponsible one here. But I'm freshly shaving. Yeah, it doesn't count. Curtis old and has no muscle and Dean is just a nerd. And I look bigger than I do on social media. That's what people say. Steve is so much bigger in real life. So you only see my face. We're going to see their  and alfalfa-pyridotusher to prove our point. That's the other channels. The other channels. We don't need that. Anyway, before that, guys, I had a ballerground table, episode 17, this was done. Thanks guys so much for joining. I will see you in about a month. Yep, Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas, exactly, and a happy new year.