 cart, you were working on a study comparing the efficacy of sapionate versus the efficacy of enethate, that study is pretty much done, people have been asking me, where's the update, where's the update, where's the update, not understanding that peer review and submission and publication takes a long time, and if you want to get the good data, you need months of administration, so can you spill a little bit of information? Yeah, so I mean the background was we were comparing the pharmacokinetics of testosterone sapionate to testosterone enethate, it was pharmaceutical grade of both, and it was administered by a physician, so there's no self-administration, and the two doses we used were 300 milligrams and 600 milligrams of each, because you wanted to see a real effect, and it turns out that sapionate has a much lower peak in serum, in most individuals there were some, we didn't see it, but the vast majority, it just has a much slower rise in peak, and then testosterone enethate basically ramps up much faster, What's up guys, welcome to the Anabotter Groundtable Episode 11, we've almost been doing this for one year, next year will be the one year anniversary, but for now Episode 11, I'm joined with Kurt Havens and Dr. Dean Tate-Mart, we did not prepare too many topics, so let's just start with a little bit of a life update, because last week we had IFB Pro or John Jewett on the call, and we did not do any life updates, so let's start with Kurt, Kurt you've been on TRT for a very long time, six months, and I'm sure it's getting boring right now, so what's going on with you? Believe it or not, it's not getting boring, I think I've accomplished my physicals to the good, the extent that I could take my genetics, and I kind of moved on from that, I don't foresee any cycles in the near future, I feel good, I'm sleeping well, it seems less words though, I tried to downsize a little bit, I got down to 208, that's about the lowest that I seem to go, you saw my condition, it doesn't make any sense to get any leaner than that, just to walk around, otherwise you have to wear three shirts, yeah, it's wild, overcome the cold, exactly, it's wild, it took so long to build all that muscle, it's really difficult to get rid of, so it's at a bad problem time, now if you go off cycle and you fast, you stop eating, then it goes away quick, but as long as you don't do that, then you should be okay. Well, the problem for me with one kidney, if I lose it fast, it would probably be my kidney, so I'm not trying to look like a normal person, I don't think I need to, you know, a goal of 240 anymore is not realistic. No, no, I'm about 230 right now, but I'm a little bit more than TRT, I say TRT for three, and then people don't get a joke, that it's for three people, so I said TRT for three, 625 milligrams, and they're like, that's not TRT, that's 600 milligrams, is this TRT nowadays, you're insane, I said TRT for three people, you fucking idiots, well that's the stuff I have to deal with, enough about me though, so I also been going strength wise and you know, progress wise, like you lost a little bit of size, but are you holding onto your strength and yeah, I don't seem to have lost anything, so that's good, you know, so it's all marinated and I can get away with TRT, yeah, and I reduced the cardio too, I'm doing the bare minimum that I can to hold my 10 minutes, 20 minutes, no, I'm not even doing it jelly, I reduced it, I haven't done any yet this week, today's what, Wednesday, last time I did cardio, Sunday, I might wait till Saturday, once a week cardio, right, I mean, if I don't need it, I don't need it, yeah, if you don't need it, I mean your body fat levels are absolutely great, man, I'm still working my way towards your level of body fat, but I'm getting leaner now too, no more bulking for me, that was not a good idea, and again, when I bulk, I bulk hard, that's the old school way, so I got up to what, 122 kilos, it's 265 pounds in the last year, and I was snoring and I had to buy a CPAP and I was strong as fuck though, it was so good, it was so cool, man, like, allowing all the plates, and then you're not out of breath because you have so much energy, like, putting like, eight plates on the leg press, and then doing super slow controlled reps up till 12, 15 reps, and then you can barely get off the machine, I mean, you feel like a pod, so pumped and so many steroids, it was great, but no more, no more, 600 tests for me and some YK-11 and a Picatogen experiment. How do you like the YK-11 so far? So I just started out again, about 10 days ago, I did the Epicatogen for about a month at escalating dose year, so I started with 180 milligrams and 360, and then I was like, you know, let's see what happens if I go to 900 milligrams, and then I did my blood work, and my high sensitivity seroactive protein was 21.9 or eight milligrams per liter, so I thought, did I inject injectable anodrol in glycol, and I went through my notes, no, I did not. So the Epicatogen gave me tremendous inflammation, now there could be a side effect of having chronically elevated phallostartan levels, so I was like, okay, I come off, I go to YK-11, which also increases phallostartan levels based on the animal models, and then my high sensitivity seroactive protein dropped down to 2.8. There you go. Yeah, so it works, but not in the way that I wanted to, too, and I'm not sure if it's like some impurities or some of the binders, like maybe the tablets are pressed in pure gluten, for example, but I had no symptoms of inflammation, so it could either be a one-off on my blood work, which I highly doubt, because the lab that I work with is pretty good, or it really increased my inflammatory markers, and that makes it unsuitable. I couldn't find anything scientifically, I couldn't find any anodoly... Is there a propylene glycol in it? No, it's just a tablet. Does it say natural, does it have natural coloring? No. Because sometimes they'll hide that under there? At least in the United States, that's considered natural, even though it doesn't occur? No, it's a normal tablet that's a little bit powdery, so it's not super hard to compress, and they use bioprene as a method to enhance absorption. That wouldn't... Yeah, the epicatogen was from a T extract, and that has the highest concentration of epicatogen, so I finished the deep dive, I recorded, and then I have to do a little bit of additional recording, but that will go live probably after this podcast. So I'm at a loss for words. I'm like, what the hell is going on? I still can't explain it, because scientifically, epicatogen lowers inflammatory markers, same for bioprene, and I wasn't using anything else, because everybody always accuses me that I'm on too much polypharmacy, so I don't know what's doing what. So I'm like, okay, test an epicatogen, and then I switched to test same dose and YK-11, and I made that switch, and my inflammatory markers improved. And my inflammatory markers did not change from a single injection of fallostatin 3, 4, 4, which I know is legit. Let's look here, do you have full labs? We could look at them. Send it to me before you finish the video. We'll look at them together. No, no, no, no, no, don't post them. Send them to me. You and I can look at them together. Okay, yeah. But no, nothing else on the labs. That's, that's doing. Yeah, well, have a look, well, have a look. Yeah, but I doubt it. So the only thing that went down was my serum iron levels went down to 50 was micrograms per distiliter. So it's below the reference range. And that indicates chronic inflammation. So it's been going on for a while. But I've only been doing blood work once. Shame on me. I should have been doing blood work every time the dose escalated upwards, but I'm a busy man, man. I can't go to the clinic every two hours. Right, enough about me. The YK-11 experiment is now full force and then I'll switch to fallostatin 3, 4, 4, and then hopefully I have something interesting to report to see if fallostatin is even applicable. But based on the gains that I've made, being fat loss and gains of muscle tissue, I would say it's not worth the effort. Yeah, but that goes for YK-11 also. Dean, what's going on with you? How are you calling in from your mom's basement? I've been trapped in the basement for two weeks now. You know, I'm back in the lovely, no, no, I'm back in the lovely SNHob again. So I'm in the recording booths and I've already gotten flak from my crappy mic and crappy lighting. So apologies to your watching the video. But yeah, I'm back home every two weeks. So Dean can buy a sure mic. Make sure you watch this like five times so I can send Dean some money. It's desperate times. We have been coming all the way back with the hope we've launched the Fibroscan Clinic, the recovery suite with the cryospad, the infrared sauna. So it's we're halfway there to full membership numbers, which is awesome. We're only open seven weeks. So it's very well received here. Selfishly getting to train in your own gym. Which is always a positive. My own equipment you've handpicked. And I'm like, Kurt, I'm what must be now nine weeks back to 10 weeks since the transplant. All right, yeah. I'm getting confused. 11 weeks since the transplant and I'm back training now seven weeks. So back to 125 tomatoes since that start training. And my weight has gone from 86 up to 96. So I'm back up to like 211. I showed you guys it's just it's been ridiculous with training and going back to the logbook and stopping short of that one rep from reserve with seven play hack and five play pressing and you do sort of that itch now of do I do I really want to go back to the phone stuff or just hold steady into the summertime. So we'll give it another few weeks. We'll wait until we're I'd say mid June at six months post transplant and then decide to want to have a little bit of fun for a few weeks. Yeah, why not? Why not? Right? At least you can look jacked on holiday. And then you know you'll be the most much like that. Yeah, full head of hair, right? And then everybody's like, how did this guy do it? So I went to Turkey, but you're looking very dashy, man. It's the airline is looking great. Good stuff. Yeah, it's grown. It's it's really I'm shocked. I mean, normally by this stage, you should be all like wispy in terms of where so the camera all here is starting to really fill in. So yeah, it's definitely if anyone's watching the video and they're on the fence about going and get it done, you know, based on we talked about it's definitely something to consider if it's on your mind about saving your hairline. Yeah, and you're still on that healing protocol or did you stop that already? So the peptides just get BPC in the epitalone and copper peptide I stopped after eight weeks. I've been doing IPRF so the plasma rich fibrin once per month. And that's been interesting. Their logic at the clinic I go to is they don't do any like numbing when they do the PRF or the PRP. So in terms of paying versus the actual hair transplant procedure, the IPRF has been way more painful than going and actually getting the transplant done because she's basically just injecting your head with no anesthetic whatsoever about 40 or 50 times. What's the injection volume per site? Like the results? For my gatter, she's been they culture about two mils of plasma rich fibrin. So they obviously do a venous draw a centrifugian and come back to be honest, when she's doing I just close my eyes because literally you feel each injection going along your scalp and you're just trying to pay attention to not let her see how much it hurts. Well, the skin is very tight like it doesn't move. So every if you put like half a cc or 0.1 milliliters in there, it just stretches the skin out. And it's so close to your skulls that there must be a lot of nerve endings there. Like I wouldn't consider it a fun, fun, you know, procedure. Why couldn't you use light again? So the top process that the clinic got you go to and it makes sense. Obviously, one of the pathways of hair growth is inflammation. So macrophage induced cell debris clearance. So your microfibers just come in and clear away any dead cells and stimulate the follicle to grow. Her top process is if they numb the area, the actual injection itself is creating a wound in the scalp. And then that recruits your immune cells to the area to utilize the plate rich fibrin. And then after the plate rich fibrin is injected into the scalp, she does a micro needle and with a micro needling pen to create even more porous channels for any of the fiber in that has been obviously spilled out onto your scalp that hasn't been injected in. So I've been very impressed with it's been very affordable. And the session at that local clinic was 200 pounds sterling, which to be honest, once per month to offer some extra added benefit from a growth factor perspective to ensure that her continues to grow nice and thick and strong. It's well, I mean, it was one of the recommendations to clinic recommend PRP. If you can get access to PRF, they said it's even better. So I'll be doing that for the next four months up until the six month mark. And at that stage, I'll make an assessment as a something that I want to keep in monthly or volume monthly, you know, every two or three months to maintain the hair volume. But so far so good. I think anyone that's seen a shock for where I am in yeah, 11 or 12 week healing process, compared to last month, you all run side of a full head of hair now. So big, big change. Yes. Imagine if you do this in your beard. Actually, you know, I don't think, you know, when you look at the procedure of a beard transplant, I don't think I could go through it. It looks so painful versus your scalp. This area here and like your neck. I guess vanity, dude, that if I can love to look a certain way. And meanwhile, this is the only hair I have. Like, oh, disgusting, dude. But it's it's a hot climate here. So I can't I used to have a beard like like Dean and it was just too cumbersome. I would just get greasy and I can't stand it. I'm not allowed. It's like a reverse psychology with my wife. I'm not allowed to shave my head, but I'm not allowed to shave my beard. So you have to have a head of hair and a full beard. Without a beard, I look about 18 or 19 in the face. It's like one of those. Face good for your longevity consultation. It's like, how the fuck Dean looks so young. You look a little bit younger than normal than the abuse of the steroids is not so apparent. Yeah, we went to a wedding a few years ago for one of Morgan's friends. And I was staying at my parents tonight before and she was traveling from our house down to the venue. And I was using a beard trimmer. And it's one of those ones when adjustable comb and as I'm going through it, the comb like slipped and went down to a number, a number half. And so it took like pretty much a big chunk off the side of my face. I was like, okay, I'm gonna have to commit to this and literally to shave off the whole beard, turn up to the wedding and her friends were like looking at me like trying to figure out who I was and then they realized who I was because of the beard. Your wife was mortified. She literally looked at me and said, don't ever do that again. If the wife doesn't approve, then you're stuck with that beard. So what's your tomato protocol now? Like 150 tomatoes to 150 test? That's it? Less 125 and then the GH and then literally just eating and trade like really being diligent with the logbook. So I mean, but someone seen me recently after a few weeks, being away from other seed of building here and they were like, whoa, you've blown up. And I always laugh from like a psychological perspective. You don't actually see that weight go on you. What are people do that in your head? You're like, well, if this is what I gain Muslim memory wise by just training and eating properly again and not being, you know, so focused on maintaining body fat levels, I sort of get myself an open past to gain a bit of body fat ahead of the summer. What if I'm doing something a little bit extra is creeping in, but then from a hair perspective, you're having to be a bit hair safe without using that word or that phrase. How do you build out your setup? You can ramp up the test and then take finasteride, even though that might, you know, cause impairment elsewhere. Not really a big fan of finasteride. I mean, over the last few weeks, I've put back in topical finasteride and monoxidil. Just for the fact that obviously topical finasterides systemic absorption is a little bit lower than true testosterone on the scalp. But I guess, you know, as a tangent, we don't have any real topics prepared for today. Post finasteride syndrome posts, you know, broachetain syndrome, post aromatase inhibitor syndrome. I've slowly come to think that it's all like an NAD deficiency. I think we touched on this briefly before of NAD and NADT being the cofactors. So obviously, with post finasteride syndrome, like we brought up before in the past, I believe it being an NAD deficiency. NADB and the cofactor of, you know, the aromatase enzyme helping the five-valve reductase enzyme do its reduction reaction. When we see guys with deficits that occur from taken finasteride aromatase inhibitors, broachetain, it's cellular energy deficiency as opposed to a mental disturbance to speak. So once you start improving NAD biosynthesis and the pathways that feed into NAD production, again, coming back to the mitochondria, mitochondria creating your neurotransmitters, being one of the guys that utilized that pool of NAD, you start to correct a lot of these neurotransmission problems that present themselves with post finasteride syndrome, like low libido, no sexual drive, impaired like serotonin dopamine levels. And you can do like organic acid tests and to prove the theory of looking at the metabolites of the neurotransmitters. So quite often if you implement strategies and you know you have to deep dive, you look at like the citric acid cycle, you look at a pentose 5-phosphate pathway, you look at all the ways of how we can make more NAD in the body, whether that is, you know, an expensive NAD drip or is it an inexpensive thing like niacin minimum B3 taking it relatively decent dosage that gets converted to NMN and then onto NAD in our body. There's all these simple little strategies that we can do then to improve that. So cellular homoestasis that's gotten disturbed from blocking these enzymes. Yeah and you know so ever since I released that video about post finasteride syndrome, some people incorporated that and said that their energy levels improved initially, by increasing NAD plus levels either from niacin or nicotinamide mononucleotide, nicotinamide riboside, NAD plus injections or up regulating mitochondrial function which also contributes NAD production. And then over time the libido and the mood and that kind of stuff comes up. But sometimes it has a little bit of a lag time of two or three months because it takes so well for all these metabolic processes and the enzymatic reactions to kind of normalize again. So these guys they shut themselves down with finasteride or aromatazine butters or acutin for that matter. All at higher dose just and is generally recommended because the acne is so severe and the hair loss is so severe and the bloating and the water retention is a gyno is so severe. So they overdo it. It's most of the time itself induced because the dosing protocol is incorrect. So that means that they have to get themselves out of this hole because they have a chronic NAD plus deficiency and then before everything is saturated again similar to how magnesium saturation in bones takes a while or any other kind of micronutrient deficiency. After a couple months their libido starts to improve and their energy level starts to improve and then the erections can be better again. Their focus goes up, right? Allopregnenolone levels start to restore but I think a lot of guys are just not persistent with it and then because their libido or moods problems are not fixed within one or two administrations they go from one thing to the next and then before you know it to look into sublingual estrogen or estrogen injections or sublingual that it's a testosterone or you know a PT-141 and some acts in oxytocin and whatnot stack, right? So at least the guys that are persistent and just have a little bit of patience. They usually resolve themselves and then there's a select group of people who like to just be miserable and so that yeah they'd rather talk about it than actually fix it. Post-manastrate syndrome for the last five years and they'd rather complain about it to get the sympathy than actually do something proactive about it. Yeah but you'll be surprised how much you can fix with increasing your NAD plus levels and upregulating mitochondrial function. I just finished the methylene blue deep dive and the SLU PP332 deep dive and the MOTC deep dive is on the way and when you read the scientific literature it's just amazing how much things that can fix it's such a difference you know but people don't want to spend the money and methylene blue is the cheapest option obviously and and niacin had a simple B1 hard dive flex. Yeah it would be the cheapest I mean of course you can't control how much NAD plus you get down stream but I think if you combine methylene blue with niacin you already have a winning formula and that's very inexpensive. Dean what do you think? Yeah I agree and I mean the other thing like I said one of the internal users of NAD within the body is the pentose five pathway so if the pentose five phosphate pathway is not working correctly in the body which is often the case with problems surrounding insulin and insulin sensitivity you're going to run into issues of NAD biosynthesis in the body as well. So you know it comes at two angles of quite often the easiest strategies here are nutritional deficiencies and stuff that have been self-induced they're marginally relatively easy to correct with like I said patience most people and you do see it online they do like to sort of almost have a badge of honor that they've had that problem for so long when we're really you know at this point we've understood that it isn't really a whole psychosomatic issue that it's all under head but on the other side of it you know we've got decent strategies that are quite basic and premise that takes patience and time to correct rather than jumping from one thing to the next in terms of like the shiny objects and you start getting all these crazy protocols like you said of injectable DHTs, DHB micro dosing you know putting in some soft androgens to try and fix the mental problem and really like we're going to beat this to death and it's sort of going to be in the next five years people will probably watch back these podcasts you know those guys were really ahead of it in how important the mitochondria of cellular dysfunction and disease it's really becoming apparent you know papers published 2024 of the link of mitochondria to disease and in some shape or format most diseases that present in the body can be brought back to the mitochondria becoming dysfunction so if we are you know apparently going to look at a half set of disease Dive into Okay sorry Dean, go ahead. No it's gonna go for it, it's gonna say like in terms of if you delve into mechanisms of disease mechanisms of age and it all comes back to what's at its core that simple little microorganism or organelle in our body it's not really a microorganism an organelle that we've accepted into our body that gives us so many benefits that when it becomes dysfunctional upsets everything energy neurotransmitter development and production hormone production I don't have posts during a about climates and the use of climates we're like a you know the very basic level what creates testosterone in your body is the mitochondria like we're going to beat this to death and then eventually people will be like oh well these guys are starting to talk about descents now. Yeah and when you start reading the literature like about SLU-PP332-MOTC and some of the other mitochondrial enhancers you see that it's all linked as a potential treatment of various diseases and I honestly think the longer I think about it is that testosterone deficiency can also be solved by improving mitochondrial function at least for the pregnant loan synthesis right and then cholesterol metabolism and then downstream it would improve testicular function and improve antioxidant status that testosterone synthesis should be enhanced also. So I think it's in the end this whole lifestyle problems where you don't treat your mitochondria well you're in this chronic inflammatory state and chronic state of oxidative stress and does your mitochondria count function and as a result of that the baby basically gives you the middle finger and says fuck you no ATP no pregnant loan no nothing for you and then they basically starve you until all the mitochondria and you kind of end miserably but it's a self-fulfilling prophecy it's it's our lifestyle and I think if you really focus on this like the ancillaries we've done right everybody adopted this the mitochondria will be next and then you know some optimization in that pathway and then I think like you said a couple years from now people will think oh wait a minute these guys were ahead of their time and hopefully the prices will come down of MOTC, SLU and mitochondrial aids because it's not cheap it's really cheap like my own ocelotriperophosphate helps with oxygen delivery and oxygen affinity of hemoglobin that optimizes mitochondrial function downstream and that could be a potential treatment for all kinds of cardiovascular diseases all kinds of cancer I just did a deep dive on that today so I think if you start combining all these these little things these low hanging fruit a quality of life I mean my quality of life is absolutely stellar right now with all these like low micro adjustments and for the guys that suffer from from diseases I think that would be the first thing they're looking to besides dietary changes and lifestyle changes that I want to bring that to like this new discovery of the the antigen receptor that that you had Kurt because there's a new truncated version of an antigen receptor which seems to miss the gack repeats now off air we speculated that the production of this antigen receptor might be a misfire due to antigen mediated gene transcription but let's discuss that a little bit more here on air Kurt what did you find so far so there's two versions of the antigen receptor the ARA and the ARB and the ARB is the classic one that goes into the nucleus that that's the one that we really want the ARA as understood now it seems that seems to be the one that's stuck on the cell surface that doesn't cause gene transcription so it's truncated which means it's shortened so a normal antigen receptor is 919 amino acids and this one is missing the first 187 I'll show it on on screen oh so it's missing where is it there we  and the amlodipine. So it's missing, you can see the AF1 section is completely gone. And so while the lingon binding domain at the end on the far right is typically what we would consider where the androgen would bind to, missing the AF1 part inhibits the androgen from fully binding to this. So then you have a bunch of things that then occur downstream, then estrogen can basically push off the androgen because it's not fully bound. Normally, when an androgen binds, it'll push estrogen off, but now it's the opposite thing that's going to happen. This will not result in protein synthesis. So this is most likely what's occurring with things like anadrol. Is it binding to that ARA receptor? What it's exactly doing, we don't know. But like you said, so what's chromosome 11 and 12 contain the material to make the androgen receptor? Something's going wrong during protein synthesis that's creating these, whether it's environmental or lifestyle things or just some genetic thing that's occurring. But it's missing the polyglutamate repeats as well, the chag repeat. There's no chag repeat at all. And that's concerning because there's an ideal range of chag repeats where the androgen receptor binding is heightened and then a shorter version or a longer version then has reduced androgen receptor binding. You could see that allegedly with African-American heritage, you'd have the ideal range of chag repeats allowing them to get much more transcriptional activity from the same amount of androgens because it just binds so much tighter. And there's no genetic analysis for that unfortunately. I looked and it was fine. No, a lot of this is new. So it's like you were saying, so this shorter chag repeat is considered better at least for the stuff that we do, right? But also shorter chag repeats tend to result in things, not necessarily directly, but things like prostate cancer are more prominent in a shorter chag repeat. It's also possible that over transcription, what's happening is the chag repeat is getting shorter and shorter until it's fully gone. And it's possible that this transition between ARB and ARA is not a one-step thing, that it's just occurring over time until the chag repeat is fully gone, right? Like it might start shorter and then slowly, right? As it's constantly replicating, it's constantly missing amino acids. It's the same as what happens to the telomeres or the DNA. Yeah. So is it aging? Yeah, it's aging for the androgen receptor. There you go. But this explains why you see insensitive, like one of the reasons why you see insensitivity with androgen receptors. So there's obviously a thousand different polymorphisms that can occur with the androgen receptor that we know. But this seems to explain a lot of like non-response that you see. We've all had clients that regardless of the androgens that they use, they don't really respond particularly well. This could explain that. This could also explain the amount of the ARB versus ARB could explain things like side effects, right? So the people that are very sensitive to things like tremolone perhaps have more ARA and they're not actually getting the proteins that this is from, but they're just getting the calcium ion-stimulated nerve stuff, which is going to cause over-stimulation. Yeah. So, yeah, central nervous system stimulation. Okay. Yeah, it's very interesting. And of course, scientifically, this hasn't really been investigated that much because it's reasonably new information. And so all of the scientific evidence is basically regarding androgen receptors has been performed on ARB activity, not on ARA. Do you think this will ever be investigated? I do for sure. So it was discovered in cancer and it turns out that a lot of the estrogen-dependent cancers, when they stopped looking at that and they moved over to the enduroceptor, they found that there was more ARA, so that DHT could no longer perform its actions and kind of bump. DHT would normally help balance out the estrogen and not allow estrogen to fully transcribe. And it's very possible that it needs to be explored because it has a lot of health repercussions. Could you see in the scientific evidence that dietroxylsaccharin has been linked to inhibiting estrogen-mediated gene transcription in various cancers? So basically when DHT interacts with the estrogen receptor, estradiol can't really potentiate its full effect. And of course, if estrogen binds to the androgen receptor and the chycopetes are missing, allowing for normal androgen binding, they get some sort of weird transcription or impaired transcription or no transcription. Or no transcription, right. And that also means you get depletion of androgen receptors, which would otherwise have a beneficial effect. Once it starts, it's going to continue and get worse, right? Because then there's no proteins that this is occurring, so then there's no new androgen receptors being made. Exactly, yeah. And then you basically deplete the point where completely you have androgen-intensivity syndrome. Yep. Ah. Do you think that you get androgen receptor B transcription from the DNA and then through some enzymatic reaction, the chycopetes are cleaves off resulting in an androgen receptor A variant? Or it's a pre-adherent or a transcription. Yeah, or it's a pre-adherent transcription, right? Right. When A or B is supposed to be formed, it's not forming correctly. Now, imagine if this is caused by oxidative stress, that the link at the 188th, or 188th position is susceptible to oxidative stress, like DNA is susceptible to oxidative stress, and mitochondrial dysfunction is the cause. Could be. Well, why are these things getting more prevalent now versus in the past? No credit, they weren't necessarily reported or discovered in the life expectancy used to be much shorter. So it's hard to say, but my guess is it's a lifestyle thing, right? Drinking, smoking, or diet, lack of exercise. These things very well could at least contribute to this. Is that causing it? I can't say that. That's not a valid statement, but we know. Yeah. I'm trying to remember if clients in the past that have some sort of androgen desentization or non-responsiveness to androgens, whether they switched to a nandrolone only cycle or not, even then nothing happens, what their lifestyle was, if they were drinking, smoking, oxidative stress, genetic and hereditary issues. Nandrolone wouldn't work for sure, right? No. Nandrolone only binds to the AR. So its action is like same with Primo, right? That's its only mode of action. So none of those tremolone wouldn't do much. Mm-hmm. We're positive, we should say. They're still going to cause other effects in the body, just not a positive effect. Because you see some guys that had like a terrible lifestyle and then they need TRT and they go in TRT and nothing happens. That's pretty clear that they were under oxidative stress, drinking, recreational drugs, stress, et cetera, right? Okay, that happens. But I'm trying to think now back in time where I had guys that were otherwise healthy that switched to TRT for androgen replacement therapy or bodybuilding purposes. And then nothing happens. I'm trying to think about it's been a while since I really helped the guy and guys. You work more with these guys than I do or in a coaching capacity. So do you see a correlation between lifestyle and androgen insensitivity? It does seem that the people that seem less sensitive to androgens either had a poor lifestyle habits in the past or currently still have some overlapping things like some drinking or tendency just for bad stuff. Yeah. And then they're not really responsive. Do you think that these guys are subjecting like manual labor, for example, where you're subjecting yourself to environmental pollutants, BPS, A's, undercutters, that kind of stuff? Because every job is its potential risk. Like I'm just trying to think out loud to see where this is coming from, whether it is a transcriptional error or this actually happens after transcription, the androgen receptor is formed. And then due to some sort of exogenous mishap, all the gag repeats are cleaved off. I'm going to guess it's during translation or transcription, but it's very possible and it's still occurring after the fact. Like maybe it starts as an ARB and it goes to the cell surface and something occurs to the cell and it cleaves off. And then they no longer go in and generate androgen receptors anymore. They would basically should be able to find these 187 amino acids that contain the gag repeats floating around in the bloodstream. So that might be something to look into as a metabolite, right? Like what they drew with drug analysis and regarding excretion studies. They have this compound, it's cleaved into a couple of fragments and they look for these amino acid sequences. If it's being cleaved, if it's just happening during protein synthesis, then no, right? They're just not being formed. Right. Yeah. So that remains to be investigated. But yeah, it does explain why some people respond better to other things besides the gag repeats. I mean, if you're missing gag repeats, nothing much is going to happen, just like Dean's internet connection today. Yeah, exactly. No gag repeats on Dean's internet connection. And you could say, so like the subcellular androgen receptor that we don't know anything about, right? The Winstrol and Dan is all blind too. Perhaps that's just missing a portion of this and not the full. So maybe it starts there and then it gets worse. Yeah. Right. We don't know. Do you think it compares to, you have growth hormone receptor, right? And that's actually a truncated version of the growth hormone binding protein. So growth hormone has a binding protein that can actually act as a receptor when it attaches to the cell surface. Do you think it's something similar like that? It's possible. The difference with the peptide receptor, like growth hormone receptors, it's never really going to go in. It doesn't fully go in. It's causing downstream stuff to go in versus anandrodeceptor itself will come on in. And that's one of the reasons why you don't want to inject growth hormone intramuscularly because it's not supposed to be in the cell like that. When it's a growth hormone is a cytokine. So if you put it in a cell, the body has a harsh immune response to it and it destroys it. So you lose 20 to 30% of the growth hormone by injecting it in that method because it could be like similar but different than insulin. You're not supposed to inject insulin, I am. Right. Hmm. Very interesting. I really wonder if this will ever be investigated and if there will be a genetic analysis for it or some sort of solution to prevent people from getting ARAs instead of ARBs. Because ARBs are the unaballed ones. I'm currently working on a project with that. So we will send out those. And we already started, we have the study outline done. And now we're finding the subjects that want to do this. Sign me up. You want biopsies? No. No, never mind. Never mind. I'm buying out no biopsies. I need every muscle cell that I can. And you're a good responder so you might not be a great candidate. Yeah. Yeah. True. So if anybody is a poor responder to anabolic contact cart, if you're willing to undergo some biopsies and you live in the United States, maybe you can get some pharmaceutical testosterone prescribed even though it might not do anything. Yeah. Yeah. Get compensation. Dean, you went a little bit ham on Instagram about the nitric oxide inhibiting effects of methylene blue. Because people always like to bring it up, right? You and me, we like methylene blue. And then, yeah, but it's a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor. Steve, it diminishes the pump. Now, forget the one hour deep dive that I made. And the first topic I addressed in the beginning was that it's kind of fake news. It only happens at higher dosages. Did you suffer any repercussions from this commonly reported side effect that only happens when you make a dose of methylene blue? Dean, I'm sure you get tired of answering this question also. Well, I think if you're to look back at my pictures and last year's prep taken methylene blue for ever long, five months or so, I think my vascularity on the surface of my skin looked pretty OK. And I was even taken methylene blue right up to Pee Creek. I think when people like cherry pick statements like this, and I'm going to be quite harsh because when we view a nitric oxide inhibitor, first and foremost, what are you talking about? Making a statement in science has to be quite specific. So if you're saying, oh, it's a nitric oxide inhibitor, but what is a form of nitric oxide synthase is inhibiting? Is it INOS? Is it NOS? Is it ENOS? If it's ENOS and othelium nitric oxide synthase, which is what creates nitric oxide in your bloodstream, the phasodilates your bloodstream, then yeah, that's going to inhibit NOS positive impact on vasodilation and blood flow and vascularity and whatever else. But if it's inhibiting INOS, which is inducible nitric oxide synthase, which is what your body makes as a pro oxidant, so NO in your body is an actual oxidant. It can create nitrites and nitrates. So when we view nitric oxide, it's not just harmless thing that creates a pump. It's a very important cell signaling molecule that helps with vasodilation, but it is also a cell signaling molecule that can indicate that there's a serious infection in the body. That's one thing. So quite often, sepsis being one of the main medical ways that methylene blue is quite often used. Pytosis of methylene blue is sort of like a one shot in the dark that person's probably going to die with sepsis, not to be harsh, but it's a very difficult thing to treat in an emergency. You basically have a lot of final strategies of is it going to really hurt the person anymore if I intervene with this strategy or what is my potential positive possibility or probability of improving the outcome of the patient living. We quite often give a very high dose of methylene blue as a nitric oxide inhibitor to reduce INOS expression to try and save cells from being destroyed because of this massive flow of nitric oxide. So when we look at the science, yes, high dose methylene blue will lower nitric oxide, but it's from INOS. If anything, the research actually says it has a positive impact on up-regulating INOS, which is what creates nitric oxide in your arteries for vasodilation. So if we're going to cherry pick, the statement is correct. It is a nitric oxide inhibitor, but it's of INOS and INOS as opposed to INOS. So when we're re-discussing science and we're going to cherry pick, cherry pick correctly, that has some positive benefits to INOS. I guess the other comment that I was often asked was, what about staining of your organs from high dose methylene blue? So my knowledge, that will only occur with high dose IV as well. And if you imagine you're putting a synthetic blue dye straight into your bloodstream, that would in minutes, reaches probably every organ of your body. So yeah, it's more than likely going to stain some of your cells blue because that's what it was designed to do was a microscope stain. If you put a big massive dose straight into your bloodstream and you dye and you do not autopsy, well, I wouldn't be surprised if they found blue cells in your heart or your liver or kidneys. I think taking it orally... I can see that in the malaria. Yeah, I don't think you're going to experience cell staining with a 5 milligram dose ingested orally, to be honest, could be wrong. But every incidence, and there is only probably two or three when you search through the scientific literature of organ staining from it and it is from high dose IV. Yeah, and in the cases of malaria and sepsis, the dose just increase upwards from one milligram per kilogram of body weight by intravenous injection daily for multiple days in duration. So that could be 700 milligrams, if you're a 100 kilogram bodybuilder, intravenous for several days. Most of the time it's like two milligrams for one kilogram of body weight, so that's already 200 milligrams. So who in their right mind is going to take 200 milligrams intravenously unless you have experience with intravenous administrations? And even for pre-opism, with a prolonged erection caused by Viagra or Cialis or Levita, then the injection protocol is 50 milligrams, intra-covernosously directly into the penis, and then it inhibits nitric oxide production and allows for normal blood removal from the penis in combination with epinephrine. Yeah, literal blue balls. Which is also, yeah, exactly, you're a little bit blue balls. But that's in combination with methylene blue at a high dose, 50 milligrams into the penis with epinephrine, right, to cause vasoconstriction, allowing for blood to kind of diffuse out of the penis. So as long as you're not IVing anything over 50 milligrams or injecting that locally, I think the only way it would diminish the pump and cause nitric oxide inhibition is if you start doing that pre-workout, 25 milligrams bilaterally into the biceps, and then you might get a diminished effect. But all these guys that don't want to take methylene blue because they might not get an erection or a pump in the gym, man, it's overreaction. Yeah. And the pump doesn't contribute to growth, so I wouldn't obsess about the pump anymore. Besides the fact that the pump is pre-musceless. Yeah. It's pleasurable. And no one should inject anything into their penis. Well, maybe try a mix. And then you can pump a pharyn and hey, works, man, allegedly, not personally. Yeah, not talking for personal experience. So it's funny that these things we have to deal with, like I addressed it in the methylene blue deep dive, but I got, I think like a thousand new or 2,000 new subscribers from that. It's very popular, this compound. Yeah. Because RFK was taking it in the airplane and then it goes viral, right? So I got a lot of new subscribers. And then even though I addressed it right at the start of the video, people immediately in the comment section, it had habits, nitric oxide synthase, dude, take a fucking Cialis and shut the fuck up, right? It increases cyclic, quantity, monophosphate downstream and then you do mitigate any kind of deleterious effect on the methylene blue. But yeah, this is the stuff we have to deal with this educator. So, oh my God. Yeah. I'm talking about even we have to deal with. Yeah. So Dean, you want to interject a little bit more? I thought I had a takeaway. No, just because even with the whole nitrate thing, I guess we just have to, like I said, just be a little more careful in how we spread rumors. If you want to put it that way or incorrect information and probably at the close of it, probably the worst thing, I guess that is warrant to have a discussion with methylene blue to sort of close the section is the effect on neurotransmission. That's probably a more important side effect to discuss than scouring around thrown on the nitric oxide inhibitor. Yeah, because the drug interactions through my inhibition and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, that's a little bit more worrisome. I mean, I got full blown serotonin syndrome combined for the oxidine with methylene blue, both at like entry level doses. Probably only one day. And then combining fluvoxamine at a moderate dose with a moderate dose of methylene blue, that seems to be acceptable. Right? Now, will I get long lasting serotonin syndrome like side effects that remains to be seen? But so far, I'm good combining 50 milligrams of foxyamine with up to 10 milligrams of methylene blue, but some people don't respond well to that. So I highlighted that in the deep dive also because there's a lot of people on SSRIs or antidepressants in general, which modulates serotonin and dopamine levels in the brain. And they have all these dopaminergic drugs like Adderall and Testofensine and, you know, 9M, EBC and whatnot, Neutropic XYZ. So all these drug interactions, people need to worry about. Think about when they start adding a methylene blue, because I think methylene blue and warfarin have the most amount of drug interactions I've ever researched. So if you take the testosterone, okay, drug interactions, caffeine, aromatosyniboters, that's about it. The rest is all synergistic, but methylene blue, warfarin and a couple of these are midformin, a lot of drug interactions. But it's also because these compounds have been extensively studied compared to other medications that we take. So these things, God forbid, people do a little bit of additional research. I couldn't possibly cover everything in the deep dive. And then even in my deep dive, I forgot a couple of things. So I'm going to make a part two about methylene blue, maybe a month from now, because there's a lot more to discuss. But yeah, you're right, Dean. The interactions with, you know, moly, inhibition and serotonin, dopamine, and epinephrine, or epinephrine, that's even correct. That's something that's concerning. Yeah, especially if you stack higher dose just together. Like, did you experience anything certainergic side effects, Dean? No, right? Because you don't take necessary. No, no, no. And I guess I, if anything, I probably benefited even more positively with my own polymorphism. I've got, you know, MAOA++, which is a very fast operating MAOA enzyme. So genetically, I am susceptible to low serotonin. I'm not going to say depression, but low serotonin. Oh yeah, the methylene blue most definitely does uplift and help with that MAO inhibition, which keeps serotonin longer in my brain, alongside dopamine as well. So I definitely see the neurotransmitter benefits alongside the oxygenation benefits on the mitochondria. And, you know, again, to go back to what I said previously, mitochondria make serotonin dopamine, they make neurotransmitters. So you've got efficiency in creating the neurotransmitters, and then efficiency in keeping them in the synapse, or re-uptake for, you know, another synaptic transmission. Yeah, scientifically it was shown that methylene blue, in particular, in medical conditions, can cause serotonin syndrome at 200 milligrams intravenously upwards. But even depending on the medical condition, serotonin syndrome might happen or might not happen. So again, if you keep the dose moderate, I think you can get all the benefits regarding serotonin, serotonin, and dopamine allergic effects. And if you go to 200 milligrams, which again, there will be guys out there that will go crazy high dose. Like, there's guys out there that take 50 milligrams. I'm like, what are you doing? Why? It's 10 times the dose that we recommend. Like, are you going to? Well, of course, people take a gram of Trin also. I mean, I've been there. So yeah, and then I wonder why you're on the floor salivating and feeling hot to the touch. You know? It's so silly, dude. Yeah, I think it's a very versatile compound that needs to be respected. But low dose just go a very long way. And if you go in the Dr. Dean stack with MOTC and SLU, then low dose is, you know, for the mitochondrial functions, it's game changing, honestly, you know, and it saves you money on MOTC and SLU because people complain that they need to ramp up the dose of SLU to a gram. No, no, no dummy. Just add in a little bit of methylene blue and then you get the synergistic effect. I need five milligrams MOTC. No, no, no, no, no, one milligram. It's a shame. Sucks for my affiliate sales because I'd rather have people use more, but I have to keep it real with the audience, you know, less is more if you stack it together. Like Dean, it's now known as a Dr. Dean stack. You can't go back. No, I should have invested shares in SLU years ago with this future prediction. Hey, when I introduce something, at least it should be named after you. We'll talk about introducing something that my segue before, but I got interrupted. You were working on a study comparing the efficacy of sapionate versus the efficacy of anethate. That study is pretty much done. People have been asking me, where's the update? Where's the update? Where's the update? Not understanding that peer review and submission and publication takes a long time. And if you want to get the good data, you need months of administration for this data to be valid, not only one person, but multiple people. So can you spill a little bit of information? Yeah. So I mean, the background was we were comparing the pharmacokinetics of testosterone sapionate to testosterone anethate. And it was not to discourage the use of sapionate. It was just to show that they're not the same thing, that they're not necessarily interchanging. And what we did is a graded dose. So it was pharmaceutical grade of both, and it was administered by a physician. So there's no self administration. We didn't want anyone measuring or weighing anything because people can't clearly do that. And the two doses we used were 300 milligrams and 600 milligrams of each because we wanted to see a real effect. And it turns out that sapionate has a much lower peak in serum. In most individuals, there were some, we didn't see it, but the vast majority, it just, you can show that, essentially, that image. No, it's okay. Save that for a second. It just has a much slower rise in peak, and then testosterone anethate basically ramps up much faster. The half-life seems about the same, but testosterone anethate seems to cause a much higher peak in the serum. So if you're someone who doesn't feel good on testosterone anethate, then sapionate is still a valid drug. It's just not going to do the exact same thing. Right if you're, I hate to say muscle gain would be effective, right? The peak in serum is a valid metric when you're looking at like dosing of how much muscle you're going to gain. So it's possible that maybe an anethate would cause a higher peak. Something I think people also should look at when you look at the Bayesian studies with testosterone, that is it's done differently than most people assume. Again, cherry picking data, if you actually look at the administration, he gave the dose in one shot a week. So the 600 milligram group got 601 shots. So the peak was much higher and that probably contributed to that much more massive amount of growth than if they microdosed it. Right. So again, if you're, if you're concerned with side effects and estrogen, things like that, microdosing things can make sense. Or if you just want to keep things very stable, but if you want to really leverage an effect out of something, right, you want a higher peak serum. So that's what he did. And a lot of it was done because you're not going to get people to show up to your office three times a week to give them injections. So it was easier just to give it in one big shot. With that being said, when you look at the numbers in those studies, that's how it was administered. So for your study, did they come in once a week or twice a week? Twice. Twice. Twice. You just put the dose in half. I figured that with those esters, that's totally a fine way to administer it. Yeah. So it was split in half, so 300 was 150 twice a week and the 600 was 300 twice a week. And it's all in the glute or other administration sites? Glute. Yeah. Okay. So that's the most stable absorption spot. It's trying to eliminate any possible variable, right? Different size shoulders, different activity levels. Glute is, for the average person, your glute is just going to be moved a lot more around in the day than the shoulder. That's probably why the absorption. It's a bigger muscle, but it's probably just because people move, right? Versus shoulder, if you sit all day, you're probably not getting as much activity there. And we were thinking about doing a second part. We open it up to even a broader group and see if we can get a larger study. But yeah, I thought it was the... So what we're going to do is when this study is out, we should cover it in depth. Sure. Because that gets views. And then more views on these studies should guarantee bigger funding. That's why I usually help Tim Pietkowski with some of his studies, because you get more eyes on these studies and then there's a demand and then there's more potential funding for follow-up studies. So by all means, we should just address it in an entire episode when it's peer reviewed and ready for publication. And then we'll really go through it in depth because it's cool to see the results. You showed me a little bit of results and it's a clear difference. I think what Dean pointed out regarding sexual and violent depilation, that's a steep reduction. Pretty cool. Yeah, but now going into your results, Kurt, it was just night and day difference. Those are just held the same, just swap in the ester to speak.  SHBG falling dramatically was interior, then it might show premise that if someone wanted to control SHBG better, SIP might be a better compound. But my takeaway from that, that data was bioavailability of SIP, knowing that free testosterone as well lowers SHBG is a lot lower with testosterone SIP, which is incredible to prove. How are the estrogen levels comparing SIP and IV? We have more, relatively similar. It wasn't similar. Two things about the study, so we self-funded. I paid the doctor and I that did this study, we paid for everything, we paid for all the drugs. And not super expensive, but I wasn't going to involve a pharmacist and a couple of them, I don't think they really care at this point, right? Drugs was in the vet, they were the parties. So there's a crowd-funded study? Yeah, and I didn't want, I also didn't want one of them, if something groundbreaking came out to then take the credit for this sort of thing, doesn't make a lot of sense, right? Why hand it to Pfizer or Merck for no reason, so they could claim they found it. And what was the... I think Pfizer has some financial incentive not to be involved. You're so published. There goes the recipientate formulation. Yeah, so the gist of why I was looking at this was, so on the recipientate ester, same as an MPP or on Parabon, you have an aromatic ring. And I think that people that don't have a lot of organic chemistry knowledge misinterpret what those esters look like, right? You said, traditionally, you would just count the carbons and that gives you rough days. Right. That is the half-life, but the problem is with that aromatic ring, it's much heavier and bigger. And so it's changing the way it's broken down, and it actually looks like it's inhibiting the way it's broken down. And my initial, I think, influence on this was that there was a study that was put out in 1961 on mandrelone, where they compared MPP to mandrelone to canoate, and the end result was that MPP wasn't that efficient of a drug, so they pulled it, Oregon had pulled MPP off the shelves after a year, and just went with the canoate. That study is difficult. It's not public access, it's difficult to read. There's a lot of calculus in it, it's organic chemistry, and so the average person is not just going to flip through this thing. And but it shows that they've kind of had an idea about this stuff for a long time, it just never really came to light. And it's just Parabon is another example, right? It's possible that that's not a fantastic ester for trembolone. It might have kept the levels lower and steady in humans, but compared to acetate, it's just not going to produce the same result. Yeah, maybe that's also why it was pulled off the market, besides the fact that it was produced in a wretched oil, which is inflammatory for some people. Yeah, so I don't know, but I think that that's, is the aromatic ring is kind of the key there, is that you really want to use a straight chain fatty acid with an ester, ideally. Yeah. Yeah. So for, I'll overlay the images of testosterone propionate and testosterone and then you mentioned something in the private chat that it has to do with phosphodiesterase 5D, which version was it? That that might have a problem with this so seven B. So phosphodiesterase seven B is the one that we understand as the cleaving enzyme to remove the ester. And we might have touched on a previous episode in the beginning on what I felt that the sipionate 5 carbon ring might be a little too bulky that it doesn't allow the testosterone molecule with the carbonyl part of the ester to enter into the binding part of the enzyme to remove the ester away. Because at the end of the day, if you think about it, when you take the ester drug, you're looking for the actual parent compound, it's a pro drug. So testosterone, sipionate becomes testosterone, testosterone and antate becomes testosterone. You're just cleaving that ester away that if you have like Kurt said from it, a chemistry perspective. And this is where it's useful of looking at molecules and 3D. And I've done like a video before with Kurt where we looked at some molecules in 3D space. The space that's occupied in a 3D dimension with sipionate is a lot different to a five member carbon chain that can actually twist and contort itself in space to make itself fit. Whereas when you've got this big bulky ring like Kurt is saying in space, you can't really do much, you can like maybe rotate and contort a tiny bit, but it can't actually squash on itself if that makes sense to fit in. So these long bulky esters, the efficiency of getting into that enzyme is probably a lot lower. I'd said to Kurt, something that might be useful is to find in silico chemists, computational chemists that could do a quick computational model of taking the PDE7B enzyme and computationally working out the binding affinity of it into that pocket versus an antate. And I'd say the efficiency, the binding efficiency of the an antate ester into that pocket is probably way higher than sipionate. And from that you're able to derive some level of drug affinity and then you'll be able to come up with some level of like bioavailability of this is what we would potentially expect with the ester removed for the free drug molecule to enter into serum. So it's really cool. And I mean, for anyone watching the results when they are shared, it is black and white to me. So people understand to the layout and why it takes so long. Like all the things Steve said, a real study takes a long time to conduct. So we had to administer the doses separately and then there was a washout period where there was no testosterone for 12 weeks because we don't want any overlay. We don't want like sipionate still lingering in there and then you add an antate on top of it. So it's a long extensive process and then now we're going through all the data and then we have to translate that into something that makes sense. Yeah. And to finish up the article and then it needs to be submitted to peer reviews and then publish. It takes time, man. And not to harp on MPP, but this is kind of this transits MPP. And so I think why a lot of guys will use MPP and they're afraid of decas. They think it's more Mella or the short ester. It's not actually a short ester. The aromatic ring and actually so much bigger ester, it just never quite peaks the same as dandelion decanoate. So you don't get the same side effects. Right. If you're someone who doesn't tolerate deco, but you tolerate MPP, that's really, you're just not absorbing most of it. And it's not a lot of 100 and it's dose at 100 milligrams per cc typically versus the 200 for neck because the ester is so large. It's not that the base is bigger because it's a short ester. It's because the ester takes up so much space in that solution. So the concentration is to be lower. Yeah. Yeah. We're going to get a lot of broken hearts again. Again, now I'm not deterring the use of any of these things. I just think people, I think as a community, we should start to understand how these drugs work and why they're different and when and why we use certain things. The science is there to progress the sport. This is why we do this kind of stuff. Bring new information to the forefront. And if that makes people upset, then so be it. We're trying to push this field forward and there's not so many people looking into these kinds of drug metabolism pathways. So if that makes people upset and it causes some esters to fall off the popularity list, then so be it. So be it. And maybe that's why people don't experience less side effects with sipunates simply because the serum concentrations never reach lower. So yeah. And it's good to hear that. I always said that annotate is best and that's almost proven. I think as well as sipunate tends to be the one that is quite often anecdotally reported as having a higher instance of post injection pain. And if you think about it, what Kurt's results are showing is that the depot of drug is sitting there for longer because the ester isn't able to remove it and bring the parent compound into circulation. So the fact that we see guys saying, well, sip tends to cause massive amounts of irritation. It's probably because the drug's residency time in the muscle is probably slightly longer than an annotate. And it then irritates the tissue by not being brought into systemic circulation which is funny because the original introduction of an annotate was, the original introduction of sipunate was they claim that an annotate hurt. So they were trying to come up with an ester that didn't. In fact, they invented something that hurt worse. Same as with the sustenant, right? Some people have an absolutely amazing response and then other guys don't respond well to it because you have four different esters and some of them metabolize faster than others. Again, all these drugs that were into the 50s, they just didn't have the chemistry knowledge that they do now. So really the failure with sustenant is the original thought process is that they would all release at different points. The problem is they all release almost the same time. So you get this massive peak and then they slowly drop off but you're getting too much of a spike in the beginning and then not enough of a property but it doesn't hold. So sustenant could be a good drug but you probably have to inject it every other day just to keep it stable. So to me that seems like a pointless thing. I think people like things that are new and shiny and fancy. So there's always some like a lure because it's a blend, right? The guys will buy things that are blend because they think they'll get a lure or something even though a single ester would do just fine. Yeah, especially if you inject every day then it kind of doesn't matter. Then only that the carrier oil matters because carrier oils metabolize differently from the injection depot and that affects the half-life too and that actually has been studied comparing tea oil or peach oil and castor oil for example or sesame oil and then you see that the half-lives and the lingering time and the lag time is different as well between the release of testosterone and a tattoo increasing serum testosterone levels without the ester that all differs. So in the end I would just go with something that works and if scientifically you can prove that sippinate works less favorably than anethate, you know you can pivot some people into anethate ester which of course in China they'll be happy with that because they can sell more anethate oils. Or they can put a big shortage on it like everything else. Yeah, yeah, artificial shortage. Add that to the masteron Primo out of our list. Yeah, yeah and testosterone anethate and sippinates will be super cheap. Just have sippinate here. That's almost non-states. Permanent 50% discount. This was pretty much the topics I had in mind. Dean, you have something you really want to discuss? No, I was just going to say that Demo just have to go on a trademark testosterone butrate or something like that. Yeah, it's funny if she goes to Wikipedia you see like an index of all the esters that testosterone has been produced in and it's the most funny esters. Even like DMZ, like Superdraw being attached to each other, there was also testosterone that's bound with an ester and then two testosterone molecules on the outside. So percentage-wise it's a much larger amount testosterone compared to the ester because the ester binds two testosterone molecules. So maybe we can bring that to the markets. That will be the new and exciting ester. Yeah, that can be the new trend. Yeah, it's interesting. I mean that's sort of probably where when results like this comes out then there's more questions on well and better drug delivery of testosterone is probably more favorably suited to shorter chain esters and before you know it we're like going to testosterone acetate for fast delivery of TRT or suspension. Are you surprised? You have to go to the doctor in 10 minutes. Yeah, or you go with the batches and then cream becomes more popular, right? You might as well do T-excuses with testosterone cream on the nut sack for the most stable levels, you know, the nemo you're you know pollinating everybody else in your household. Distostro. Why am I, why is my cat so muscular? Why does my cat have a beard? Distostro and cream, baby. Oh, bad. Yeah, I'm excited for that study. So what do you think is the publication time? Like you're submitting it to the NIHA next month and then how long do you think? A month or two? Should go fast after that. It would be good if you can do that for the one-year anniversary of this podcast and otherwise we'll do it on the 13th episode. Because it's not using any new drug, right? There's no like interest in it per se that it's going to hold it up, right? No one's going to, no pharmaceutical company's going to rush out to like invest in something and hold it up. So no one. Well, Pfizer might want to hold it up. Pfizer might care, but I mean, what's it, invented in 1952? I don't know if they really care that much. I don't know what their sales are. I remember when they pushed out the Vax, then all the ampules or the vials were used for the Vax and then there were no ampules or vials available for the Salsron Scipionate and then they produced in one milliliter or two milliliter vials for a while, which they got off China that they usually use for the peptide to companies. Like that was like for a year almost. Test SIP was found in those one milliliter, two milliliter generic vials. It's hilarious. So yeah, so maybe they will care or maybe we'll pull it off the market like other formulations like Oksander loan. And you know, I saw that Ellie Lilly was suing some compound informacies for Terzepodat. Yeah, compounded with Vitamin B12 or that kind of stuff. I'll link that article down below. So yeah, you never know what these pharmaceutical companies meant. They might be after to get you. So if you disappear at one point that we know which study that you have, you never see it again. Yeah, never to be seen again. Do you guys want to briefly discuss how to maximize your offseason as the final topic for this for this podcast? So even though it's summers coming around and everybody's dying to get in shape, you know, we discussed on the podcast with FB Pro John Jewett that using more steroids in the offseason might be a suitable approach if you really want to gain that size. Now, I think initially still, you might want to use less compounds in the offseason because the food volume goes up and the clerk intake goes up and you can modulate your training. But there comes a point in time where more food and less drugs might not get you to that size you want. So I'm talking about getting from 250 to 300 pounds, not from 150 to 200 pounds. Kurt, what would be your strategy? Well, according to all the modern pros, it's 300 tests and 200 pre-models, right? It's fucking exhausting. I've had the best luck with pushing hard for shorter periods of time. I would rather run a few grams for eight to 12 weeks and get the job done and then pull back out and hold it versus just kind of linger in some gram territory where you're not really getting much out of, right? You're still building up that fatigue. It's still not really healthy for you. I mean, most of the big guys probably used pretty heavy cycles at one point in their life to get to that size and then they don't need quite as much now. Yeah, unless they want to push upwards or if they want to jump away to class or they really want to go home for the Mr. Olympia, then the dose just escalate upwards to the multiple grams. Yeah, I mean, I mean, I fortunately don't talk about it. No, they talk about what they currently use now to hold their shape, but that's pretty relevant once you're already that big. It would be like, you know, if someone asked me at the gym, I'm on 150 milligrams of tester in five days, but that's not what I used to get there, right? That's what I used to hold that. That's a whole different story. Yeah, and they call you a liar for running 250 tests or 300 tests. When in reality, I mean, I went up to enough grams, three grams at periods of time. And that's where most of my size came from. In my last offseason, I was on 1.5, 1.7 grams combined. And I was pretty big. And that's with Incorlex and growth hormone and all the good stuff. So how can we do it healthily, though? Like if you say that like maybe a higher dose for a shorter period of time and then easing back, is that better than slowly escalating the dose upwards and having like this two-year offseason or just an increasingly progressive dose just ending up at a couple grams? I don't know. Is there any, Dean, have you ever seen any studies to show any data if that's any safer? I don't think there is anything that exists. I would rather push. I mean, that would be the healthiest compound to be testosterone growth hormone, right? Theranodontinous. So I would leverage those harder. I think with test and GH, you could accomplish a ton. You might not need other compounds. That seems to be the most sustainable. Of course, people get too excited for the agri-compos. I need decadering offseason, need anodrol during offseason. And there's something to say for it. Oh, I'm using the last cycle. I mean, the last cycle, it was 1200 tests, 800 EQ, 800 Tren E and 100 anodrol and a bottle of Sarastin Mede. But I ran it for eight weeks and I gained 20 pounds. Yeah. And I've been on tier two ever since. And only because I've purposely been downsizing and I lose anything. I lost three pounds when I came off the cycle. And my weight basically stayed the same all the way through the Arnold, which was five months after the cycle. And I just decided that I didn't want to, I wanted to go to run again, basically. I was thinking of not being able to move. And so that's exactly how I felt when I was 265. It's like, I need to be mobile again. This is ridiculous. I can't even get out of bed without being out of breath. Yeah. So that's, I mean, I did that to myself. That wasn't, that wasn't some lack of drugs. I think it's really easy to hold what you've built with. You don't need that much food. You don't need that many drugs. But I, I don't know. I think, like what Chase did, right, where he escalated, I think Chase Irons, like escalated this discipline for a long period of time until he got to there. There is something to be said about that. Is that as efficient as just, I mean, I didn't go right to that dose, but is there, is there something to be said about bombarding yourself once you have some level of experience with the proper chemicals and just getting the job done and pulling out? I would still opt for that. You know, and you saw my labs and my labs were not affected if I stayed on, if I use, let's say, test and pre-mode to do that, but I stayed on for four months, would my labs have been better, worse? I don't know. It seems to be like a duration thing. And I think the longer you expose yourself to even moderate to higher dose, just the, the, the, the worse it becomes. Now again, compound selection highly contributes into that and experience and how you can mitigate the side effects by doing blood work, using ancillaries, a little adjustment to your nutrition, right? I mean, and avoiding particular compounds that are worse than others. Like you saw my C-directive protein went up so much from Epicatogen. And, and so, even though I would be in favor of increasing or fall of statin levels through some sort of pathway, Epicatogen might not be the suitable one. Again, based on an unto experience of one using my blood work, personally, I would not use that in the future, but maybe use YK-11 or fall of statin 3 from 4 to kind of leverage that fall of statin and myostatin inhibiting pathway to really maximize the gains. And you can make tremendous progress in a very short period of time, or you can do it a little bit slower, but then you have to limit compound selection to bioidentical hormones, which is usually what I preached, you know, in the step-by-step cycle design. Like if you kind of do this for longer periods of time and start a 250 tests and end up at two and a half grams, then just use test and GH and insulin. If you like insulin, I like insulin. But because your body seems to tolerate that better than going on a gram of tests and a gram of deca and then 500 bouldin on top or a gram of bouldin on a 500 deca on top and then throwing the anodrol at the end. Both work parameters are generally a little bit worse. On a drug stock, you might be bigger though. So I did a synergy. Yeah, but I mean, I used probably some very harsh chemicals that I did mine. I think some of the things that matter is I ate a balanced diet. I did cardio every day, seven days a week. I was super anal about doing cardio and I never get fat. So my body's fat always stays in the single digits. And we see in all the guys I work with, the leaner they are generally the better their blood work is. It's the blood work gets out of whack in the offseason when guys are eating garbage and they're getting fat. And you know, if you're on the third side of the car, let's go to cardio, get fiber in and take care of your health, your body can tolerate some pretty high ender dendroids for a short period of time without really falling apart. Right. So if you do non bio identical, it's okay to do a shorter period of time and kind of blast your socks off. And then if you want to do a longer offseason, it's probably better to limit your compound selection to bio identical stuff and then slowly taper upwards. I think there's, I think we can draw a nice conclusion there. And then it really depends on what you want to be right. Do you want to make slow progress and just be large in a charge for an entire year straight or go through this roller coaster where you're an absolute freak for like 12 weeks or growing into that freak status for 12 weeks, which is basically what I did last time. And then everybody's like, what the fuck is going on? And you're the same because you're so strong and but you start to build up like these little micro injuries and your tendons start to hurt because you get so freakishly strong. And then you need a little bit of time off to kind of reset regroup, you know, restore insulin sensitivity, restore your blood work parameters if they skewed, and then do it all over again. I think can we draw a conclusion? Yeah, Dean, Dean, what do you think? Yeah, I, as I've gone older, sort of, I still hold the belief of what we all speak about in terms of it's not like a new point for discussion, how you have to go to high dosages if you want to be insanely big. That is, you know, a fact at this point that we've all discussed. Can you do like, can you do it in a more healthy fashion than I think what we've sort of proposed here in terms of two solutions, Kurt's short of short term blast strategy, which was quite popular back in like the early 90s. And then the slow, steady bio identical approach, which you're, you're sort of seeding your body with stuff that already naturally exists, so be it in a higher mountain, you're playing off your own natural biochemistry. I see both of them being relatively equal in some sense or form. But then the other side of it is, it still comes back to guesswork. You know, your total dose of where's that sort of sweet spot of androgen receptor activation and muscle tissue and not, you know, like we've said, spilling over into order tissues to cause oxidative stress or side effects. That it's still whatever way you choose to do it, if you go to the pathway of like Kurt said with a short quick blast, well, then it's probably not why is to have high doses of like aromatizable compounds or stuff that's going to maybe contribute to side effects because you put high dose of tests and everything else to have to put more ancillaries in to control some of the side effects and just gets a bit blurry. So do you go that route that you're using more so anabolic switch, some stable dose of testosterone and everything else around it, like the test EQ and withdrawal perspective, or you've got, you know, your side of high dose test, you know, moderate GH, moderate insulin use, depending on appetite, foods, utilisation, insulin sensitivity, and then maybe you might need an aromatase, but if you're someone who naturally aromatises in a high amount and you want to have some level of control over estrogen with that high dose test, you might need a small amount to keep estrogen in check as opposed to letting it run run loose on what we see in like air and your 10-some receptor issues, a ace expression, blood pressure, gynecomastia facca and blah blah. They, they both, I think both of them serve a purpose where you have to take the genetic individuality of that person and figure out what's more appropriate. And again, it comes back to goals, like you said, do you want to be a massive sort of, not bloat God, but do you want to gain size very rapidly in terms of like, you know, intracellular fluid retention glycogen, I guess a higher rate of glycogen synthesis and everything else like that, or are you looking to, you know, a crew muscle tissue that like Kurt has explained sort of stays around once a lean tissue is built, it's relatively easy to maintain with the right stimulus, nutrition and training. So the end goal to speak is to gain muscle tissue if we're bodybuilders, but the aesthetic side of being as big as possible, you have that rule also with your strategy. I think if, if I was to go back in and sort of do what I don't for pushing size when I was competing, I'd probably still stick with, you know, strategy like Kurt's of like a dedicated 10 or 12 week block way, heavier emphasis on higher dose anabolic, you know, because I aromatize high naturally, keeping a very known control dose of test and then using deuter anabolic compounds around it. But, you know, keeping that control like 10 to 12 week block, but back then, you know, it's training like DC style of just complete utter annihilation, sometimes training. Yeah, that, you know, you know, over the last, over the last seven weeks of being back training, being on like a strict like my bloodwork came back 24 an animal, I've gained 10 kilos by literally leveraging more food and making sure the logbook is beaten each week with still good strict tempo and stopping one rep in reserve, but still training heavy, still training with progressive overload. That that size that's come back is muscle memory from when I was at my heaviest lifting heavy and everything else, that when you develop that tissue from that past exposure, and you're able to generate the stimulus that built that tissue, which is the mechanical tension and training, it'll come back. Like I don't think like Kurt said, there's something to consider towards total peak serum testosterone and muscle growth. But the fact that I've gone up 22 pounds and six weeks, and we face the show on here in the camera, that that has been just true diligent tracking of more food and getting progressively stronger week on week, that the hormone level isn't really the most important thing in that whole equation because everything else hormonally has been stable to in TRT and growth hormone use. So we then also really see. Yeah, go for it. Okay, but that's also because you're growing back into your previous muscle memory. We're not putting in a new tissue. And then the issue is not there. You would have to bump up the dose to really get new tissue in this is this is the thing. So what I probably find now is in probably the next two, three weeks. Naturally, I'll probably just hit my quote unquote natural plateau somewhere around 98, 99 kilos. That if I want to get any bigger, I'm going to have to go to a higher androgen level to allow more muscle  pro-protein synthesis to occur, more leverage and nitrogen retention and all that sort of stuff. That I think we sort of underestimate, even when we're talking about dosages, going up too high, too quick. Yes, that short and sweet blast, like Kurt said, is like a more controlled, shorter exposure to a high dose, but you could completely overestimate the dose that you chose for that run. And that's not necessarily a wrong thing, but it could be a wrong thing and that could generate side effects and health consequences. So it's difficult to say that's the greater option over the other, the slow, steady approach of bio-identical stuff. But if I was to follow it in my own current case, I would probably rather than knowing that my days of short blasts like that is probably not there anymore. If I was to choose my next step, if I reached that plateau in a couple of weeks, I'd probably go 250 tests and maybe, depending on appetite, I might add in a small dose of insulin at one meal on top of the GH. But I pushed maybe the GH from four I used on the training days up to six or eight. There's those small little leverages that could I then continue that for a longer period of time over an anabolic setup. It probably comes back to what we all talk about is blood work. So whatever strategy I choose, whether it's that long and slow bio-identical or short and sweet anabolic androgenic steroids stack, your blood work is still going to tell you at week eight whether you're in danger or not, what something has changed or not, whether it's a responsible decision to continue. Both scenarios still require the same decision matrix, eight to ten weeks into whatever you've chosen to do. Either you pay attention to what the blood work is saying or you can order and just continue on. Yeah, yeah, I'm risk averse to any blood work changes. Let's see what I can do. So what do you guys think about like a hybrid approach? Where you leverage the bio-identical hormones until you reach a certain point, like let's say a plateau in dose or progress. But then it also means that you're primed, right? Your food intake is high, your metabolism is high, your training intensity and your volume and all that stuff is like perfectly adapted for let's say a gram, one and a half grams of testosterone. And then you throw in an eight week do or die crazy cycle because instead of slowly building up to that with a crazy cycle with test, EQ, trend, etc., you kind of leverage the bio-identical hormones to the point you get stuck. Your blood work parameters are a little bit skewed, but there's room for abuse, sort of say, to push over that edge and go from 260 to 280. So you go up to one and a half grams, for example, with six, I use growth hormones of insulin and some ancillaries to keep your blood pressure in range and all the health ancillaries needed to stay as healthy as possible. And then you do your blood work and you're like, you know what, now I'm going to throw in another gram of Primo and maybe 150 milligrams of trend and 50 milligrams of anodrol pre-workout four times a week, 200 milligrams total. So you go from one and a half grams to two and a half grams or 2.7, increase the growth hormone, ride it out for eight to 10 weeks, make phenomenal gains and then cruise. Because I think there's something to say for that as well, right? You leverage the bio-identical stuff until you get stuck and then you go with the kitchen sink approach, just push over the edge, put some new touch on, get phenomenally strong to the point your blood works as you and then you come off and cruise out and maintain all of the gains on bio-identical stuff, allowing you to get healthy again. What do you guys think? I agree. I think more guys should leverage test for a long time before they even start adding compounds in. I think where the modern thing with the guys using very little amounts of tests than adding Primo immediately and before they're even at a clinical dose to test Ostrone, I think that came from Derek, but I don't think they were of understanding what Derek was talking about because he actually listened to what he was saying. He was saying leverage test as high as you can go before you get side effects. He wasn't saying do 140 tests and then after you know he never said that. I was saying because people are scared of tests because they're feminists. Whatever it may be. I want to do low tests in high mass drone. Why bro? That's like the women approach. What are you doing? Most guys would get more out of leveraging tests and they would out of like unless you're competing and you're getting on stage, tests will do 99% of the stuff all the other drugs are going to do. Yeah. The only downside is that it might increase epidural growth factor and make your skin a little bit thicker, but you can mitigate that by getting your body foot levels down. Okay, this skin on your back might be a little bit thicker. You know my picture. My skin doesn't look that thick. No. It's for a long time. Who's banging you from behind? That's going to matter. Let's be honest there. Like they're not going to bang you from behind and say, oh dude, your skin on your back is so thick. That's not how it's supposed to be. In a normal health. When in prison, does anyone really give a shit? That's really good. Exactly. So they only downside it for testosterone that it aromatizes and might make your skin a little bit thicker over the other compounds, but regarding the safety and efficacy profile, it is still the best bang for your buck. I mean, we didn't put testosterone ester for no reason. You know, so like I've done bio-dental hormone cycles many, many years, right? Until I started experimenting a little bit more for content purposes. My blood work was almost impeccable on testosterone only cycles. We're talking about an HDL 50 and LDL 110 and that's without a ZMI or statins. Hematica didn't budge. The liver enzymes barely changed and then you start experimenting with other stuff and then your blood work skews and literally falls out of your arteries trying to run away. It gives you a flea phlebotomy. That's how scared your blood work is. So I think leveraging the testosterone and the bio-dental hormone stuff first long as possible and then you close your cycle off with a bang and throw in the anadrol in the trend or whatever for a couple of weeks. Sure. Sure. And then you feel like a freak, but your body also hurts from a joint perspective like, oh man, I'm so strong now. I'm doing 50 or 80 kilo incline work and then after a while your body just kind of hurts and you need a break and also from a blood work perspective. So I think that's the most sustainable option. Yeah, but it's not sexy. It doesn't sell because you have to stay on testosterone only for like four to six months and then you have eight weeks of a honeymoon period with tremolone in the picture. Whereas guys rather be on tremolone for six months and then do a consultation about kidney failure. Dean, what do you think? Are you already fantasizing about your next offseason psych? Yeah, I'm thinking, yes. You just see the numbers running through my head. Yeah. I think, 600 tomatoes. I think like some bananas and pineapple in the mango. I think what we sort of you know, offline before was when Kurt brought that whole up about like guys being risk averse, which is how we've sort of started the podcast and I put my hand up and I was like, well, yeah, I'm probably to blame for some guys running like 150 tests and you know, being a bit like, oh, do I need to push it? But that sort of low test approach stemmed from me sort of personally being like a high aromatizer. So I know if I go like way above 125, you know, 250, inevitably, I have to use the aromatase inhibitor, albeit in a low dose. So now I've added in this other compound that I have to use to mitigate my genetics of high aromatase expression to try and keep that in a relative normal range so that I have like mood stability from, you know, the higher estrogen creates more serotonin, can feed into mood issues. And so for me personally, that just makes more sense that I know everything is steady at 125. So I'm just going to leverage in like last year's contest prep 300 primo 200 nandrolone or whatever, or 200 bananas and 300 pineapples. You know, I know that that dose is steady, it fulfills biological need of bio identical testosterone. And so personally, I don't need to go any higher than that with designing the rest of it around it. But I started to say that it's like a set in stone rule. But yeah, be very risk averse with, you know, I'm on, I'm taking a steroid cycle and you ask and I say, well, I'm on 150 tests and it's sort of, well, that is your total testosterone probably upper 20s, bottom 30s or in US terms, you know, maybe think a 5900. It's, yeah, it's, it's, it's an optimal test level. But when we're talking about like peak dosages and serum levels, it's right probably at the bottom of the end. If someone is going to look to aspire to be a an open bodybuilder, I guess if, if, you know, if they want to be maybe and not to not to put it down, but in terms of like classic bodybuilding, which is what I stayed in, you know, you have a cap that you have to stay within. So there's, there's a relative amount of where you can go to in terms of body weight before that's it, you're going to not have any room to push any further because when you drop down, you're going to have a hard time making your weight limits. But if you are a, you know, someone aspiring to be an open class bodybuilder who wants to be, you know, 235 to even 250 on stage, there is going to be that requirement of, like you said, you're going into big numbers and there's no, there's no denying that or trying to sweep it away. It's just how you, how you arrive at that big number is probably the more important journey rather than, you know, deciding right, I'm going to be an open class bodybuilder. I'm going to go on my first cycle and the first cycle is 1000 milligrams of tests. You know, that we have these two options that we've discussed there and they do, you know, 1000 milligrams of tests, your first cycle, are you going to get great benefit out of that if you have like your university foundation of what we discussed with John of like your training, your recovery or health and salaries, budget for food and everything else, of course. But is that immediately like your first dose choice in that step up? Probably not. But we shouldn't, like we've said, you shouldn't shy away of going, well, at some point you're probably going to have to go up towards those numbers to, to experience size growth. And I mean, we discussed in the early days like my peak offseason when I was pushing for classic bodybuilding was 300s, tomatoes, 600s, pineapples, 300 bananas, and then there was some apples thrown in pre-workout that, you know, I'm not, you know, I'm not. Yeah. So you know, you're not, you're not one or two, one or two apples. It's a big difference, man. One or two apples. It is a curse, curse a fan of two apples. Anyway, for three apples, three apples, three injectable apples split bilaterally. You're going to get people out running out apologies of trying to inject apples. Please don't do that. Good stuff. I have to allegedly my steroid drawer. So fun. I'm not, I'm not, you know, denying that like my peak size and we shared that picture of me and my biggest 108, you know, that was over a thousand in terms of numbers. And I think total, total load, total dose like 1400, 1450 that you, you're not showing away that in order to be that size. Yes, of course, there's going to have to be a push and pull and you can't just try and go, I got to 108 taken tier T because we absolute nonsense staff that discussion could get back phenomenal genetics that maybe, but that is not a pretty 108. That doesn't happen for everybody. You know, if you're doing it on tier T, then you're probably a quarterback, you know, physique wear, you got 20, 25% extra large running around. Where, where I am now body fat wise, yeah, still probably got decent abs at 96 or two, two, 11. I'd say, like I said, 98 is probably where naturally I know I'd probably tap out at tier T and even just recovery and strength progression and everything else that I'm not even like, polarized to think I can get into the like high 100 kilo numbers naturally to speak with that, that dose that I get set if I was to approach where my next step be probably, you know, I'd leverage the tomatoes up, but then I'd have to start adding in an aromatase and they would are just then it requires another level of care that you're going to have to check blood work periodically to make sure that you aren't, you aren't keeping estrogen totally flattened out. And, you know, week to week, you might even require an even lower dose of aromatics and ever versus another week, depending on your body fat distribution, what you vet, your environment and everything else that it's not like straightforward. If I go to 250, I had in 12.5 milligrams of aromas and twice per week and everything stays dandy. Some weeks you might need 12.5 once per week, you might need a twice per week, you might not even need at all depending on how the enzyme expression has been affected from the suicidal inhibition. So yeah, it's complex from what we discussed here, but there's no denying that for all intensive purposes when we are like educating and trying to be healthy, yes, that that low entry is relatively gutting to consider, but you're not going to massive in terms of like, if that's your goal to be as big as you mainly possible, it's just not achievable with that, with that dose. Now that's an important thing for us to obviously discuss. Yeah, now I know that the comment section is screaming right now, Dean, why don't you use the other STR steroid premode to control your estrogen levels? Dean just had a hair transplant and premode is not here safe. That's why you'd rather escalate the dose with the STR steroid and the aromatazin in there. My days of pineapples are probably going to be way behind me now moving forward if I want to maintain what's up there. More for me. More so because. More for you, more for me. I'll have to organize a deal which of what's left there from times past. Like I think, you know, like that even with my blood work with the 125 and the 300 last year and prep my estrogen was completely bottomed out. So in that instance, we know you have to have a certain level of estrogen for hair growth. And even now, since going from the 60 milligrams to the 125 after the transplant, I've noticed that I think that my estrogen has been sitting quite high the last couple of weeks. But regardless, like in a position I've gone do blood work, but the other side of it is, even if my estrogen came back high, I'd be still a little conservative. I've used aromatazin, but a wild, the follicles are still growing and maturing. To go in and lower that estrogen, I just have to ride out the relatively elevated estrogen wave until I'm satisfied that I can do a little bit more control that the hair follicles have properly embedded in and are stable and safe as to speak. Did you notice any beneficial effects regarding high estrogen levels from using methylene blue through my inhibition? Because that's what I noticed. My estrogen is 220 by kilograms per milliliter because I run 625 tests without an aromatazin a bit or because I wanted to see if YK-11 has some aromataz inhibiting effects, which technically could happen. It's reported anecdotally and based on my previous cycle, my serum estradiol levels weren't so high. So I ran 625 tests per week for four weeks, five weeks, without an AI doing the epicatogen experiment. Serum estradiol came up from 140 to 220. So I think that's a normal increase over the course of four to five weeks. And now I add that in YK-11, but I did not notice any estrogenic side effects mentally like irritation or poor libido or that kind of stuff because I'm also using methylene blue. Whereas previously on high estradiol with fluvoxamine in the picture, I was insufferable. So maybe this is a way around for you. Yeah, I mean, that does raise a good question. I have noticed, I think probably how I can tell surrounding the raised estrogen for me personally from a symptom perspective, if you want to call it a symptom of high estrogen is obviously a small bit more fluid retention. So again, face is a little fuller, a little more emotional. When you watch movies, you can feel a little more mentally emotional. And I'm not going to shy away from the fact if anyone has watched the series on Netflix adolescence, I did cry at the end of it. So if you're watching it, I'm sure you can relate as a father if you watch it. But yeah, you know, normally, normally you wouldn't be as as emotional, but that really Morgan was shocked. She like looked to me, she's like, you're crying. And I was like, I wasn't ashamed that you're crying. Not me. That you know, that that that was quite quite an emotional story that in the past, you wouldn't be like apathetic, but it would stir emotion in you, but it wouldn't really like hit you right in the gut. This really like the the clothes and see and I just are you're calling. So oh yeah, it was a proper then your estrogen. It happened. It happened for me when I watched those little documentaries on the Dodo or another YouTube channel about cats being adopted. And then I fucking, it's insane, dude, but I have seven cats. So it's probably the same as being a father. I have two, two months left. And then I can relate. And then my wife, I'll watch analysts and that watch that. And that that program in the comment section, if if you have Netflix, it's four episodes. Very interesting program raises a lot of questions now as my kids obviously get older and the age of social media and its impact on teenagers. And, you know, it raises then our duty, you know, what we're always doing is educating to be this sort of point of discussion for if there are teenagers watching this, which I'm sure there are like 16 to 18 year olds or even younger, involved in physique, physique progression that we are the sort of I'd hate to call it, but the sort of father figure type that we are open to having the conversation. We don't shy away from the facts and but we are quite stern and, you know, really showing the risks and making them aware to prolong the decision to do something like that, but not be sort of, you know, it's a debut topic. You can't be talking about that. Because I mean, like even, you know, from right, so your drinking and then they're patiently waiting for the teams. And now we're going to hit the bar and you get them fucking drunk. And then you realize you don't want to do it again. Yeah, you know what to do. Yeah, you know, it's the best way to learn. Straight to trim blown acetate to get turned off on your 18th birthday. You're still in the bodybuild. You still I'll do the injection for you. I go right, where's the thing by the thing. I still want to add to yeah, Kurt, anything you want to add for the offseason plans and then we're going to wrap it up because I know you have a call. I like both of those options. I think they're both good, depending on where someone is and what their goals are. Everyone has different risks. Yeah, yeah. I'm not risk. I'm tolerant for a couple grams myself, but I'm not sure when I'm not sure when that's ever going to happen because I'm going to be a daddy soon and I get to write that through until they're at least 18. So the next 20 years, I got to be a little bit more careful. But up until this point, I cared less. That's why I had so many experiments over the last couple of years to the enjoyment of the audience. All right, guys, I'll come up with a couple topics for the next Anabola Groundtable. That's the one year anniversary. We have to do something special, but I'll figure something out. And guys, if you have any suggestions in the comment section, we're not going to do any live injections. That's not YouTube approved, but if you can do something else, it's interesting. That one year anniversary is pretty cool. And that means we've lasted longer than most podcasts discussing these kinds of topics. So a little pad on the back for us. Good job, Kurt, Dean and Steve. Any closing words for this episode? No, no, no, no, thank you for listening. Thank you for allowing us to continue doing what we do best. Yeah, I'll donate some money to Dean's new microphone fund. And then if Kurt is coming up with a new study, I'll donate some funds for that as well, because if we can debunk more esters, then I don't mind being proven right with scientific evidence that annotates wind sands down. Whether that's test annotate or primo annotate, both are my favorites. And yeah, scientific evidence to prove that I'm all for it. Okay, with that, we are out. You can find all the social media accounts of Kurt and Dean down below as usual, we'll convert all of this to clips for the clips channel that is really kicking off. People are enjoying the clips channel with the short, bite-sized Anabola Groundtable clips. I think there's 100 clips there already. And this podcast will provide an under 10 clips, which all of your social media details are linked there as well. Both of you are available for consultations in case you don't want to go with me anymore, because I'm so fucking expensive. These guys are still reasonably affordable compared to me. But for how long? I'm not entirely sure, because I hear that these guys are filling up. So hurry up, well supply lasts. Kurt, Dean, thanks so much. This was a highlight of my week. We'll see you next month. And then we'll do the one year anniversary and come up with some cool topics. I'll see you guys then. Thank you. Peace out. See you.