I'll be the first one to say that when you look into the scientific evidence of Moldronet and some of the other compounds which were developed by the USSR, all of the scientific evidence was also funded by the pharmaceutical companies that developed these companies. So, you have to read between the lines a little bit. Vigor Steve here with part three of the optimized endurance deep drive video series. And in this segment, we're finally going to discuss the performance-enhancing drugs, but it's going to be a multiple part segment. I think part three, four, and five, all about PED. So for all of you enhanced individuals out there, rejoice. The next couple of videos all about performance enhancing drugs in the context of optimizing one's endurance and stamina and overall performance during long-d distanceance sports. So in this video, this part, part three, I want to discuss how to optimize your neural steroids and sex hormone panel with a hormone replacement therapy and how to optimize your mitochondrial function further compared to the mitochondrial support stack which I already released a couple months ago. So this is basically part two of the mitochondrial support stack. But there's a couple more um compounds that I want to discuss for the actual mitochondrial support stack part two which we'll review a little bit in this video. And then in consecutive parts regarding your endurance, we're going to discuss how to optimize oxygen carrying capacity, cardiac function, skeletal muscle function, how to remove lactic acid and deal with the lactate buildup, reducing inflammation, and then probably also all of the unclassified PEDs, which don't really fall in any of these categories, but still optimize your overall endurance. So, this is going to be a multiple part segment. All of these will include the Watt status mainly for the guys who compete in sports that are subject to drug testing. So you can keep this in mind. But if you want to know how to beat the WA doping test regarding the overall detection times and the clearance of metabolites, that's exactly what the consultations are there for. You can find the link down below. Before we get into it, please like the video, leave a comment for the algorithm, and consider subscribing if you haven't already. And if you want to support the channel or vote for upcoming deep dives or join the weekly vigorous Q&A which is always on Saturday, you can do so by joining the Patreon or YouTube memberships information down below as well. Let's get started with cookie cutter hormone replacement therapy. And the main reason why we're not going into full-blown steroid cycles and just limiting it to HRT only is because full-blown steroid cycles actually hinder your endurance by raising your overall oxygen requirement and raising your overall energy demands by raising your muscle mass. So anything over HRT is generally not recommended. And even though I'm well aware that anadrol and baldon and primobol and a lot of the other anabolic steroids are able to increase overall oxygen carrying capacity when it comes to endurance you're better off looking into something like EPO than using anadrol to increase your hematocrit and red blood cell count right we'll discuss that in part what is that part four which is part two of the peed segments in this one I just want to discuss HRT and another reason is because the movie Icarus directed by Brian Folk Mogul clearly mentions that a lot of these endurance athletes, especially the cyclists that perform and race in the tour to France, for example, they just use a low dose of testosterone to kind of complement their endogenous production or to kind of replace endogenous production when they're doing these long distance races. So in this video, just cookie cutter HRT consisting of a testosterone anyester and estester of preference 15 milligs, let's say 35 milligrams subcutaneous daily. So that's anywhere between 105 to 245 milligrams testosterone edate propriate whatever you prefer per week right daily micro administrations for stable hormone levels DHEA anywhere between 12.5 to 25 milligs morning and evening as well as 5 to 12.5 milligs pregnant morning and evening or either the full dose in the morning or full dose in the evening. You'll have to experiment with that and figure out what um neurosteroid protocol works the best for you. So that's anywhere between 25 to 50 milligs DHEA per day and 10 to 25 milligrams pregnenolone per day and a little bit of human corionic goandotropen whether it's urine purified or recominant in the form of mercitrol which is the one I prefer 250 I use to 500 IUs three times per week let's say Monday Wednesday just to help with overall testicular function all of the intermediary hormones make sure that you don't go infertile with prolonged HRT exposure exposure even though not everybody gets completely ausperic when they supplement with a little bit exogenous testosterone and DHA pregnant alone. So again this just there as an insurance policy for testicular function and all of the intermediary hormones. Dinomethane 100 milligrams morning and evening just for optimal estrogen balance between eststerone estradile and estriol aromosin xamestain as needed right do your blood work see where your serum estradile levels are at potentially growth hormone one IU two IUs before bed or before activity if you want a little bit of lipolysis and potentially initiate fat burning depending on the other performance-enhancing drugs that you're using in this stack because again not all of the drugs are going hand in hand. Fat burners and some of the endurance medications should not be combined, but I'll classify that a little bit later. Now, the problem here already is that only dynthane is actually WDA approved. So, if you're looking for a stack to raise your testosterone levels, which is WDA approved, go back to part one of the optimized endurance deep dive video series where I discuss various over-the-counter supplements which are known to raise testicular function and give you extra testosterone in your serum naturally. Right? VA approved. In this stack, this hormone replacement therapy stack, you see that all of the other compounds are actually prohibited. Under S1, the anabolic agents, you can find testosterone and DHEA. And uh under S2, the peptide hormones, you see 2.1 corionic, gonadotropins, and 2.3 growth hormone. And in S4, the hormones and metabolic modulators is exameroin. So only pregnenolone also forgot to mention that pregnenolone and dinylmethane are not included in the 2023 prohibited list. Let's move on and discuss how to optimize or at least modulate mitochondrial function. I'm not going to include all of the new compounds which are out there nowadays. I'll save them for the mitochondrial support stack part two. In this video I just want to optimize endurance, right? But when it comes to overall mitochondrial function, there's a lot more peptides and compounds that we can discuss, but we'll save that for the mitochondrial support stack part two, right? Stay tuned for that. Subscribe now if you want to see that dropping in a couple weeks. So, this video will not include eleite, also known as MTP131 or SS31 or bendavia, which improves mitochondrial dysfunction. might be useful for mitochondrial function especially in certain context but not really beneficial to optimize your endurance. Same goes for mitochondria targeted peptide SPT20 also known as SS20 which reduces mitochondrial inflammation and oxidative stress beneficial for mitochondrial health and we will discuss mitochondria targeted antioxidant SK Q1 or mitoquinone also known as mitoq which I did mention briefly in the mitochondrial support stack part one that it didn't really do much for me but a lot of you guys mentioned that mitoq actually had some benefits so again I'll include that in Part two won't be discussed in this video because I feel that they don't do much for overall endurance. What does do a lot for endurance and this is exactly what you guys are after all of the drugs which were designed by the old Soviet Union the USSR. Let's start with Maldronate. Finally, Maldronate also known as Maldonium or quitine developed by the USSR now part of Russia and Latvia. available as a generic medication but the commonly used pharmaceutical version is produced by the Latin pharmaceutical company JSC grindate that's the moldronate that we're all familiar with unfortunately moldronate is on the prohibited list so it's technically not allowed by wa it's found under 4.4 metabolic modulators 4.4.3 4.3 Meldonium. So keep that in mind. Meldonium, Maldronate, Quatterine, not WA approved but still readily used. And when you go to the Wikipedia page of Melonium, you see that a lot of Russian and Ukrainian and other Soviet countries um a lot of these athletes are actually failing for Maldronate. So it's readily used. Um you can find all of the details on the screen. Basically what it does, milronate inhibits enzymes which contribute to carnitine synthesis and this way energy metabolism shifts from fatty acid oxidation within the mitochondria purely to glucose. Right? This is a short version. There's a lot more to be said but to keep it simple um basically moldate meldonium shifts energy consumption from fatty acids purely to glucose. So that also means that carnitine supplementation or fat burners which heavily rely on fatty acid fatty acid oxidation and carnitine synthesis or supplemental carnitine those are off the menu. So something like injectable carnitine or oral lcarnitine l tartrate or clitrol or ephedrine or robulsine or yohimine or GW1516 or SR9009 to a certain extent or anything that relies or promotes fatty acid oxidation should not be combined with moldronate because it kind of defeats the purpose. All of the fatty acids will never enter the mitochondria and might now get stored in the skeletal muscle ruining insulin sensitivity over time. So it's very important to understand that milronate goes very well with something like insulin but doesn't go well with something like growth hormone or some of the other fat burners which I just mentioned. It also goes well with a high carbohydrate diet but doesn't go well with a highfat diet. So when I ran mold droneate I excluded all of the fat sources all of the direct fat sources. I mean you won't technically inhibit fatty acid oxidation to the maximum extent to the point that fatty acids are purely accumulating in skeletal muscle cells or atipose tissue right you're not going to get fat running mold drone but still it's inhibited to a great extent and thus um you know dietary fat intake should be limited to maybe 50 grams per day and this also brings another issue with it moldronate courses shouldn't last longer than three weeks so depending on how much of an endurance boost you want by inhibiting the fatty acid oxidation and just lowering your overall oxygen demand by purely focusing and shifting energy consumption to glucose. Um I would say that limiting it to 3 weeks at maximum is ideal, right? 21 days in duration and after that you take an equal amount of time off and you might have to supplement with carnitine because again you know some of these drugs especially Madron have a long halflife up to 15 hours. So even if you discontinue it you might still get this carnitine synthesizing or synthesis inhibiting effects um for several days after the last dose. So again, take some time off after Muldronate, but the time that you're using Muldronate, high carbs, potentially insulin, right? Depending on your tolerance and the sports that you're following, that might be very, very beneficial. Solely limit your diet to low-fat protein sources and low-fat carbohydrate sources with a little bit of vegetables here and there to clean your intestinal tract. no added fats unless it's coming from fish oil supplements for example or vitamin K or some of the other fats soluble vitamins 50 grams fat per day for this mild drronate to work especially if you're combining that with some of the other drugs or insulin for example now dosages range anywhere between 250 to a,000 milligrams milronate 30 to 60 minutes preworkout or 250 milligrams multiple times over the day on rest day to kind of keep the inhibiting effects going because I did notice that when I would stop mil droneade for a single day or two days that my performance and endurance for consecutive days was slightly impaired. It would still take a couple days for this maximum effect to kind of build up. So I would limit it between 250 to 1,000 milligs per day up to 21 days in duration and then take an equal amount of days off. So 21 days on, 21 days off with, you know, something to kind of restore fatty acid oxidation perhaps with supplemental carnitine because again you don't want to inhibit fat loss for that long otherwise you might have issues with overall fat loss or insulin sensitivity or other metabolic issues, right? So don't use it too long. Maldron basically works by increasing the efficiency of oxygen utilization in cells again by shifting from fatty acid oxidation to glucose oxidation and thus improves oxygen consumption and utilization. Maldron enhances aerobic performance and delays the onset of fatigue during long distance endurance sports. There al there's also some evidence that Maldron actually reduces the formation of TMAO trimethylamine and oxide which is a metabolic waste product from um carnitine or creatine or choline consumption right which has been implicated in cardiovascular disease. So there's a lot of benefits when you look into Maldronate, at least the scientific evidence, but I'll be the first one to say that when you look into the scientific evidence of Maldron and some of the other compounds which were developed by the USSR, all of the scientific evidence was also funded by the pharmaceutical companies that developed these companies. So you have to read between the lines a little bit. some of these um you know medical applications of these drugs are a little bit far-fetched I would say and don't really translate into the real world or are not beneficial for athletes in the context of optimizing your endurance. It's basically the same as when creatine came to market. You had creatine monohydrates, still the best form of creatine out there. And then a million other formulas and variants of creatine came to market and all of the scientific evidence was funded by the patent holder, right? So take it all with a grain of salt. Limited scientific evidence to sift through. Milronate and all the other USSR developed medications in this video aren't exactly FDA approved in the Western world. Still they will tremendously improve your endurance if you use them responsibly. Right? There's something to to say from your drone age regarding uh cardiorive effects or neuroprotective effects. Personally, I didn't notice much of a benefit regarding neutropic effects for cognition or memory or productivity etc. Right? For that I would use actual neutropics. But still some of the scientific literature and know a lot of people out there that notice a cognitive benefit or boost when they're using moldronate for a couple weeks in duration. So do your due diligence researching. Personally, it's one of the more potent uh endurance drugs in this video and but there's a lot more to discuss. So let's just move on to beil which I also really like but only once per week. The effects of beeil are very longlasting. Luckily for everybody out there, beel is not included in the 2023 prohibited list, but it was added to the WA monitoring list in 2018, but it's not included in the 2023 monitoring program. So, a little bit of a discrepancy here. Is it on the monitoring program or was it already taken off because it's not included in the 2023 version? So, it's technically approved. The halflife, though, currently unknown. It's speculated to be several days. What I noticed from a single dose of beateril is that the effects regarding the anti-hypoxic effects and the overall performance boosting effects they are longasting several days. I would say that's anywhere between 5 to 7 days. When you look into the medical insert of beateril it recommends 5day courses between 250 to 1,000 milligs depending on the particular medical situation that it's prescribed for. Again, only in Russia and Barus and some of the other Soviet countries that fell under the USSR where premills prescribed in various medical applications. They recommend a 5-day course at maximum and then taking a significant time off. So, from my personal experimentation, I would say that you should limit it to eight doses of 250 milligrams bentil. Some people prefer 500 milligrams. I was 110 kilos at the time and I got all of the benefits from a single dose of 250 milligrams. regarding the improvement of endurance, but I'm a big muscly meathead and I don't exactly do a longd distance races. So maybe you need to increase the dose of beil to 500 milligrams or maybe even 1,000 milligrams what the medical insert recommends again for medical issues, not for improving your endurance. So you'll have to experiment a little bit because again the data is limited and there's not so many people that use it in the western world. Um, but I'm sure if you go to Russia or Bellarus, ton of people use beil for recreational purposes and probably longer than five days consecutively. For bodybuilding purposes, I would say a single dose of 250 milligrams before leg day for its anti-hypoxic effect and anti-exemic and antioxidant and neutropic benefits. Right? You do get a little bit of a focus boost when it comes to beil. Um, 250 milligrams once per week for eight weeks in duration, then taking significant time off, right? that single dose will still last into consecutive workouts, but from the people that I talked to that use beil for endurance. Some of them might use 250 milligs to 500 milligs every single day for 8 days consecutively, right? And then after that, they take maybe an equal time off. I did talk to one guy who used Bimitl every day for like 6 months in duration. No adverse effects, but the scientific literature is quite limited. So I would not overdo it and maybe wait for more publications to uh come regarding the side effects and you know uh how it affects your liver health and lipid levels and your kidney markers and that kind of stuff because again not so much evidence to go by. So basically beil is an actroectant that means it's a synthetic adoptogen with significant capacity to increase physical performance. Exactly what I noticed and many of my clients notice that use benmatil for endurance. Beal enhances the cell resilience to physical stress without increasing body temperature or heat output. So for the guys that do races in hot climates or you know like me when you train in the gym without air conditioning, you notice that your body temperature is actually sustained. You have less of heat output through a strainous exercise. So I only use it on leg day, which is basically the hottest workout of the week. Again, training in the gym without air conditioning. But if you do long-distance races in the desert or anywhere where it's kind of hot, you know, the south of Spain or other places where they do um you know, cycling or other endurance sports, very very beneficial. But where really shines is in its anti-poxic effect. So that means if you suffer from hypoxia due to low oxygen environment, high altitude for example, or very strainous workouts, when there's low oxygen in the body, it simply can't function correctly. So you might get confusion, restlessness, difficulty breathing, a rapid heart rate or even bluish skin which I'm sure many of you guys have seen on some of the pro bodybuilders um when they do strenuous sets their back gets bluish bluish skin. So that's a state of hypoxia that only happens when you're very very large or train with very high volume and blast through your workout very very fast. So this is why I prefer bethl on leg day. This is the most strenous workout of the week. But again if you do endurance work especially at high altitude or hot environments beil highly beneficial. So basically what I noticed experimenting with beil is that I'm no longer out of breath not during leg day not during strenuous cardio on the elliptical or the stairmaster. No issues with breathing especially when combining it will mild dronate. Since the pharmacological effects of these drugs are not very well understood and documented, it might not be a good idea to combine moldate with beil because there's not so much data to pull from. I do know several people who run both compounds at the same time and say that they're breezing through workouts like nothing else. They're basically never out of breath, whether that's um you know physical activity in the form of bodybuilding or strength exercise or endurance sports. they can basically hold their breath and not have any issues or issues with body temperature because it's such of a dramatic effect. Still limited practical applications or at least literature to pull from. So respect these compounds because we don't really know how the drug interactions are because they're not very well documented. Besides that, beil has potent antioxidant and anti-mutaggenic effects. Uh might be able to prevent permanent hearing loss and facilitate recovery after mining explosion. So again a lot of various niche medical applications that beil might have and it might actually improve total cholesterol and bilarubala levels as well. Now again bimitil is metabolism resistant and has long-lasting effects. So you have to respect it maybe once or twice per week I would say is more than sufficient but if you're ramping up for a particular endurance sports that involves drug testing and that way you have an edge over the contestants who are not using beil. But again, it's not included in the wed doping list. So that might mean that everybody else is already on be and you need to supplement your bimit in just to win the race or get anywhere close to a top three placing. Moving over to hypoxin which is very similar to batil also a anti-hypoxic adoptogen antioxidant neutropic and is also used for alcohol withdrawal aids. Um, hypoxin is not included in the 2023 prohibited list or monitoring program, but the United States anti-doping agency applied to have hypoxin banned from magnetic competitions in 2017. But luckily for everybody that is um, you know, adhering to the wider doping list, this ban was not implemented. So it's on the basically the eyes of the United States anti-doping agency USA another swear word when it comes to you know people who take performance-enhancing drugs why and USANA who shivers down my spine um with contempt not because I'm scared but it's you know these people have to be there for uh the sports to appear legitimate to general population and again hypoxin and beil are very similar in its overall anti-hypoxic effects but I would say that a low dose of beil 250 milligrams once or twice per week is more beneficial regarding endurance compared to a,000 to 2,000 milligs hypoxin every single day. But maybe the discrepancy here is because I used bimitil in combination with mold droneate at various dosages and I used hypoxin by itself up to 2,000 milligs per day for a week in duration and I was also using the mitochondrial support stack in both contexts but hypoxin primarily works by enhancing the production of ATP and if you're already on an extensive mitochondrial support stack how much of a difference is hypoxin going to make so from my personal experience with various drug combination I would say that a combination of milronate and beil is more beneficial for your endurance and overall oxygenation and reducing um you know symptoms of hypoxia in you know longd distance endurance sports over using hypoxin and you know the first part of the mitochondrial support stack in combination but if you can do all maybe that's where you know these compounds really shines if it's even uh doable to combine all of them together I didn't do it so you'll be the first one to run an experiment I haven't talked to Anybody who has combined all of these compounds together, hypoxin optimizes mitochondrial function, enhances tissue respiration and mitochondria aerobic respiration and thus reduces the negative effects of hypoxia. And these effects combined basically improve endurance and mental performance as well through its enhanced production of ATP. It has been suggested that hypoxin can be your very potent vessel dilator because ATP can convert into AM and AM is quite a potent vessel dilator. So through its vessel dilating effects again I didn't really notice this but I'm on other compounds which are known to be vessel dilators. Um hypoxy can actually enhance oxygen delivery and even reduce again the negative effects of hypoxia um you know in a double whammy sort to say by having this vessel dilating effect. something I noticed that my stamina was improved but you know through the various combination of medications and drugs that I was using I did not notice such a dramatic effect and the other beneficial effects of hypoxin include very potent antioxidant properties might help with alcohol withdrawal or cases of alcohol abuse and it was also shown that hypoxin can reduce heart damage caused by myioardial infarction so there's a lot of benefits related to hypoxin albeit that a lot of the studies again performed in Russia um by the manufacturer of hypoxin and many of these studies have been translated and are reasonably old. Not a lot of new studies performed of on hypoxin. So keep that in mind. Moving over to emoxipene, also known as mixidol or mixifen. This compound is actually very similar to hypoxin in its overall effects. Albeit that I prefer emoxipine over hypoxin because I feel that my workout intensity is sustained longer and the overall endurance boosts that I get out of emoxipene is much more pronounced. When I take emoxipine before fasted cardio for example, I'm literally breezing through my session like some of the other compounds which are known to improve fat burning. Albeit that emoxipine is not generally known as a fat burning aid. So I prefer amoxipine over hypoxin. also because the dosing protocol of emoxipine is a lot lower. So you get a much more pronounced effect for a much lower dosage compared to hypoxin. That being said, both of them are classified as an antioxidant. Both have anti-hypoxic effects. Both are said to improve microirculation. But again, at a lower dose, all of these effects are much more pronounced with emoxipene over hypoxin. I would look into emoxipene purely as a replacement or a supercharged version of ubiquininal. I've mentioned ubiquininal several different times on this YouTube channel and various different videos. Ubiquinol improves heart function, improves your workout performance, improves your overall endurance and stamina. So look into this compound specifically as an enhanced version of ubiquininal because the overlap and the effects are actually very similar. So instead of taking 400 milligs iconol preworkout, you can get away with maybe 125 to 250 milligrams emoxipene instead. So you have to look into it this way in the beginning of your workout whether that's for strength or endurance you get a similar effect but towards the end of your workout when you're starting to get tired otherwise ubiquininal or in this case amoxipene is actually sustaining the intensity so instead of having this gradual dip towards the end and then you're freaking tired maybe a couple hours into the race with aolyl which you might have to dose several times like I mentioned in the supplements videos with emoxipene a single dose because its half-life is far longerlasting compared to iconol. With emoxipine, you dose it at the start of your workout, whether that's again for strength or for endurance. And you notice that you don't really dip off. You just stay sustained at a high capacity, the same capacity of intensity that you had at the start of your workout. So this is why I prefer emoxipine over hypoxin, even ubiquininal in certain conditions. But I still prefer ubiquininal for workouts that revolve around hypertrophy or strength. Plus, there's a lot more scientific evidence when it comes to ubiquininal compared to emoxipine. Ubikinol has been well documented on PubMed and emoxipene besides a couple scientific literature that stems from the USSR now Russia probably funded again by the manufacturer of emoxipene mixidol mixifen. Um there's not so much clinical evidence that we can use in the context of improving cardiac function or overall endurance or strength training for that matter. But when it comes to endurance though, emoxipene wins hands down. Probably also because the effects are much longer lasting compared to iconol or hypoxin. Now besides its potent antioxidant and vessel dilating effects, emoxipene is also or also has neuroprotective effects and I certainly noticed that it has some neutropic benefits. So besides neuroprotective properties that might enhance brain function, emoxipine can also improve cognitive performance, improve concentration, mental stamina and overall cognitive function during prolonged exercise. Something that I noticed that I was more dialed in. Now again this is without other neutropics in the pictures. I would just run emoxipin for a couple sessions in replacement of ubiko for the couple experiments that I ran a couple weeks ago. So basically, long story short, I felt a lot more dialed in, a lot more tunnel vision during the workout and for a couple hours afterwards getting work done or during daily fasted cardio when I experimented with amoxipine here and there. But this tunnel vision, this being dialed in feeling is actually very similar to most neutropic formulas out there like Gorilla Respawn or Gorilla Nitric for that matter or Gorilla Smooth, right? All of these neutropics have overlapping beneficial effects when it comes to cognition. So when you take this before the workout, I'm talking about Demoxipine here, then you're simply more dialed in, more focused, and again, time kind of flies by because again, it doesn't really feel like your endurance intensity and capacity starts tapering down towards the end. And now you're at a spot where you feel like not really stopping your endurance work because you're still training at such a high capacity compared to the beginning of your workout, right? So all of these things are highly beneficial. The recommended dosages for endurance and overall cognitive performance are anywhere between 125 milligrams to 250 milligrams once to three times per day. I've talked to people who take emoxipine 250 milligrams three times per day, but they're not really on top of all of the other antioxidants which I mentioned in part one and two. So if you're really taking a lot of antioxidants and you're training for endurance or hypertrophy or strength for that matter, I feel that a single dose 125 to 250 milligrams emoxipine preworkout is more than enough for its overall and all of its beneficial effects. Moving over to IICAR, not to be mistaken though for LCAR, both of these compounds are vastly different, albeit that both IIICAR and LCAR improve fatty acid oxidation. You can actually combine IICAR with LCAR together to improve your fat loss and to improve your overall endurance and stamina during workouts. IIcar stands for five amino for caroxamite ribboucleotide and alcar stands for acetyl lcarnitine. So again different compounds very similar abbreviations but the dosing protocol is going to be vastly different. IICAR is included in the WA prohibited list under 4.4 metabolic modulators. There's IICAR specifically just before SR9009 stenabolic and GW1516 cardine which we'll discuss in another video because they don't really have to do so much with mitochondrial function. IIcard though is an analog nucleotide derivative of a denosine monof phosphate and actually improves ATP synthesis within the mitochondria. It's also a very potent vasodilator. It's actually an anti-diabetic and of course classified as a performance-enhancing drug. And certainly the effects are very noticeable when you start injecting IICAR. Personally, I've never used it though, so we can't really go with anecdotal experience. But I've talked to several people during consultations who have used iicar themselves. The problem is because of its short half-life. You either need to inject it subq intramuscular or intravenously, basically directly before your endurance session. Now, if you inject it subcutaneous or intramuscular, you might get away with a 30 minutes to 60 minutes before your workout. But introvenous is basically right before you get on the bike or right before you start swimming or right before your match, whatever else it is that you need to boost your endurance for. Doses range anywhere between 25 milligs to 100 milligrams preworkouts. I've read some reports of people using 500 milligrams IICAR intravenously directly before their endurance work. But personally, I would say that that's too high. You would get too much of a vaso dilating effect. Again, it might be beneficial in certain context, but I've never really talked to anybody who've taken detar in a single dose. Still the people that I talked to they said 25 to 50 milligrams iicar introvenously or intramuscularly before a race or endurance work is much more pronounced compared to amino asylum super shredder or stampede. So please thread carefully because I very very potent allegedly I don't have any personal experience with it but it's on my to-do list as soon as my wife is pregnant and I can source some iicar which I found a couple sources which host it. Um yeah, I'll try that experiment for myself. So basically, long story short, IR is an analog intermediate in the generation of adenosine monof phosphate which stimulates activated protein kinmpk activity. The enzyme that regulates energy metabolism within the cells. An activation of AMPK by IICAR actually leads to uh increased glucose uptake uh improved fatty acid oxidation and stimulates mitochondrial biogenesis and even increases insulin sensitivity and iicar is known to promote angioenesis which is a formation of new blood vessels similarly to TB-500 and BPC-157 but a little bit of caution is advanced if you have undiagnosed cancer you don't want too much angioenesis because now the cancer can grow faster So maybe you get diagnosed, run your all of your cancer markers through blood work first before you start experimenting with IICAR, which is something I will certainly do when I get my hands on it and I run an experiment, right? I'll check my cancer markers every year anywhere just as an insurance policy. Now again, it improves AM and ATP synthesis and thus enhances fat burning, improves blood flow and oxygen delivery. So it's very similar to citrilline malate, albeit much more pronounced, right? Right. So, Icar is basically the best of all of the pre-workout supplements in a single injection. And then the last compound I want to discuss, a compound that many of you guys have pointed out in the mitochondrial support stack deep dive part one in the comment section. Steve, what about methylene blue? Bro, methylene blue is the best oxygenator on the planet. And yes, I did my research on methylene blue, but unfortunately, it kind of turned me off that it's a synthetic dye. And the last time I took a synthetic dye or an explosive or rat poison DMP, I had a pretty adverse reaction for the couple days that I ran it. So, I didn't get a chance to experiment or had any incentive to experiment with methylene blue, but I heard many good anecdotal reports since then. And I've talked to a couple people who brought it up that methylene blue was very beneficial to improve her overall endurance. So, I might run that experiment again a couple months from now after my wife is pregnant. And I'm back on the performance enhancing drug train. So methyline blue is not included in the 2023 prohibited list or monitoring program. So again, we got the green light there. Methylene blue has various mitochondrial effects, enhancing mitochondrial function and efficiency, increasing the production of ATP by acting as a redux agent in the electron transfer chain. Now that's very similar to obinol or some of the other compounds which we discussed in the mitochondrial support stack or part one and two when we mentioned how to improve your overall endurance using various overthe-c counter supplements. So there's a lot of overlap at some of the other compounds which can improve your overall endurance. Again it's not included in the doping list but I would classify methylene blue as a drug because it's basically used as a synthetic diet and it's also prescribed in cases of severe malaria. So, I would classify it more as a drug than an over-the-counter supplement, albeit that it's still readily available at some of the gray area websites. It's a very potent antioxidant. It has vasoddilating effects, similar to some of the drugs which you mentioned previously. A dose of 25 milligs to 100 milligrams 30 to 60 minutes preworkout seems to be the sweet spot for most people. But again, I don't really know if that holds up when you're combining methylene blue with some of the other drugs that we mentioned and are going to mention in consecutive parts. This is just the first part of the segment about performance enhancing drugs. If you have experience with IICAR or methylene blue, please write a little bit of a report down below in the comment section so we have a little bit more anecdotal reports to pull data from. For the guys that are interested in IICAR and methylene blue, I'm certainly interested, but it's on my very far to-do list because again, I got to do a couple other things in the meantime and I'm not as physically fit anyway to benefit from IICAR or methylene blue currently. But for now, we're out of time. Thank you guys so much for watching. You can find everything that I'm associated with down below in the YouTube description section. You can follow me on Instagram and Tik Tok at Vigor Steve Vigorous Crew. you guys know to do a front double bicep for you guys. Not too focused on my endurance or body composition for that matter currently, but when I get back on my PED journey, bet your left testicle that my endurance and stamina will be boosted to the max using some of the PEDs that I discussed in this video. Thank you guys so much for watching and I'll see you in the next