 so talking about S-tier and PPR receptor organism, telsmasartan. Unless you're going to take very, very high dosages, I don't think you're going to get PPR activity out of 20 milligrams. But Dean, the scientific evidence shows that PPR... You sounded so professional there, that was amazing. You practiced that, didn't you? I've been practicing this for six weeks, dude. I can tell. So the scientific evidence shows, if you really dive deep into it, that PPR agonism by telsmasartan induces fat loss. So why doesn't it induce fat loss in the real world, when you take 80 milligrams per day, split over two syrings? You want to know an interesting thing, I had this recently in a consult, angiotensin 2 stimulates aromatase. So if you're taking an A or B, you're blocking the receptor, but you're still raising ang2. And ang2 then interacts with your aromatase expression. So you take your A or B. Why did you have to tell this publicly? This is one of my favorites. This is one of my favorites during consultations. Welcome to the Anemali Ground Table, Episode 999. I forgot which episode it is, but it's probably close to the 10th one already. We're joined today with Kurt Havens and Dr. Dean St. Martz. It's been six weeks, I think. We pre-recorded the one with John Jewett. They got a lot of views. And of course, a lot of hates, because nobody believed low dose juice, but that's fine. Can't change anything about that. So we hear back for the fat burner tear list. We have a boatload of fat burners. I'm not entirely sure if we can get through everything, but I grouped them preemptively just to speed up the process. So we're still going to the discussion and still going to the tear ranking, but we might not get through all of them. So if your favorite fat burner, a DNB, BAM15 and ADIPOLTIDE is not discussed, shit out of luck. All right. Any updates we want to discuss before we get started? Anything new and spicy going on in the world? Yeah, a lot of classics coming up. Yeah. That's about it. You're holding the fourth for us. We will be attending. I am trying to guide two guys at the amateur level. All right, Aaron is competing. You got another guy? Two hands. Oh, two hands. Yep, not a case, cool and open. Yeah, Aaron is close to his best shape already and he's still got four weeks left. I'm excited to see what he looks like. Yeah. And Kurt, or Dean, you did a hand transplant? We did. So as everyone can see, we're three weeks post transplant. We're on track, like I said before we come on. So some of it has started to shed, which is completely normal, but a very interesting experience. But I don't have any of the issues post-op, like big swollen face, discharge, everything that you see horror story wise. So we'll see now as the podcasts go on over the next few months, I'll get longer and longer hair until I'm back into my mid-20s again. Are you gonna let it grow out like Tarzan? Beautiful Goldilocks. The Flownlocks. Well, apparently you're not allowed, well, this is the thing, right? And I guess it shows just like what we discussed with the podcast. When you look at the post-op care that I was given with the clinic I used in Turkey, if you look at other clinics within Turkey and then clinics in the UK and clinics in the US, there's not one standardized protocol of care. Like the clinic told me that you're abstaining from doing any form of exercise, like cardio for the first three weeks. And then you can go back to weightlifting after four weeks. But then you look online at some other practices of care and you're told you can go back to weightlifting after two weeks. And so you're like, well, who do you believe? I can sort of see the merit of why it's delayed for four weeks, you know, an increase in blood pressure. You're still, even though the surface is healed underneath the surface, that the root might still be trying to fully heal itself and attach in at the follicle. But even like practices of certain clinics are like for the first three days, you should be spraying saline onto the grafts to keep them hydrated. I have my clinic didn't say to do that. Other clinics have you applying like antiseptic creams to the donor area. Like again, with my clinic, I had a sterile wash solution where you washed your head in the evening time before bed, but that was really it. So it seems to me that there is no like, I guess standard of care approach that they all agree on. So I'll just go by what I've been told from mine. So we'll be three weeks tomorrow. I can go back to like light intensity cardio and get my heart rate up to, you know, 120, 130 again. And then the week after that, four weeks post-op, you can go back to weight training. So similar to you, I'm about four weeks de-trained at this point between the week before the surgery and the actual rest now that I am starting to itch now to get back into some form of routine again with training. Yeah, can imagine. But enough about training, what's your peptide stack, bro? So everybody's interested in a comment section. What is Dean running to get recovery from his transplant? This is it. I mean, even post-transplant, the first like week, I stayed away from doing anything like intervention wise. And I always sort of, I know that comes to me surrounding injuries, whether they're like muscle tears, tendon ruptures, recoveries, anything like that. You're always better off letting your immune system, the inflammatory response naturally deal with what's going on from the surgery. And then once you're in a position that you're happy that that initial inflammatory response is dampened, then go in with like BPC-157, TB-500, growth hormone. So I waited until day 10 when you like wash all the scabbing away and the wounds have healed. And then I started implementing like the usual BPC-157, TB-500, a milligram each. I put in GHK-Cu at two milligrams with one milligram of epitalone. So seeing anecdotally, people have ran epitalone at a very low dose, having positive effect over onto skin hair and nail health. So at that one milligram per day, I'll run that for three weeks. So well, 20 milligrams of epitalone. And then there's, I think two milligrams of copper peptide in with the epitalone. So it's two milligrams copper peptide, one milligram epitalone. As far as I remember, it's a 20 milligram, 10 milligram vial. So it makes sense because you have a lot of cell division. I didn't think about that. I didn't put that in my stocks. So please spill beans. Yeah, so far so good. I mean, where things are, I can only go by like an N equals one on my experience of healing, but putting pictures, say on Instagram of people who have had transplants and their comments back are you're like weeks ahead of healing versus where you should be. And that's sort of where now I'm waiting like that hair shaft. Basically they put a donor hair from the back of your scalp into the front to create the hairline. What you're waiting for is that new hair route to heal in the follicle space. And the hair shaft that was attached to that route gets a shock loss. So you've lose that hair, but then a new actual new rooted hair grows from that position. So you almost want that transplanted hair to fall out and then new ticker hair grows in its place. Right. Post-transplant, you have to take quite a nasty antibiotic that we discussed. You have to take Cyprofloxacin, which is... Muscle tears in a tablet. Had exactly, had I known going in that, that was what you'd get post-surgery. Now it is in terms of efficacy, it would be a lot stronger than a Moxacillin. So from a post-op antibacterial perspective, it is a lot more potent. But like you said, so many things around like fluxicity, toxicity is what it's called, where, you know, tendon ruptures are well established with Cyprofloxacin. It is quite a damaging antibiotic from a methylation perspective as well. So it can induce quite toxic issues around being a, I guess, blocking methylation. So at that mind, posts like five day course of Cyprofloxacin, I put in what I was taken prior to the surgery. This is another sort of back step. Prior to the surgery, I stopped like oral BPC-157, lorazotide, SLU, anything I was taken that potentially could play off into mitochondria into angiogenesis. I stopped that, you know, 10, 12 days before the actual hair transplant. So I was going in with it. I did that also. A baseline that none of these things were influencing like cellular division or growth. And then obviously afterwards then day 10 with the injectable, I put in the oral, the KPV, just for the offset after taking the Cyprofloxacin that there's issues surrounding gut health. Although I guess a benefit to running Cyprofloxacin is it's very potent from a dysbiosis perspective. So if there was anything within my gut, it's more likely been eradicated with that. Yeah, it's a hard reset. Yeah, it's a hard reset. So between that and then I guess the last five days I've put in spermedine and your little A, I've been doing, you know, quite a bit of fasting. And I guess this ties in with what we'll discuss today. I went from like, I guess the surplus of calories prior to Christmas to now going back into a deficit because I got a bit too fluffy over Christmas. Oh, yeah. Yeah, you enjoy yourself. But, you know, in the last two weeks after the surgery, I went back to maintenance calories because I don't think it's a wise idea after surgery to put yourself in a deficit when you're trying to heal up things. And then once I got past that day 10 of the surgery, like I said, the last two weeks now I've gone back into a small deficit. But interestingly, I had Mary Big Brown there from before Christmas. So I'll be able to give my insight of two weeks of using it. Yeah, it's a perfect time to, yeah, discuss the fat burner tier list. Steve, did they give you a proton pump inhibitor? They did. They gave me pentoplasol. But like what we discussed, and I know full well better, that went in the trash. Okay, yeah, I don't know why they do that. That is not advice, but me personally, I was not... Yeah, well, come on with the antibiotics. It can be a mess. Yeah, yeah, plus you're inhibiting the absorption of certain nutrients, which you need for recovery. So that's the last thing I would take. Seems like Turkey's the only country that does that after surgery. Yeah, but it is also the most popular country. And maybe it's because afterwards, they just go eat a lot of baklava and... Turkish delight. And yeah, maybe then, you know, the astro-reflex isn't so bad from the, you know, the antibiotics that you're taking. That was the worst part of being over there, that you can't have any of the baklava or, you know, being celiac. And I'm like, Tamora, and I'm gonna live through you, because we spent three days in Istanbul like as tourists before we went to the clinic. So we went to like the Grand Bazaar, which is a huge... Like when you look at it on the map, it's a huge open air market with everything. So I lived through her when I was like, go on, get one of them and tell me what it tastes like. And then I was... She's buying you free mobile, you were there? I did not. I was a bit skeptical. Mm-hmm. I have a few friends out there, but I never got to meet up with them. A few like pharmacy friends. It's just, from what I've seen personally recently with certain things from that area, there's quite a bit of fake stuff going around. Especially the genotropins. The genotropins are fake from there. Genotropin, or even, you know, I've seen Tiramel tea tree, which is produced in Turkey being fake, where I've seen people on blood work, and TSH is like 3.5 and they're supposedly taken, you know, 25 micrograms of tea tree, or even 50, some of them, you're like, what you're taking is not tea tree, because your TSH is not reflective of what's going on. So yeah, I was a bit skeptical. You just throw it in off the street, off because there's tons of pharmacies out there. You know, you're not short of them, but just that skepticism. So... Yeah, you have that Turkish pharmacy app where you can scan the QR code, you have to put that on by law, but you can scan that as many times as you like. So if you've got legitimate primo out of Turkey, and you scan it once, you can scan it again, and it's legit, you can scan it again, and it's legit. Whereas normally with the underground labs, you scan it once, you put in the serial code, and then it kind of says, oh, this project has already been registered. So the underground labs do a better job than the pharmaceuticals in Turkey, and wherever you can register those, because so that means you could just copy one QR code, put, produce like a thousand bottles with it, and then it would always register as positive, even though it's underground or it's fake. So it doesn't really work that way. I guess the other thing that we discussed, post-surgery from a painkilling perspective, you get dexofan from this clinic, which is only approved in Turkey. It's not approved anywhere else in the world. And it is a potent, like opioid-based medication, which was welcomed the first couple of nights when you just like to give you, I think five to six of these tablets, and then you take them on an ad hoc basis. The first two nights using it from a pain dampening perspective, then helping you to sleep, because you have to sleep sitting upright, which is the most difficult thing to get used to while you're sitting in an upright position, where you have a neck pillow on so that you don't touch any of your transplanted area. So the first three nights of sleeping in an upright position, again, some clinics tell patients to sleep in a recliner chair, so that you're in that reclined position, so you've got no inkling to turn on your side, but you could still turn on your side in a recliner, so sleep in the middle. Yeah, you would need one of those full neck braces on, basically, to prevent that from, so the first three nights was probably rough, where you're sleeping, but it's like you're dozing in and out of like almost napping, it's not a night's sleep. That was the hardest part, and then after day three, you can go to sleep on your back, but you have to wear a neck pillow again to stop you rolling onto your side, so you're still trying to protect up here for the first 10 days. Sounds like hell. So that's the only hard part of the transplant, pain-wise, I've said this to several people, pain-wise it's literally painful for about five minutes, and then that's it, and it's only painful for the local anesthetics, so if you've ever had local anesthetic injections prior to like stitches or anything like that, it's literally a six or a seven out of 10 sting, and then you feel nothing, so you literally feel the pain for like a second, and then it's gone, and if you can withstand those whatever five minutes where each of the injections are being done, after that everything is numb and you feel nothing. Right. Yeah, and then it stays there for about half a day, and then it slowly comes back, or at least a sensation. Yeah, it sounds like an adventure, man. How was the flight back? Yeah, good. It was good, straight forward. Straight, yeah, straight. I mean, on the day of the flight coming home, that was day four, a small bit of fluid started to dissipate down into my eye, where I looked a little bit like I'd been in a fist fight, but it was nowhere near as bad as I completely swallowing. I almost looked like I had a lazy eye for a few hours. And like, and how that happens is they inject saline and adrenaline into the area to swell the follicles so they can actually see it better when they're doing the surgery. That saline that they inject in, this is where you see guys whose face is swell right out, the saline is actually dropped down in behind their eyes and swell everything out. So I don't know whether it's the skill of the surgeon, or whether it's just your own biomechanics to speak, that the fluid either slowly dissipates out into circulation and you excrete it out, or you get enforced and where it rapidly diffuses down into your face, and then you're left to a big swollen face for a few days until it starts to dissipate by the kidneys. Did you all go away, Lucky? I think your electrolyte and water intake is just stable and then whatever fluid is injected that just dissipates real fast. And our metabolism source is a lot different than general population. Remove that shit really, really fast. Like my gyno surgery, the inflammation was gone I don't know, 10 days. Now there's just scar tissue left. So I did gyno surgery, lacy eye surgery and leg surgery, orthopedic leg surgery in 10 days. But I already recorded the video about it, so I'm not going to bore you guys with the details, but yeah, it was two weeks in and out of the hospital. Not too much fun. I'm on a similar stack as Dean, ITB 500 BPC GHK Copper, and then just test anivar and growth hormone. And I did some micronized progesterone to help with sleep. And that helps with the colotin synthesis as well, because I did liposuction on my chest and gyno surgery, and then getting an orthopedic plate removed, right? It's right here. So this is this heart where it's now gone from my body. Yeah, so I did, what is it? Seven incisions with a total length of 19 centimeters, seven and a half inches. Brutal, and two incisions in my eye for the lacy eye surgery. That, it's the best surgery I've ever done, but also the most brutal surgery. Because they, first they do eye drops to dilate your eyes, so they can look behind it to see if you're, what is it in the back of your eye? Can't forget what that's called. So they check if the blood flow and the arteries and that if that's all suitable for the laser, basically, the Fento second laser that they use to separate your cornea from your eye. And then they close it off again. So you have to wait four hours for that process for dilating pupils and then normal pupils again. Then they numb your eye. Then you go into the surgery area where they put some thing in your eye to keep that open, a clockwork orange style. I'm sure everybody's old enough to remember that movie. And then they shine the Fento second laser in your eye and you don't see anything. It's just completely white and hazy. Then they start cutting around the cornea. While you're trying not to move your eye and then they open, they open it up, right? Luckily you have some numbing eye drops. Then they open it up. They shine another eczema laser on your cornea, the corneal flap to remove a little bit of tissue, to correct the eye. In my case, it was 11 seconds. Smell burned flesh, obviously, because it's a potent laser. Then they put it back. And then for like two seconds, you see super clear until they put this protective goggles on and then they move over to the other eye. But then the next day they remove the protective goggles. So you don't rub in your eyes similar to what they do with the hair transplant, right? You shouldn't touch it. Same with your eyes because otherwise you just remove the corneal flap. So I had these, I look like a weird superhero for the guys that remember the post on Instagram, right? The guidehouse surgery and the CPAP and the protective goggles. I looked like I was completely mangled. So the next day I removed those protective goggles and you could see super clear. So I threw all my, I have two pairs of glasses. I just threw them away. Cool. Yeah. And now, and I'm think 10 days or 13 days after the surgery and it's no dry eyes, no complications, no issues. I'm very happy. Yeah. But the surgery was brutal because you're just, you're awake and you're literally looking into the laser and the knife. And no, never again. No, I have to do it once. And the guidehouse surgery was fine and the lake surgery was fine. So, but I made a video about it. It's 45 minutes long. So we don't have to bore you guys with the details here. Guys, let's move over. Cart you didn't do any surgeries, right? You're still healthy as a... No, I'm trying. I'm trying. I'm trying to stay on what I'm saying. I'm just on TRT and GH. Okay, there you go. Are you gonna do Arnold's Classic Cycle or you're just gonna show up? No, I think I'm done for a while. It's been 16 weeks on TRT. I really didn't want us anything. Yeah. I don't really think I wanna be any bigger. Yeah, I got the same thing. I got the same, like... I never met anyone that was like, you know, you should be bigger. That would be out of the show for you. I don't know. I'm just happy to be vertical at this point. So. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, I'm still 110 kilos. So it's like 260 pounds or 25. Maybe a monster. It's so weird because I haven't gone to the gym in six weeks. Tissue's permanent. That tissue, I guess, has gone anywhere. As long as I stay on TRT, it just stays, you know? And I eat a lot. Just that helps. Yeah. It must be all they grow from when they took. All right, let's get started. So you guys are familiar with the tears, so we don't need to remind you guys. We're going to group a particular compounds based on their, let's say, their receptor affinity or overlapping effects. So let's get started with clibutaryl, albuterol, and myrobychron. Dean has now finally got some experience with myrobychron. Kurt, did you ever try it? Or you haven't? No, no. Okay, Dean, take it away. I have not. I need the old ones. Yeah, Dean, take it away. I guess it's the only thing that has changed beyond, like obviously after the surgery, I put in the replacement GH that I was doing before the 4IUs. I ordered it at the SLU, but with the myrobychron, the biggest positive that I've taken away from it, like I said, and offline to this was I sleep all night. I literally sleep from the minute I go to bed till I wake up, no longer have any form of like, not very awakening up in the middle of the night to go to the bathroom. You know, quite often I'd wake up half three, four AM, and I get up anyway about five, five 30 AM anyway. So normally I'd go to bathroom and then you go back to sleep for a quick nap. Now I literally just sleep all the way through until my alarm goes off, which is very strange for me. But like what you said, Steve, when you do wake up, it's almost like a never ending flower. Everything that's collected overnight has a, you know, because your bladder basically, how it works is it slows down to contractile activity of your bladder. It dilates the bladder, which is mostly better three-aedronergic receptor. So it just, it literally allows you to hold twice as much urine. And then when you do go to the bathroom, you peed it two or three peas that you would otherwise have. So you wake up once, but you wake up way longer. So I'm not sure how much it affects the sleep quality overall, but. Like even during the day, I'm not like, cause the ones I got from a, a lipolysis perspective, I got sustained release. So that it's slowly going in, right and getting a big bang of beta tree, adrenergic receptor activation, and then it's switching off. Sustained release is just slowly operating in the background towards lipolysis. So that made a bit more sense. But like that. What's the half-life of the drug without the sustained? I'm not too sure. I left it. I think it's 54 hours. Oh, it's long. It's longer than clumatural. Longer than clumatural. Yeah. Interesting. Yeah. So in that regard, even sitting here in the office, like a go quite a period of time without having to leave, like what, when you were trialing it and we were doing the podcast, you understand? There was no need to take a break in the middle. It was all the way through. So that's, you know, that's one thing or the other. From a lipolysis perspective, I've gone from 91 kilos down to just under 87 in those two weeks. Obviously some of it's gonna be water fluid loss from reduction in carbohydrate. But visually, I've basically lost quite a trunk of fat in and around my abdomen to get back to having, you know, relaxed abs as opposed to before. They were blurred to speak. So definitely there has been a big shift in fat loss since last week. And I can only speak positive towards it. There's been no increase in rest and heart rate, like what I've come with clumbuteral. There's been no impact to my HRV, you know, to sleep improving from being able to stay asleep but no nocturia. Just see positives from it, to be honest. Did you notice that your skin texture improved like you see with clumbuteral and obiuteral where your skin gets a little bit better texture? So one thing that I've noticed, and maybe this is just a consequence of running the healing peptides, my skin is a lot drier. So obviously my skin is probably replicating a lot quicker. Same here. Exactly the same here. Yeah. And that was, I have an elbow injury that the rest has done really well but when Morgan was treating me, she was like, the amount of dead skin that's coming off as a massage and you, and obviously that's just because the skin is going to turn over the skin. And that's the only thing I've observed. I can't really put it down to the mirror big grown as opposed to the peptides and the healing overall nature. But as a replacement to clumbuteral, obviously clumbuteral has the added effect that the shaking that like increase in neat adds more calorie expenditure and wants to shake and wears off. Then, you know, it loses the effectivity of being a neat inducer, but it still has the lipolytic effects. You could still run probably clumbuteral with mirror big grown both the rework and synergy. What I do both of them together, probably not. The heart rate, the impact on heart rate is definitely a big positive. And the fact that you're not having any of the cramping or dehydration or headaches and on the past clumbuteral, I always had a, what I call a breaking in period where for at least 48 hours, I'd have a headache from clumbuteral's effects. And I was just from trying to get used to the dehydrating aspect of it. So just keep myself hydrated. And eventually you'd get used to that headache to speak or the headaches, not an impact anymore because homeostasis has been achieved. But clumbuteral for me, normally if I was going to use it, it would be, you know, starting at a weekend where I know that if I get headaches or I feel a bit off from it by the time Monday, Tuesday comes around, it's wore off. Okay. Kurt, what do you think about clumbuteral? I've never personally used albuterol, but I think clannous is solid drug. I mean, albuter just has a shorter half-life, similar drug. I think that's kind of the benefit of clumbuteral is that it's going to last longer in the body. And right, the beta-3 doesn't down regulate. Like you and I did that video, Dean, on, right, in non-obese subjects, we don't see beta-3 down regulation. I think clannous is a great drug. Yeah. You know, I think most guys probably use too much of it to try to get that neat out of it. And say, you know, 40 micrograms is probably plenty for most guys just to make the little effect. In my research, when I compared clannous to albuterol to myrbicrone, I found that from 40 micrograms, clumbutral onwards, it starts to spill over into the beta-3. And for four milligrams albuterol, the same things happened, but it also spills over into the beta-1 of the heart. So that's why when you take higher doses of albuterol, you get an increased heart rate. Yeah. Or is it lower doses that doesn't happen? Yeah, which I prefer to take a lower dose. Yeah. Just let it do its thing. So I really like injectable albuterol that's found in the injectable pre-workout formula. It gives you some sort of like clarity during the workout, especially when you're a little bit down. So it acts as a little bit as a pick-me-up. Now, I've used plenty of albuterol and solbutamol, but I still had asthma in the form of an inhaler. So I'm well aware, like you take 100 micrograms per puff. Of course, you don't get any fat loss from that. When you start taking the tablets or injectable version, it's a significant difference. So I combined clumbutral with myrbicrone and albuterol with myrbicrone. I would say that injectable albuterol with myrbicrone enhances the fat loss without the side effects. Butts.  clenvitrol with myrobicron, that's really enhanced fat loss. And I'm talking about 40 micrograms clen and 150 milligrams myrobicron, that seems to be the best adrenergic fat loss stack in that context. So I like all three. Personally, going forward, I would limit it to all butyrol and myrobicron, because I feel that myrobicron is a suitable replacement for clen, but it's 10 times the price and almost impossible to source. Yeah, clen is easy to find. Clen is everywhere. If you have a star dealer, then you have a clen dealer. It's on every product list. So I'm going to put all three in S tier, because they're great fat burners. And then it's just up to personal preference, I would say. Everybody agrees? Yep. Alright, cool. Then let's move over to ephedrine, synophrine, caffeine as part of the good old ECA stack. Kurt, you're what, 900 years old? So you started? I used the original ECA stack, the patented one, that was in a purple bottle before that. Okay, yeah. So you can get started? I think the ECA stack was fantastic. You can still make your own with used broncator, prematine or whatever. Yeah, and I think the appetite suppression from that stack is really great too, versus you don't really get that from clen and the pure beta 3. So it was always easier to diet using ephedrine than just clen. I've mixed the two like ephedrine, caffeine and clen together. Oh, that works pretty well too. Well, again, the clen, you keep the clen low, 40. I have a pretty high tolerance for stimulants. Yeah, same here. Not necessarily something I'm recommending people do, but it does, they're different class of drugs, so they can work through different mechanisms. And the aspirin is there to enhance the effectivity or probably was the preventative breakdown of ephedrine? It extends a half-life. Yeah. Right, because that natural process, well, the body wants to stop that process from occurring to the aspirin, but just the problem is, especially if you're injecting stuff, you're protehematomas and stuff, if you're taking too much aspirin. Yeah, that's true. And I take a lot of fish oil, so I usually leave the aspirin out at this point. Do you think that the fish oil and vitamin E, for example, both have blood thinning effect, could replace the aspirin, or is it uniquely to aspirin that enhances the effect of the ephedrine? It would be the aspirin unique for the half-life, prolonging, but the, and the blood thinning from fish oil specifically EPA, not DHA, so I take a much more DHA than EPA. Okay. So, gotcha. Just because I was, no, I, when I took higher EPA, sometimes I would get hematomas and stuff. You can see, like, from an injection, you get like a bruise. Yeah. Not necessarily the safest thing. No, and the problem with aspirin is that it can reduce your stomach lining, even a baby aspirin of 81 milligrams. So, unless you're, like, really on top of your glutamine, which I, again, I forgot for a while, and then I started getting some digestive issues, I felt like my stomach was really eating itself, burning itself from the inside. So, you need to be on glutamine when you take oral steroids, and especially when you take the ECA stack, because the aspirin is lowering your stomach lining, and then you need to supplement with glutamine to kind of keep the stomach lining thick to prevent the acidity, which is also going to be changed from the steroids that you're taking, unless you just do the ECA stack solo, but then, yeah, that's very unlikely if you're watching the anabolic roundtable. Yeah, I mean, back in the day, I used it solo a bunch of times, so that was all that was available. The effigy was my gateway drug into a stack. Yeah. And that was the stackers, too. 1990s, that's what was around, exactly all those brands, right? They were original hydroxycutinolus, but they weren't like the real, right? They used Willebark instead of aspirin, that was the difference. Yeah, Moa Hong, Effedra. Effedra, yeah. Yeah, good times. We used to take that during festivals. Yeah, when they all had the original ECA stack, whatever website I was buying from, I think I bought like 50 bottles for the candidate, I had it for years sitting with Cosby. Effedrine was also a part of Agent Orange, right? Or Ultimate Orange? Ultimate Orange, that's all. Yeah, because it was the way Tang with the Fedron in it. Yeah, David Jane, crazy. Dean, did you ever use the ECA stack? I did. How was it? Like Kurt said, very potent appetite suppression. Irony was taken effigy, you know, on an empty stomach within 15, 20 minutes, you're riding that wave of, you know, pure energy. It can be a little bit exhilarating, I suppose, is the easy way to explain it, that when you start your cardio, you might find it a little bit difficult to get warmed up, get your sort of cadence going, and then obviously... Oh, yeah. And obviously, it kicks in, it kicks in, and you're listening to whatever music, rock or trance or whatever, and your heart rate is obviously at 140, 150. Because you don't even realise how fast you're running on the cross trainer, you're cycling on the bike. So yeah, it's quite a pleasurable experience, both from bipolar and energy. Yeah, the effigy is a little bit of a euphoric effect, I feel, and it's more in and out, so you could kind of space it around your fast cardio in your workout, and then still have a good night's sleep, or is it plimitrol, of course, a mirror-beckron, that has a prolonged half-life, but mirror-beckron doesn't really interfere with your sleep. So for the guys that have issues sleeping, I would always tell them to stick with all butyrol and effigy, and cycle through them, because then you basically have a four-hour window where you can do your activity, take a nap, take another serving, and then have a proper night's sleep. I only did the ECA stack once, but for me, it was always hard to source the effigy, and whether that was in Holland or here in Asia, because effigy is highly banned, because they kind of classified it as an amphetamine, and if you take effigy here in Asia, then on a five-panel urine test, you would pee purple, and then the police is like, okay, you took amphetamines when in reality it was effigy, and they use effigy here to make amphetamines, so it's completely unavailable. Like, Adderall, effigy, Dexadrine, Vyphans, all that stuff, not available here in Asia. And once in a while, the Koreans would bring me injectable effigy from Korea, pharmaceutical grade, 20 milligrams per one milliliter, and that's something else. That is something else. So I would only run that during the World Championships as a pick-me-up, because I would have like 17 clients in one show, or 15 to 17 clients, and no time to sleep, because you had to dial everybody and run through the hotel room. So yeah, injectable effigy kept me going, and I'd always lost like 10 pounds over the week. Yeah, because you're just moving all the time, looking at people, helping them with pausing, applying 10, going to the next client, you know, bringing some food, what they need, and opening up your medicine box. So that was a good times. But yeah, besides that, here in Asia, I would not recommend people to use it, whether they're in Arab countries or Asian countries, because it will make you feel a drug test, and it's hard to explain. Still, the fat loss effects are very noticeable of the ECA stack, effigy, and what about Cinefree? I haven't before skipped over that. It's kind of like a half aspirin. It's pretty kind of, they added it, I think hydroxy cut added it to their product, like in addition, and then you just felt like really loopy on it. And then as they, as the laws, at least in the United States, changed, they were substituting Cineferin for the Fedron in the products. Oh, really? It never quite worked. You still felt the same jitteriness and energy from it, but it just, you never quite saw the same fat loss effects. Yeah, yeah, I was going to say. It was combined with like 12 other products. Yeah, like in a, it's kind of hard to isolate what was doing what. Yeah, probably put some caffeine in there and other stuff, and you don't really get that nice synergistic effect you would get from the ECA stack. Yeah. I don't think it has the same adrenergic bind affinity as effigy, and so it's a very softer compound. Definitely, if you took ECA and then you took a product with Cineferin, you could tell the difference. But Cineferin is quote unquote legal as like bitter orange peel extract is how it's often sold. All right. But I don't, I don't know. It's one of those ones that's on the fence that yeah, sure, I didn't if it's available and it's not breaking the bank from a budget perspective, but I don't see it being as good as effigy. No, you're not like seeking it out. So here it's over the counter, but the Fedron is legal, but you have to go to a pharmacy and show your driver's license and they scan it and they limit the quantity that you can buy per month. And you just sign like a waiver. It's the same reason because people make math out of it. So they're limited. Oh, they do that also. Really low limit. It's like a box. I don't know the exact law. It's like a box a month or something stupid. We have a similar, we have a similar law here for pseudo effigy. And because obviously it's basically the same. It's just an answer. So they limit the sales of pseudo effigy, which is always an interesting thing. If you ever have like sign issues here and you're trying to tell a pharmacist, can I have a box of pseudo fed, which is the brand name or pseudo effigy. And you're like questioning. You're like, I just want to because I've got bad sign is pain. Yeah, look at this. Yeah. I'm going to shine a light in there. You can't see anything. Well, I suppose going in with the bald head and beard doesn't help. No, no, no, you get typecast. If people know what reference I made, can they're both. Yeah, it's definitely. Don't forget your lawn still. Yeah. It's a European thing. So like where we approach obviously using these, they're similar as an adrenergic. I can just like what we use with the beta adrenergic. I missed just a different receptor. And again, all you're doing is stimulating catecholamine release. You're stimulating adrenaline, which then feeds off again into the cascade of like policies even more. Yeah. Yeah, I made a whole deep dive about that. So like effigy and pseudo fed dream and mostly these fat burners besides me or background are included in the prohibited list. All but all buter all you can only inhale up to 1600 micrograms. So I made an entire deep dive and how to release catecholamine with various practices. You can get a stimulatory effect that way. But off the top of my head, I can't remember what I wrote there. Like some of these deep times when I make it, it goes in and out as soon as the video is recorded. So if you guys, if you want to watch that segment, just go to the water prohibited list. Yeah, I'm sure there's a timestamp for it. The syndrome on your way. But if you don't care about that, then just stick to the stuff that you can find. Yeah, you can tolerate a tip in the US. If you're going to buy a fedron at the counter, don't bring like red phosphorus and hydrosimonia. Those kind of things with do that purchase separate because you probably raise suspicion. And you have to buy each ingredient at a separate store, right? They use different credit cards. Some cash like matchbooks and stuff. You don't want to buy that stuff when you buy a fedron because the pharmacist will probably know what you're doing. And hydrosimonia especially is really hard to find over the counter. It's really flat on the top. So be really careful with that stuff. I think we just lost my decision for homebrewing. I'll ask Chase for some advice. I'm not sure how we do it. We said Chase is the next thing. We do. How to cook. For sure if I turn this into a short, 100%. So with that out of the way, where are we going to rank these kinds of drugs? Yes, all day. Yes, all day? Dean? Yeah, I agree. Yeah, I agree. Okay, cool. Moving on to the next. Yo-Himbine and Robolcine. Alpha 2 Adrenergic Blockers. Alleged or initially recommended as a libidoate. It does help with erectile quality, especially when you combine it with chialis. But this video is not about erectile quality. It's about fat loss. I'll go first since you got on the other topics. So Yo-Himbine was very popular. People would ramp up dose just to 21 milligrams pre-faceted cardio. I never understood how they could tolerate that much because 3 milligrams, 6 milligrams. And I'm on the floor. Now, a little bit later, they introduced a stereoisomer of Yo-Himbine called Robolcine. And then you have Cori-Nutin, which is usually found in Yo-Himbine supplements. It's the third stereoisomer of these compounds. So structurally, they're all the same. But as Dean knows, the 3D composition, right? It might be bend it the different way in this. You have different receptor affinity. So allegedly, Robolcine has lower receptor affinity than Yo-Himbine. It seems that the fat loss for 3 milligram, 6 milligram servings is exactly the same. But the side effects with Robolcine are almost non-existent compared to Yo-Himbine, even though they're still there. That being said, it's best to take it in a facet state, right? So you take it before facet cardio, 3 milligram, 6 milligrams, do your cardio session, whether that's with myrobyclin, cli-mutrol, abuteral, effigy, et cetera. And that provides a unique effect regarding fat loss, especially from the lower back. I think that Yo-Himbine or Robolcine is very side-specific to the lower back because it seems to negate or do the opposite of insulin. Whereas with the lower back, of course, it's very receptive for insulin. So that's where the fat comes back first. But if you use Yo-Himbine or Robolcine the entire time that you're cutting, the lower back seems to dial in way faster than the lower abs, lower chest or glutes, which for those areas you don't really have specific compounds that are as effective as Yo-Himbine or Robolcine. Did you guys ever use these? Are they staple? What is the... Yo-Himbine, I don't feel very good on it. I always thought it made more sense to use Yo-Himbine, like when you were more of a caloric excess because you're preventing fat storage more so than as a fat loss agent, right? Because it's not really causing fat loss, it's just because it's preventing fat storage. Yeah. So I don't like that. I think it helps with lipolysis as well. I'm mistaken. Possibly. Yeah, I think so. I just never felt good on it. It does weird things. No, it's horrible. It's horrible. It's horrible. I always thought so. A block's obviously the alpha 2 receptor. And then that makes the catecholamine receptor more accessible for lipolysis. Okay. I think that's how it aids with lipolysis. It makes sense. But you've always seen it in like stubborn fat protocols, you know, like lower... Yeah, I'm guilty of this video as well. ...glutes for some people quads. I remember for me personally, it did make a big difference in terms of getting the next sort of step of fat loss of getting those stubborn areas off when I added it in like what's been 2012. But as an aside, I have taken quite a massive dose of your himbine once off before and I would never recommend it to anyone. So I had your himbine powder. I had a milligram scale. Oh, right. That's right. Another story. And I forgot. I was supposed to obviously... 10 milligrams is it... you know, how you dose it, they sort of say anywhere from... well, a decent dose is like one milligram per 10 kilograms of body weight. So for 100 kilograms, you're looking at 10 milligrams being a relatively effective dose. I weighed it out, took it, and I went to help my dad with his... he had an allotment growing vegetables. And after about an hour, all of a sudden, I couldn't really speak. I was like trying to communicate, but I couldn't speak. And then everything around me started to like slow down and come in on top of me. And then buckets of sweat started running down my back. And then that's sort of when you have the oh, F me moment. And I realized, no, you didn't weigh out 0.01 grams, which is 10 milligrams. You made out 0.1, which is 100 milligrams. And I would never wish this on anyone. I remember like trying to tell my dad like car, and I could barely say car. I was like car. And then he looked at me as like, okay, something's wrong here. He got me back to the car. I had brought food with me. I brought a meal at the time I was dieting for a show. And he just spooned the food into me as quick as he could. And he took me home, went straight asleep and then woke up, you know, two hours later and it cleared from my system. Obviously, when you've got a big insulin spike, Alps to speed up. I've never really understood why insulin interferes with the mechanism of action or why it technically destroys its mechanism of action. But it's how you deal with if you take an overdose of your humbine. Yeah. But I think it over. I think it overrides the interaction with the Alpha two or dreamers or receptors and the cough and the catch cold means. Yeah. So that, you know, having known that mechanism of why you're taking in a fast at state, I was able to deal with taking that overdose. But it showed me like how serious, you know, when you think about 10 milligrams to 100 milligrams, you'd think, okay, that's a 10 X and dose. What effect are you really going to see with that? And it truly showed me that this is something that has to be dosed quite accurately. That don't mess around with raw powder. But yeah, that it even happened. I remember having Morgan one time. There was an OTC fat burner at a proprietary blend. And one day she took one and that you're him buying it. And obviously was completely overdosed because all of a sudden she went ghost white. Sweat started running down, you know, her face. She started to almost have a panic attack because she didn't realize what was going on. And I said, all right, you're having an overdose. Which she wasn't too happy at the time because I had to make her eat one of her carb meals when she was dieting for a show. You know, you have to choice. You either feel rubbish for the next hour or two while that's in your system or you eat all of your food, take a small nap and it'll be out of your system. Not something to mess around with. Dose it low and slow. Yeah, I agree. You know, even going from 10 milligrams to 15 milligrams. I found a couple of times if I got up to that dose that you were almost stuck within yourself that you weren't able to effectively talk properly. You knew what you wanted to say, but it was almost like you were impeded from speaking. That's the only way I can describe it. Sounds like hypoglycemia. I go, you have severe hypoglycemia. I've had that a couple of times when I was running Lantus on a ketogenic diet. Not recommended. Yeah, because you're in a ketogenic state. So your ketosis is high and your brain works on ketones. And then you don't realize that your blood sugar is dropping to the point that it's dirty. And then you don't know who you are and where you are. You don't even start sweating because your body is just adapted to the ketones. So then you check your botic glucose levels and you're like, oh shit, I got to eat now because this is very dangerous. You get a similar effect where you just don't know you can't speak. You don't know what's going on. It's hard. You're out walking or out could be having a walk with Morgan and you're trying to have a conversation and you're sort of like almost, you know what you want to say mentally, but you're not coming out of your mouth. It's almost like you've got this anxiety feeling or something like that. It's very hard to describe, but you'll know when you've taken too much of him. Because you'll have your heart rate is off. You might feel nauseous and everything else like that. So works great, but you have to respect the dose. Yeah, the weird thing is it's like it's all over the counter, but it's got the worst side effects if you take too much. If you take too much plan, okay, your heart rate is like everybody's smart enough not to do that. A mere big one barely any side effects. Effadrine, okay, you feel pretty wired, but Jo-Him, Jo-Him-Bind and Rawl-Sin Man, if you take too much. Like I can only take three milligrams before cardio. And then sometimes I want to have like insane contractile capacity. I combine Jo-Him-Bind or Rawl-Sin with Ackmantine sulfate, 700 milligrams, which is an alpha 2 agonist. Which I just make sense on paper or an alpha 1 agonist. So one is blocking it, one is activating it, but it gives you the best contractile capacity and ability to push past the strength plateaus. Yeah, it's a little bit of a hack. And then I started talking about that a couple years ago and then a lot of these pre-workout companies caught on to that and started adding Rawl-Sin and Ackmantine sulfate to their pre-workout stacks and everybody was very, very happy. And it sends opposing signals through similar receptors or alpha receptors. Yeah, I think three milligrams is basically a sweet spot once per day, maybe twice. And if you do it like that, it might be in its ester for fat loss off the lower back. But yeah, if you overdose it, you're in a world of pain. Or do you think? Have the chiropractic. Yes. Yes, okay, cool. Moving over to the next group of drugs. The thyroid hormones, we have T3, T4, sobotterone, GC1. And I put that in there because sobotterone interacts with the thyroid receptors. And that seems to offer less of a jittery effect and catabolic effect compared to actual T3 if you ramp that over 25 micrograms per day. So if I have some experience with sobotterone, GC1, I'll run that on the next time that I died at 100 micrograms or what was it, 100 micrograms? Let me check my notes. 100 micrograms twice per day or once per day. And then I'll see if I continue that higher and then I'll keep track of my thyroid hormones, obviously, and blood work to see if there's any changes there. But it's not known to really drop thyroid stimulating hormone. It's just known to interact with those thyroid receptor. It doesn't really alter your blood work parameters, but I'll confirm that. This is like seven to 12 studies on it. So we'll be a quick and easy experiment in a deep dive. But people are asking about it. But the last time I ran it, I got good fat loss and metabolism out of it without like losing your legs. Like that's the downside of T3, in my opinion, a replacement dose at the end of a diet when your blood work shows that you're thyroid deficient. Then it's magic almost, but it always kind of shrunk my legs. Again, I do a good amount of cardio. Maybe I wasn't taking enough steroids. I think two grams is quite a lot. So that always happened to me. Again, legs is not a stronger body part for me. But since you do cardio on that, I felt that dosing the T3 before that or before bed. So before fast cardio before bed didn't really make a difference. So I started splitting up the dose that had less of an effect. I think it's good to keep your metabolism going, but I think there's some warrants, some benefits to the subteroma over T3 or T4. Kurt, do you supplement or recommend T4 with growth hormone? Can't remember reading that in your book. I don't know. I don't unless labs would show otherwise. I would go by labs and I would. Yeah. I like to look at T4 like it's like the idol in your car. So just adding more T4 doesn't say net more T3. So I know it's used clinically. I think it has a use that I don't know about for bodybuilding. Right. And I don't think there's any missing me with growth hormone. That's kind of an antiquated way to look at it. Yeah. So, so I do see it with higher doses of growth hormone that the pirate conversion speeds up like growth hormone increases the other than this enzyme activity and thus T4 metabolism T3. And if you don't supplement with T4 or good amount of iodine in your diet, then you see that T4 levels dropped and T3 drops. And then thyroid similarity hormone shoots up. But again, that's only proven with blood work. Yeah. I see it more often than not that people need it to be honest. Okay. Beyond like three I use growth hormone per day. Yeah. Yeah. I've never needed any thyroid stuff. Okay. Do you have like iodized table salt to eat kelp? I used iodized table salt and my multivitamin has iodine in it and I eat fish. So. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. I think it's useful depending on what you said with blood work. I made a deep dive on our education about using T4 and T3 together in combination because this became a very popular team of dosing boats together, which to me made not a lot of sense. And I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. Yeah. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. If you take T4 and T3 together, the T3 is going to be the thing that's doing the active work in the body. T4, if you're not utilizing it, you will store T4. To my knowledge, there is a peripheral pool of about 900 micrograms of T4 in the body. You're just going to increase that pool of T4 and interiorized THBG, which then might knock off your FT3. It becomes just this vicious cycle. If you're going to use one, just stick with T3 and leave. This became almost like a fad in UK coaching. I'd see in consults that someone would be taking 200 micrograms T4 and 25 micrograms T3. I need to question why are you doing that? Oh, well, my coach said so. Does your coach actually understand what's going on when you're using the Tutum? Then they're looking at me. Well, I'll explain to you why and what's going to happen if you use boats. I have a sudden this whole, not to shit on anything. It just doesn't make sense. Yes, T4 is prescribed for hypothyroidism, but that in itself, when you get into the clinical guidelines and published guidelines, half the endocrinologists say, yes, T4 monotherapy is amazing. Do you have to say, why are we doing this? There should be a combination therapy or should be T3. T3. The reason why they go against T3 is it's pharmacokinetics can be unpredictable. And it's because T3 has a biphasic metabolism, has two points of metabolism. And for the unlucky few, when the first phase metabolism occurs, it can actually put someone hyperthyroid, their level of free T3 can go actually too high for a period of a couple of hours, and that can bring palpitations, anxiety, heart rate. And so they might not necessarily agree with T3 as a medication. And so T4 is the gentler approach because you're coaxing the body into doing the conversion itself. Even in that instance with the biphasic metabolism, you could gender split the dose in two. So 12.5 and 12.5 are going in opposite ends of the day. So then that peak level is lower, but the total daily concentration is the same because the half-life of T3 is 24 hours. So it's a much slower acting drug. Well, I guess an easier to control drug versus T4, which be a slower acting drug, is what I meant to say. So to me, if you need thyroid support, just look at a physiological replacement of T3, which is on average 25 micrograms. Yeah. So the reason why I still like T4 is because, again, from blood work, I see that the higher doses of growth hormone, it seems that the endogenous production of T4 is not sufficient to keep up with the thyroid conversion. And most guys are on steroids.  which are known to reduce thyroid binding global levels. So you're actually increasing T4 levels and T3 levels, which also enhances the conversion, obviously, because the thyroid binding global would otherwise hold these thyroid hormones as a reservoir, similar to sexual binding global, it does with steroids. But when you take steroids, SSBG comes down, thyroid binding global levels come down, speeding up the conversion. And if you take T4, you maintain T3 levels on blood torque, thyroid stability hormone levels stay in range, and SSBG levels come up slightly, because T4 and T3 do increase SSBG levels alongside estradiol and estradiol and T3 and T4, the primary regulators that's somewhat elevated on cycle. So I feel that there's a good amount of synergy there. But again, if blood work shows that it's not needed, then why throw in another drug? And again, I would only recommend it in a context of growth hormone, or at the end of a cutting phase that has been lengthy, where metabolism just starts to slow down basically. The other thing with THBG is androgen's lower THBG, but with this estrogen epidemic we're observing, estrogen actually raises THBG. So if you let your estrogen will rise THBG. Yeah, I was gonna say, that's the most the time that you see thyroid issues. Yeah, when I see thyroid issues in men, that's generally, you look at the estrogen first, if you control that, you know, if thyroid stuff goes away. I don't know what this TRT community is on about, man, or some educators. So I let it run around to grow my gynecomastia, right? And I got two inches across, baby. Two inches across, yeah, I'll show you in the video, it'll be a graphic content for sure, but it's like goggles, dude, I can put it on my eye, like cucumber. And so that's twice the size, this is what's before. No libido issues, luckily, but then again I have a hot wife, so that helps. And I guess, my estrogen's high, I don't have any libido, so it wouldn't be too wild. Well, if free tea is high enough, then usually libido can counteract the high estrogen to something great. Yeah, okay. Right, because that's the thing we look at, so we look at estrogen for libido first, and if the ratio of free tea to estrogen is okay, that's the second thing you look at. Okay, so sometimes when guys estrogen will go high and the libido stays, you look at the tea next, because it's not just one thing that's gonna cause libido. No, it's just one thing, yeah, my tea was free, I was on like the Kurt Havens TRT protocol for a while, 600,000. My tea is 300 now. Yeah, oh wow, okay. It's been for eight of the 16 weeks now. Oh, that's good, yeah. I dropped it also, but I then added it in the Anivar. It seems like such a waste to put half a CC and a three CC syringe. Yeah, I agree, man, I agree. I feel like I'm losing half of it in the needle. Your needle is like this long. Just 80, I don't know. Every tip of like a drum is like little, it's amazing that that does anything. Yeah, maybe if you inject every day. But I'm just using it twice a week, but. Me too, man, I'm doing it twice a week. I'm kind of overall the injections after the Mr. Olympia cycle. I was doing like seven injections per day. I only have so much bandwidth for that stuff. Yes. You know? Okay, I think we can put these thyroid hormones if respected in S tier, but again, it meant to be respected. So, but to roam, I'm not 100% sure about. So let's just say that that's pending because I don't have so much experience with it. And Dean, did you experiment with it, Kurt? It's been difficult to find. It's interesting, like you said, it has paper less cardio toxicity because of that specific tired receptor interaction. But yeah, I'd definitely like to trial it next time I properly diet to see what edge you get over. But bloods would be very interesting as well. Just put a nest anyway. Yeah. It has potential, exactly. Okay, Dean, your groundbreaking stack of mitochondrial uber regulation plus the 5-mino 1MQ that I added to it. So 5-mino 1MQ, SLU-PP332, methylene blue and mitochondrial open-reading frame of the 12 SR RNA-C aka ModC game changer for the entire fitness community. Everybody should be giving you blowjobs and reach around. No, 100%. 100% dude, 100%. Do you know how many people are talking about this? I know, I know. I talked about 5-mino 1MQ a month a while ago and then you introduced SLU-PP332 and methylene blue. And I mean, I run it, I got energy for days. I talk way too fast. That's why I mumble over my own words. But it doesn't matter where I am in a steep caloric deficit or offseason, it's just energy, energy, energy. It's absolutely amazing. It's not a cheap stack, but it's an S tier stack 100% and I think everybody can agree. So let's just go over the mechanics real quick while we're on the subject. Yeah, so I guess at the very, very top. And the way we sort of explained in the last podcast with John, this wasn't like, oh, I looked at all three of them and oh, that looks great. Let's throw all three together. It was a sequential edition starting with ModC, which we were on. You know, introduced to you and that's a fragment of M or N A, an open frame of what M or N A, which tells your body to up-regulate the biogenesis of mitochondria. So you produce more mitochondria. But when you produce more mitochondria, it doesn't necessarily mean that you've got more capacity for oxidative phosphorylation or energy turnover after dysfunctional. So you have to make sure then the number of mitochondria that you have are operating efficiently. And that was where them and SLU became available. I thought, well, SLU studies show great promise in acting on the estrogen-like receptor as an agonist of the E or or alpha. And so that estrogen-like receptor is involved in the efficiency of the mitochondrial inner matrix of membrane. So now you're improving how well the mitochondria able to generate, I guess, N ATP from electrons and you're also lowering the oxidative stress consequence that comes from the electron transport chain. So now you've got mitochondria that are generating high efficient energy production without causing, I guess, spillover oxidative stress from that energy production. And then you go one step further. So, okay, well, I've increased number of mitochondria. I've improved their ability to create energy. I've lowered their ability to create oxidative stress. How can I make them even more efficient? And that was when I looked at metal in blue as a, I guess, a supplement or a chemical that improves how the mitochondria are oxygenated, how well they bring oxygen into themselves, but also improve the efficiency of oxidative phosphorylation. And again, you have to view that if you can get your mitochondria operating a high capacity of high oxidative phosphorylation, you're generating massive amounts of ATP that your cell could normally never create. And that was one of the advantages that as humans, we have that endosymbiosis where we've accommodated this type of bacteria into our body where they get the, I guess the energy substrate out of what we feed them. And then they feed us with ATP from the electrons that improving their efficiency even more with metal in blue. You just, I became convinced that when we're dieting, okay, we get brain fog, lack of energy from low caloric intake. But then I started to question to myself that can't be just the problem. If everything was running optimally, it shouldn't really matter. Like if you're in a deficit of energy, your body fat is gonna make up for the energy deficit that you require to function in an optimal perspective. So that when you're getting into the depths of a diet and you're having to either lower calories too low, you're having to do too much activity to create that energy deficit, some point along the way, there's an own coupling between the ability of your mitochondria to use fatty acids for energy or glucose, more so fatty acids. And so then you start to question, well, if you're bullying yourself in a diet, the mitochondria are clearly dysfunctional and they are obviously the rate limiting factor when it comes to burning fatty acids. Like policies, obviously, is the very top, you release the fatty acids and then the mitochondria utilize them or the mitochondria in your liver. Is it cheating now that we've sort of uncovered these layers of preaching mitochondrial optimization to the ones that are following this? And I don't think so. I think it's just like biohacking. It's just bodybuilding, dude. It's just bodybuilding. I mean, look at the physics last year at the Mr. Olympia stage of the guys that we know are running the stack. They look absolutely stellar. They're top five guys. So, I think it's a game changer for this industry. And I think with a couple years of development, allowing this oxidative stress to be low, minimizing contest spread brain, partially due to the oxidative stress and just keeping the mitochondrial function abrogated to the point you're just productive all the way up until you're getting on stage where you can have a normal conversation and do podcasts like you were doing at the highest capacity. It's a game changer for everybody. Like what did you notice when you removed it one week before surgery and then I'll fill in after? So, I stopped everything from that mitochondrial optimization perspective just after Christmas. So by the time I went for the surgery it was two weeks. I pretty much not taken SLU, metaline blue, MOTC, I would have taken five milligrams over the start of December. So by the time I got to the surgery it was maybe six weeks since the five milligram dose. Definitely I noticed. And now I wouldn't say I ate a lot of foods but I ate more foods than usual. And I think that was me just, I wasn't really tracking what I was eating. I was listening to what my body was saying and then I was just eating my standard clean food diet but more of it. I definitely found that when I stopped it my fat consumption went up in terms of like wanting to eat more, I guess polyunsaturated fats and monunsaturated fats from almonds, macadamias. I found that sort of crept up in my diet. And obviously as a consequence, fat got deposited then with the increased caloric intake. Whereas prior to Christmas time, I could not, I wouldn't say I could eat whatever I wanted but I wasn't really leaning towards high-fat foods either. So in terms of like overall carbohydrate consumption and fat storage, I was maintaining a very lean set point like what we see when we were training in England. Over Christmas, you know, Morgan poked phone a little bit at me when she noticed that I was getting softer and she's like, yeah, you're getting a little bit soft there now and I was like, yeah, I can see how my diet's influencing but going back now to that setup and mentally approaching nutrition a little bit differently and sort of like not being restrictive but not really wanting those foods either. Whatever's changed internally from a mitochondrial perspective with putting in Median Blue, SLU, a shot of MOTC. You know, I'm back to my high carb, high protein, you know, very low fat nutrition as before. And like I said, over the last two weeks dropped 4 kg of, I'd probably say 2 kg of it was fatty, like fatty tissues or fatty acids mobilized. Yeah, I think it's a wonderful stack. Did you notice any difference in cognition and energy levels overall and overall productivity? So I guess I've been lucky in that knowing probably, you probably don't the same, but I like blocked my schedule. Anyone that was looking for me when I knew I had the time in Turkey and then obviously the time out was to heal. I was like, I'm not doing any consults, you know, doing my normal work for supplement needs and whatever else, but yeah, I definitely did notice how I noticed probably the biggest thing was sleep and that normally I'll get up very early, 5 a.m., 5 30 a.m. I was almost being lazy and I'd sleep until the kids woke up at 7 a.m. and we'd all get up together. Since going back to the mitochondrial stack to speak, I've had no problem getting up again at 5 a.m., 5 30 a.m. Now, whether that is changing my mentality, I'm not too sure, but you know, since resuming on back work and early again, so I'm not 100% sure, but definitely it's something that I missed to put it that way. Yeah, I had the same. I took it away and it's the same as when you take TRT out, the first two weeks you're fine, and then after, I go, it's like what, what? Hey man, I have to get to my wife break. I know, I don't mind that. So you take TRT out in the first two weeks you're fine and then the second two weeks, like week three or four, you're like something is missing and then week five and six, you're like, F my life, this is horrible. So you're like at week three to four of removing TRT where you just come back down to baseline, but you know what's possible with these compounds where you just feel more energetic, more cognitive. I mean, it has a good amount of neutral pick effect and it's probably coming from the methylene blue, but the mitochondrial upregulation in your brain also helps with cognition. So I just feel a lot more heightened business-wise, even in a steep caloric deficit. So you're basically just working all day and getting your work done, and then at the end of the day, you're leaner. I'm like, that's pretty good. Because normally during dieting, you just feel horrible towards the end. That's why I like the five amino one MQ addition, which helps with NAD plus recycling in adipose tissue. So the fat loss is continuous. So even when you start stalling around 6%, 8% body fat, instead of throwing the kitchen sink of thyroid hormones and climbutrol at it, you just add five amino one MQ to help with nicotinamide, was not in methyl tracerase inhibition and NAD plus levels go up. And thus the adipose tissue is just metabolically more active, so you keep the lipolosis going. So that I found that a nice addition. Then of course you can combine it with NAD plus, NMNR, but those are really very low in the priority list of fat loss, which would still be a good addition in the stack, in my opinion, but there would be an add-on, just like Ubiqunol and PQQ. If you have unlimited funds, five amino one MQ, nicotinamide mononucleotide, IVNAD plus, SLU, PP332, MOTC, and what would I forget? Let me go through my- PQQ and Ubiqunol. Yeah, PQQ and Ubiqunol, yeah, and MOTC, yeah. So that would be like, and I ran all that stuff. And carnitine to help with the fatty acid shuttling. So I would say S tier, 100%. Like S plus. I think this is the most S tier of all of them. Gert, you didn't get a chance to- I never used any of them, but the more you guys talk about it, maybe I will. Maybe you can contact Chase, because we're working with Sim's sponsor affiliate, and he's probably got some stock, so maybe he can bring you some. And otherwise I can ask him to send you a care package. I'm sure you would love it. And he can just run around with your kids all day playing, you know, playing stuff. You get so much energy from this stuff. It's so amazing. So it's almost, it shouldn't be there. Like I feel like- So I don't need the crystal meth anymore. No, no, you can stop buying all those ingredients. It's probably healthy. Yeah, yeah, you can actually eat on this stuff also. You don't see ghosts. My teeth won't fall out, let's go. Yeah, exactly. Was it meth, not even once? That- Ha ha ha ha ha ha. S-L-U, not even once. Okay, so we have a little bit of the low-hanging fruit for all the natties out there. Elcarnitine, eltartrate, and elcarnitine, or acetylacarnitine. Of course we prefer injectable carnitine. I know that you'd casted a deep dive on this, and you were not in favor, so- Wow, that's- We removed the deep dive. We- We- Oh, oh. We didn't- Our- Well, my opinion is it works, absolutely. Is it going to work for everyone? Maybe not, unless there's a need specific for it. It definitely, like, hands down at my and Kurt's opinion where it works, but it's not this magic bullet that you start taking carnitine and you start losing fat. Now, it's not fine. You know, yeah. You know, it's- And so in your priority list of what we've had, even with the peptides, of if you had X-Budget, is it going to be right at the very top? More than likely not. But for that- It's probably going to hide on. You know, that one to two- For one percent. You know, one to two percent, where we're talking like top-level bodybuilding of fat loss, then yes, every one or two percent addition we can get is going to be beneficial. I think that when we look at even like carnitine altar traits, mechanism of increasing testosterone, we dove into actually the real data of what they used, and there was no real change in- No, it would look like the exercise to actually increase the AR. Yeah, yeah. So it's two studies and they're not available as full publications. So maybe you guys can get it, which are- We have it. Yeah, we have it. We went into it and there was no change to LH and FSH. And then the increase in testosterone was like a one to two-nanomole increase. It was like- Yeah, it was deemed insignificant statistically. You could say, oh, well, one to two-nanomoles is going to make a difference. And the way we approached it was, if you're in the absolute gutter down at eight-nanomole, or, you know, 270 nanogram per deciliter, well, and yet two-nanomole, you're going to scrap for every little bit of total testosterone you're going to get. But is that going to significantly impact free testosterone? No. Probably not. You're not even going to really notice it when you look at them, the effect on SHBG and everything else. So injectable alkanity and, yeah, I personally use it. But again, you're coming at it from a high level of trying to get to that very last bit of fat off to speak, like adding 5-amino 1MQ. So it's, if you were to tear it, you know, it does have S-tier quality, but it has to be based on what someone is looking for. Yeah. I think carnitine is more like an add-on. So if you take, like, carterine, which really shifts fatty acid oxidation, or two-fatty acid oxidation, you would assume that you need more carnitine for fatty acid transport. And I see this with a lot of guys that when carterine was first introduced, they go on GW1516, and then they say, after two weeks or four weeks, it stops working, even when I increase the dose, and then you put them on injectable or carnitine, and the fat loss continues. And they can actually go back to the 20-milligram dose or 30-milligram dose that we're initially on. So I kind of suggested to most people, if you use carterine, you need to combine it with carnitine, because your carnitine storage will be depleted from the enhanced fatty acid oxidation. Now, carterine is one of the few that actually directly enhances fatty acid oxidation until we got SLUPP332, right? Clemutrol is lipolysis, and a little bit through the neat increase, but that could also be carbohydrate, right? Used for energy and maybe even protein, or amino acids. So basically, if you really want to enhance fatty acid oxidation, you have carterine, SLUPP332 to choose from. And if you combine both of them, fatty acid oxidation really shoots up, I think it's just a suitable add-on. I mean, 500 milligrams injectable carnitine, for instance, pronounced per day, I think is a great addition. And again, I don't think it's a good idea to take one gram or two gram, because that has been shown in a single serving. That has been shown to inhibit thyroid receptor function or thyroid function. And you don't see that on a blood work. Scott Stevens, since they did an excellent deep dive on this, on the Think Big Bodybuilding Media channel, I'll link it down below, guys, in case you want to see it. So in blood work, you don't really see a difference, but it just inhibits thyroid function, because injectable carnitine is used pharmaceutical to inhibit thyroid storm, which is a medical condition, I believe, where thyroid is just running rampant, and then it prevents the extreme catabolism. So I think 500 milligrams injectable carnitine is just very suitable. You get some sort of cognitive benefit out of it, especially if you're on a ketogenic diet. So I still take it once or twice per day before activity, in hand-in-hand with my life politics. But if I don't take it in the offseason, then it's fine. It doesn't keep me any leaner or in any way, shape, or form. But it has some cognitive benefits. And again, with the oral version, there's always sort of risk for TMAO. But if you combine it with allicin, garlic extract, and that kind of negates the fact, and doxycycline can kind of kill the bacteria, your intestinal tract that would produce TMA. But it's always a problem when you recommend oral L-carnitine, L-target, or STL L-carnitine. What about the TMAO? Now you can do what for that. All right, let's work, let's work, let's work. And otherwise, it's allicin or doxycycline to kind of help resolve that. Kurt, do you want to add anything? I'm not the kind of, I've not used it, but we can give it a mess. Yeah, okay. Seems to work, seems popular. I'm happy you agree. So Dean, S-tier? Yeah. Okay, cool, moving on. No, we can go into GW1516 a little bit more, just solo, because again, it's a little bit of a unique compound and it's actual with everything else. Kurt, did you ever use it? No, I've not. I've not used a lot of these things. So traditional, and you've got a great physique. What the hell's going on? I don't know, I guess it's... Like your portfolio of drugs is very small, but you've got a great physique. What's going on? Why do all these guys with a huge portfolio of drugs have shit physique? Myself? Maybe it's not a drug problem. Perhaps it's the food. I can attest to that. When I wake up at 5 a.m. and I do cardio, I'm not waking up and injecting 10 cc's of miscellaneous shit. I did that first before my cardio. I guess, I don't know. I'm a foodie, man. It's crippling. Some is probably... I'll be 50. I think some is genetic. Yeah. My fat storage was never really a thing for me. No, no, no. You've seen me, but I was about as fat as I get when you saw me at the Olympia. I hate you, dude. That's as fat as I get. Yeah, I don't know. I mean, I've never had a need for most of these things, so I never bothered. Good. I'd say healthy, man. I'm trying to be a little more cautious with what I put in, hence the lower test and the GH. Yeah, the S-tier steroids and peptides. Yeah, so that's kind of my... We just classified everything as S-tier, so we'll be okay with that. It doesn't mean that I'm a rather people. Yeah, so I did a cardio in deep-tie if it's very troubling because the cancerous dose is lower than the anti-cancer dose. So first you have to get cancer and then the anti-cancer dose. And then remove it. And then it removes it. So if you go with cargirin, you need to go high dosages. Basically, that's what the deep-tie suggested, but it's all rodent studies and scientific evidence is all over the place. I did a good deep-tie on it. I do like it though for the guys that have trouble losing body fat, but again, it's something like for 8% body fat onwards because up until that point, you don't really need it. The guys run it way too early, in my opinion. I'd rather go on SLU-PP332 and that whole stack than go on cargirin. But it does work quite nicely when combined with carnitine and adorap compounds. It's quite unique in how it works and it's falsely classified as a sarm when it works on the PPR receptors. Yeah. Dean, did you ever try it? Yeah, yeah, I like it. Very first time I tried it was 2016. And at the time, who was coaching me was- It's before the cancer study. You're like an early adopter, like smokers. This shit is great. It kills my appetite. Well, just like everything else back then, I aired at 10 milligrams, which was... Yeah, you're close, but you're not that close. I remember at the time, who was coaching me was a big fan of giant set training and a lot of stacked exercises. And the first time I took it was before a leg day where it was literally like five set, giant set workouts. And I was shocked just the endurance that came from it. The muscular endurance or the aerobic capacity that by the time you got to the end of the first round of five exercises, normally it'd be a little gastric. A little winded, obviously, with a lot of exercises, little rest, high reps. It was just a strange thing that you were... It's like you've gone for a roam, but you're not out of breath. That's the easiest way to explain how it took effect. And fat, sort of pee-pee, agonist side, it dramatically improves your ability to train and because you're not fighting to try and keep up with the amount of work you're trying to do because of you're not as gastric. So from an oxygen perspective, definitely a noticeable effect when you take it. Do you notice that when you take it before the workout that besides the endurance boosts, is that the pump also lasts longer because you shift energy production from glucose to fatty acids and thus glycogen is preserved to a certain extent, even in a carbohydrate deficient state or deficit? Not that I've not, but that is a good point. So that's what I noticed, that the pump is just more intense. Again, I do a ketogenic diet, so my carb intake is like 70 grams per day, unless I go ham on Sunday. But then it seems that towards the end of the week, when I run carderine at maybe 10, 20 milligrams per day, is that I have a better pump towards the end of the week, so I'm not as depleted from a glycogen perspective and that makes the last two workouts of the week just a little bit more enjoyable because on a ketogenic diet, the pump is already shit and then when you're dieting, the pump is shittier. So the carderine kinda, and it doesn't matter how much anadrol and injectable pre-workout intake, I had one point here, the pump is gone. So the carderine kinda helps to preserve that and it just makes it from a mental perspective when you go into the gym that after five sets, you still get something. Instead of you do 12 sets and there was nothing and you basically had to floss it the entire way through. So that's what I noticed and I heard that anecdotally. I hear that more, that that affects present then people see that the HDL goes up. I never see that on blood tour. I've seen it a couple of times with 20 milligram dosing, but again, we're looking at anecdotal response. If it's going to raise HDL, then the only real mechanism is gonna do that is by lowering hepatic liposuction. I was gonna say that's the only mechanism it could do it by. Yeah. How the interaction there from a TV. Does it interact with the back of the piece? I couldn't find that in scientific evidence. I mean, it must if it's doing that. Yeah.  anecdoli, was one of the first, aside from the endurance benefits, was, oh, well, this has promised for raising HDL. Yeah, that's in the clinical trials that all got abandoned. Is it as a consequence of doing aerobic exercise, which we know raises HDL? I don't know. You know, it's, you know, it is the fact that you take a cadre in and you're going to do more aerobic exercise and take advantage of its action and then that increases your HDL. The other side of it then is if you're on sky high dosages of androgens, you're going to increase apatical high-pace. No matter what you take, you're not going to lower that, you know, you're not going to improve the suppression of it. So that's probably, you know, why it doesn't improve on blood work if drawn quite a significant amount. Yeah. All right. I can still agree to S-terdil, even though it does cause cancer. Sure. Yeah, just give it an S, okay? Or no S. I can have this tear. The FDA will have a field A. So you're saying this causes cancer. You want to stay at proven. Don't put it in S-terdil, man. I mean, smoking cigarettes will help you lose weight too, and that's S-terdil. Yeah, I mean, dude, in the 90s, like Dennis Wolfe and a couple of German bodybutters, like Marcus Rohl, there were whole packs of cigarettes, whole packs. And he's still alive. I mean, clearly it doesn't cause cancer. Cut in great shape. That was not medical advice. Yeah. No, it's never, nothing is medical advice. I mean, the disclaimer is thick, but he paid just long. Yeah. I mean, yeah. Yeah. So talking about S-terdil and PPR receptor organism, it's almost hard then. I, unless you're going to take very, very high dosages, I don't think you're going to get PPR activity out of 20 milligrams. But Dean, the scientific evidence shows that PPR. It sounded so professional there. That was amazing. Fucking hell. You practiced that, didn't you? I've been practicing this for six weeks, dude. Okay. Six weeks. Whatever opportunity I get, I'm going to take advantage of. So the scientific evidence shows, if you really dive deep into it, that PPR agonism by Tom Sartan induces fat loss. So why doesn't it induce fat loss in the real world when you take 80 milligrams per day, split over two servings, 40 milligrams morning and 40 milligrams in the evening? That's not high, is it? The guy that recommended it as a neck. Oh yeah. It's ripped, ripped. Well, the opposite. I was kidding. That was a joke. It's because it's estrogen. You don't want to watch it. Yeah, it's estrogen. It's not the Tom Sartan. Well, because it's used, he's using it to counteract bloat and blood pressure from high estrogen, but he doesn't want to address that. He'd rather address the top. But you want to know an interesting thing. I had this recently in a consult, angiotensin 2 stimulates aromatase. So if you're taking an A or B, you're blocking the receptor, but you're still raising ang2. And ang2 then interacts with your aromatase expression. So you take your A or B? Why did you have to tell this publicly? This is one of my favorites. This is one of my favorites during consultations, said, hey, look at this. And they're like, oh, why did I spend $100 talking to this guy? We've let the cat out of the bag, and that's why if you've listened so far, you've got that nugget of information. Yeah, there you go. Only one minute and 30, or an hour and 30 minutes in. But yeah, that was where when this Hello Beed Eye name drug as a fat loss agent just adds it more onto my ship pile of, I guess, holy grail of PD ancillaries that if you're trying to sell it as a fat loss agent, you're going to have to go really deep diving into trying to get that effect from the stroke. Yeah, which is only safe. Yeah, but it's super safe. Yeah, it's just automatically yourself with blood pressure medicine and really high doses. Big fan. Yeah, so unlike all the other previous compounds, I feel comfortable putting this one in F tier. I don't know about you guys. Well, we could put an S tier for it on to stroke some egos, but yeah, it belongs in F. Yeah, all right. So we got a lot of S's and one F. It'll be interesting because everyone I see is on Tomasartan. It'll be interesting if that'll fit. Yeah, I mean, I'm on Tomasartan as well, but I need legitimate blood pressure management. That's different. Yeah. And I'm on my magnesium, to ring potassium, we discuss this many, many times. I do my daily facet cardio. I just need a little bit of blood pressure management and now it's on 20 milligrams per day. Did you try the flaxseed oil? No, but it has lignins that blocks the androgen receptors. Yeah, but not I still think the blood pressure stuff. I've been using flaxseed oil for since 1996 daily. And that's so with my kidney. Do you don't look any less anabolic than I do? No, when and the fascinating thing is with my kidney disorder, I'm supposed to find blood pressure and no neurologist can ever figure out why I don't. That's where they missed it for so long. And it's most likely because of using flaxseed oil for almost 40 years. How do you take it? Just a tablespoon with you? I use the table with breakfast. That's it. Yeah. Did you ever mix flaxseed oil with stevia and ground flaxseeds to make your own flaxseed butter? I take ground flaxseeds separate, but I've never mixed them. I do mix it with Alcornich and shoot like 10 cc's of it though. In your bicep. In your bicep? Show me your bicep. No. No, no, I can't see your bicep. It's completely out your feet in the crotch. It's an anachronistic product now from all that. Oh, no. So, well, enough about F tier stuff. I want to go back to S tier stuff. To Danifilm. X-ray has been shown scientifically to cause lipolysis. And people notice that after five minute Cialis daily that after a while they're suddenly lean. But it could also be from the increased sexual activity. That's still more confident. Yeah, with the boners. It's another, at least five minutes of extra energy expenditure. So I included this in the Cialis deep dive. And again, I think it's just, Cialis is just such a multifaceted compound that the fat loss is just a warm welcome. It's known to lower estradiol levels. It causes boners spontaneously, which again, I mean, if you were 16 at one point and it's just, you can get fond memories like, hey, what's going on when you're in the classroom, right? So that's Cialis does that. It apparently increases energy receptors. Apparently it's, what else was it? Oh yeah, it helps us with blood pressure management. The only real downside of Cialis is that it might cause acid reflux, which again, you can mitigate with B10, 100 chloride and apple cider vinegar. Some sinus issues, right? If you take too much. Yeah, too much. That's why women can't really use it. They respond like, true. Another thing alongside the talmosert and again, this is another nugget for PD5 inhibition in visceral adipose tissue, upregulates aromatase. So I guess if you're taking Cialis and your estrogen goes up, it's potentially aromatase over expression and visceral fat. But that's if someone is, again, has quite a bit of visceral fat under abdomen, let's say. But yeah, more nuggets from interesting consults. And you can go into the PubMed. I did not find that in the scientific evidence when I researched it, but it could, you know, I mean, if you say it, then it's true. PD5, we can link the study. But yeah, you have here. So PD5 inhibitors such as Tadalaphyl and Cylaphylabin found to stimulate aromatase expression in human adipocytes. And the paper, big long-winded name is, Inhibition of Phosphorid Estra is 5 promotes the aromatase mediated estrogen biosynthesis in osteoblastics. I missed that one. I missed that one in my deep dive. Well, time to make an adendum video. This was due to a very interesting consult where using an ARB raised their estrogen and then they implemented Cialis and the estrum and up. So the only thing that you could correlate in this person's change were the two things. And then you do the deep dive into the mechanism, it makes sense. We're probably making the estrogen epidemic worse by blanket taking two ancillaries, which again have good use. But there is like, what was the body fat of this individual? Is it high or just an average person? Just normal, not bodybuilder, not, you know, large or small or whatever. Just normal, but it comes back to that visceral fat around the abdomen is very subjective. And a lot of people can carry it quite well around their abdomen without even realizing. And that's sort of where we see sometimes people have fatty liver and you don't even realize they've got visceral fat. You need to do a dexa scan or a fibrosis scan to kind of get the diagnosed. So when I did research on Cialis, all the studies that I found it lowered estradiol without skewing testosterone levels and increasing endogenous receptor similar papers. Yeah, I see it like there's a lot of research like like that. No, I mean, this was only something recently for me to learn was when I looked at, you know, the history of what it changed in the pharmacology. I dived into, you know, looking at PubMed, looking at different keywords like Pd5 in a bitter aromatase expression. Then all of a sudden you start to see when you dive a little bit deeper that there is some crossover in visceral fat human fat cells. But if you take telnozartan or Cialis with metformin which lowers aromatase enzyme expression, maybe a break even. Or with, or it's a Rhymedex. Can we say a Rhymedex on that? No, no, no, no, no. You go, bone mineralization, man. You got to think about and then the anti, what is it called? In the ethylthelium, right? The antioxidant effects in the endothelium. You can't say aromasin in the Rhymedex. Poison. Poison. Okay. Cialis, ester for me just because of the boners and all the other benefits are just, you know, just added warm welcomes. Who needs plant butyl for Neath when you can take Cialis? I agree. Well, if you're single then it's going to be a problem. But if you have a partner that's always ready for you then I highly agree. Okay. Grythromone, anti-obesity drug, 9604 and Grythromone fragment 176 to 191. We kind of covered these last video. Yeah. Okay, so you're just going to put an S there then? You're going to ask for fun. S, Dean? S, yeah, I mean. Okay. We've done enough of a deep dive on the last one with the peptides. Yeah, I agree. I think take your pick at a tree based on budget. Yeah, or stack all three if your budget is high. You ran anti-obesity drug 9604 in your prep, right? I did. You felt contributed much? I'd take the oral version, lipotropin. Okay. I'd dose that fast before I'd, you know, go for a walk to the school with the two boys. So yeah, I definitely, definitely noticed it a small sort of termogenic effect from taking it. Again, it comes back to when you have these things in play, the mitochondrial optimization, you know, is that having a huge benefit over everything else underneath? I don't know. But it was definitely something that I trialled and then took advantage of with some activity. You know, it's going to induce lipolysis. You're going to mobilize those fatty acids and then use, use them for some energy based activity. Right. Okay. Take your, take your lipotropin and pop a Cialis and take advantage of it too. Take advantage of it too. All right. Let's see, IGF one. I don't think that has really is a place here. insulin. Prefast cardio. Should we discuss this or should we? It's a bit, it's a bit. Could be touchy. Could be touchy. Yeah. Now we got to think of one. It's up to you. Not really some. I recommend people doing, but before, before glucagon became available and before retrochrytide and those kinds of compounds became available. I was an adamant user of intramuscular insulin. One to two I use. I am. Fast. Before fast cardio. Super fast acting. Yeah. Humaloc. The hypoglycemia is brutal. Last for about 15 minutes. Then the glucagon gets dumped and then you get a significant drop of adipose tissue, right? The triglycerides and fatty acids and then also glucose coming from or from the glycogen sorting your liver. Otherwise you get a good amount of gluconeogenesis from the triglyceride backbone, right? The glycerol backbone from adipose tissue. In the beginning you are really hypoglycemic. Then you can see your blood glucose levels goes up and then your cardio session is done when blood glucose levels are back in range again. It could be 20 minutes to 40 minutes depending on the amount of dumpage that you get. You can get significant fat loss out of it, but this is hardcore, hardcore 19-spotty building. It's risky in hardcore 19-spotty building. I haven't done it in years and I haven't recommended it in a very long time. It doesn't work crazy though. It works. Dangerous. Yeah, but it's outdated in my opinion. Yeah. Do you ever try it? No, but I've had plenty of hypoglycemic, it's extra in cardio Tony. I assume what it's like. Yeah, I go high bone my own, no need to for help. Yeah. They're brutal, those hypo attacks where you can't really do anything if you're that hardcore and committed to your cardio. You're just waiting like you said until your blood sugar balances itself out. A couple of times I've had, like we've left caffeine off so far where I've gone high bone in the middle of cardio and this is one of you should do stupid kind of like an hour of cross train or an hour of walking and treadmill. Yeah, that's what I had. Yeah, you know, you had a coach who's like get an hour of cardio and back then you're like, okay, whatever you say. What are you doing, dude? You know, yeah, you're sort of question your head. Like rich. Yeah, I really need to be doing this. And just by experience, I'd have like a kind of an energy drink with caffeine, you know, a sugar free energy drink and the caffeine itself and you go hypoglycemic, you know, stimulating adrenergic response to help speed up balancing your blood sugar. Not that wise. We're doing even in cardio and you down like an energy drink at that error tonight, but it helps take you out of that edginess where you feel like you're just going to fall off the cardio machine. Yeah, simpler times back in the day. You don't have all these peptides and shit available or so. It didn't matter. Yeah, it didn't matter. Yeah. Yeah, it's so yeah, I'm just going to put it in F tier, even though I did use it a lot. I think there's much better opportunities out there and I don't think anybody has a reason to do that nowadays. No, even though I did, I did it so many times. Even the outdated voice of injectable L carnity and with injectable insulin. Quite quite quite quite a popular stack with bikini athletes and then I'm sort of questioning the ones that don't want to do PDs or hard PDs to be told. Yeah, one of you have insulin alongside 200 milligrams of injectable L carnity and I just don't crush your car and wait to the gym. Yeah, you can just take a gram of rural L carnitine and a gram of BCA's and then you would get a similar insulin and tropic effect. Not that it makes any difference. No. Because it absorbs over the day and it's same with creatine. Yeah, you need insulin to help it absorb to get it getting creatine all day from your food and then from a supplement. It's going to absorb and it's not like it absorbs and it's available right away. No. It just replenishes what's already present. The reason why we take carnitine pre-cardiol is because you're moving a lot. So you get blood flow. So it gets to the area but the insulin, yeah, I took the carnitine with the insulin many times and I don't think it makes a difference. I think the insulin made a huge difference from the glucagon release but again, nowadays you can get glucagon or glucagon receptor organism in the form of retrotutide and then that's a lot more hypoglycemia friendly. So we got the second candidate in FTR besides Thomas Sartan. It's an insulin pre-fast cardio. Even though many of my former clients will be scratching their heads right now, it's like, why the fuck did we do that Steve? So, Clemie Troy is a three week detection time and injectable insulin doesn't. So if you want to beat the drug test, then you're going to have to make some sacrifices. Let's see. Now terzepidides, our lyrical tytolyglutide and semi-glutide that's a bit outdated so I just want to skip over that. Terzepidide, retrotutide and glucagon. I think they can be classified as the same thing. I'm a huge fan of these compounds because I'm not a blue-collar bodybuilder and I can't suffer through and down. I just love food too much and it's very distracting. It's gotten a lot more popular over the years. I think I talked about it first and everybody thought, what the fuck is this compound and now it's everywhere, semi-glutide for that matter. And of course in the fitness community we've kind of progressed into terzepidide and retrotutide. I would personally choose between retrotutide and there's cargolin, cargolin asymetide, sodium out there and sometimes that's combined with semi-glutide. It's a little bit over the newer stuff. I don't have any experience with that. We need to get Chase Irons on board. It was also a FODY who only can get his appetite down with these kinds of drugs. And it was a game changer for me. And retrotutide I think is the only one with actual enhancing fat loss through the glucagon agonism. Terzepidide has to a certain extent by helping the entrance or the exit of fatty acids from adipose tissue. So when you activate GIP receptor it allows fatty acids to enter and exit adipose tissue. So if you're in a chlorate deficit obviously it enhances the exit, the lipolysis from adipose tissue. But not that you have retrotutide with glucagon agonism. I would go with that option. Even though the appetite suppression effects are not as stellar as Terzepidide and it seems to build up faster. So instead of half a milligram you might proceed to 1 milligram, 1.66 milligrams, maybe even 2 milligrams, 3 times per week, faster than Terzepidide. Dean, did you ever use these kinds of medications? Both Terzepidide and retrotutide. And like you said, Terzepidide seems to have the more potent appetite suppression effect. But retrotutide seems to be much better from a metabolism perspective for fat loss. The very first time I took retrotutide, the appetite suppression is weird. The easiest way to describe it is literally you've just taken your brain and your stomach and they're just not communicating one another. So you don't feel hungry physically but mentally as well. You just don't want to eat. It's very strange. And then the other, I guess negative that I experienced with retrotutide was if you have, like my HPO and C is 27s, you know, very good instant sensitivity even with chronically eating 500, 600 grams of carbs. With retrotutide, you wouldn't eat and then you'd be sort of fasting and by like hour 18 of fasting, I'd be sitting in the office here and I was sort of sweating, dripping down my back. And then I'd go out and take my blood sugar and I was like 3.1, you know, in the midst of it, full on hypo. But mentally and physically, you don't feel hungry and mouth isn't watering. You don't get any of the signs of hypoglycemia. And then you're trying to bring your blood sugar up by like making up a, you know, concentrated glucose drink or cyclic dextrin to try to bring your blood sugar up because physically you're just like, I don't want to eat. And it's like you said, it's like on top of the mitochondria optimization. We're sort of coming into an era now where you can get rid of your appetite pretty bluntly and then you can upregulate the parts that are using your fatty acids for energy and theory that you could probably do a 20 week diet in maybe 10 weeks because you've got a severely suppressed appetite. You've got a wholly optimized system of burning the fatty acids. The only, I guess, again, with me caveats is the, the rebound appetite that can come from, from these drugs. It's terrible. It's absolutely terrible. I mean, you saw me in the UK, right? I couldn't stop eating. You came off and then I came off and I tapered down. Like after the Olympia, like at the Olympia was on Richard Retite and I could still eat. By the time I was running it long enough that my appetite was not really suppressed anymore. And of course, I'm in the, in the US, right? There was all this new food around me and I just, I just want to eat, you know, it's, it's a curse. So I tapered it off slowly to like half a milligram per week and then I went to the UK and in the UK and again presented with new food again. She couldn't stop me. It's a curse, but I've always had this. It's like everybody in my family is just fat and obese, basically me and my wife are outliers and we can control our fitness aspirations quite well, but it's just difficult to really get peeled without these kinds of medications. So I just made the mistake every time I diet because it makes it a lot easier and it keeps my mind off the food noise. Because otherwise I'm just sitting here working and then I'm thinking about food and now that my wife has pregnancy brings home a little bit more fun stuff, right? And she's just sitting on the couch like, oh, I'm pregnant. I can eat like a little bit of extra calories. And she didn't gain, the fuck she gained nothing so far. So she didn't get any fatter and we're now 20 weeks in. So she's doing a good job, but she still brings the, the tasty food home. So now that I'm offseason, it's fine. But if I'm dieting, no way, dude, I couldn't do it without it. I don't know how I dieted it without it so many years. I think like you said, it's, it's strange. It's miserable. You know, like, like, but like you said, you're able to invest. Obviously, willpower is a big thing. And always about, you've got a finite amount of willpower being able to like push away temptations or whatever or food focus. But if you can suppress your appetite like that, and now all of a sudden you're a lot more productive because none of your thoughts are centered around when I'm going to eat, what I'm going to eat. Oh, it's really like to eat this food. Even from a, um, a hedonic perspective of looking at a piece of food, like a cake or something. I think I would really like that. It's, it's strange because like I said, when I took it, you knew you had to eat, but you didn't really want to eat. But you knew how important it was to even get in sufficient protein. Yeah, it's a job. I said my alarm, I said my alarm at, you know, three hour intervals and then I have enough time to cook and eat. And I, I can get the food down. No problem. I don't feel nauseous. It doesn't sit in my stomach. I know no digestive issues, but I just don't think about food. And even when you have your refeed date on Saturday or Sunday, you go out and instead of just buying a box of donuts or wanting to buy a box of donuts and fantasizing about it the entire week. It's almost Sunday. I'm going to buy cheesecake. I don't think about it. And when I go on a Sunday, I'm like, okay, I'll have a steak and a potato, which is way healthier than, than what I used to do. You know, and I think like for me, I got into this food orgy problem, you know, six weeks, six days per week, you died hard to put away that food noise because one day a week I can kind of relax or at least have a high carb day. And then you, you do a high carb day with a thousand carbs, your stomach is shrunk and you sit in your stomach and you feel fucking uncomfortable and it's, and I'm so tired of it. I'm so over it. So that's why I'd rather run these kinds of compounds and help with fat loss tremendously, at least the literature type. So I'm, I'm, I'm all for it. Even you're, even you're sorry to me is the cardiometabolic aspect of controlling cholesterol, lipids from a dietary perspective. If they're going impacted by your nutrition. So I'm not, you know, you've got people are missing these compounds are cheating. I think these are the ones that are very old school that had to suffer so bad that don't want people to experience these hacks to speak. I do think, you know, for hard to resist. And so that I started talking about it. I don't want to be, I said, no, I want to focus on other stuff. I got too much going on to be focusing on about work and then being upset with myself that I can't eat it and I want to get shredded. I did that for, from 15 years old to 30 years old until these kinds of drugs or 35 years old, 20 years. I did it and I'm just kind of over it too because you lose money. And when I lose money, it's a lot on it. So I'd rather just take care of my family and buy them nice things and spend a little bit extra money on these kinds of medications. Because if you do your research and you're really have to lifestyle, then they're reasonably benign to take. And again, we're not taking the medically recommended dose just enough to kind of keep the appetite at bay. Yeah, like even the other side of like the hardcore mentality. Do I think certain people probably would benefit from experience and what it is like to diet hard? Probably, but that's not to say that you're not going to die a hard when you're taking these things because you're still having a restrictive diet to speak. I find they bring great benefit because they can almost give you a psychological leverage. And so they help break bad psychological habits with food where someone has a psychological habit of having a certain type of food at a certain time of day. And that is keeping them in a surplus or it's not good for their health to speak by not wanting that food. You know, nighttime eating by not wanting to eat anymore or not seeing that food as pleasurable. They're almost able to break that mental habit that if if he can do like again, this goes back to the clinical trials of like semi-glute for appetite suppression. 60% of the trial subjects regained back close to 70% of the body weight that they lost. But that clearly shows that all throughout taking the medication, it was just blocking that mental focus on food that they were never actually coached how to break those mental habits. As soon as the appetite came back, it was like, oh, well, maybe I'll have a small bit of cheesecake and then a small bit of cheesecake turns into a big cheesecake. And on it, they fall back into the habits that were suppressed. So they can be useful if they can help someone reset their psychology to food or break their relationship with certain patterns of eating. Yeah, but you need some sort of therapy. I'm going to be honest, like I did, I went to AA meetings to talk about food addiction and I'd done like hypnotism or tried to.  and I can't say that that worked either. So, I think it's just the way you grow up, like, you know, when you have like giant meals over the weekend and your diet is just riddled with sugars because my parents didn't know any better. It's just hard to break the habit. Now, I'll get over it at one point, but for me, I think once I start something like this again, I'll just keep a very low dose in the background just to kill the food noise. Chase Arons always says he has a lot of experience and has done a lot of research, and the more research I do, the more I realize that, you know, he knows exactly what he's talking about. Because in the beginning, I wasn't really full of retrotutide in the offseason, but now that I do more research and I hear more people talk about it, that actually experience it, like a blue collar bodybuilder, for example. He's also running retrotutide and SLU and motse, you know, that stuff in the offseason. And he just stays lean and eats what he needs to eat. And again, I think he was an alcoholic in the past, so he's gone through the AA five step program, and then, you know, food might still be an issue. So yeah, I think it's for people that really like their food. I think it's a game changer. And I haven't touched as many of the previous discussed fat burners since these kinds of drugs became available because I didn't need them as a crutch anymore because food adherence, diet adherence, is so much greater. And even not going overboard over the weekend is so much better. So yeah, it's there for me. Did you guys ever use glucagon injections? No. No, but it's a useful, well, I haven't, but when it comes to top level getting on stage, it's stuff that I've discussed. And it's probably an inner circle thing, but if you have the right athletes and the right sort of setting of the physique, glucagon before they get on stage, it can do like. Before they get on stage? Yes. I love to hear about this. I had never heard of anybody. Well, well. Or you're not ready to retire your coaching. No, no, keep it, keep it. Do you know what, guys? If you want to know about glucagon before stage, I would be for a fucking consultation. All I'll say is it's not something like pre-stage insulin. It's almost a reverse. So you need to be 100% sure that if you put this thing in that person's body is going to be able to handle that glucagon because insulin mops up. Blood glucagon dumps blood glucagon. So you need to have the right setting, but if you have the right setting, man, that person's going to be put it this way. As soon as they start pumping up things, change very quickly. I can imagine, yeah. You have to be able to have the right setting and be fully sure that that is the right choice for that person. Yeah, it's pre-stage. It can be useful. I want you to increase your rates for the next month. Ha ha ha ha. This glucagon pre-stage will be double the price. I'd never heard about this. I've done insulin before the stage, like with the blueberry pancake, in the morning, or the good old, again, old school stacks, because again, the insulin is not detectable on blood tests for water, cell or urine tests. So yeah, I've done that plenty of time, but glucagon, now that's new for me. I've done glucagon before facet cardio many times, and it literally causes indentations in the fat. Like. Where you inject it. So that's besides helios. That's one of the few, and we didn't discuss helios. Well, it's esther. Helios, yeah. Yeah, yeah, esther. Yeah, forget about helios. I have one. It's OK. We discussed the claim. Can we sell one over there? Are you showing you this? Do they? Interesting. Yeah. Yeah, it's available here through the undergound labs. So the glucagon causes indentations also. But you really see that your blood glucose level spike during the cardio session, and it might be elevated for 30 to 40 minutes after an injection, depending on the dose. So if you do a quarter milligram left, right, that's OK. But if you go with a full milligram, you're a full hypochid from L.E. Lily, then you're doing cardio for an hour. That's how long blood glucose stays elevated. And it's even when you're 100% depleted at the end of the week. It just comes from adipose tissue and gluconeogenesis from the glycerol backbone. It's very potent. Well, like I was saying, pre-stage. So $80 is shot. If someone is extremely depleted and flat, it's a useful strategy to turn things around rapidly. Rather than going the risky route of going, OK, well, here's some fast actin insulin where you're trying to influence. It's like perfect for making weight, right? So in theory, and this is where I'm not making anything. Stop, stop, stop, stop. Do a consultation with you. You can tell me after the show. No, I want you to keep the secret, man. Keep the secret. I know how little secrets there are now. So just keep it for yourself and let them fucking pay for it. OK, Kurt, I want you to join in on the glucocorticoid receptor inhibiting effects of anabolic and genic steroids regarding fat loss. Wow, OK. Let's talk about which one we want to talk about. Well, first we have to classify the previous one. So S tier, done, of course. Oh, he says. Oh, he says, OK. So well, what I could find in the scientific evidence regarding glucocorticoid receptor inhibition, it's been established for testosterone, trimbolone, oxenolone, and windstraw. Yep. And potentially the other steroids as well. But those four, there's some scientific evidence for it. So who would be the better guy to handle this topic than Mr. Kurt? I will try. So I mean, they're all studied through different mechanisms, right? So Tren is going to decrease the GR receptor expression in muscle. And it's also going to antagonize the MR receptor. How much in depth do you want me to go? Do you want me to cruise through these? No, just regarding fat loss. Just regarding fat loss. I mean, that's so, and then you have some AR activity, do you try to learn? I don't think, I think that part's kind of misunderstood with Tren. I think the AR stuff from Tren yet has clearly a much stronger binding affinity than efficacy than testosterone, three fold more. But I don't think that's really the magic in it, because it's just more powerful on a milligram basis. You would get the same, if it was pure AR, you would get the same fat loss from just a much larger amount of test. Assuming everything else was controlled. I think it's, Trenbalone is more specifically, I think, through the MR and the glucocorticoid receptor. That's where you're going to really see a bigger difference. I believe Auxander loan or Anavar just regulates the crosstalk between the AR and the GR. So it's a little different from the mechanism. Winstrol, let me think about Winstrol for a second. And testosterone is probably going to do it through five alpha reductase. I would believe. I read that the spillover from the DHT blocking the glucocorticoid. Yeah, because the relative binding affinity for DHT is much higher than testosterone. Yes, and then the GR. Yeah, Winstrol would regulate the more affinity with the MR. Lags, I think Winstrol would do it, Winstrol is such a strange drug. It would do it through Lags, which is the low affinity glucocorticoid binding site at the liver. I believe. And that's, and I think it also, Winstrol will also give a look of lower cortisol too, because it's removing that protein, the C1 protein inhibition. It's going to look like you're less stressed out, I think, just from the visual looks of Winstrol. I think that's probably the greatest effect from Winstrol, really, is that visual. Right? Well, halotestin prevents the breakdown of corticosterone, right, into cortisol. Which can probably have some negative play with GH, if you're using the two together. But those would be the major ones that are just all slightly different in the way they interact with cortisol. So regarding anabolic androgenic steroids and fat loss, I could, it's always been speculated that tremolone and anivar potentially had more fat loss than other steroids. Well, the anivar one, I think, is confusing, because there's that one study with the belly fat, right? Yeah. I think that's where I think, again, that's, I think, an issue of people reading an abstract and not actually seeing the whole study. Because if you look at the study, I don't know if Dean and I, I don't know if you and I ever talked about this one. It's really interesting because the study, they actually changed direction halfway through. So they were first pitting anivar. They took sedentary middle-aged men or even older men and they gave them testosterone and ananthate or anivar and it was a control group. The testosterone and ananthate, though, was a TRT dose and it was given every other week. So I'd have to question even the efficiency of even using. So if you injected 200 milligrams of testosterone on a bi-weekly basis, how much fat loss are you really going to get? Right? And then they were given anivar and then halfway through the study, the researchers didn't love what the liver enzymes were doing. So they switched that anivar group to nantralone and they did nantralone versus testosterone and then the body fat went up with the nantralone group and they basically just concluded that it appeared that anivar caused belly fat loss that testosterone did not. When you actually read the study, you're like, how relevant is that to our population? I don't really think it's terribly relevant. Not to say it doesn't have an effect. A lot of people do mention it anecdotally, though, that anivar magically removed the lower output and I experienced the same. When I use anivar at the end, it just feels like everything below the belly button, between the belly button and the junk, kind of shrinks in. I think anivar is a great drug. I don't have anything negative to say about it. I just don't know. I think part of the problem is guys or girls, women probably more so, are looked to leverage those things for fat loss specifically, right? And that's not really the use of anivar steroids. You'll get that as a side effect or an additive effect, I should say. Side effect, but it's not necessarily the primary function, right? Especially in women, they'll take anivar, assuming they're getting a fat loss and the scale goes up and they freak out because they just gain muscle and they're looking at the scale and then they probably aren't losing body fat at the same time, but they respond so robustly to it that the weight goes up. Yeah, we're in, of course, water distribution is a little bit more favorable, right? Where some of the subcutaneous water shifts into skeletal muscle from nitrogen retention, electrolyte retention. So you appear leaner initially and that might be mistaken as fat loss. Still, it seems that people on steroids get fucking diced, but 90s also get fucking diced. Yeah, I think I got leaner. I mean, I was younger. I think I got leaner when I was natural. This is less variables, right? I have same hair, right? But I have nothing else to do with it. You know, what else do you focus on? You only have two quarts to move. You do more of a diet harder. Yeah, but also when you're younger, what do you do? You go to school and that's it. You have zero responsibilities. No, I think your focus is different, right? You can suffer. You don't have responsibility. I didn't have to. I wasn't responsible for three other people. It didn't matter if my head was not quite clear. I just had a menial job that I could half-ass focus on. Showing out. Yeah. You know, we're school, like, most of my classes, I get pretty much just not pay attention and do okay in them. So it's like, I know right now, you know, you're a little bit sleepy and it goes down the toilet. Yeah. And your wife is like, hey, you got to perform tonight. I'm big, but I haven't had calories in a while. So it's okay. You go to the kitchen, have a peanut butter and then you go perform. Yeah. And that's, I think, the problem is that people just assume steroids are like a magic, some magic lever that you could pull and just things happen, right? And unfortunately, you have to have the other stuff in line first too. Yeah. And it's, you know, we have everything in line. Whenever everything in line, it's fantastic, but just a genetic expression. If you're not someone who can get that lean easily, right? And that's, I guess, where a GLP or something can help too is the food noise. Yeah. Like that was never, again, that's probably my upbringing. My parents, I wasn't allowed to eat garbage. My kids, I see it in my children too. They eat the same stuff that I eat. I cook other food and they don't really have like tremendous appetites. Like a lot of times I have to rush my son to eat faster. Right. If he's eating chicken or anything, he's not like, he's not like shuffling it out his mouth because it's boring. We had so much food and so much candy in the house. That's what they eat. So much food, so much candy in the house was, yeah, when I look back on it, I, I'm going to do better. I'll do better for my kids. Yeah. I'll do better. Yeah. It's interesting. You'll see a big effect in your children's health though, from a young age with the food. Yeah. But we only have good, good stuff in the house. So that's what I'm saying. We just see how healthy your children are because of that. Yeah. And then of course we still like to go out to dinner, but I can control my kids so much, so much better with your children. You're still going to go to dinner. I still go to dinner. I think that's part of life. I think it's the 80% stuff that goes on that people screw up. Dean, Dean, how was my dinner with you in, where was it, Birmingham? Oh, yeah. We had two dishes and, and puklaffi. Oh, man. I can still remember the guys face taking the order, sort of looking at me and Steve. Cause I ordered two steaks, two sides. Yeah, you were pre-tamed for my orders. Two sides of rice. And then Steve had his sort of platter and the name and whatever else, but you're sort of looking at us thinking like all the food for this one table. And then I had the ice cream and, and then they came with something. They came with something extra, right? Or he said, like, yeah, you got to try this as well. I think it was like, yeah, it was good food. So man, it was tasty. It was. Holy moly. I was so bloated afterwards. And then I had to, we had to go to the airport. Good times. Good times. Good times. I got when we meet. Well, I'll take you out to dinner too with the Anabola ground table finances because we made a good amount of ad sense revenue on this podcast. So I owe you a few steaks also. I owe you a few steaks as well. Yeah. Well, we'll figure something out. You can buy me some ice cream. One of the last time we went out, we all ate, we ate up of vets. Yeah. I mean, what was that five grand that we spent on dinner? It was five grand. It was a lot of appetite at that table. Yeah. And how do you get to the GOPs? I was on GOP. I was in a chaste, chaste late. I was impressed that the man can eat. Yeah, but he was struggling a little bit. But I mean, I see it catching up with him. I had a hamburger and those. I had that cheesecake. And yeah, you had the cheesecake. The cheese cake. The cheese cake. The big. Yeah. It was a kilometer. So I ate like three side dishes in the hamburger. And then I couldn't walk after that. No, it was really good. That's why I'm staying home this round because I finally got my food habits. I don't think there's any restaurants in Columbus like that. There's that one. Oh, well, there's that one Brazilian steakhouse, but they kept cutting us off. They were not happy that we were eating so much and they kept putting the thing off. And we could turn it over. I've been there. We just didn't want to eat it. Yeah. They probably saw us the first time and then because we ate the whole store clean. Yeah, they were. They were not happy. And then the second time Paul came with you guys and they're like, oh, these guys again. Nope. Because we cleaned house, man. First time I was there with Paul and then Justin Harris and Skipp Hill and all these guys. Oh, that's a fun group. Skip and Justin. Skip, can you? Oh, my God. He's short, but he's thick, man. Can you Justin Justin it a lot? Yeah, it was a fun day. So next time we'll join in again. Okay. Where were we? We were in steroids for fat loss. I think they're a great addition. I mean, I'm sure they enhance lipolysis a little bit and then speed up fatty acid oxidation by having more metabolically active tissue. I'm still going to put it in ester, obviously, because of steroids, you know, especially oxanotrol and tremolone. I mean, it's certified ester. Dean, anything you would like to add? No, Kurt. Kurt, we can promise. I don't want to hear anything about calcium. Yeah. No, I think. So, I think Kurt nailed it. I've got nothing else to add. I mean, why else? We're all using them in diet phases to retain tissue, but also for the benefit of making the diet a lot easier. Yeah, cool. And it preserves your muscle to some degree, right? It allows you to work out harder. I think that's the right during a diet. I mean, once your workout intensity goes to shit, it's over, right? If you can't work out and you're losing muscle and your sore and you're not recovering, how long are you going to continue to diet if you're on gear and you can continue to push through that, right, and make, and even possibly make some gains depending on what drugs you're doing? It makes getting lean much easier. True. Now, in this group, we have seven keto DHEA, but honestly, that only works for women. So for women, it's ester. We don't really have to discuss it much because we only have like half a percent female audience. So seven keto DHEA works for women. My wife used it many years and she always got a good response out of it. And we have some other couple of things on the list that I just want to glance off real quick. Impaqliflozin, Giordions is a sodium glucose type 2 inhibitor to help with sodium and glucose excretion. That's an option. Again, nicotinamide mononucleotide, nicotinamide ribotide, nicotinadenine dinucleotide for antioxidant benefits and potentially adipose tissue upregulation in combination with 5-min or 1-mc. We have berberine, orleostat, carcinic and bogey, which you can kind of cycle around horrible cheat meals. And I have taken these kinds of drugs many times to inhibit all of the fat and the glucose that's stored within the cheesecake. And then you have some non-stimulatory or stimulatory neutropics like Mudafinil and Bromantane and the Tessofensin, Ventramine, Subutramine, Ritalin, Adderall, Dixitin and Vyvance. But we've been here for 2 hours and 15 minutes. So we're going to glance over that. I think we discussed the most important fat burners already. BAM 15 DNP, adipotide certified FTAIR. We're not going to discuss that. For the guys that didn't realize, you guys were a little bit obnoxious sometimes in the comment section about Deanna Ball's detail. I can't believe I'm unsubscribing from the spot counter. So we had a hidden agenda to put everything in S-tier besides Thomas Hartan. It was no hiding that one. Yeah, that was no hiding that. So we had a hidden agenda. So for the guys that stuck around for 2 hours and 20 minutes, we're going to rapid fire all of the fat burners again and classify them into S-tier, A-tier, B-tier, C-tier, D-tier, E-tier or F-tier. So S-tier and F-tier is already filled a little bit. But we might move some S-tier compounds to other tiers. So let's do rapid fire, Clint Bittroll. S. Yeah. I think so. I would say A. I would say A because A is fine. A. OK. Let me write it down. Clint. OK. Old butyrol. A, I guess. Clint. B. A and B. I would do B because it's less effective. All right, Murabic Rune. I'll say S based on what you guys are saying. I agree. You know, unless I get pregnant sometimes soon, I don't think I'm going to see it. Effadrine. I'll put in S if you use the caffeine. Yeah, I agree. Cinephrine. B or C? C. C. C? You'd die. C. C. D. D is not ever. You're being. You're being useless. I mean, I'm being nice. I'm being nice. I'm being useless. It should be like E-tier. E-tier. E-tier. That's fine. Put it down on the bottom. OK. The ECA stack? S. Yes. S. OK. Yo-himbine. Robocene. A. I don't react well to it, so I'm putting it in like B, but it could work. I'm sure I don't use, you know. I'd say A if you can play to the strength of how it works without avoiding the side effects. Yeah, don't do a lot of other things. Yeah, don't do. Or do, and tell us your experience in the comments. Just throw a two and a half a picture and work it away from there. Yeah, just one capsule. That's it. T3. A. A. Just because there's a risk. I don't want to be a bad person. Just because there's a risk. I don't love to see guys use Thyroid medicine for no reason. All right. T4. B. C. B. A. B. Whatever to you. Yeah, I can agree to that. Yeah, I'd say B. B. Because you used subaturobe. Did you guys use it? Nope. I don't know how to rate it. So. I would put it next to T3 based on the experiences that are right. So. But. Isn't there a lot of data on it though? No, and not so much anecdotal reports, but for my day, if you used in the past, it came very close to T3 regarding the metabolism boost and the fatty acids or the fat loss, basically. 5m1mq. I do say A only for the fact that it's very user specific. Like. True. We say it with me when we added it in, that was the final little edge that. Okay. Yeah. Took to the last bit. Just to get you over that last little roadblock. So people, I feel they use it way too early. But like if you really, if you can't afford the other compounder, you can't source it. And you have access to NAD plus or something like that or a nicotin mononucleotide. I think a combination of 5m1mq and NMN as a supplement is very beneficial just to increase your energy levels. Because that's basically like a budget SLU. Even though SLU, the price is coming down quite a bit. And that brings us to SLU. I would say it's. Put it in S. Everyone loves it. Yeah. Okay. Methylene blue. I, from a fat loss, I'd probably say A. I wouldn't say it's going to be. Yeah. True. An S class, but it's up there at the top. It's like when you combine methylene blue with SLU, it's A or it's S. But without the SLU, it's maybe E or even a B regarding fat loss. I mean, it's a poor fat burner, but it just helps in its stack. And it's same as MoTZ. MoTZ technically is a better fat burner than methylene blue. But it really shines when it's combined to it other stuff. Carnitine. I would say B. That's fine with me. I don't want to be harsh on it or affect people's business. No, don't worry. Everybody has their opinion. You're entitled to your opinion. I think, like we talked about before, I guess if you're one, I mean, sure it could work, I guess. And I guess if it's giving you some level of mental clarity, there's probably something we said about that. Right. Not something I have any use for. Cargherine. Well, there's a whole cancer thing. So I'd say nowadays, it's probably C or D, right? Unless you said there's specific guys that really struggle and can use it. I do like it. I'm kind of a B. But you know, I think B, like, if we're coming at a risk aversity side, then it's not one that someone who has high cancer risk or worries of cancer is going to go near. But if the cancer wasn't a risk, you know, if that wasn't on the table, you could put it as high as A. But in fact, that. Yeah. The cancer thing. You know, it's if it didn't have that, it sits in the middle of yes, it's noticeable in how it works. But you sort of have to weigh up. Okay. Well, is this going to cause cancer or not? Or, you know, am I at risk of cancer? If they're not concerns, then you're going to take a risk and try in it. And if not, it's probably going to be one that's at the very bottom sitting with DMP and BAM. So putting in the middle somewhere. Yeah, from a risk perspective. Yeah. From a risk perspective, B or C. Yes. Okay. I put it next to Carnotine and B because they go so well hand in hand together. But there's much better combinations out there like SOU, PP332, Amatsya, and methylene glow. Okay. So we put cardarin and B tier next to Carnotine. Mm-hmm. What about C. Alice? Yes. Yes. Really? Really? Sure. You don't think? For the all the list of the birth? People would get upset if I don't put it at least A or S. But in my opinion, it's D tier next to Cinephil. Yeah, really? Okay. Yeah. How come? Anyway, because it's not it's not a good, I mean, this one study that shows fat loss. Oh, from a fat burning. Sorry. It's a great compound. I'd find it more. My wife loves it when I take it. Never mind. So if someone's butting it, it's probably a D. Yeah. Yeah, I think it's a D as well. I didn't even think about it from a fat loss point of view. Yeah. Well, you got to say that in the disclaimer otherwise people, I can't believe you put the dadafill. D, man, bro. My mistake. I take the dadafill and cocaine and I get great. Who's found on that? That's a good stack. Yeah, that's a good stack. You know, it's a good heart attack from that. That's a hard stack. Who the fuck cares? You're leaving. Yeah, who the fuck cares? Yeah, we're all going to live short. Dean, you can agree with the dadafill in detail or you want it somewhere else? I absolutely agree. All right. Growth hormone from a fat loss perspective, like we know it's an SDR peptide, but purely based on fat loss. By experience, I give it an S. Yeah, I would. It's hard to argue. I mean, that's like, you know, like I said about putting in marrow background, I also added back in the GH that you definitely like, you know, like, like you said, when you, when you stop, like obviously I stopped the GH before the surgery as well, you notice when that comes out and you know how different you're asleep. You know, recovery, your beard. You flatten out. Exactly. Yeah. You can't accomplish it on test the GH. We got problems. You got to rethink what you're doing. Yeah. You know, I think the other stuff all has a place and it could be added and it's sure there's benefits, but like that's the place to start. That's a staple basically. And the nice thing is with GH and you don't need as many steroids, right? Like you can get by with way less gear and use GH and stay much healthier. Yeah. And keep that healthy. And you look big and full even when you're not eating. Right? Like you're on, you're basically on a keto diet. You look full and pumped. Yeah. No glycogen. No GH is amazing. Yeah. I love it. It's too bad it's so expensive. Well pharmaceutical like the the the drugs that's cheap. Yeah. Yeah. That's okay. Anti-obesity drug 9604. Dean. B. B? B. Has it as its user case benefits, but I don't see it being as high as growth hormone. You know that and GH fragments they're they're very potent at stimulating lipolysis, but that's all they're useful for. Yeah. And their half-life is very, very quick that you have to utilize it and then go do some form of activity to mobilize fatty acids to get the benefit of it. Yeah. So we put a OD and a GH for I could beat here. insulin F tier. And just because I did it a lot and just because it works, doesn't mean you need to do it. Don't be like Steve and I've had a lot of close encounters of the third kind. Especially when you hear that song, we are going hyper close to you. You're like, where am I? What is this music? I had your close to heaven or close to the aliens. So yeah, I don't think it's required anymore, but it was very popular in the 90s from what I heard. All right. To Zephyrides. The GLPs. Well, if it's to Zephyrides separately to Retritrutide, even then, both of them probably. I'm going to do to Zephyride in A and then Retritrutide in S. That's what I'm saying. If it's needed. If it's needed. I don't think it's I've never used them. I don't think it's needed for everyone, but if it's food noises are really an issue, then yeah, they're a great drug. When you diet, how long do you need to diet? Like six weeks, eight weeks? I mean, you my condition, I mean, I could probably get on stage in six weeks from now if I had to. You don't either. I don't know. I've never I've been I've been I was naturally leaning and then I've been basically dieting for the better part of 37 years. Yeah. I mean, I don't really have food noise because it's just how I live. Yeah. And I live exactly the same way. But yeah, so I live exactly the same way. I had to eat clean the majority of the year. It only falls apart when I. 朋eticoinoliday, but I just store body fat like crazy. And I think it's a genetic thing. Actually, my body wants to be 15%. It's 300. Yeah. I mean, Dean, you might have a better answer. I believe there's 300 genes in the human body that affect fat storage and fat usage. Some. I mean, we all have different genetic expression. Like, even when I'm my fattest in the offseason, when I was 120 kilos, 265 pounds, I have the leanest face of all of my family members. My face goes first. My face will get fat first before anything else. Yeah, yeah, my face, everything gets fat with me, unfortunately. So, Retroxide, STR, Glucogon. Retroxide is probably more useful, right? Yeah. Yeah, I'm going to put an X-interzepidide in A, because it works so well, but it's just difficult to source and it's expensive. Um, Dean, you agree? Anything to add? Yeah, no, it works beautifully if you've got the right case for it. Alright, steroids in general as a fat burner. A? Yeah, I'd be saying A. I wouldn't be saying S. A. In general, A, right? Because there's a whole lot of steroids. Yeah. Yeah, and of course we already classified them individually in the first tier list that we did. So, Trimblon STR, end of our STR. Or Trimblon, where did we put it? Now, A tier, and we put this Dianalone in STR, I think, based on... What are you doing? Dean, when there's more data on the new 19-NORs that are being developed, we can always do a video on that too. Just got to wait for the factual data on them. Yeah, since then I ran the experiment with YK-11, the oral one, and I would say that from an anabolic perspective, the molecule doesn't do much, but because of the fall of staten increase against suspected based on scientific evidence, I would put it on A tier. Yeah? It really... Yeah, it's a noticeable difference. So, again, I was on a full stack of all kinds of stuff, so I'll do another experiment comparing epikathetine to oral YK-11, taken sublingually to enhance the bioavailability, then I'll switch to injectable YK-11, and then I'll switch to fall of staten 344. So that will be a... And what would you use in the background? Just test? 500 tests. No GHs, no NGF1. That needs to be something like... Yeah, no, it needs to be something. People always complain, how do you know this is doing what? So after so many years, you know, and I know it's doing what, but fair point, this is basically the last experiment that needs to be done. Be interesting. Fall of staten will be an interesting experiment, and then I'll try to find a clinic where I can test fall of staten and myostaten in serum if they even offer that in Thailand, but if not, then we'll just go with the before and after pictures and the blood work changes. I'm sure my FSH levels will be zero. That's fine right now, right? Yeah, that's fine. So, okay, to reiterate the fat burner list, not everything was S-tier, but the large majority is S-tier. In S-tier, we have myobrong effedrine, the ECA stack, SLU, PP332, growth hormone, and retrotutide. In A-tier, clemmetrol, yo-him-BUN, rovol-syn, T3, sobotarome, GC1, 5-o-e-n-o-1-m-q, methylene-blow, MOTC, terzephyrite glucagon, and steroids in general. In B-tier, we have albuterol, T4, carnitine, carterine, AOD-9604, and HHFrag. C-tier, M-tier, there's nothing in C-tier. Every fucking time we do one of these tier lists. D-tier, centiphrine and tedalafil. E-tier, nothing. And then in F-tier, thomsartan, and insulin. Any last revisions you guys want to make? I think so. I'm happy with some. Awesome. Cool. Guys, if you want to complain, do so in the comments section. All your complaints helps fuel the algorithm. It doesn't matter if it's complaints or praises, it doesn't matter. Just make sure you hit the like button just once, not twice. Twice un-likes the video. And definitely don't hit the dislike button unless you really think that thomsartan is the best fat burner on the planet. Guys, as usual, I learned something new every time I talked to you guys. This was an absolute pleasure. Fucking legends, you two. Now we've gone through all the tier lists, and it lets you guys want me to put Adderall on the tier list, but I don't think so. So we need some fucking topics. Any suggestions for the next one? Oh, that's tough. Anything we should... Yeah, or should we just wrap it up here because it's never going to get any better than the last episode. Maybe we can delve into peeking protocols following on from this book with John. Yeah, that could be cool. Yeah, that could be cool. Or how to correct a messed up peek if it's possible sometimes. Sure, and what's going into a peek, right? Maybe the last six or eight weeks should look like? Sure. Sounds good. Okay, so we'll do a peeking 101 on the bottom of the ground table. Yeah. But didn't you keep that Glucogon protocol to yourself? I'm going to wrap it up here because I'm running out of batteries. Guys, subscribe to all of these guys' YouTube channel, and subscribe to my channel if you want to see more, if you're not subscribed yet, because we do it every single month, and once we hit the tenth episode, I'm not sure if this is the eighth episode or the ninth one, but we're coming up to the tenth episodes, and then it means we have a very long running podcast talking about these kinds of stuff, which is unique in our space. All right, I'll see you guys next month. Take care. Peace out.