All of my subcutaneous administrations over the last five months have been smooth as butter. No issues, no seepage, no puncturing of a vein, no bleeding. Vigor Steve here. So for the last 5 months, I've been doing all of my steroid administrations subcutaneously. And I'm not just talking about a TRT protocol with daily micro administrations of 20 to 25 milligs. let's say 140 to 175 milligrams per week. I'm talking about an actual steroid cycle ranging from 500 milligrams per week up to 1,000 milligs per week. And I think at the peak I was injecting about 0.9 to 1 milll every day subcutaneously. These are my findings. But before we get into it, please like the video, leave a comment for the algorithm, and consider subscribing if you're new to the channel. Now, first things first, let me explain to you guys why I switched from deep intramuscular administrations using a 1/2- in needle to subcutaneous administrations, which are getting slightly more shallow as time progresses because I am still on a diet and the administration sites are getting less and less thick because the fat is going away. So, in the beginning of this protocol, my fat on the upper glutes was maybe this thick, right? When you grab it with two fingers, quite a lot of fat there. But now, it's only this thick. So I'm getting less shallow subcutaneous administrations as time progresses. And you have to keep in mind that the deep intramuscular administrations are always going to be deep because there's so much muscle there. But as you get leaner, the subcutaneous depot might be faster to metabolize because there's less fat and more availability to disperse through the subcutaneous space as your body fat levels come down. The reason why I made the switch is that after a decade of glute administrations and upper quad administrations, I developed a lot of scar tissue. Now, I haven't done upper quad administrations for maybe five or 6 years or so. Most of my administrations have been in the upper glutes, but it got so bad, so tight, so much scar tissue that it started to radiate towards my knees. My IT bands on my outer quads were getting progressively tighter. I experienced a little bit of lower back stiffness at particular exercises. And even though I was doing weekly deep tissue massage therapy, when you have 1 milll, 2 milliliters, 3 milliliters per side because you do so many injections every week, it's a little bit difficult to break up the adhesions because there's oil present in that injection depot. So I made the switch. I made the decision to do a steroid cycle exclusively subcutaneously and see what would happen. So I've been doing a lot of deep tissue massage therapy on my upper glutes. Most of my scar tissue is now completely gone. I can do the reverse hyperextensions completely painfree. Whereas in the beginning of this cycle and and many years ago whenever I would do reverse hyperextensions I could literally feel the scar tissue being pulled apart. So that's now completely resolved. I've been doing subcutaneous administrations in my upper glute area and my upper quad area. Basically, anything that is covered by a boxer short, so it's not immediately obvious that I have a little injection depot present because again, like I said before, as the body fat is getting smaller, the injection depot is going to be more pronounced. It literally sticks out like a small bubble, which might take a day or a couple days to kind of disperse and metabolize and be absorbed into the body. So keep that in mind. Subcutaneous administration should only be done in the area which are revealed last. But when that area is finally revealed, the mood has already been set. So it's kind of too late. I don't think that the girl or guy is going to go home afterwards when they might see some subcutaneous administrations. And again, all you have to do is follow up on that moment. Make sure that it's highly enjoyable. But that brings us to the first problem of doing frequent micro administrations subcutaneously. Anything over 0.5 milliliters, if you do that in the upper quad area because you're running out of spots because you're doing daily one milliliter administrations, I would keep the upper quad area if you desire to use that spot which is hidden most of the time. If you do them there, keep them as a last resort because you're again if you're sexually active frequently. It's a little bit of a boner killer when you're making contact with these subcutaneous depots um well multiple times over a let's say 20-minut session. Keep that in mind. Now, besides that, all of my subcutaneous administrations over the last 5 months have been smooth as butter. No issues, no seepage, no puncturing of a vein, no bleeding. The only thing that I really noticed is that the area where I would do my subcutaneous administrations in the upper glute area was getting a little bit thicker. Again, I'm using Bayerest of Bayerabol and both are produced in castor oil which takes a very long time to disperse and be absorbed in the body. Castor oil is the longest or the highest dynamic v viscosity rating and it might also affect the halflife of the inotate esters extending it to up to 33 and 12 days. So keep that in mind. As you can see from my total testosterone concentrations which were slowly coming up over the 4 months that I was doing an actual cycle which we'll get into a little bit later. I do notice that depending on the carrier oil that you take, the injection depot might remain in the subcutaneous space far longer than expected. So if you were to use an MCT oil, which is now getting more popular on the underground lab scene, that disperses and absorbs much more readily compared to castor oil or grape seed oil or cotton seed oil or sesame oil. Disregarding the Miklogal 840 or 812, 817, whatever the number is, that disperses quite easily. I've tried that over a couple injections, but again, it's not my favorite carrier oil to use. I prefer the organic ones, not the synthetic ones. Again, MCT oil is much closer to a bioidentical triglyceride compared to a castor oil or a grape seed oil or a cotton seed oil. So, keep that in mind. If you were to do a subcutaneous administration protocol for an actual steroid cycle revolving around multiple milligrams per week, I would lean towards MCT oil, which seemed to disperse much more freely compared to the oils that I was using, which ended up thickening my skin for about two to 3 weeks after the last administration, after which my skin completely retracted and there's no residual issue present now that I switched to a TRT dose. Yet again doing bi-weekly administrations of a quarter ampule of Bayer test of iron. So I'm right now I'm running 156 milligs testate per week. Again we'll still have to do blood work at the end of this month. So we'll discuss that next week at the full blood work panel analysis. I did a cycle in two phases. So on the screen I'll put the first phase which was testosterone anate at 156 milligs per week combined with primobolin at 250 milligs per week. Decadurabolan 50 milligrams per week. I was using anavar 5 milligrams per day. DHEA ranged from 37.5 to 50 milligs daily. Pregnant alolone 12.5 to 25 milligs daily and ACG 500 IUs three times per week. Now again we're talking about the subcutaneous depot of testates primobalin and nandolone. Of course, the testerone, the the anavar, the DHA, pregnnenolone I wasn't administering, but those do have an effect on my blood work parameters, which we'll discuss shortly. The second phase of this cycle, so the first phase was about 8 weeks, 2 months in duration, and the second phase was also 8 weeks, 2 months in duration. Phase 2 consisted of 235 mg testosterone enthate, 375 mg primobolin, 100 mg of decadurabolan, 200 mg of mastronate, and besides that 10 milligrams anavar per day, 37.5 milligs DHEA per day, 12.5 milligs pregnant per day, and I continued with 500 IUs ACG three times per week. Two separate phases. And as you can see from my blood work parameters, I put it here on an Excel sheet. You'll see that it took a very long time for total testosterone levels to peak. So I would say based on these results that every 8 weeks or so, you would reach peak serum concentrations. On July 31st, 8 weeks 2 months into this phase 1 of the cycle and 1566 mg testosterone enate per week I finally reached around,00 nanogs per deciliter on my total testosterone levels. Again, there's multitude of anabolic andogenic steroids in this picture. But going through total testosterone, you can see that it's slowly increasing. Again, primobalin nandlon is not going to detect a testosterone on this blood work panel. It's not a high sensitivity test. I'm well aware of that. But from my personal experience, when I go to this lab, when I was doing a Nanderlone only cycle or a cycle with a very low amount of testosterone, I would always get an accurate reading where my testosterone would either be bottomed out or an accurate number representative of the total testosterone that I was taking. Then increasing the dose of testosterone from phase 1 156 milligs per week to phase 2 235 milligs per week. You'll see that there's not so much of a jump from July 31st at around 1100 nanogs per deciliter to August 29th a month later to only 1350 nanogs per deciliter. So that's not much of a jump. And the following month, still on the same dose, my total testosterone levels increased yet again from 1350 to,590 nanog per deciliter. Of course, going from a drug-free testosterone concentration of only 420 nanogs per diliter and then going on a moderate TRT dose plus Primo and let's be fair, it's not exactly TRT plus, it's a proper cycle. So coming from off cycle to on cycle the first month it's only 820 nanogs per deciliter even though that's an increase of 95%. I would expect a much higher reading if I were to do a similar dose of testosterone inate intramuscularly and whether that's with daily micro administrations or bi-weekly administrations of half that dose I would expect them to be much higher around 1,000 nanogs per deciliter. So you see that in the beginning serum levels tend to taper up much more slowly compared to intramuscular administrations but they keep rising with time. So in the second month right at the end of the second month at the same dose of testosterone andates an increase of 37% from 820 to about 1125 nanogs per deciliter. Then increasing the dose yet again a smaller jump with 20% from 1125 to350 nanogs per deciliter. Then you still staying on the same dose. Hope you guys are still following me. That's why it's on the screen right here so you can follow along. An increase of 17% from 1350 to 1590 nanogs per deciliter. So in the beginning levels go up quite fast and then they tend to taper off. So instead of having that over the course of four to 6 weeks now it might take 8 weeks up to 12 weeks before serum levels start to taper off and reach peak serum concentrations. So that's the main difference that I noticed from subcutaneous administrations compared to intramuscular administrations. But that's beside the fact that I no longer suffer from terrible knee pain anymore. Are my knees 100% perfect? No, not exactly, but they're much much better than they were previously. And that was the whole point of doing this cycle in a subcutaneous fashion. Again, I've been on top of my deep tissue massage therapy. I've been doing my reverse hyperextensions and a little bit more mobility work, but mainly because I haven't been puncturing my glutes interuscularly and leaving an injection depot behind of 1 milll or 2 milliliters multiple times per week. My upper glutes are no longer tight. It's not radiating to my knees. my IT bands. It's much more pliable. I can squat or leg press a lot more easily and deeper than I was previously. So, I would say that this experiment was a huge huge success. What I've noticed is that the results of a cycle like this, so let's say I were to do a cycle like this for 4 months, the results I think would be exactly the same on a dose of 500 millig or 1,000 milligs, whether that's intramuscular or subcutaneously, I would say that my results would be exactly the same. So even though serum concentrations might come up slower, I mean, how much muscle can you really build in that period of time? And again, I'm relying purely on muscle memory. I used to be much bigger in the past. So, I honestly don't think that there's going to be any significant difference whether you go intramuscular or subcutaneous. If you do a full-blown cycle with 500, 1,000, or maybe even 2,000 milligs per week, that will be a lot of milliliters that you would have to inject, especially if you go with lower concentration compounds. So in my case I was lucky that I have access to 250 milligs per 1 milll testosterone, 250 milligs per 1 milll decadurolan or nandrol the caninoate and 250 mg per 1 milll mone enthate. The only thing which was reasonably low concentration was the methanol enthate that's only 100 mg per 1 milll. That added a significant amount of bulk extra oil to my injection volume. Maybe you could circumvent some of this additional injection volume with a higher concentration priolin at let's say 200 milligrams per 1 milliliter, but I think we all know that 200 milligs per 1 milll primabolan comes with a lot of post injection pain. So you might want to stay clear of that and replace that with something like well baldone but you know all the kidney toxicity issues that come along with that. I'll leave it up to you if you want to undergo that risk and otherwise test anates nandalone decanoate and mastone an enithate so you can keep the injection volume reasonably low and stick with a half a milliliter up to a 1ml administration subcutaneously every day. Now regarding aromatization you see that my serum estradile levels are kind of all over the place. I go from 30 to 50 to 30 to 55 to 50 again. It could be because I changed my nandrolone dosages or made mistakes with my ACG administrations or I might have missed a shot one day and then I had to double up the next day. So instead of doing 1 milll on Monday, I forgot and I had to do 2 milliliters on Tuesday. Again, sometimes you forget you're a little bit of in a hurry. So a little bit of fluctuation on the serum estradile levels is to be expected. And again primabolin and mastrone act as a reversely binding aromatize inhibitor but nandolone is known to increase aromatization because it's a metabolic intermediate between the aromatization process of testosterone into estradile and then HCG produces estradile directly in the testicles and DHEA and prenelone ultimately convert into estradile. So, it's a little bit of an estradile roller coaster, what you know appears to be the case on my blood work results. And still, I felt phenomenally leveled throughout the entire duration of this cycle. And because my SHPG levels have been steadily declining over these four months, of course, my free testosterone and bioavailable testosterone levels have been steadily increasing. And now they're really at super physiological levels. I want to go over a couple percentages, which is interesting for you guys. If we count starting from the off cycle point with a total testosterone of 420 nanogs per deciliter going on cycle up to 235 milligrams testosterone annotates per week plus all the other goodies on top. My testosterone have has been increasing steadily with 42.3% every single month. But if we remove the first month, so we start from the actual cycle from 820 nanogs per deciliter up to 1,519 NOGS per deciliter at the end of the cycle. My testosterone levels have been increasing every month with about 25%. So keep that in mind. It depends on the starting point where you start measuring from this continuous increase effect. Again, it has been steadily tapering. But let's say we start at the actual first result that I am on cycle. 25% increase from month to month even though I only increased my dose once. Keep that in mind. Now I would like to know from you guys now that I've been off cycle on a TRT dose, an actual TRT dose of 156 milligs testosterone antate per week, administered half, what is that? 78 milligrams Monday and 78 milligrams Friday subcutaneously. Based on my previous results of 1590 Nogs per deciliter, where do you guys think my total testosterone levels are going to be this Sunday? Again, we'll post the results Monday or Tuesday next week. Let's put some prices behind it. The persons who's closest will get the offseason cycle bundle worth $150 with four different ebooks. Whoever's closest up until two decimal points will win that ebook bundle. Post your comments down below. Let me know what you expect my total testosterone concentrations will end up at. I suspect that there will be around 1,200 maybe,00 nanogs per deciliter. Again, you have to keep in mind that it might take 8 weeks for serum concentrations or maybe even 12 weeks for serum concentrations to peak on a subcutaneous protocol. And since I'm still topping off my total testosterone with a TRT dose, the previous dose from, you know, a month ago at 235 milligs per week is now tapering off. So I'm expecting it to go back an increment, maybe a little bit less around 1,200, let's say lowest, 1100 nanogs per deciliter. I haven't missed a shot. I did my last shot today. So even though I went to bi-weekly administrations, no longer daily administrations, you have to factor that in as well. Um, it's only been 2 days between the last administration on Friday and blood work on Sunday. From this point forward, subcutaneous steroid cycles have my seal of approval. Two thumbs up. I'm going to continue with this practice whether I do TRT or a full-blown steroid cycle, which might start next week already because I do have to gear up a little bit for the Olympia so I can look nice, round, and bubbly. Um, and of course the growth hormone administrations, the insulin, the carnitine, whatever else, those I all do subcutaneous as well. The only thing that I've been doing intramuscularly is amino stampede containing carnitine, adenosine triphosphate ATP, and adenosine monofhosphate AM. That's the only drug that I actually administered intramuscularly using an insulin syringe. And of course, insulin syringe are only 30 mm long with a pretty high gauge. 31 gauge. So that's minimal scar tissue and tolerable post injection pain. I've been using that maybe three, four times per week when I was still on cycle. Now I'm cruising. So I took that out. Man, that product deserves product of the year award. AAA five stars. Best pumps ever. Man, you put one cc per side in your chest or you combine that with their super shredder, which also contains albuterol and B12, man. A little bit of a combination between those two pumps for days. My chest was literally here. It was insane. But let's save that protocol for another video. Thank you guys so much for watching. I hope this video was long enough, detailed enough, much better than those YouTube shorts. Man, that was getting old fast. Thank you guys so much for watching. Stay tuned for more videos dropping very very soon. Vigorous crew, you guys know what to do. A front double bicep for you guys. I mean, this doesn't look like 800 NOGS per deciliter, right? This is at least 1,200, guys. Thank you guys so much for watching and I'll see you in the next one.