If you have a lump due to the carrier oil being in the injection depot and a little bit of black and blue and green and everything in between because you nick the vein, that's going to be hard to explain. So, personally, I do all of my shots in the glute area. Vigorous Steve here with my blood work results. I've been on cycle now for a month or so, give or take. So, I figured now would be a good time to check my blood work parameters, share the results with you guys, and see which adjustments I need to make it going forward because this cycle will probably last until next year, February. So, I got about 8 months left out of this cycle. This is just the first blood work update. Again, I did my blood work before I started this cycle. So, I will use that as a head-onhead comparison how my blood work has changed over the last four or five weeks. And then again, I plan to do my blood work every month going forwards. Share the results, update you guys on which adjustments I need to make to keep myself as healthy as possible. Again, when you're using performance sensing drugs, don't expect all of your blood work parameters to be nicely within the reference ranges. Some of them are going to change, some of them are going to skew, and it's up to me and you guys to keep as many health parameters in range while using performance-enhancing drugs. Before we get into the results, please like the video, leave a comment for the algorithm, and consider subscribing if you haven't already. Hit the notification bell button while you're at it so you can get notified whenever a new video drops. Let's start with how I feel. Again, I was off cycle for 3 months or so. I wanted to use ACG, but that experiment failed. I used the Gorilla Mode Sigma instead, which raised my total testosterone concentrations to about 420 nanogs per deciliter, which is good enough to feel good, but it's probably not enough for somewhat hardcore bodybuilding. Again, after the Fluona, I was only 96 kg. As of this morning, I'm 103 kg. I gained a lot of size. I restored a lot of the muscle mass I had previously. Am I as good as my previous all-time best shape? No, not anywhere close whatsoever. but I'm creeping my way back. So, I gained about, let's say, seven kilos on the scale, but I dropped a ton of body fat as a result of that. Again, I've been on poverty calories for the last four or five weeks or so. When I had fluon, I did a couple days of fasting, and after that, I switched to a new diet, which we'll discuss a little bit later in this video. So, even though I've been on poverty, calories coming from 4,000 calories per day down to what is it? 2,500 calories per day, mostly protein and vegetables and a little bit of carbs and fats here and there. It's not a very sustainable diet, but again, for now, it's getting the job done because I'm solely relying on muscle memory. And going back on cycle, of course, is going to stimulate all of the anabolic pathways which I laid out in the previous video. So, long story short, the calories are way down and my body weight is way up. I gained 15 lbs on the scale or 7 kilos, but I actually think I gained about 10 kilos of muscle mass because again, my body fat levels are way down. Also, my lower back is now actually flabby and I can actually see the line of my obliques again. I'm starting to see some lines in my glutes. My abs are coming back again. To be fair, I started the cycle way to high body fat percentage of around 15, maybe even 18% body fat. I got a little bit sloppy running that gorilla mode sigma experiment because I wanted to see how much of an effect an overthe-counter testosterone booster would have when I was in a caloric surplus. And again, keep in mind that if you do a postcycle therapy, you're trying to recover your HPTA or testicular functioning after using testosterone or other anabolic energetic steroids for years to decades, it's better to do that in a slight or sufficient caloric surplus. So, I eat a little bit more freely. Again, I was following a ketogenic diet, but I worked my way up to about 4,000 calories, gaining a decent amount of body fat in the process, which I'm now slowly trying to remove by dieting a little bit more extremely. But unfortunately, starting to cycle at a little bit higher body fat percentage also means that I'm a lot more water retentive than initially planned. Again, I'm using testosterone, nandrone, growth hormone, insulin, all of which by themselves potentiate some sort of water retention. And even though I'm using telmasartin to modulate the ren and angotensin aldoststerone system to a certain extent preventing too much water accumulation on my body throughout the day. So I'm reasonably dry quote unquote dry comparatively from the morning to the evening. I'm the same level of water retention. Overall I'm way more water retentive because my body fat levels are high. So whoopde-doo. I started to cycle too fat. And as a result of that, my rewards is poverty calories and a little bit of cardio every morning, which I was already doing. So that's no big deal. But I do notice that it's starting to hinder my performance a little bit. So going forward again, I'm trying to get myself as lean as possible, a little bit in a hurry. As soon as I notice that my strength and performance and endurance is going down, I'm going to increase the calories, slow the fat loss to a certain extent, so I can increase building my metabolic rate, increase building my muscularity, and still have a good time in the gym because the worst thing in the world is going to the gym and having a shitty workout because you're not eating enough. So far, that hasn't happened. Again, it's been only four to five weeks that I've been back on cycle and really stay regimented to get my muscularity back. It doesn't really translate well into the before and after pictures. The before and pictures are horrendous. I look like, well, a bag of smashed [\h__\h] And now I look a little bit better, but because of the water retention accumulating around my waist, and then I'm holding around my hamstrings and glutes. Trust me, there's not much to be seen. I'm way too water retentive, and I don't want to make you guys lose your appetite. In case you're eating while watching this video, I will reveal my physique in about 4 weeks, maybe 8 weeks or even 12 weeks, however long it needs for me to get back in shape and have a physique that's comparable to how I ended my previous cycle. When I'm in shape, I'll post a physique update, whether that's on Instagram or on a YouTube video in combination with my latest blood work results. Stay tuned for that. So, let me give you guys a front wall bicep shot instead. Hopefully, you can assess the progress with this. All in all, these last four to five weeks have been absolutely [\h__\h] fantastic. I feel energetic. I feel charged. My workouts have been phenomenal. I'm steadily increasing strength over these workouts, even though I'm on poverty calories. My hunger is manageable. My productivity is up. All in all, I feel great. I think part of that is this extensive mitochondrial stack that I've been running. More on that later. So let's dive into the performance enhancing drugs because I did make a couple small adjustments over these last four weeks so you guys know how to interpret the blood work results when we start discussing that and how these performance enhancing drugs affect particular markers. So let's start with the steroid protocol first. I'll put it on the screen so you guys can follow along. I've been using 0.51 to 0.52 milliliters subcutaneously on a daily basis. This is a blend of Bayer Testovy, Bayerabolan and Organon Decadurabolan. A total of 456 milligrams injectable steroids per week or 3.6 milliliters per week spaced out over seven subcutaneous administrations of about 0.5 milliliters. This so far has been working great. I do the subcutaneous shots in my glute area where I have the most body fat tissue. So even though it's subcutaneous, some of the oil is leaking into the atapost tissue. And because there's a decent amount of adapost tissue there, the oily bumps and lumps, which are going to happen when you do large voluminous subcutaneous administrations, kind of blend into that area. So even though I'm doing daily 0.5 milliliters subcutaneous shots because there's so much atapost tissue on my glutes still even though it's going to be less over the next couple of weeks as I'm dieting now there's a decent amount of adapost tissue there allowing for a lot of dispersion of the carrier oil so it's not too noticeable. I don't notice any severe lumps and bumps. Now if I were to do 0.5 milliliters in my abs where the adipos tissue in the skin is significantly thinner compared to my glutes I'm sure it would be noticeable. So again, if you were to follow a similar protocol of only going subcutaneous and doing large voluminous shots of 0.5 milliliters or even more, if you're crazy enough to try that, I haven't tried it myself. This is the maximum injection depot that I would want in a subcutaneous administration. 0.5 milliliters or 0.52 milliliters at maximum. I'll leave it there. If you were to do a higher voluminous shot, I'm pretty sure it would be noticeable. and other parts of the body where you don't have so much atapost tissue it would be clearly apparent. So for the guys who've been asking about doing subcutaneous shots in the abdomen personally I would not do that because you might leave a lump for 5 to 7 days. If you're using castor oil coming from bay or testoviron or remabolin or rotexmetica testiron that takes a lot longer time to metabolize. If you inject that into the adapost tissue of the glutes where there's a lot of atapost tissue present you don't really notice this. But if you do it in the abdomen, if you're reasonably lean, let's say anywhere below 12% body fat, you can see the outline of your abs, or better if you're lower body fat percentage, I wouldn't do it there. You would leave a lump for that to metabolize over the course of a week or so. But if you were to use an underground lab or a compounding pharmacy that bruise with MCT oil, you might be able to get away with subcutaneous administrations in the abdomen area. Personally, I would prefer you to do all of your subcutaneous shots in the area that's covered by your boxer shorts because if you do nick a vein, you get a little bit of a bruising. If you have a lump due to the carrier oil being in the injection depot and a little bit of black and blue and green and everything in between because you nick the vein, that's going to be hard to explain. So, personally, I do all of my shots in the glute area. Don't ask me to show my glutes because they're covered with lumps and bumps obviously and nicking veins because it's a little bit difficult to twist all the way back and then use an insulin needle in an area that you haven't tapped yet because I'm doing daily administrations in the glute area. Again, it's not a pretty sight. That's part of the reason why there's no progress pictures even though my posing trunks cover most of the areas that I've been doing subcutaneous administrations. I will say that with this protocol and all the other injections that I'm doing, which we'll discuss later in this video, my glute subcutaneous area has turned into a pin cushion. So, keep that in mind. This kind of protocol is not for the faint of heart, and you do need a decent amount of flexibility to reach all the way back there because you're running out of spots quite fast. So, the subcutaneous administrations, all things considering, have been going very smoothly. No post injection pain unless it's maybe the last one or two shots of the sterile vial that I'm preparing two weeks in advance. So I mix one ampule of Bayer testirin, four ampules of Bayer Remabolan and 1 ampule organon decadurabolan in a 10ml sterile vial. Then every time before I tend to draw 0.5 milliliters, I shake that up so all the oil can disperse and hopefully fingers crossed I get an equal amount of testosterone enthate, methanol enthate and nandrol the canoe in every single insulin syringe. I draw 0.52 milliliters, inject that subcutaneously, and then by the end of the last one or two injections, and again, I've only prepared two of these sterile valves so far because we're well 4 weeks into this cycle. The last one or two injections, I might experience a little bit of discomfort and post injection pain. Again, it's been in this sterile valve now for 2 weeks in duration. I'm puncturing the rubber stopper every day. I have to reressurize with air. And after 2 weeks of continuous use, it might not be exactly 100% sterile anymore. So I might have to find a solution for that because I don't want the post injection pain and I don't want to see these changes on my white blood cell differential which you will see on my blood work results. Myinaphils are a little bit skewed. Towards the end of using this sterile vial for two weeks in duration, repeatedly puncturing the vial and injecting a little bit of air to make sure that it stays adequately pressurized. Because again, if you're drawing through an insulin syringe and it's castor oil, that's a freaking nightmare if there's no positive pressure within the sterile file. So, keep that in mind. It might not be the best approach, but I feel that it's a better approach compared to storing the contents of these ampules in syringes or some of the plastics from the rubber stopper or the syringe itself could leak into the carrier oil. And if it's in there for 2 weeks in duration, how much of this plastic are you actually injecting if you do daily administrations? So, I would prefer to store all of this in sterile vials. But what I might want to do is prepare a sterile val worth of testiron remobolan and decadurabolan for only one week in advance not two weeks in advance because right now the last one or two shots I would experience a little bit of post injection pain because it's probably losing sterility. So keep that in mind if you were to try such a protocol for yourself using sterile vials. For the last month I've been using locally produced meridian bonavar axanderlone. This is semi-harmaceutical grade oxendrone produced in Thailand in a pharmaceutical facility, albeit that it's not FDA approved locally. I've been using 5 milligrams sublingually pre-workout five times per week and 2.5 milligrams morning and evening again sublingually on my wrist days. That has been great. I do notice a result regarding my contractile capacity. Again, you're not breaking the bank with 5 milligrams of Xandrol per day, but it's a nice addition on top of the testosterone, primobalin, and nandlon. I will continue to run this at the exact same dose, but I'm going to switch from Meridian Bonavar to Iran Hormone Dero Lockxon, which is also aone to see if there's any difference between the Meridian brand, which is produced in Thailand, and the Iran hormone brand, which is produced obviously in Iran. And I've also been using Gorilla Complex Testerone as well as intelligent elephant complex ecsterone. Both 150 milligrams per day spaced out over three servings of 50 milligs in the morning, afternoon, and evening. So that's 300 milligrams trigone and ecsterone in total. Now please read the label, guys. I get this question all the time, but Steve, the t the capsules say 500 mg. Read the labels. You'll see that 500 mg complex turquestone actually contains 50 mg net turquestone. So I'm going by the net ingredient of these complex formulas. 50 migs morning, afternoon, evening combining testerone and ecsterone. This 300 mgs per day total. And I'm well aware of the recent allegations against Gorilla complex tester. Guys, use some common sense. If you see a competitor that also sells turquestone talk [\h__\h] about another brand's testone, and this can be for any kind of product in any kind of field. If one brand talks [\h__\h] about another brand and they sell the exact same product and they cook up some sort of results of doing in-house testing, take that with a grain of salt. There's an ulterior motive there. Don't be a sheep. I highly believe in Derek's products. I've used his products for years now. I've been a sponsored athlete pretty much since the beginning. I've tried many of his products and they all came back legit. I don't use all of the products, but the products that I do use and that have blood work results on, they all came back. They all give the results as expected. And again, my blood work results don't lie. So, if you see that my testone experiment raises SHBG concentrations, and mind you that I'm paying for all of these blood work results out of my own pocket, Derek is not sponsoring or paying for my blood work results. If anything, he probably has sleepless nights because I would tell him if something is off with some of his products, which up until this day has not happened. Everything has been working as expected. Guys, have some respect. Please, please. some of the things you guys are saying on Reddit or in the comment section is absolutely disgusting. So, I'll leave it there. Let's keep this positive on this video. I believe that and ecsterone is working as it's supposed to, as you'll see from my blood work results and Aaron's blood work results. So, for now, the tester and ecsterone are out. I will reintroduce them two weeks from now after I get some more baseline blood work to see where my SHBG levels end up at without these two compounds in my protocol. Again, I have maybe before, during, midway, and after blood work results. In this SHBG experiment to see if toastestone and ecsterone are able to sustain SHBG levels on cycle, I will not change anything to my testosterone, primabolan, nandran dose or anavar dose. Albeit that I will change from one brand to the other. So most of the variables will stay the same. The dosing at least will stay the same. I want to see where my SHBG levels will be at in 2 weeks after 2 weeks without testerone and ecsterone and then reintroduce these compounds to see where my SHBG levels will be at at the end of next month. Right now they're 14 nanomals per liter. If they're coming down to let's say eight 10 nanomals per liter and then come back up the 14 nanomals per liter I would say conclusively and with this anecdotal evidence that testerone and ecsterone are able to sustain SHBG levels on a cycle of about 500 mg of several different compounds. Again, this experiment is not concluded just quite yet because I'm also using thyroid hormones which are known to increase SHBG levels to a certain extent. So, there's a little bit more variables in this picture. So, I'm going to take the tester and ecdistone out, leave them out for 2 weeks, reintroduce them, and then do my blood work and give you guys my final say if this is a valid method to sustain SHBG levels on a moderate cycle. And again, will they sustain SHBG levels on a heavy cycle with the primabolan, Master, Trembolone, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. Probably not. Again, these compounds are not that potent, not that strong. I don't really notice a difference on top of the testosterone, primobalin, and anavar that I'm running. So, to be completely honest with you guys, I have no idea how much these compounds are actually contributing to my overly complicated cycle. I guess we'll figure that out two weeks from now if I notice that my strength is coming down or if I notice that my recovery is coming down or anything related to collagen synthesis is less than before. I guess I'll give you guys my conclusive answer and how much these compounds actually contribute if you end up using some real and legitimate pharmaceuticals for performance-enhancing purposes alongside of these two compounds. Let's move over to the peptides. I've been using 1.2 to I use nolva Nordisk Norditrop and growth hormone per day for the first two weeks of this cycle. I administered that before bed to mitigate some of the sleepiness which comes along with growth hormone use. After 2 weeks I noticed that my water retention was going up but it was not too severe. So I increased the two I use growth hormone before bed. Again, the sleepiness throughout the day is manageable, but when I took two IUs before cardio, during the day, I noticed that my cognition was down and the sleepiness and the drowsiness was certainly a lot worse. So I'm keeping the two IUs of growth hormone before bed because again productivity is a must is very important and the increased amount of lipolysis that I would get from a growth hormone administration before fast cardio is marginal compared to the productivity and the cognition that I need to keep my business sustained. So it's two I use growth hormone before bed for the foreseeable future or at least until I feel the need to increase the dose or maybe alter the timing protocol where I would administer 2 to 2.4 IUs growth hormone before the workouts. For now it will be 2 IUs before bed and again before bed for me is about 2 or 3:00 in the morning because my circadian rhythm is completely disregulated. I wake up at 12:00 and go to bed at 4. I've been taking five. I use Lantis upon waking for the first two weeks of this cycle and now increased to 10 IUs. Lantis upon waking that will continue for the foreseeable future again until I felt the need to increase the dose but I don't think so. 10 IUs lantis upon waking is usually my sweet spot. That's one IU per 10 kilos of body weight and since I'm hovering around 100 kilos right now I might end up at 105 kilos with this rate of progression. 10 I use Lantis upon waking is more than sufficient to sustain the nutrient partitioning and the fullness that I want out of this dose. And I've also been taking Yumalog rapid acting insulin three to five I use subcutaneously two times per week on quad and hamstring day. Again, I split up these body parts so I can really focus on my quads and really focus on my hamstrings on two separate workouts. So, I've been using three to five IUs on those days, but I'm going to increase it to four times per week on chest day, hamstring day, quad day, and shoulder day. So, I'm going to skip back day. I don't need insulin for back day because back is already a stronger body part, and I don't really want to improve that body part. But on chest, hamstring, quad, and shoulder day, I will administer 5 IUs Yumalogue rapid acting insulin. Going forwards, I might incorporate too. I use Humalog prefasted cardio in the morning to help keep my legs a little bit fuller. Again, I do notice that my quads are already slimming down slightly, even though the fullness and the strength has increased by going on cycle. They're getting increasingly fat. Again, my caloric intake is not that substantial. I'm getting about 50 to 70 g of carbs throughout the day around my workout, which I'm shuttling in with the insulin. And if I were to take two, I use Yumaloko before fasted cardio. From my experience and what I've seen with clients, this helps to sustain fullness, albeit that it's a little bit more of an advanced protocol for bodybuilders because you're risking going hypoglycemic. So keep that in mind. This is not for the faint of heart. This is what I'm doing. This is not something that you should be doing unless you have a lot of experience. You have a glucometer at home and you have the fundamental insight into how your glucose concentrations change throughout the day by using a glucometer frequently. So that's going to be a total of 10 to 17 IUs of insulin throughout the day depending on the day and what kind of protocol I'm going to be following. two units of growth hormone that's at least going to stay in place for the next four weeks or so after which I will do blood work and update you guys if my protocol is going to change any further. Now regarding the mitochondrial support stack using five milligrams of MOS C on Monday Friday doing the IV solution once per week on Wednesday that doesn't really help with mitochondria but instead it helps with antioxidant status in the body which ultimately helps to support the mitochondria so they don't get damaged by free radicals. I'm using nicotenomide monucleotide 250 milligs in the morning plus 250 millig preworkout. I was getting such a good response from the nicotinomide monucleotides that I decided to take it pre-workout as well. And man, that is a huge difference. Now, that's besides the ubiquininal, the PQQ, and the shellet fulvic acid and the electrolyte intake, which is now perfectly balanced for me as an individual. All of these contribute to mitochondrial functioning or mitochondrial biogenesis increasing the amount of mitochondria which are present within the cells. I think I've almost perfected this protocol and once I do I'll make a separate video about that because it's going to be lengthy about how to increase your mitochondrial functioning for overall super energetic feeling throughout the day and the sense of energy that you get from a protocol like this. The feeling of being charged 24/7 is nothing like the fake energy that you get from stimulants as they're boosting your sensor nervous system and then causing you to crash at certain periods of the day. I feel energetic and charged the entire day. So, this protocol is really, really great for the guys that are very busy with work and demand a lot of their body and their mental performance. I'll make a separate video about it once I'm done completing and mastering this protocol. And even though a protocol like this for mitochondrial support and energy production is highly expensive for the guys that have some disposable income and are willing to try this protocol once I make a separate video about that. I really hope you guys get the same benefits as I do because I found this experiment to be very profound and very beneficial for everything that I want out of life now pushing close to 40 years old. My energy is great. My mood is great. My productivity is great. My strength and performance in the gym is great. My cardiovascular endurance is phenomenal. I'm breezing through those cardio sessions every single day like there's no tomorrow. It's super super easy to grind 30 minutes on the elliptical. And over these last couple of weeks, I've really been ramping up the intensity on the elliptical. So, I'm going from a level one to a three to a five to a seven. My cardiovascular endurance and my energy levels are really, really great. But now that I think about it, that's probably the reason why my legs are starting to flatten out slightly because again ramping through the intensities and even though I have a lot of energy and that makes sense in the moment because it feels so so easy to breeze through a level seven on the elliptical for 30 minutes straight. That's probably the reasons why my legs are suffering a little bit. Again, my strength has been steadily going up. My leg days have been improving substantially, but I might have to incorporate a little bit of insulin prefasted cardio to compensate for this glycogen depleting effect. I'm still using 50 milligs modafanil upon waking six times per week. That's not going to change. I'm still using 20 micrograms climbrol upon waking Monday to Saturday. I don't want to use climbrol on my carb up or refeed or cheat meal day because my heart rate goes ways too high and that's something I'm trying to prevent. I had a little bit of shakiness in the first week of dosing 20 micrograms climbutrol, but now it seems to not potentiate any side effects and I'm just getting a slow beneficial effect regarding central nervous system stimulation, potentially a slight amount of anabolism out of that as well as the increased and steady fat loss. I've been using 12.5 micrograms T3 twice per day. So that's in the morning and a little bit later in the afternoon. Again, this might have a little bit of an overlapping effect on my SHBG levels in combination with testerone and ecsterone. The combination of climbrol and T3 has raised my resting heart rate from about 45 48 beats per minute to 5560 beats per minute. And of course, my heart rate goes a little bit higher when I'm doing fasted cardio or during the workout. Compared to baseline readings before I added in the climatrol and the T3, they didn't really budge much after I added in three milligrams rosine the last two weeks or so to help with a little bit of fat loss on my lower back which has significantly improved these last two weeks after adding in the robsine from Gorilla Mind. So I added that the last two weeks or so. My fasting heart rate has increased slightly. So I don't want to alter the dose any further. I feel that a resting heart rate of 55 to 60 is basically borderline of where I want to have it. I prefer 45 to 48. Even though that's clinically diagnosed as sinus brackia, a low resting heart rate, I prefer 45 to 50 beats per minute. Again, I'm using 5 milligs of nivol for the majority of the year, whether I'm off cycle or on cycle. The nebival is potent enough to sustain my heart rate close to the bottom of a healthy resting heart rate. And I'm sure if I were to remove the 5 milligrams nivol from this protocol involving clenutral T3 and roal scene which can also stimulate heart rate slightly. I'm sure my resting heart rate would be way higher 70 80 beats per minute for example. I'm not going to remove it and give that experiment a try because I don't like a high resting heart rate. And I've been using between 500 to 1,000 mg injectable carnitine per day. On rest days, I only take 500 milligs injectable carnitine before fast cardio. And at workout days, I take another 500 millig injectable carnitine before the workout. Every time I inject this subcutaneously, I get post injection pain, which lasts for about 1 minute, after which it's gone. Luckily, I've done several intramuscular administrations of 500 mg for half a cc injectable lcarnitine and that seems to give me longerlasting post injection pain. So again, I'm trying to avoid the intramuscular post injection pain as well as the intramuscular scar tissue buildup from frequent intramuscular administrations. That's why I'm doing everything subq. So needless to say, my glute area doesn't feel too pleasing. a lot of post- injection pain around the carnitine injection sites. So, I might have to start rotating a little bit and start injecting my upper quads or other areas again subcutaneously to help mitigate some of this post- injection pain that injectable carnitine causes. Now to this injectable carnitine, I've been using for the last two weeks a new product from Amino Asylum called Stampede, which contains per 1ml, 400 mg injectable carnitine, 40 mg adenosine triphosphate, and 5 mg adenosine monophosphate. I've been using half a cc to 1 cc of this formula intramuscularly bilaterally. So this is basically the only intramuscular injection I've been doing for the last two weeks. And again, I've only experimented with this on quad day and hamstring day, which is the most demanding workout out of the week. I will inject this on chest day one time. Again, this is an intramuscular injection directly into the chest using an insulin syringe, so it's not that deep, but still deep enough that it feels awkward pitting your chest muscles directly. And man, Amino Asylum, this Stampede product is freaking awesome. The pumps, the contraction, the vessel dilation, the pumps that last for hours after the workout has completed. The energy that you get during the workout, phenomenal. There is a little bit of post- injection pain present because again, you're injecting carnitine directly into the muscle. The post injection pain lasts for a couple hours. Most of that will be mitigated with the workout. Again, you are supposed to inject this about 30 minutes before your workout. And even though when you start doing all the research about ATP and AM that none of these compounds can actually permeate within the cell and start helping with energy locally, some of the adenosine triphosphate or adenosine monophosphate will convert into adenosine itself, which is a very potent vasodilator. But from what I've noticed so far, get ready for a little bit of bro science and anecdotal evidence from yours truly, from what I've noticed is that right after the administration of amino stampede, and again I do this very close to the workout. So I administer and go to the gym. So let's say 15 minutes before starting my actual workouts. From the start of the injection up until I do my first working set, the pump gets better and better and better. And whether that's coming from the carnitine facilitating a little bit of triglyceride absorption or coming from the ATP and AM metabolizing into adenosine causing vaso dilation which helps with the pump and nutrient delivery into the muscle that you're training. From that until the first working set, the pump is really really good. Better than most of the pump products that I've tried so far. And I've experimented with a ton of different pump products by themselves and in combination. the pump is really really good then from your first working set onwards again purely speculating here due to the hypertrophy response or due to glute for transllocation which happens following strainous sits some of this ATP or AM can actually permeate into the cell and help with energy. So I do notice that after these administrations could be pure placebo or could be a little bit of broad science and antidol evidence. I do notice that the pump is great and that the energy levels stay sustained. Now this is on top of the NAD+, the NMN, the ubiquininal, the shelljet fulvic acid and the PQQ. So again, take it with a grain of salt. This is purely my anecdotal evidence. And what I do know that several IFB pros or highle amateurs that are basically taking ATP before every workout, they always mention to me once you go ATP, you can't train without it. So, a little bit of caution is advised if you do go with Stampede or other ATP formulas. If you notice a similar benefit regarding your workout capacity, energy levels, and the everlasting pump throughout the workout and for several hours afterwards, once you get used to this, it's very hard to train without it. Keep that in mind. I'm using it two times per week. For the other ancillaries, again, nothing has changed there. Still using 5 milligrams nivol upon waking every single day. 10 milligrams zetamide upon waking every single day and 40 milligrams tomartin upon waking every single day. I started using TB-500 1 milligram per day for the last 10 days or so in my left shoulder. I do notice that it's a little bit tight in here. And I've been doing a lot of deep tissue massage therapy on my shoulder, specifically on my left shoulder, because it's getting more tight as my strength of shoulder movements and chest movements are rapidly increasing or at least getting back to previous all-time strongest working weights. So, I do notice a little bit of tightness. Besides the deep tissue massage therapy, I've been using 1 milligram TB-500. I'm going to give that let's say four weeks in duration to see if that if I notice a benefit regarding the tightness if it can reduce the inflammation within my left shoulder. I might leave it there. I might switch TB-500 administrations to another body part or combine that with BPC57 at 1 millig per injection. For now TB-500 1 millig per day on the left shoulder, but I might have to change that going forward. So, that pretty much rounds up the cycle review. And even though this was going to be a blood work review, since this video is already way too long, I'm going to do you guys a favor. Leave the blood work review for the next video because again, some of you guys get anxiety or post-traumatic stress disorder when you see a video that's longer than 20 minutes. So, I'm trying to keep these videos YouTube algorithm friendly. This was the cycle review. So far, so good. I do need to make a couple adjustments because my blood work is not perfect. Obviously, I need to make some changes, but stay tuned for that. I'm going to review my blood work results next and then let you guys know which changes I need to make to the cycle going forward. Sorry, I have to split it up, but again, that's a sign of the times. Not everybody can stand a 1h hour video. Thank you guys so much for watching, though. You can find everything that I'm associated with down below in the YouTube description section. If you're looking to do your own blood work and you reside in the United States, look no further than MERIC Health. I have two panels over at Merrick Health, a full comprehensive panel that contains all of the markers which are very important for people who take performance enhancing drugs or thinking about going on TRT or using PEDs in the future. And I have a checkup panel which is about half price of the full panel just to see where your health is at. Again, you don't need to check all of the markers all the time, just like I don't check all of the markers every time I go in for blood work. So, this is a smaller panel just to check your health, see what's going on regarding your lipids, your kidneys, your liver parameters, and a couple of the important markers, which you should check frequently. So, if you care about your health just as much as I do, head over to mealth.com/vigorous. Use vigorous as a discount code to save yourself 10% when purchasing one of these lab panels. and you get your blood work results in the mail very very soon. You can find all of my sponsors and affiliates down below in the YouTube description section. Head over to my website where I have more sponsors and affiliates. Follow me on Instagram and Tik Tok at Vigor Steve Vigorous Crew. You guys know what to do. A front double bicep for you guys. Pretty much the exact same front double bicep as at the start of this video, but I do feel that the changes and the progress is apparent. Stay tuned for the final progress pictures. Just be patient. It might take a while. If I see some straations in my glutes, I will take some progress pictures and post them online. For now, we're out of time. Thank you guys so much for watching, and I'll see you in the next video discussing my actual blood work results.