 you developed your body to legendary Instagram bodybuilding proportions, getting praises and inappropriate emojis, left and right, you look like a Roman statue, people are falling off their bicycles and crashing the car when they see you walk down the streets, but what's the point if you can't pay it forward? This is the most important video you'll ever watch if you want to ensure your legacy after years and decades of blasting gear. Welcome to the How To Get Your Partner Pregnant Deep Dive video, where seroidal contraceptives are not allowed. Vigor Steve here, alright, so you're ready to take the next step in life and put a little mini-me bodybuilder on this planet and nurture and coach and guide that little rascal all the way to the Mr. Olympia stage, but you've been blasting your socks off of your own self-asspirations to make it to the Mr. Olympia stage, don't worry buddy, Daddy Steve has got you covered. But first, let me drill it into your thick skull that this process is going to take months if not years, it'll take considerable time for your semen parameters to become acceptable and then further down the line become super duper fertile, ready for conception, especially if you've been taking steroids for a while. So don't get discouraged along the way, you can expect to get smaller, you can expect to get weaker, you can expect to gain a little bit of body fat, perhaps turning yourself into a full blown dad bod in anticipation of becoming a father yourself and oh yeah by the way the dad bod will come well before actual parenthood does, so be ready. Now take it from me, as soon as you get the good news and you know that your partner is pregnant with a healthy baby, once you start to gain train the transformation is going to be a lot of fun and you'll get that killer combo physique back in no time well before your child is born. In order to get the highest possible fertility parameters, you need to come off all non-bi identical performance enhancing drugs, ancillaries and medications as well and then further down the line you might need to come off exogenous testosterone, TRT therapy as well. The negative effects that anabolic energetic steroids and selective antidepressant modulators have on male fertility is honestly poorly investigated and documented, there's a lot of conflicting scientific evidence but the general consensus is that anabolic agents impair fertility in both men and women often resulting in complete infertility even admittedly accepted therapeutic dosages. I reviewed all of the scientific evidence regarding anabolic energetic steroids and their effect on fertility when they're available in this video but I would highly suggest you to give this a watch and yes I'm well aware that both proviron and halotestin treatments might aid in male fertility, this was actually proven scientifically in studies coming from the 1960s and 17s using sub-fertil men who were not completely asus-permic so if you're a golden age nut hugger and you want to forego the latest scientific evidence be my guest but your mileage might vary but I'm also well aware of the old wives tales, good old gymbrow lore by increasing your weekly testosterone dose to let's say 500 milligrams, a thousand milligrams, two thousand milligrams exogenous testosterone weekly even might help with spermatogenesis as well allowing you to keep blasting gear, keep all of your gains and still get your partner pregnant nonetheless. The idea here is that a high enough concentration of exogenous testosterone might enter permeate into the testicles, initiate spermatogenesis in the semi-ferros tubules of the testes in a similar extent that intertesticular testosterone would stemming from the late excels which is probably completely shut down because your luteinase hormone and follicle stimulating hormone levels are completely bottomed out. Whether this intertesticular testosterone is stemming from the late excels being initiated by luteinase hormone or human corionic gonadotropin or stemming from exogenous sources being in such high concentration in the rest of your body that it literally enters the testicles and starts spermatogenesis doesn't seem to matter even in the absence of follicle stimulating hormone. And let's be completely honest here the amount of anecdotal evidence is astounding how many people do we know in the fitness community that got their partner pregnant while blasting their socks off, running grams upon grams of gear even using trimblon. I got my partner pregnant on trimblon, I got my partner pregnant on trishtolone which was actually designed as a mild contraceptive, the stories are plenty. Unfortunately there's no scientific evidence to support this quote-unquote hypothesis even though if you understand basic human biology it could definitely be true that exogenous testosterone might result in pregnancy. Again there is some scientific evidence that exogenous testosterone, proviron or halo testing actually improve fertility parameters in men suffering from subfertility. Unfortunately all of the studies performed on humans going up to dosages of let's say 600 milligrams weekly did not investigate the effects on spermatogenesis or overall semen parameters. However being the evidence-based research nerd that I am I was able to find an animal model that proves that quote-unquote high dose of testosterone from exogenous sources might improve the stickler function and fertility parameters but not in the way you think. This study performed by Anne et al published on June 1st 2020 so it was recently recent titled the impact of exogenous testosterone supplementation on spermatogenesis in a rat model of oligoesthenospermia. In this study the researchers used eight-week-old male sprogdoliarats and treated them with four weeks of gluconocytes of tryptoregium pil-40 abbreviated to GTW impermanensible compounds to induce low sperm count and poor sperm motility so that's a similar effect you would expect from exogenous anabolic and genic steroids albeit that that takes usually a little bit longer than four weeks in humans. Afterwards these rats received either a low dose testosterone undercannuate at 7.5 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight or a high dose testosterone undercannuate at 15 milligrams per one kilogram of body weight twice at the start of the study and again at the four-week mark. So first four weeks is inducing infertility parameters basically and then a shot of testosterone undercannuate at the first week of the examination and at the fourth week mark then at the eighth week they started examining semen parameters. Again converting these dosages to the human equivalent dose using dose scale linked down below going for the weekly dose instead of the every four-week dose that means that a 100 kilogram bodybuilder would either end up with a low dose of 30.4 milligrams testosterone undercannuate weekly or at the high end of the range at 60.8 milligrams weekly. That's basically a hypotomic pituitary testicle axis destroying castration dose not a large in-charge bodybuilding dose but less proceeds anyway. In table one you see that after eight weeks the semen parameters of the high dose testosterone undercannuate group is very comparable to the control group which didn't receive any of these treatments albeit that progressive mortality is almost 16% lower at 34.5% compared to the 41% of the control group. Keep in mind that sperm agendasis was sprocketed at takes about 50 days aka seven weeks. The semen samples are literally the first ones you'll be able to test after the glucose sides of triptoride gym will for the GTW treatment. Here in figure four you see that while luteinogenic hormone and follicle stimulating hormone levels in the testosterone undercannuate groups is significantly lower compared to the model group which just received the GTW treatment but didn't receive any testosterone undercannuate afterwards in a testosterone undercannuate group serum luteinogenic hormone and follicle stimulating hormone levels are still significantly higher compared to the control group readings. So is the increase in intertensicular testosterone and restored sperm agendasis coming from the exogenous testosterone undercannuate or the 200% increase in luteinizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone following the GTW treatment? I would say it's a little bit of both. So why don't we extrapolate highly dubiously from this animal model that if you impair your semen parameters with some sort of anabolic, anagenic, steroid or select vanishing receptor mice later you stay on TRT at the low infective dose and introduce something to initiate sperm agendasis in the form of luteinizing hormone, follicle stimulating hormone or perhaps human-curionic gonadotropin. And to come back to this bro-lord the old wife tells that exogenous testosterone can initiate sperm agendasis that's kind of proven in this study because both luteinizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone levels were significantly higher in the CTW only group compared to the testosterone undercannuate group. You still see a steep reduction in intertensicular testosterone and fertility parameters at the eight week mark after the GTW was discontinued without additional testosterone supplementation, whereas with additional testosterone undercannuate supplementation intertensicular testosterone and semen parameters are almost close to baseline again at the high dose group. So a combination of both seems to be desirable. I'll end before I forget we'll go a lot more in depth into oxidative stress a little bit later in this video but in this study they show that oxidative stress markers were also lower in the testosterone undercannuate groups compared to the GTW only groups but still higher than baseline readings and this is very important to understand again we'll go a lot more in depth later on because oxidative stress contributes to the sex determination of your child. Now there's a lot more to this study and I would highly suggest you to read it if you decide to go this route be my guest just do me a solid and read all of the other citations down below it is a fully evidence-based scientific deep dive to make sure that you get the best information possible when you're trying to conceive. If you stop the video right here just be forewarned if you decide to go with exogenous testosterone and super physiological dose just in an attempt to get your partner pregnant it's very likely that you'll have a daughter and could potentially have a child with autism or both due to the oxidative stress occurring within the testicles affecting your semen parameters so keep watching if you'd like to know more leave a like and a couple comments to fuel the algorithm much appreciate it everything is explained in this post-stereotabuse male fertility deep dive. Gentlemen first let's get a baseline reading of your current fertility parameters to see how terrible or how decent your spermatosa are because not all men are asyl spermic on a steroid a cycle like I alluded to earlier albeit that progressive motility and morphology is usually still in the gutter make sure you do a semen analysis while checking for the following fertility parameters according to the updated guidelines from the sixth edition of the world health organization manual for human semen analysis published in 2021 the ideal abstinence time should be over two days resulting in sufficient semen volume you can expect about one milliliter of semen for every single day that you abstain on average but the longer you abstain the more your sperm is susceptible to oxidative stress again more on this later semen volume should be over 1.4 milliliters sperm concentration should be over 15 million sperm per one milliliter total sperm per ejaculate should be over 39 million per ejaculate so that basically means on average two milliliters of semen containing each 20 million per one milliliter total sperm motility should be over 42 percent good luck if you're on anabolic anagenic steroids that's the amount of sperm that's swimming around progressive motility the sperm that's actually swimming in a straight line and not going in circles like Homer Simpson on the floor should be over 30 percent the non-progressive motility should be less than 1 percent that it's the sperm that's swimming around but not getting anywhere a motile sperm should be a maximum up to 20 percent basically sperm that's not swimming sperm vitality aka the viability the sperm that's alive should be over 54 percent and normal morphology should be over 4 percent but if you use strict criteria based on other scientific evidence that should be over 14 percent we'll get into more into this a little bit later on and these fertility parameters aren't included in the updated guidelines by the world health organization but i would still highly advise you to check these variables anyway as they greatly help identify underlying problems in eight in the full recovery of your fertility parameters the pH the acid basic balance of your semen should be over 7.2 because the vagina is reasonably acidic so the higher your pH is the better it is to preserve the quality of your semen after ejaculation a lot more on this a little bit later on this video the viscosity should be normal not too thick certainly not too watery otherwise it would just basically leak out after ejaculation liquid faction should occur within 60 minutes again more on this later semen mixed anti-globulin reaction test the mar test detects the presence of anti-sperm antibodies asubs in semen and these antibodies can actually prevent conception by coating the surface of sperm making it very difficult for them to reach and fertilize the egg white blood cells should be below 1 million red blood cells should be negative brown cells again red blood cells should be negative and then DNA fragmentation this is probably the most important part of the semen analysis should be below 15 indicating good DNA integrity 15 to 25 percent is average sperm DNA integrity and over 25 percent is poor sperm DNA integrity we'll get into this a little bit later on when we discuss oxidative stress and the semen fructose qualitative test a normal result should be between 5 to 30 millimoles which helps you identify problems when you're completely asus spermac and this is very important to test on your first semen analysis after years the decades of blasting gear without human koreanic gonadotropin right it could be that you're completely asus spermac zero semen in your semen sample to analyze but then it's still very important to see if you have uh fructose content which is being produced in the seminal vesicles because if you don't produce a lot of semen you don't have seminal vesicles you'll have structural issues we'll adjust it a little bit later on so there might be an issue with your seminal vesicles if your semen fructose content is zero or an issue with your vast deference which is the area um that allows for transport from the testicles to the seminal vesicles so this can already determine any structural issues which you can then further analyze with an ultrasound so your first semen analysis make sure you check the fructose content of your semen sample and it's basically the perfect segue i also highly suggest you to do with the sticular ultrasound at the start around the same time that you did your first semen analysis to assess if there's any structural issues in your testicles or the surrounding tissues you might as well assess the health of your prostate while you're at it right you do one trip to the sonographer instead of multiple right because it's very important to know if there's any issues structurally with your testicles or the surrounding tissues when you start throwing the kitchen sink or fertility medications at it if there's a structural issue it doesn't matter how many fertility medications you take they're not going to end up in the testicles allowing for a sufficient parameter genesis for superduper fertility parameters testicular and prosthetic ultrasounds are non-invasive medical imaging tests that use sound waves to create detailed images of the sexual organs in the surrounding tissues do yourself and the sonographer a favor shave and bathe well before the testicular ultrasound and hold your urine for the prosthetic ultrasound to get the best experience possible the stickler ultrasounds can diagnose the following medical conditions the stickler tumors differentiate between non-cantrus benign and cantrus malignant masses the stickler cysts such as epidydymal cysts or spermatocele which are fluid filled sacs within the testicles a hydro cell is fluid around the testicles a little bit more on that later on the stickler infections or abscesses again it can be identified using an ultrasound whether that's bacterial or a viral infection it can diagnose the stickler torsion which you would certainly notice through excruciating pain as it's a medical emergency this is the twisting of the spermatic cord which cuts off blood flow to the testicles so if you go in for the stickler ultrasound and you don't experience any pain it's very unlikely that you experience the stickler torsion but if you had excruciating pain in your testicles years the decades ago resulting in hypogodadism yeah there might be a permanent issue there because blood flow was cut off for a very long time all right so again the stickler ultrasounds are very important to do before you start conceiving especially if you were a hypochonadol in the past before TRT and then some the stickler orchitis which is the inflammation of the testicle often associated with infections like mumps varicoseal or varicoseals on both sides enlarge veins in the scrotum that impair blood circulation and may affect sperm production and fertility parameters if the blood flow is really impaired then you require a Doppler ultrasound following the ultrasound to diagnose if you have a varicoseal or varicoseals now if you have a minor varicoseal they can actually do several predations minor varicoseals don't require surgery because the blood flow to the testicles is still sufficient for normal fertility parameters and serum testosterone levels but if the varicoseal or seals is severe then you probably need surgery it can detect hydro seal or hydro seals which is fluid accumulation around the testicles not within and hydro seals can still cause discomfort or swelling scrotal swelling differentiates between solid masses and fluid filled areas causing swelling detects injunal hernias that extend into the scrotum undescended testicles help locate a testicle that hasn't descended into the scrotum it's probably not an issue because that seems to be a common problem with well adolescents but if you look down and you can't find your testicles it's either from having an undescended testicle a nonformed testicle which is congenital or excessive use of anabolic androgenic steroids allowing the testicles to disappear within the body and then if you go swimming in a very cold lake then it makes it even worse at this particular trauma detects injuries like ruptures or hematomas aka blood clots in or around the testicles it can detect microlithiasis which is the presence of tiny calcifications in the testicle sometimes that's linked to a high risk of developing testicular cancer and well testicular atrophy obviously shrinkage of the testicles due to various causes including an impaired hypotomic pituitary testicular axis from steroid or SARM abuse and again while you're at it do a prostate ultrasound if you haven't done that in a while to determine if you have benign prostate hyperplasia prostate abscesses or cysts prostate stones prostate cancer prostate tides ejaculatory duct obstruction which is a blockage of the duct that carries semen again leading to male infertility semen of vesicles abnormalities like cyst infections or congenital defects impairing your overall ejaculate quality post prostate surgery monitoring and to assess the function of your bladder that is very important that you do both I would highly suggest you do both at the same time if you're diagnosed with any of the previously mentioned conditions where you have another issue on your prostate or your testicles please discuss that with a professional right that's what they're there for the specialists know exactly what effect it might have on your overall fertility parameters and if you need to go some sort of invasive surgical procedure to get everything fixed and resolved in order to get your partner pregnant further down the line right that's not what we're going to discuss in this video that's what the doctors the specialists the professionals are there for and again to put your mind at ease if you took pneumocorionic gonadotropin throughout the entirety of your steroid cycle or SARM cycle it's very likely that your testicular size is exactly the same as where it was before starting androgen therapy sort of say unless you were hypoquinadol in your testicles were non-existent because LIT and FSH levels were very low because of a pituitary or hypothermus issue right assuming you were healthy before starting steroids or SARMs that the testicular size don't doesn't really see much of a decline if you've been taking human crionic gonadotropin throughout the entirety that you were blasting your socks off I explain everything in the human crionic gonadotropin deep dive I would highly suggest you to give it a watch because human crionic gonadotropin is an essential ingredient in this overall fertility protocol I'll link it down below and at the end of this video but you're not the only one who should do medical imaging to assess the health status of your reproductive organs I would also highly suggest your partner to do a vaginal histroscopy which is a diagnostic procedure used to examine the uterus and endometrium using a thin lighted tube with a telescope video camera called a histoscope a vaginal histroscopy provides a detailed view of the uterine cavity and helps in diagnosing various gynecological conditions including abnormal uterine bleeding, uterine polyps, uterine fibroids, congenital abnormalities, endometrial hyperplasia, endometrial cancer, inter-uterine adhesions, uterine abnormalities, retained placental fragments and ate in the removal foreign objects including inter-uterine devices which again should be removed whether they are copper-based or hormonal-based because inter-uterine devices prevent your partner from getting pregnant again you and your partner will need to discuss the results of her vaginal histroscopy with a gynecologist or another specialist to see if she's perfectly healthy or if she needs medical interventions before a successful implantation of a fertilized embryo can occur a vaginal histroscopy is particularly important for women who took performance anesthetic drugs in the past and whether those were antibiotic androgenic steroids, selective androgen receptor modulators or ancillaries like aromatized inhibitors or selective estrogen receptor modulators all of these can have a hormonal effects on the reproductive organs which can have a negative effect on the uterine lining and thickness making the chances of implantation rather difficult. PEDs can also result in eminorrhea, a temporary or long-term absence of menstruation which might have a negative effect on overall fertility as well even though the scientific evidence can be debated. Now female fertility is a whole subject on its own and the negative effects that performance anesthetic drugs have on female fertility are still poorly understood. I would highly suggest any female out there that took PEDs in the past to abstain from PEDs for at least two years and make sure that they have a regular menstrual cycle for approximately one year to track ovulation cycles properly before attempting to conceive a child. Okay so now both you and your partner have done the initial screening to assess if there's any structural issues which are reproductive organs any issues would seem in production the menstrual cycle or ovulation. Once that initial diagnosis has taken place you can proceed with the remainder of this fertility protocol discussed in this video. For you the next step is coming down to testosterone replacement therapy removing all non-biidentical hormones from your protocol and using fertility medication to recover testicular function unless you were already using human chorionic gonadotropin on cycle or alongside your TRT HRT protocol in which case testicular function, testosterone production and sperm to genesis was somewhat sustained. So during the next step you're going to let all antibiotic and genic steroids select the endogen receptor modulators and their metabolites which might be suppressive on testicular function metabolize from your body and then we're going to ramp up the fertility medication for sperm to genesis to get as high as possible. Here I'll provide all of the known and established half-lives of injectable steroid formulations whether they are esterfied or not but I go a lot more in depth on how esters work and what their individual half-lives are in this video. Long story short the half-life of an ester highly depends on the amount of carbon atoms that the ester contains and how readily these carbon atoms are cleaved off by the carboxyl esterases or the phosphodiesterases. That being said the carrier oil in which the esterfied steroid formulation is dissolved in also needs to be metabolized from the injection depot and this seems to influence the half-life as well. Hence for many of the steroids listed there's a half-life range stemming from various studies using different carrier oils examining how these esterfied steroids metabolize from the injection depot in different studies. The active life of each steroid is approximately five times its half-life which should allow for enough time for this anabolic androgenic steroid or selective anodromyceptrum modulator to metabolize from the body completely but the metabolites might linger around for months and the metabolites might have a long term suppressive effect on the hypothalmic-patiolatric testicular axis and impair fertility parameters. So if we state the clearance times of these metabolites under the evidence-based detection time wherever known again not all scientific evidence is available unfortunately just keep in mind that the evidence-based detection time is based on single administrations usually over several milligrams maybe five milligrams, ten milligrams, fifty milligrams at most not hundreds to thousands of milligrams following consecutive administrations for months on end you know the kind of stuff we do in the bodybuilding space. So I would highly advise you to stick with the reported detection time that is stemming from athletes being subject to drug testing when they discontinue a particular compound let's say six months later whether that's five months or 12 months or 18 months later they beat a drug test and that's how long it might take for these metabolites to clear from the system. Doing steroid cycles just means that the metabolites will build up over time resulting in a much longer excretion period and it means if you took decaduraballon at a thousand milligrams weekly for let's say a couple months during your off-season it might take 18 months before you can start improving your fertility parameters because nandrolone is being produced in the body endogenously being allowed to kept much higher than other metabolites and thus the negative effect that nandrolone might have on your fertility parameters might take 18 months before that goes away and then and only then can you really start seeing a significant improvement in your fertility parameters. Now that doesn't mean that your fertility parameters can't come up during this time but they will not be as stellar as having this nandrolone completely metabolized from your body because progenic nitin-orthostosterone derivatives have a quite tremendous negative effect on overall fertility parameters so when I told you it was going to take months if not years this is one of the reasons why and there's no information on the half-life the active life the detection time whether that is evidence-based or reported on SARMS or injectable SARMS for that matter so if you see a lot of unknowns in this list my sincere apologies this scientific evidence simply isn't up to par and I haven't really talked to much people using SARMS and going or reporting a particular detection time knowing that these SARM and their metabolites are completely metabolized from the body so again all the more reasons not to take SARMS and if you go with the half-life of most injectable estralis steroids suspensions like testosterone suspension, windstroll suspension or perhaps tremolone suspension then the half-life of an injectable SARM might be anywhere alongside 24 hours with an active life approximately five days the detection time of injectable SARMS might be anywhere between three weeks to five months depending on how deep it goes into the injection depot and how long those metabolites linger in the injection depot and again these estimates are purely based on speculation and don't really represent how long these compounds might suppress your hypotomic pituitary disticular axis and have a negative effect on overall fertility parameters still caution is advised and give yourself adequate time for these metabolites to clear from your system so here are the injectable androgen receptor agonists we have bouldinone acetate bouldinone sapionate bouldinone undesilate aka equi-poise diadro bouldinone sapionate aka DHB drostenolone propionate aka masterone drostenolone inethate methen-deanone suspension also known as deannable depot quite popular amongst the off-season body builder protocols nowadays it seems methenolone inethate aka prima bollin nandrolone phenolpropionate NPP nandrolone decanoate decadere bollin oxymetalon suspension also known as androl depot also very popular as an injectable pre-workout tremolone acetate phenagect but that's used in animals tremolone inethate tremolone hexahydro benzo carbonate aka para bollin chrystalline acetate aka ment chrystalline decanoate testosterone suspension aquiveron testosterone propionate testivine  typhyron, testosterone inethate, testosterone depo, testosterone sapionate, depotestosterone, testosterone undercanomate, nabito, and various testosterone blends including cystinone and omnidrin, and stenazolol suspension, aka windstroll depo. All of the half-lives, the active lives, the evidence-based detection time and the reported detection time were ever known. We're on the screen. You might have to pause that here and there so you know what to expect regarding the metabolism of these hormones. And here are the oral androgen receptor agonists, chloro-dehydro-omethyl-testastrone, CDMT, aka torrinibol, dimethicine, DMZ, fluoxymestralone, halotestine, mestrololone, proviron, methen-deanone, deanibol, metastrone or methyl-drostanolone, superdrol, methenone acetate, primibolone S, meblerone, check-drops, oxandrolone, aka anivar, oxymetrolone, aka anadrol, stenazolol, windstroll, testosterone undercanomate, andriol, and you have LGD-4033, ligandrol, MK-2866, austrin, RAD-140, fossilosarm, S4, andrin, and YK-11. Again, the details are all on the screen. Start with testosterone replacement therapy and give yourself adequate time for the metabolites to clear from your system. Now, minor fear-mongering aside, regardless of the compounds and dosages you were using, from all of the fertility consultations that I've done over the years, I've seen that most men recover spermatogenesis and semen parameters start to improve within three to six months. That being said, it takes approximately six to nine months before fertility parameters really start to shoot upwards, and in most cases you need to come off cycle completely for fertility parameters to be super duper fertile. So let's rewind a little bit. From the day you decide to father children is the day that you decide to come off all non-biogenetical hormones and limit yourself to the following compounds. Testosterone, any ester, with any injection frequency, any injection depth, whether that's sub-Q or intramuscular, I'll leave that entirely up to you. The hydro-epi-understerone, DHEA, pregnant loan. Human-choreonic gonadotropin, which is bioidentically men, albeit that they produce it in trace amounts, right? Usually men rely on luteinizing hormone, but recombinant luteinizing hormone is very difficult to source, and if you can source this, highly expensive. So most men would stick with either urine purified or recombinant human-choreonic gonadotropin in combination with either human menopausal gonadotropin containing urine purified, human-choreonic gonadotropin, follicle-stimulating hormone, or recombinant follicle-stimulating hormone, because again, urine purified follicle-stimulating hormone is only found in human menopausal gonadotropin. So you go with either HMG or RFSH, and feel free to combine that with a therapeutic dose of growth hormone that's always in recombinant version, whether that's generic or pharmaceutical. A replacement dose of growth hormone or a therapeutic dose of growth hormone has been scientifically proven, especially in the elderly, people over 30 years old, that it helps with fertility parameters, both him and her. So I would suggest you to stick with recombinant human-choreonic gonadotropin in combination with recombinant follicle-stimulating hormone based on all of the self-experimentation that I've done in order to get my wife pregnant. But again, cost sourcing and your response to these particular compounds can determine which compounds you're going to use for the next foreseeable months. With these bioidentical fertility enhancing drugs, you're going to aim to keep your sexual hormones in your neuro-stereotical levels within the clinically accepted, albeit highly masculine, reference ranges. Beta-human-choreonic gonadotropin is below 5 milli-iUs per milliliter, because otherwise you would be considered pregnant. But if you take exonitiveness recombinant or your impure-fied human-choreonic gonadotropin at 500 iUs three times per week the day after a subcutaneous administration, your beta-HCG levels will be approximately 12 to 15 milli-iUs per milliliter. After a thousand iUs HCG shots, your beta-HCG levels will be approximately, let's say, 22 to 27 milli-iUs per milliliter. So you know what to expect. If you go with the HCG route, all is discussed in the HCG deep dive, then beta-HCG levels will be super physiological, which is not the end of the world, because of the luteinizing hormone, even though the masculine reference range is between 1 to 11 milli-iUs per milliliter, if you're on exonitiveness recombinant replacement therapy, LH is going to be zero in each human choreonic gonadotropin to replace the luteinizing hormone signal from the pituitary glands. So beta-HCG level will be super physiological and LH will be well before clinically accepted parameters. Follicle stimulating hormone, the masculine reference range is between 1 to 13 milli-iUs per milliliter and you can take recombinant or your impure-fied follicle stimulating hormone coming from a human menopausal gonadotropin to bring follicle stimulating hormone levels up. Again, if you don't take HCG or FSH or HMG, your luteinizing hormone, follicle stimulating hormone and beta-human-choreonic gonadotropin levels are going to be zero and that means that fertility parameters are not going to improve. And I already know what you're going to ask me, Steve, can I use clomid or enclomaphen blood clots? There's a lot of risk. We'll get into that a little bit later on. I would not suggest you to take clomid and enclomaphen for months in duration because the longer you stay on these terms, the more you risk getting a blood clot, right? But I would recommend you to take this in mind. That's why I would rather recommend you HCG and FSH instead of selective estrogen receptor modulators. Again, more on this later when we discuss pyschotherapy in case you need to come off cycle completely because your fertility parameters are simply not improving by taking exogenous testosterone in combination with these fertility peptides. Doltatastosterone on the masculine reference range is between 250 to 1,100 nM per deciliter, 3-testosterone between 35 to 155 pKg per mL, bioavailable to testosterone between 40 to 257 nM per deciliter, that is testosterone DHT12265 nM per deciliter, estradiol 10 to 40 pKg per mL, saccharinobonyglobulin between 10 to 50 nanomoles per liter, the understron DHT8 between 21 to 491 nM per deciliter, TCSulfate between 20.8 to 459.6 mKg per deciliter, pregnant loan between 53 to 357 nM per deciliter, pregnant lossulfate between 1 to 23 pKg per mL and growth hormone between 1 to 10 nM per mL. Now of course some fluctuations are going to occur when you take exogenous testosterone, chorionic gonadotropin and folliculostimulatine hormone or HMG, but I would still advise you to stick as close as possible to these clinically established reference ranges, because that's what all of the scientific evidence is based on. The more you go supervisological, the higher you go, the more of these parameters go supervisological, the further and further away you get away from the scientific evidence, and it might mean that it gets more difficult and more difficult to get your partner pregnant even after years of using these fertility medications. As a comparison, before I forget, the feminist reference range that many charenandocrinologists and general practitioners are trying to force down your throat without the reach around, you can see here that the total testosterone levels are 270 nM per deciliter less than the masculine reference range. So I'm still trying to throw you a bone here. If you go with general practitioners or charenandocrinologists, you might bring your total testosterone level up to 839 nM per deciliter, but with a little bit of TRT in the mix alongside HCG, well, that's probably going to be too low for the majority of you guys. So feel free to do a comparison. I think that the masculine reference range is a good way to aim towards for the next couple of months. All right, so enough of that. Back to the reference range that we're going to use for this video. If you're using testosterone replacement therapy coming from steroid cycles over your been on testosterone replacement therapy the entire way through, again, like I mentioned before, luteinogenic hormone and follicle stimulating hormone are going to be bottomed out because your HPTA is completely shut down if it wasn't shut down to begin with before starting TRT because you needed it for medical purposes. But in an attempt to restore spermatogenesis to circular function and breathe testosterone levels up, well, simultaneously bring your exogenous testosterone levels down, the administrations can come down in dose and perhaps frequency. We're going to have to replace a luteinogenic hormone signal with eumachroionic gunatotropin and based on the outcomes of the HCG deep dive, it seems that 325 IU's HCG subcutaneous or intermuscularly three times per week is enough to sustain the stickler function while using exogenous testosterone compared to baseline before exogenous testosterone was added to the mix. And this is in healthy individuals, not the men suffering from hypogonadal states. And from 500 IU's HCG, either subcutaneous or intermuscular three times per week onwards, it seems that you produce more intersticular testosterone that you would normally from naturally occurring pulsatile luteinogenic hormone signaling coming from the pituitary. So again, I would highly advise you to watch the HCG deep dive for a lot more in depth and how to use exogenous HCG at various dosages. So during this time that you're trying to recover testicular function, the dose of exogenous HCG three times per week, Monday, Wednesday, Friday ideally might be anywhere between 325 IU's up to 1000 IU's. In order for you to sustain your masculinity, your sanity, your training intensity, your libido and your overall quality of life, you're allowed for now to use a complementary dose of exogenous testosterone replacement therapy alongside the eumachroionic gunatotropin and perhaps human menopausal gunatotropin or recombinant follicle stimulating hormone to bring your total testosterone levels up to the quarter top of the reference range. And that means that total testosterone might end up anywhere between 880 to 1100 nanograms per deciliter. If you want to go to 1500 nanograms per deciliter, be my guest, but that's not what the scientific evidence is based on. So let's say you start with 325 IU's HCG three times weekly, a total of approximately 1000 IU's HCG over the week. In combination with 150 nanograms testosterone in a state, Cp9, propranate, whatever ester you prefer, over the week split over three injections. So you have three injections, HCG, Monday, Wednesday, Friday, 325 IU's every single time and then 50 nanograms testosterone in the ester in between those injections, Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday or go with daily micromanage trations, whatever you prefer, right? If the HCG is giving you, let's say, 400 nanograms per deciliter on your total testosterone level and the exactness testosterone is giving you an additional 600 nanograms per deciliter on your total testosterone, resulting in the total testosterone level of 1000 nanograms per deciliter, that's more than enough to get the job done on all fronts. Regarding the use of aromatase inhibitors, there is some scientific evidence that litrosol and anastasol are able to increase and improve sperm concentration, motility and morphology in cases of subfertility. Regarding XMS stain, it has been studied less in men compared to litrosol and anastasol, but generally it has a mild positive effect on mild fertility, but this scientific evidence wasn't duplicated in the context of using exogenous testosterone replacement therapy in combination with these fertility peptides. So if you come from a state where you never touched steroids or sarms to begin with, then these aromatase inhibitors might be able to prevent the conversion of testosterone into estradiol. Estradiol causes the negative feedback on the hypothalamus and the pituitary and thus luteinase hormone, folliculostimulinary hormone levels, go up resulting in more testosterone, which again you're preventing the conversion of testosterone into additional estradiol, which would otherwise have a suppressive effect. And when LH and FSH levels go up and intrasticic testosterone levels go up and sperm to genesis is initiated to a greater extent than overall fertility parameters, improve. But this is not the sample group that we are. We shut down our HPTA with long term steroids use. So in the context of this fertility protocol, I would rather not have you use aromatase inhibitors instead bring your exogenous testosterone dose down to the point your serum estradiol levels are in range when you're combining the exogenous testosterone with human carionic gonadotropin, which will produce estradiol directly in the testicles. Yeah, it sucks, but that's the way it's going to be because even if you crush your serum estradiol levels to zero, it's going to take a very, very, very, very long time for luteinase hormone levels and folliculostimulinary hormone levels to come up as long as you're taking exogenous testosterone and then you might as well go with clomid or inclamaphene. So aromatase inhibitors in my humble opinion, off the menu, just bring your exogenous testosterone dose down to give you a level of estradiol that is satisfactory to you. And keep in mind that serum estradiol actually helps with folliculostimulinary hormone receptor sensitivity. So when you take recombinant folliculostimulinary hormone or your impurified folliculostimulinary hormone stemming from human menopause organadotropin, if you crush your serum estradiol levels to zero, the folliculostimulinary hormone receptor is not going to function correctly. And I hate to say this, but if you end up needing an aromatase inhibitor on a dose of HCG between 325 IUs up to 1000 IUs three times weekly with exogenous testosterone between 125 milligrams to 150 milligrams weekly, they are just too fat, bro. And you need to get that bad butt under control. Mr. Chunky McChunk, if you have 1000 IUs HCG and 150 milligrams testosterone intake per week, your testosterone levels will be super physiological. And even if your testosterone levels total testosterone is between 800 to 1100 milligrams per deciliter, that's more than enough to make gains regarding fertility parameters, right? It's fertility enhancement protocol, not a performance enhancing protocol. If you're in the slight correct deficit, it's not going to matter regarding your fertility parameters, but it's going to matter regarding your serum estradiol levels and your overall body fat levels. So if you're going to throw the HCG and the exogenous testosterone at it, if you're too fat at the start of this protocol, just get leaner so you don't need an aromatase inhibitor, which would otherwise potentially have a negative effect on your fertility parameters. Long term, right? What do you think is going to be more deleterious to your fertility being in a slight correct deficit or having a superficial logical testosterone levels? I'll leave that up to you. Ensuring that your serum estradiol stays around the quarter top of the reference range, let's say around 33 to 40 pikograms per milliliter, similar to how total testosterone will end up at the quarter top of the reference range, seems to be ideal for your blood work parameters, for your libido, your cognition, your overall sense of well-being, and your fertility parameters. The use of 5-file productase inhibitors has been linked to lower sperm count and lower sperm motility, albeit that these minor changes should not affect overall pregnancy outcome in men with normal semen parameters before they started finasteride or glutasteride treatment. But it's also in the context of not using exogenous testosterone, which shuts down the HPTA impairing overall semen parameters. So if your semen parameters were already in the gutter, then I would highly recommend you to take the finasteride or glutasteride out because they have a minor negative effect on total sperm count and a minor negative effect on sperm motility, which is already impaired from the exogenous testosterone that you've been taking. So unfortunately, whatever your dietary testosterone levels end up being on TRT plus HCG, that's where it's going to be. And if that results in hair loss, too bad because finasteride, glutasteride, and perhaps even RU58841 might have a negative effect on your fertility parameters. And keep in mind that the topical catechonazole aminoxidyl shampoos can also go systemic, which seem to have a negative effect on your overall sexual monocascate and might also affect your fertility parameters. Now regarding the systemic and negative effects of catechonazole aminoxidyl RU58841, finasteride, glutasteride, aromatazenibus, and a lot of other compounds that might affect the sexual monocascate, I already documented extensively in this video discussing why particular medications make you feel so bad, right? They might inhibit various steps of neurosteroid synthesis or sexual monosteroid synthesis, which ultimately downstream might impair fertility parameters. So you really have to be careful on what you take over the next couple of months. And this is why I tell you to stick with the bioidentical compounds only because non-biodentical compounds, especially medications, they can all have a negative effect on your overall fertility parameters. So personally, I do not recommend medical aromatazenibus or medical 5-alpha reductase inhibitors during this entire fertility protocol. But if you need to control your serum acerodial levels or your serum DST levels for whatever reason, then stick with over-the-counter supplements, which you still need to do research on if they have a negative effect on male fertility, right? Watch this video discussing particular over-the-counter supplements which have a suppressive effect on serum acerodial levels, whether those inhibit the aromatazenibus enzymes themselves or lower aromatazenibus expression or lower acerodial levels through another pathway. Please do additional research. I cannot possibly research every single compound that's out there regarding their effect on male fertility. Your sexual and body globulin levels will slowly come up to match your intake of exogenous testosterone and your human corionic gonadotropin protocol for normal conversion into estradiol. So I highly doubt you need to make any changes regarding your SHBG levels. On this protocol, regarding your DHA and pregnant low levels, you could supplement with exogenous DHA or pregnant low, or maybe the exogenous human corionic gonadotropin is able to stimulate the production of these neuro-steroids in the adrenal glands. Blood work is required throughout the entirety of this protocol. So if you're young, you can probably rely on HCG, but if you're a little bit older, you might need exogenous DHA and pregnant low to bring your levels to the quarter top of their respective reference ranges. However, the scientific evidence regarding DHA and pregnant low supplementation is rather inconsistent and inconclusive. DHA supplementation can improve fertility parameters in cases of energy and deficiency and subfertility, which is also the case for pregnant low supplementation, but that's mostly in the elderly. Now, it's very likely that you didn't supplement with DHA and pregnant low on cycle. So now's a good time to start because DHA and pregnant low might contribute to your overall fertility parameters and improve your male fertility over longer periods of time. So unless you've been supplementing with DHA and pregnant low throughout the entirety of your steroid cycles or your TRT and HRT protocols, it is very unlikely that your DHA, DHA, sub-fat, pregnant low, and pregnant low, and sub-fat levels are anywhere close to optimal. So feel free to start supplementing them in now to bring your DHA, DHA, sub-fat, pregnant low, and pregnant low, and sub-fat levels up to the top quarter of the reference range, which I think is very beneficial for your overall essential well-being and your fertility parameters, assuming that your ptotatastosterone, your estradiol, and your tattatastosterone levels are also towards the top quarter of the reference range. Just keep in mind that even a low dose of DHA and pregnant low can increase ptotatastosterone levels and increase aromatization into estradiol or 5-hub reduction into tattatastosterone when you start supplementing these alongside your TRT plus fertility peptides protocol. So again, do your blood work frequently, start low, build your way up, and if you notice the tattatastosterone, estradiol, and tattatastosterone levels are going to be physiological, or you need an aromatized inhibitor, or a 5-hub reduction inhibitor by adding in DHA and pregnant low, then bring your exogenous testosterone down a notch to maybe 100 milligrams weekly because it's the HCG that's restoring the spermatogenesis and improving your fertility parameters. Now the exogenous testosterone, it's the HCG that you need. In this protocol, HCG comes first in combination with follicle stimulating hormone or human menopausal gonadotropin, and the dose of your exogenous testosterone DHA and pregnant alone might need to be adjusted based on your serum level. So again, blood work is key as part of this fertility protocol. Throughout the entire time that you came off non-biidentical hormones on the day you decided to become a father to the time that you actually get your partner pregnant with a healthy baby, you need to avoid all of these drugs, these compounds, these medications as they might have a severe to low negative effect on your male fertility parameters. And the list is very long and extensive, but might not be 100% all-inclusive. So again, please do your additional research if you take a compound that's not listed here. So here are the compounds, drugs, and medications to avoid chemotherapy drugs, recreational drugs, antibiotic androgenic steroids, albeit that testosterone is approved for therapeutic and medical usage and potentially induces prometogenesis at higher dosages. And you see here that, well, Provirin and Halo-Testin were scientifically proven as fertility aids in cases of subfertility, again stemming from the studies from the 1960s and 70s. So your mileage might vary. And you should avoid selective androgen receptor modulators, androgen and endocrine disruptors. Including pesticides, industrial chemicals, dioxins, soy isoflavones, certain personal products, additives, natural androgen disruptors, heavy metals. You should avoid opioids. You should avoid selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, which again might take a while to face off and taper down from because withdrawal symptoms can be brutal. I'm talking from personal experience. I came off fluvoxamine called Turkey. It was not fun. The calcium channel blockers, you should avoid anti-androgens. Obviously, you should avoid several immunosuppressants should be avoided. Sulfo-cellosine should be avoided. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs should be avoided. Amphetamines should be avoided, just including the medical ones like Adderall, Dixodrine, and Vivant. Not a good idea to take as part of your fertility protocol. Fetal-fruiductase inhibitors should be avoided. And even Accutane and Modafinil should be avoided. I cannot emphasize this enough. I cannot possibly research all of the medications, drugs, and compounds that you could possibly be taking. So, write down a list of all the compounds that you are taking currently and do the research yourself on top of the research that I've already done for you to make sure that even if a compound has a marginal trace, minute, negative effects on male fertility, when you start stacking several compounds together, that might result into a tremendous severe negative effect on your male fertility. And then after nine months, you're wondering why your fertility parameters are still in the trash because you're taking five compounds that you shouldn't be taking, even if it's occasional usage. So, Epstein, as much as you can, personally, I decided not to take any chances and just removed everything, literally everything that did not have a clear established beneficial effect, even if it didn't have an established negative effect. And as you'll see from my fertility parameters a little bit later in this video, my fertility parameters were Godlike. Yeah, so if you want something similar, Epstein, from everything that doesn't show to have a clear beneficial positive effect on male fertility, you might get something similar. Now, enough of the stuff you shouldn't be taking, what should you be taking during the time that you're recovering spermatogenesis and throughout the entirety that you're trying to get your partner pregnant with copious amounts of practice? While you're recovering spermatogenesis, it's important to supplement with adequate micronutrients and antioxidants to improve the stickler function as testosterone and semen synthesis is a very nutrient costly process. So here's the multi-phase testosterone synthesis and spermatogenesis recovery over the counter supplement, antioxidant and methods protocol. You do not have to do all of these at the same time, but the more of these you incorporate, the better your fertility parameters are going to be. And this obviously highly depends on how many micronutrients you're already getting from your diet. So go to chronometer or an application where you can track your micronutrient intake for all of the foods that you're eating every single day. Feel free to supplement with vitamin B9 folate folic acid between 100 micrograms to 1000 micrograms daily. Feel free to go with a vitamin B50 or B100 complex to get all of the B vitamins as part of your supplementation stack. Vitamin C, ascorbic acid between 2000 milligrams to 5000 milligrams daily vitamin D3 called shuffler soroll between 3000 to 5000 IOS daily. You can even break open the gel caps and apply the vitamin D3 directly to the testicles, which allegedly might help with testosterone synthesis and spermatogenesis downstream. Magnesium 400 milligrams to 1200 milligrams daily. The vitamin E makes tocopherose and tocopherinols between 400 IOS to 800 IOS daily. Selenium between 100 micrograms to 200 micrograms daily for a maximum of 400 micrograms from dietary and supplementary sources. Zinc between 15 milligrams to 15 milligrams daily. Omega 3 fatty acids. That's up to let's say 3000 milligrams EPA and 2000 milligrams DHA daily. Ubiqunel, cons of Q10 between 100 milligrams to 400 milligrams daily. Carnitine, whether that's oral, L-quarantine, altartrate or oral acetyl L-quarantine between 2000 to 3000 milligrams daily or injectable quarantine, 500 milligrams sub-Q or intramuscularly daily. Glutathione, you can go with N-acetyl-16, 1200 milligrams, 2000 milligrams daily or S-adenosyl methionine, abbreviated to SAME between 400 milligrams to 800 milligrams daily. Reduced glutathione, 500 milligrams to 1000 milligrams daily. S-acetyl glutathione, 200 milligrams to 300 milligrams daily or injectable glutathione, 1800 milligrams intravenously once weekly or 600 milligrams intramuscularly three times weekly. You have to choose between one or the other because there's multiple ways to increase your glutathione levels. Same for nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide. You can increase that with nicotinamide mononucleotide between 300 milligrams to 1000 milligrams daily or nicotinamide riboside, 300 milligrams to 1000 milligrams daily or injectable nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, 100 milligrams to 200 milligrams IV once weekly or 15 milligrams to 30 milligrams sub-Q or intramuscularly daily. Thorine, 3000 milligrams to 5000 milligrams daily. L-arginine, 2000 milligrams to 6000 milligrams daily. L-licin in combination with soy or sunflower lecithin, the L-licin would be 500 milligrams to 1000 milligrams daily and the ideally sunflower lecithin, 3000 milligrams to 5000 milligrams daily. But L-licin and lecithin only improve semen volume, not fertility parameters. But of course, the more semen volume you have, the more you can deliver this sperm to where it's supposed to go. You can ice your testicles. Yes, increase the blood flow to your testicles filled with nutrients. I have a video about that. I'll link it somewhere down below. You apply an ice pack wrapped in a towel 20 minutes to your testicles two to three times daily. Again, this chills the testicles and as it's chilling, once the ice pack is removed, it facilitates blood flow to the testicles to heat the testicles up again to the ideal temperature. And while the blood is flowing to the testicles, assuming you supplement with a good amount of the previously mentioned overgut supplements and antioxidants, then this facilitates testicular function, testosterone synthesis, and spermatogenesis, especially if you take human coriandrogonadetropin and follicle stimulating hormone or human menopausal gonadetropin. Everything is rushing in there, assuming you don't have a virgo cell, which should greatly help with your fertility parameters. You can look into red light therapy, shining the red light directly on the testicles for 10 to 30 minutes. Once daily, make sure your testicles don't get hot. They still have an ideal temperature. After a certain temperature, spermatogenesis is completely arrested. No hot tubs, no saunas. And if you do red light therapy, make sure maybe chill your nuts with an ice pack before you do the red light therapy for 10 to 30 minutes. And while sleeping at least eight hours daily, sleeping and waking according to your circadian rhythm at the same time daily, greatly helps with testosterone synthesis and might contribute to fertility parameters as well. Again, not all of these supplements directly contribute to testicular function, testosterone synthesis, and spermatogenesis. There's a few supplements here which only contribute to semen volume. If you'd like to know more about massive loads, give the vigorous loads video a watch, which goes over everything you need to know to improve and enhance your ejaculation experience. Vigorous hypertrophy workouts or strength specific training on steroids, even a low and conservative dose of exogenous testosterone replacement therapy, can increase oxidative stress markers as well, but it will dive a lot more into oxidative stress when we get to the sex determination and differentiation as well.  as well as the potential autism risk segment of this video. That being said, during all consecutive phases of this fertility protocol, it's very important for you to improve and increase your overall antioxidant status while recovering and improving spermatogenesis as sperm morphology, sperm motility, and the chromosomes within the sperm are highly susceptible to oxidative stress. Okay, so we're probably already one hour into this fertility video. Let's proceed to phase one. We're going to discuss how to recover spermatogenesis and fertility parameters on the TRT+, protocol. Again, make sure you have the multi-phase particular function supplements, antioxidant, and methods in place, which will continue throughout all of the phases of this fertility protocol. You can decide between any ester of testosterone, whether that's proprenetsipinate in the date on the canoate, or cystinone blend, for example, just limit your weekly intake to, let's say 125 milligrams to 150 milligrams spaced out over various injections. If you go with three injections per week, let's say you do 42 to 50 milligrams subcure intramuscular upon waking Monday, Wednesday, Friday, and then in between those injections, you go with recombinant human-coreanic gonadotropin over urine purified. Human-coreanic gonadotropin, because the potency is so much better comparatively, and then you inject between 325 iso-500 isosuputaneously upon waking three times per week in between your testosterone injections on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday. Now, if you're in a hurry, feel free, be my guest, by all means, increase your recombinant HCG dose to 1,000 IUs three times weekly, or 1,083 IUs to be exact, because the recombinant HCG pens, Merck OV Trail are 6,500 IUs, and if you split that over six shots, they get 1,083 IUs HCG per injection, but I can't say conclusively, based on all of the research that I did during the HCG deep dive, that more HCG regarding the recovery of sperm to genesis is better, so it highly depends on your finances, if you're really in a hurry, like if you took a nandrolone mechanoate, and you need 18 months to let that metabolize before you can really expect a solid fertility parameters, maybe start low at 325 IUs HCG, and build your way up as needed, as the nandrolone metabolites are clearing from your system, because again, nandrolone has this impressive effect on your fertility parameters, so why throw the kitchen sink at it, early on, when that would only result in a boatload of aromatization, because well, nandrolone promotes aromatization, unlike most of the other steroids, so again, start low and build your way up, but again, if you're in a hurry, feel free to go to 1,000 IUs HCG, and you might initiate sperm to genesis to a greater extent, comparatively to a lower dose. I think you'll get more by the addition of recombinant follicle stimulating hormone, or go with your purified follicle stimulating hormone, stemming from human menopausal gonadotropin, three times per week on the testosterone injection days, but at least in between your HCG injection days, instead of throwing the high dose HCG at it, so a combination of HCG and FSH would be a more beneficial regarding sperm to genesis, than a higher dose of HCG solo. So if you go with recombinant follicle stimulating hormone, or your purified human menopausal gonadotropin containing FSH, you go with 75 IUs subq, three times weekly, let's say Monday, Wednesday, Friday, this is optional, not mandatory during phase one, but certainly a part of phase 1.1, in case phase one is insufficient after three to six months, maybe even nine months, if you decide to wait that long for sperm to genesis and fertility parameters to really shoot upwards. Again, if you wanna get started with 1,000 IUs HCG, three times per week, and recombinant follicle stimulating hormone, 75 IUs every single day of the week, be my guest, we'll discuss that a little bit more in depth when we get to phase 1.1. Therapeutic dosages over recombinant growth hormone from exogenous sources have been shown to improve overall fertility parameters in both men and women that are slightly older, so if you're, let's say over 35 years old, and you expect a little bit of difficulty, because female fertility is impaired after 35 years old, feel free to introduce recombinant growth hormone, preferably pharmaceutical grade over generic growth hormone, a dosage just between 0.2 to 2 IUs subcutaneously before beds to improve sleep quality. Daily, this mostly seems to be beneficial in elderly people who want to get their partner pregnant. I'm talking about people over 30 years old, because well, unfortunately over 30 years old is elderly regarding fertility. After 30 years old, it just gets harder and harder and harder for conception to occur, especially in females, because the egg quality slowly goes down with age, so the chances of conception go down dramatically and recombinant growth hormone might be able to help with that. If you supplement with that, as well as your partner supplements with recombinant growth hormone. Unfortunately, I couldn't find any scientific evidence on growth hormone secretion dogs. If they might eat infertility, it doesn't mean that's not the case, but again, I would go with the scientific evidence and choose recombinant growth hormone, whether that's pharmaceutical or generic, over growth hormone secretion dogs. THCA, the hydro-epronduristrone, anywhere between 25 to 50 milligrams daily over two servings upon waking and before bed. Brignan alone anywhere between 10 to 25 milligrams daily, split over two servings upon waking and before bed. And then if you need it, and if you're not morbidly obese and you have decent body fat levels, maybe dindal methane, 100 milligrams upon waking and before bed, a total of 200 milligrams daily to control your serum estradiol levels by promoting the conversion into esterone. Again, when you take exogenous testosterone and human corionic gonadotropin, your estradiol levels will be disproportionately higher compared to your esterone levels, so you can lower the burden of estradiol by promoting the metabolism into esterone. And if you don't want to take dindal methane because you're convinced that it's an androgen blocker, which only has been proved in the context of prostate cancer, you can look into decaroinosital, which I used many a time at very high dose, just up to 3000 milligrams daily, did not seem to affect my serum estradiol level, so that's why I didn't include it in this protocol. You can always go with aromacin XMS stain as your aromatase inhibitor, but please, please, please, even though aromacin has not been proven to have a negative deleterious effect on fertility parameters, you might actually improve fertility parameters unless you're on testosterone replacement therapy, please confirm your exogenous testosterone dose and the use of an aromatase inhibitor with monthly blood work until you're settled on this TRT protocol. Because again, if you were taking nandrolone or testilone or deannibal or whatever else in the past, as you're phasing into this phase one of TRT plus to initiate spermatogenesis, then as these hormones are tapering down, obviously, you get additional aromatization, whether that's seven alpha methyl estradiol, methyl estradiol or additional estradiol, you probably still need an aromatase inhibitor to control your serum estradiol levels. Until everything kind of stabilizes and you can remove the aromacin or dinomethane and use nothing at all. During phase one, after let's say three to six months, maybe nine months at maximum, you should be able to restore and improve your fertility parameters to the minimum that's required to get your partner pregnant, assuming she's young and healthy. Keep in mind that female fertility goes down with age. So if your partner is, let's say, between 18 to 25 years old, I don't think you need to come off exogenous testosterone and rely on pneumocorionic gonadotropin without the follicle stimulating hormone to get her pregnant. But if she's over 35 years old, it's very likely that you need to discontinue exogenous testosterone placement therapy eventually and really hammer the fertility medications at it for your serum parameters to be as high as possible because her fertility parameters are slowly going down and there's not much you can do about it, even with fertility medications. So again, if you're young, dumb, well, you get the rest, you probably don't need to come off exogenous testosterone in combination with HG to get the job done. But if you're reasonably old from a fertility perspective, you probably need to remove the exogenous testosterone placement therapy and rely on pneumocorionic gonadotropin, adresmally high dosages, follicle stimulating hormone every single day, growth hormone every single day, a complete and very extensive antioxidant stack, and then maybe also continue with the DHA and pregnant loan because well, as your fertility parameters slowly goes up, your need to reach a super high level to compensate for the lack of fertility parameters that your wife, again, that's slightly older from a fertility perspective has. So depending on the scientific literature that you go with, here is an approximation of the chances of a healthy woman getting pregnant during each ovulation cycle, assuming that you have intercourse multiple times around ovulation. So if your partner is between 18 to 25 years old, she has a chance to get pregnant between 25 to 30% of the times that it means within three to four attempts, AKA three to four months, she should be pregnant, even on exogenous testosterone with just using pneumocorionic gonadotropin. If she's between the age of 25 to 35 years old, you have a 20 to 25% chance, meaning that you have four to five attempts, AKA four to five months before she's pregnant. Age 35 to 40 years old is 15 to 20%, so you need five to seven attempts. Age 40 to 45 years old, that's only five to 10%. So you need 10 to 20 attempts to get her pregnant. And the more attempts you need, the more she ages. So by the time you start, let's say she's 40 years old, after a year of trying, you went from a 10% chance to a 7% chance, right? Unfortunately, so you, as she ages, the chances get less and less and less, so you might be trying for almost two years. And then over 45 years old, it's less than 5% chances, so you need more than 20 attempts. By the time she gets pregnant, she's probably 50 years old and going IVF is a much quicker route to get the job done. Depending on your fertility levels at the start of phase one, which performance enhancing drugs you were taking in the months leading up to phase one, after three to six months on this fertility protocol of phase one, maybe nine months at maximum, you should be able to bring your fertility parameters to the following levels. These values are based on the lower end of the ranges of the sixth edition from the World Health Organization manual for human semen analysis published in 2021 and a guesstimated average based on all of the fertility consultations I've done over the years. Again, there's a lot of variables in place, so these are just some guidelines. The abstinence time should be over three days, so you have enough semen volume, at least 1.3 milliliters in many cases with all the fertility medications in place, that's two milliliters, three milliliters. Again, one milliliter of semen for every single day that you abstain on average. Sperm concentration should be over 12 million per one milliliter after three to six months on this fertility protocol. Total sperm purgectile should be over 35 million, in many cases that's way, way higher. Total sperm motility should be over 40%. Progressive motility should be over 30%, but since you're still on exogenous testosterone even with all the antioxidants in place, it's very likely that at this point, after three to six to nine months even on this fertility protocol, that your progressive motility is only between five to 20%, which is insufficient based on the statistics to get your partner pregnant, again, unless she's reasonably young. So even when semen volume and sperm concentration is well above the minimum, let's say four milliliters of semen volume and sperm concentration is over 50 million per one milliliter, if the progressive motility is, let's say, five to 20%, the fertility parameters are less than ideal. Non-progressive motility, again, will be about 1%, but in most cases that's way, way, way higher. Immortal sperm should be below 20%, but it will also probably be a lot, lot higher. Sperm vitality and viability should be over 50%, it's usually pretty accurate based on this fertility protocol and all of the fertility consultations that have done over the years. Morphology should be over 3.9% normal forms, but again, due to oxidative stress about taking exhaustion, testosterone, and training highly vigorously or doing strength training activity, you can expect a normal morphology of one to 2%. 4% is cutting it short. You should consider yourself highly, highly lucky if your normal morphology is over 4% at this start of your fertility protocol. And again, if your progressive motility is super high and your normal morphology is super high, kudos to you. Your testicles are super healthy and all of the performance and that's in charge that you took in the past did not take a deleterious toll on the quality of your sperm. pH should be over 7.2%, viscosity should be normal, liquefaction within 60 minutes, semen mixed anti-globulin reaction. The Mar test should be below 50% aka negative. White blood cells should be below 1 million. Red blood cells should be negative. Round cells should be negative. And DNA fragmentation should be below 25%, ideally below 15%. And again, the chromosomes within your sperm are highly susceptible to oxidative stress. So if your DNA fragmentation is really high, well, your antioxidant intake is not sufficient and your oxidant intake from smoking, alcohol, et cetera, needs to be tapered down, removed entirely for your DNA fragmentation to be ideal below 15%. And the semen fructose colative test again, should be normal between five to 30 millimoles. So again, if your progressive motility, your normal morphology in your DNA fragmentation, is it within or anywhere close to these parameters? You need to increase the dose of your fertility medication per se to phase 1.1, and re-assess your overall antioxidant intake. Maybe lower your training intensity. I know it's a cardinal sin, but sometimes it has to be done. Remove all potential compounds that might exacerbate oxidative stress or come off TRT entirely. Still increase your antioxidant intake and remove your oxidative stress burden and proceed to phase 2, 3, or 4, which we'll get into shortly. So like I alluded to earlier, phase 1.1 is simply a doubling of your fertility medications and simultaneously you lower the dose of exogenous testosterone because an increase in fertility medications will ultimately result in more testosterone synthesis, estradiol synthesis, and diatetestosterone synthesis. So if you want to keep your testosterone levels within the recommended masculine reference range at the top quarter, same for estradiol, same for diatetestosterone. If HG goes up, exogenous testosterone comes down, meaning that you lower the burden of oxidative stress slightly regarding if you're even a candidate for phase 1.1, it kind of depends on your finances because doubling the fertility medications obviously means a doubling of your expenses. Unless you buy in bulk and you get a bulk discount on your recommended HG and recommended FSH, it kind of depends on where you started at phase 1. If you were completely isospermic and your sperm count concentration was literally zero, then you probably started with phase 1.1 because you need to start a little bit more aggressively. And it kind of depends on the composition of your semen analysis. If your progressive mortality, your normal morphology, and DNA fragmentation values are in the gutter, then it's more an issue regarding oxidative stress compared to throwing the kitchen sink of fertility medications at it. But if you see that your semen volume, your sperm concentration, and your overall total sperm count is in the gutter, then you're a likely candidate for phase 1.1 where the fertility medications are literally doubled. And even though parameters that are susceptible to oxidative stress might be close to the recommended guidelines established by the World Health Organization in 2021, it's always good to reassess your antioxidant stack to make sure that these parameters are also coming up. And then over the next three to six months as your fertility parameters are improving, that everything falls as close to the recommended guidelines as possible. So again, lower the burden of oxidative stress, whether that's training, smoking, drinking, et cetera, or particular compound that induce oxidative stress while increasing your antioxidant stack slightly. So phase 1.1, testosterone and the ester, but the dose is lower, 75 milligrams to 125 milligrams weekly to compensate for the increase in recombinant human-choreonic gonadotropin at 1000 IUs to 1,083 IUs, subq upon waking three times weekly, in combination with recombinant follicle stimulating hormone, or if you want urine purified, menopausal gonadotropin 75 IUs, subq upon waking daily, recombinant growth hormone is pretty much the same, the hydroepaondosterone, the HHA is pretty much the same, pregnealone is pretty much the same, and if you need some sort of estradiol management, that can be incorporated in the form of dinomethane, decharinositol, or aromacin, if needed, proven with blood work. So be patient, give this protocol another three to six months, nine months at maximum. Do semen analysis monthly to see how your semen parameters are improving month to month, and if you're not happy with your results, and your partner isn't pregnant yet, then you'll need to proceed to phase two, three, or four. So let me give you guys some insights on what to expect from a fertility protocol like this, using my own semen analysis results. This was my protocol leading up to the semen analysis, which I did on February 26th of 2023. I took all of the testicular function supplements, antioxidants, and methods that was all in place. I took 156 milligrams testosterone, and I think coming from Bayer Testivarin over multiple administrations over the week. I took 1,083 IU's Merck Ovitral Recombinant HCG, three times per week in between my testosterone injections, and then in between the Merck Ovitral administrations, on the same day I would do testosterone administrations, Ipsum myrionol, urine purified human menopausal, gonadotropin, HMG, containing trace amounts of urine purified, human carionic gonadotropin, UHCG, as well as what were after here, urine purified follicle stimulating hormone, UFSH, at a dose of 75 IU's subcutaneous upon waking, three times weekly, Monday, Wednesday, Friday. 37.5 milligrams DHEA over the day, 12.5 milligrams spring menalone over the day, MSRM total testosterone levels ended up at 4,000 milligrams per deciliter, which is 309 milligrams per deciliter too high, based on the established masculine reference range going up to 1,100 milligrams per deciliter, and serum estradiol levels were 86 micrograms per milliliter, which is let's say 200% out of the reference range. And here were my results, at first glance, they actually looked very, very good, all according to the World Health Organization 2021 guidelines, but I didn't do a full examination because I just wanted to get a baseline reading after three months on TRT Plus fertility medications. I did sectional bone testing and semen analysis at a clinic that's just around the corner of my house, which doesn't offer extensive semen analysis, so the abstinence time at the time was four days, and the semen volume at the time was four milliliters. I hope that semen didn't get into your eye. Sperm concentration was 75 million per one milliliter, not too shabby. Total sperm per ejaculate, 288 million. Imagine if your army was 288 million soldiers strong. Total sperm motility, 76%, very good, but I didn't check my progressive motility, I didn't check my non-progressive motility, I didn't check my emotional sperm, my viability, sperm fatality, I didn't check. The morphology based on this lab was 27%. PH was eight, viscosity was an exam, the liquefaction was 29 minutes, so that's within 60 minutes. We didn't do a more test, but in this semen analysis though, my white blood cell counts were out of range. This is the only bad result I got on my white blood cell count on the semen analysis results, which I've done extensively over the years. That's between three to five HPF that stands for high power field. I'm not entirely sure how that translates to a certain amount of million white blood cells within a semen analysis, but three to five is considered high. All of the other results was between zero to one HPF, high power field. Red blood cells were zero to one high power field, which is considered negative. Round cells did an exam, a DNA fragmentation did an exam, and semer fructose qualitative tests didn't examine because the total semen count was sufficient. So initially, you think that these results are pretty damn good. Then I came off the exogenous testosterone because I wanted to come off exogenous testosterone due to the potential for oxidative stress, proceeded to phase two of my fertility enhancement protocol, which we'll discuss a little bit later on. A month later, I went to a clinic that specializes in male and female fertility, and in here my semen analysis results a month later on March 26th of 2023. Here you see that after three months on TRT plus, phase 1.1 and one month without TRT phase two, abstinence time was still four days, but this time my semen volume was three milliliters, so a reduction of 25% comparatively to the previous semen analysis results. Sperm concentration dropped to 53 million per one milliliter. A month earlier it was 72 million per one milliliter. Total sperm per ejaculate was 159 million, whereas previously it was 288 million. Total sperm mortality dropped to 60%. A month earlier it was 76%. Progressive mortality this time was 17%. I don't know what the progressive mortality was a month prior. Non-progressive mortality was 43%. That's absolutely terrible compared towards supposed to be below 1%. Immortal sperm was 40%. Sperm vitality, aka viability, was 67%, so at least that was in range. Morphology was 4%, like I alluded to earlier, is very common for normal morphology to only be 4%. When you've been taking exogenous steroids plus semen-coreanic United Charalpene for months on end, and again a month earlier it was 27% though, so it's a significant reduction between both semen analysis results, but it could also be lab error, right? That's very common between a regular semen analysis at the clinic that doesn't really specialize in it, to a semen analysis to a fertility clinic. There might be some discrepancy there and the price discrepancy was also quite significant. The pH was eight, viscosity was high, it should be normal, but sometimes you're in a rush to get the job done, right? You only get like 10 minutes in the room to do your donation in the semen sample cup, so maybe I should have my wife present for additional foreplay. Linguofaction was normal, meritest was normal, the white blood cell count was normal again between zero to one on the high power fields. Red blood cells negative, round cells negative, didn't examine the DNA fragmentation because at that time we weren't ready to start conceiving it anyway and DNA fragmentation tests is quite expensive. Semen fructose qualitative tests we didn't examine because the total semen count was sufficient. Now I know what you're going to say and in hindsight it makes complete sense. Steve, what about that study you started the video with? The study where you examined an animal model combining exogenous testosterone and a reasonably high dose with a super physiological level of luteinizing hormone follicle stimulating hormone, showing that semen parameters were very comparable to the baseline control group. And maybe that's what happened. By removing the exogenous testosterone, my total sperm concentration reduced from 72 to 53 million, my total sperm pre-jaculate reduced from 288 to 159 million, my total sperm mortality reduced from 76 to 60% and my let's see morphology reduced from 27 to 4%. I guess we'll never know dude. I guess we'll never know, but it could either be lab error, it could either be a tremendous amount of oxidative stress which occurred which I don't think because I was on my full blown antioxidant stack and at that time I wasn't training, that vigorously even though I'm a vigor Steve, so I should have been, but I knew I shouldn't be doing that. Always removing the exogenous testosterone. Needless to say at this point I was pretty disappointed that my progressive mortality and my normal morphology were below the recommended ranges. So I decided to go a little bit more aggressive on my antioxidant stack and double the recombinant follicle stimulating hormone from 75 I use three times per week to 75 I use every single day and keep in mind during phase 1.1, I was using your impure fight follicle stimulating hormone with trace amounts of human coronary gonadotropin stemming from human menopausal gonadotropin. So from this change, you can clearly see that there's a significant increase in overall fertility parameters and I'll show you those graphs a little bit later on in case you can't decide between phase two, three or four. So it might be that the discontinuation of the exogenous testosterone causes a steep decline in men fertility parameters after one month, but then doubling the follicle stimulating hormone from 75 I use three times per week to every single day. So steep decline will beyond what I got from the exogenous testosterone plus fertility peptide protocol. So to reiterate from this point onwards, if you're not happy with your fertility parameters and your partner isn't pregnant yet during phase 1.1, then you need to proceed and make a choice between phase two, three or four. Phase two means coming off all exogenous testosterone and neuro steroids replacement therapy and continuing with your fertility medications and double the dose in which case the protocol is going to look like this. Again, the multi-phase, the tickler function supplements, antioxidants and methods, perhaps phase two additional testosterone and fertility boosting supplements and methods. We'll get into that when we discuss phase two, three and four. It involves as we're going to root extract, tonkot, alley, that kind of stuff. So testosterone in the estuary is no longer allowed. You need to discontinue that. Recomendant human, Korean, or a urine purified human Korean, but again, we're coming at this way better. 1,000 or 1,083 IU's subcutaneous upon waking three times weekly, Monday, Wednesday, Friday. Recomendant follicle stimulating hormone or urine purified human menopausal gonadotropin, 75 IU subcutaneous upon waking daily. Recomendant growth hormone, if you do so desire, no more DHEA, no more pregnant and alone. And again, if you're a Mr. Chunky with Chunk and you can't control your body fat levels on this dose of exogenous human, Korean, gonadotropin, your estuary levels might still be elevated. So you might need dinomethane, dechirinositol or even an aromatous inhibitor. So let's fast forward a little bit and give you an indication what you can expect from a fertility protocol like this. Phase two after one year. Here are my fertility parameters after one year on a phase two protocol without exogenous testosterone as part of a TRT plus protocol. Abstinence time is five days. Seam and volume, four milliliters, hell yes. Sperma concentration, 142.8 million per one milliliter which is an increase of 269% compared to the first time and did a semen analysis on a phase two protocol. Total sperm peri-jaculate, 571.2 million. Yes, peri-jaculate, that's an increase of 359%. Nice work, again, compared to the first time and did a semen analysis on a phase two protocol. Total sperm mortality, 82%, an increase of 137%. Progressive mortality, 76%, an increase of 447%. Non-progressive mortality, 6%, a decrease by 86%. Immortal sperm, 18%, a decrease of 55%. Sperm vitality, aka viability, 89% of my semen was alive after one year without exogenous testosterone which is an increase of 133%. Morphology, 43%, 43% normal forms, steep. An increase of 1,050%. Morphology, based on the strict criteria, 29% should be over 14% normal forms. I didn't test this at the beginning because it's included in the DNA fragmentation test which I didn't do at the beginning because again, I just wanted to get some baseline readings to see how far I was along and if I needed to go a little bit more aggressive on my fertility stack which I did and this is the result of it. When I started testing for semen DNA fragmentation four months earlier, according to the strict criteria, my normal morphology was 15% and then over the course of four months, according to the strict criteria, my normal morphology increased to 29%. So that's almost double an increase of 193%. So again, the longer you stand in a protocol like this, the better your fertility parameters are going to be. After one year without exogenous testosterone, the pH was still eight, so no improvements there but I guess that's more than sufficient. The viscosity was normal, adequate time in the room where you need to give your semen sample. Like with actually it was 15 minutes, a more test was still negative below 15%. My blood cells 0 to 1, high power fields, red blood cells negative, round cells negative and DNA fragmentation 6%. And again, below 15% is considered good DNA integrity. Four months prior, it was about 15% so it was already good when I did DNA fragmentation test the first time and two months prior, it was 17% but that's I think after the trip to the United States.  we'll get into that when we discuss the graph. So overall, it was a reduction over the course of two to four months of about 63%. And the last couple of semen analysis tests that I did, the DNA fragmentation was 6%. Yeah, it took me a year to get it that low, but I think you can do it faster, because again, I had to go through a lot of self experimentation with antioxidants and fertility medications, but you don't have to because you have this awesome deep dive to present it to you on a silver platter, and all you need to do is spoon feed yourself. So these are the fertility parameters that you're looking for. I use this semen sample to fertilize three embryos through in vitro fertilization, one of which is already implanted in my wife and growing in her womb as we speak. And this semen sample and a previous semen sample are the ones that I froze for later use in case there's a nuclear apocalypse, and it's solely up to me to repopulate the planet afterwards. Yes, I have over one billion sperm frozen just in case. Too long didn't read, it took me 12 months to have godly fertility parameters on a phase two fertility protocol. Phase three means coming off the exogenous testosterone and neuro steroid replacement therapy and replacing your fertility peptide medications with either clomid or enclomaphen, in which case the protocol is going to look something like this. You have your multifaceted, vesicular function supplements, antioxidants and methods. Phase three additional testosterone and fertility boosting supplements and methods, no more testosterone. And then you're going to have to choose between either clomid, aka clomaphen citrate, or enclomaphen, aka enclomaphen citrate. And those use between 12.5 milligrams, three times weekly, Monday, Wednesday, Friday, before bed, up to 25 milligrams daily, before bed, because that seems to mitigate some of the estrogenic side effects. And that those highly depends on how responsive your hypothalamus and pituitary are to estrogen, alpha and beta receptor blockades. Clomint and enclomaphen are selective estrogen receptor modulators and block the estrogen receptors in the hypothalamus and the pituitary, ultimately resulting over time, maybe weeks to months even, in an increase in luteinizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone, which will go downstream and stimulate the testosterone synthesis and spermatogenesis in the test scores, improving overall the stickler function. But you might have a sustainable dip for months, even, if you were doing a phase one protocol, or phase 1.1 protocol, or maybe even a phase two protocol, with these fertility medications. If you replace LH and FSH with exogenous HCG and HMG, or HCG and FSH, then during the time that the selective estrogen receptor modulators are restoring luteinizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone levels from the pituitary, while there's a dip, there's obviously no testosterone synthesis and spermatogenesis. So that might mean that you have a three to six months delay before your fertility parameters actually gets good and then better again. And again, during phase three, you don't need any exogenous dihydroepaondosterone or pregnant alone, or use dinomethane or XMS-tane to control your shear master DAW levels, because they'll be bottomed out and even if your shear master DAW levels come up to a certain extent, then the selective estrogen receptor modulators in the form of clomid or in clomaphenes is blocking as your DAW at the receptor site. The reason why I can't recommend a phase three protocol, including selective estrogen receptor modulators for months on end, and prefer a phase one, 1.1, or phase two protocol, including recombinant human and carionic gonadotropin and recombinant follicle stimulating hormone, or the close alternative being urine purified, HCG and HMG, is because selective estrogen receptor modulators are linked to blood clots. And if you're going to use clomid or in clomaphenes for months on end, because your fertility parameters need to improve over several months, then you increase the risk of having a blood clot, deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, or other venous complications. There are several case reports showing that deep vein thrombosis occurs in as little as 15 days on 25 milligrams clomaphenes followed by five days on 15 milligrams clomaphenes, so that's 20 days in total. And that's even shorter than commonly recommended pysychotherapy protocols, including up to 100 milligrams clomaphenes. Now, we don't hear so many issues regarding blood clots from selective estrogen receptor modulators used during pysychotherapy treatments, but again, those last four weeks, if you're going to take clomid or in clomaphenes for months on end, your chances of a blood clot or venous complications steadily increases. And while there are only 90 studies performed on in clomaphenes, which is one of the sterile isomers contained within clomaphenes at approximately 62%, the other 38% is the stereoisomer Zuclomaphenes, where allegedly all of the terrible side effects of clomaphenes are stemming from. So two thirds in clomaphenes and one third Zuclomaphenes within in clomaphenes, going with the extract of in clomaphenes at 100% of the dose, it shows great efficacy in hypochondatal men, increasing the glutamate hormone levels, follicle stimulating hormone levels, improving fertility parameters, and overall testosterone levels, after a longer term in clomaphenes treatments. The phase three clinical trials did show a 0.5 to 0.35% chance of developing deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism. So that's something you need to take into consideration. If these percentages are very low to you and you're willing to take the risk, be my guest, it's certainly a lot cheaper to go with selective estrogen receptor modulators over fertility peptides, it also comes with risk and it's something you need to be aware of if you decide to go this route. That being said, there's a study showing that testosterone replacement therapy has a higher likelihood to cause deep vein thrombosis in hypochondatal men with other etiologies for deep vein thrombosis compared to clomaphenes. You can find the citation down below in case you want to do a comparative scientific analysis. It wasn't worth it to me, otherwise I would have just used the cheaper option, went with in clomaphenes therapy instead of exogenous recombinant HCG and FSH, which was significantly more expensive. Oh, and before I forget, serums are also known to cause estrogen-like effects in the brain, resulting in severe and tremendous emotional disturbances and irritability or instability, making the whole experience of getting your partner pregnant turn into a mental roller coaster. And by the way, what about the ocular changes and blurry vision that you might get on serums? In case you haven't caught on yet, I don't like serums and I don't like serums. I think you should stick to the tried and proven bioidentical compounds that your body produces naturally for your fertility parameters to get as high as possible without tremendous side effects. Phase four involves an actual pysychotherapy to recover your natural luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone levels. Again, and let biology sort out the rest. Just be forewarned, 99% of the people will get fat during PCT because you go through noticeable lengthy periods of androgen deficiency, and the only thing that allows you to cope with it is copious amounts of calories. And if the PCT is going to take several months and you have several months of androgen deficiency, that's a lot of calories to keep you going. And to be honest, I would only consider a pysychotherapy if you and your partner are still reasonably young, let's say below 30 years old, and you didn't need testosterone placement therapy or exogenous testosterone because you were hypergonadal to begin with, you did a baseline check before you ever took steroids in your life, in your luteinizing hormone, your follicle-stimulating hormone, your testosterone, your estradiol, your dietitistosterone, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, were all within normal parameters, and perhaps you did a semen analysis as well, right? But, well, the large majority of the people just got started with steroids, have hatchery and didn't check their hormone parameters or their fertility parameters before they got started. So if you do have a baseline reading and you're still reasonably young, then yes, you may be able to get away with PCT because you'll recover your HPTA just fine and then sperm degenesis a couple months later is more than sufficient to get your partner pregnant, who is also young, but if you were androgen deficient, your LH, your FSA, your testosterone, your estradiol, et cetera, were in the gutter and you needed TRT medically, then PCT is not a good idea. You can expect at least a three-month downtime in improving your fertility parameters, even though initially they might improve when you start with selective estrogen receptor modulators like enchromaphen or tomoxifin because both are able to raise the glutinizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone levels which contribute to male fertility tremendously. But as soon as you stop the selective estrogen receptor modulators, your LH and FSH do not have that much incentive to stay that elevated. This is why there's a big difference between phase three where you continue with clomid or enchromaphen for a weeks to months to perhaps a year. Again, blood clots and ocular changes and emotional disturbances aside, a pocyclotherapy involves selective estrogen receptor modulators for let's say four to eight weeks at maximum. So once your HPTA is recovered, LH, FSH, testosterone, estradiol and the stimulatory effect that you get in your testicles regarding spermatogenesis takes a hit and then it might take three months or even longer for spermatogenesis to start really ramping up in your fertility parameters to be noticeably better. So a pocyclotherapy will be the most lengthy approach of all of the phases that you can choose from. And again, you gotta keep in mind that if you were on a hefty dose of testosterone with an enderloin to match with an 18 month detection time, they might need to be on a TRT protocol or TTPLUS protocol with HCG and HMG or FSH for close to a year to really let the enderloin metabolize from your body at 18 months preferably. And then you need to discontinue the testosterone for let's say four to six weeks to let the testosterone metabolize. Then you need to stop the HCG, the human coronary gonadotropin and the follicle stimulant hormone or the human menopausal gonadotropin for let's say one week. And then you can start pocyclotherapy. Yeah, again, I'm not joking when I said it's going to take months if not years. So like I said before, in order to prepare properly for phase four and have a successful outcome of your pocyclotherapy, discontinue the exogenous testosterone from your TRT plus protocol for at least four, preferably six weeks to let the testosterone completely metabolize from your body. Stop the HCG let's say one to two weeks before starting your pocyclotherapy in the same chemyset for FSH or HMG, right? You want your testosterone, your esredialin, or LH, your FSH levels to be basically bottomed out for the selective estrogen or receptor modulators to do their job properly. So phase four, the pocyclotherapy includes the multifaceted, particular function, supplements, antioxidants and methods. The phase four, additional testosterone fertility boosting supplements and methods. You can still continue with recombinant growth hormone at a therapeutic dose of 0.2 to 2IU sub-hutinously before bed. This is the only performance enhancing drugs that you're allowed to take during pocyclotherapy. Then you choose either between enchromaphen or clomaphen. Week one to two, you take 25 milligrams to 50 milligrams upon waking and before bed, a total of 50 milligrams to 100 milligrams daily. Then week three to four, you should have the dose to either 12.5 milligrams to 25 milligrams upon waking and before bed. So that's a total dose of 25 milligrams to 50 milligrams daily, after which you should check your blood work parameters because if testosterone, estradiol, and LH and FSH levels are not within the middle to the top of the reference range yet, then you probably need to continue pocyclotherapy for another four weeks. So week five to eight might look like this, having the dose again to either 12.5 milligrams to 25 milligrams either in clomaphen or clomaphen before bed in a single serving once per day. And you might need to combine that, the entire pocyclotherapy with tomoxifen, and nolvidex which has a metabolite, norindoxifen, which acts as an aromatized inhibitor. So if your estradiol levels were pretty high at the start of pocyclotherapy, then you might need some sort of aromatized inhibition in place to bring your estradiol levels down and allow for in clomaphen and clomps to block the estrogen receptors and provide the highest luteinizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone signaling for proper testosterone synthesis and obviously spermatogenesis. And it also depends on how long your steroid cycles were and if you took significant time off in the meantime. So you might need to combine in clomaphen or clomaphen with tomoxifen. Week one to two would be 10 to 20 milligrams upon waking and before bed, the total dose of 20. The 40 milligrams daily, week three to four would be five milligrams to 10 milligrams upon waking and before bed, a total of 10 milligrams to 20 milligrams. Daily after which you should do your blood work. Again, to check if testosterone, estradiol, LH, and FSA levels are towards the middle top of the reference range. And if that's not the case, based on another four weeks, week five to eight, five milligrams to 10 milligrams before bed in a single serving, after which at week eight, your testosterone, estradiol, LH, and FSA levels should be middle of the middle to the top of the reference range. And if that's not the case, well, look into phase two or phase three instead. You can replace tomoxifen with XMS stain, but there's no cookie cutter answer for a XMS stain aromas in dose. You need to do your blood work frequently to see that you don't crush your sharemaster dial too low, because otherwise you're going to feel pretty freaking terrible throughout this entirety of the post-psychotherapy. And again, keep in mind that n-chlorophyne, chlamate, and tomoxifen can potentiate some estrogen-like effects in the brain. So if you get some emotional disturbances and it's a giant freaking roller coaster while you're watching movies, again, this was your choice. And now you got to see it through all the way to the end when your partner is pregnant and you can start juicing again. After you finish your post-psychotherapy, it should take about three, six, nine months for semen parameters to be really stellar. And during this time, you might still suffer from some sort of androgen deficiency, especially compared to where your testosterone levels were prior on TRT plus protocols or anything above like steroid cycles. So you won't feel too good. This is one of the reasons why I didn't do post-psychotherapy myself. I've done post-psychotherapy a couple of times. My testosterone levels come back between 400 to 600 nanograms per deciliter when I've faced two fertility protocol. My testosterone levels are 800 to 900 nanograms per deciliter and I feel 10 times better. During phase two, three and four, you can run the following additional testosterone fertility boosting supplements which should have a great synergy between the supplements we discussed previously as well as the fertility medications like human corionic gonadotropin, folliculostimulinin hormone, human menopausal gonadotropin or various selective estrogen receptor modulators. So during phase two, three and four, you can decide on the following additional supplements. KSM 66, ashwagandarut extract, tonkotali, phytogeagrestis extract, turbalis terrestis extract, boron to bring your SHBG levels down, deaspartic acid, fenogreek extract, cassalberry extract and macarote extract. Even though the last four are, well, negligible effects on testosterone production but maybe if you combine all of them together in this stack, then testosterone might end up being maybe 900 undergars per deciliter. Nonetheless, so look into these compounds individually and decide which ones you want to run alongside the fertility medications or the supplements which I've discussed previously. You might get a marginal effect which is noticeable in your overall libido cognition and training capacity while you're undergoing this entire fertility protocol, which again might take months to years. So might as well leverage all angles. So if you're unable to decide between phase two, phase three and four, feel free to use my own personal anecdotal evidence regarding fertility parameters improvements over several months, following either a post-psychotherapy or a blasting my socks off with fertility medications all the way through. Here you see what my sperm count parameters look like for nine months after finishing a post-psychotherapy and besides the first month in October 2020, all of these values are above the guidelines established by the World Health Organization in 2021. So the my fertility parameters improved as the guidelines were being published. At the ninth month mark, you see that sperm count really started to skyrocket and at the time my serum testosterone came up as high as 680 nanograms per deciliter and my LH and FSH levels were around the bottom middle of the reference range, even though there were middle top to the reference range while taking serums. So between let's say October 2020 to August 2021, a steep increase in my sperm count parameters ending up with a sperm concentration of let's say 125 million per one milliliter ending up with a total sperm pre-ejaculate around 350 million. And here you see my sperm count parameters during a total of 15 months of recombinant human-coreanic-gunadotropin and recombinant follicle-stimulating hormone therapy, which is already following several months of TRT+, which also included urine purified antre-recominant, human-coreanic-gunadotropin, as well as a human menopausal-gunadotropin containing urine purified follicle-stimulating hormone. After nine months, most parameters were very comparable to nine months after finishing the post-cycle therapy. We'll compare that head on head a little bit later on, albeit that at the 15 month mark, parameters were significantly higher. Now you can clearly see a steep dip in the graph around mid-November 2023, and that's when I went to the United States for an entire month. I was able to keep up with my full fertility protocol during this time. I smoked a couple cigars, drank a little bit of alcohol, ate out way too much, and it took me a few months to recover from that work slash holiday trip. So during your fertility protocol, don't misbehave. This is why I mentioned that you should abstain from certain things, because when I came back from the United States and I did my semen analysis, yeah, almost A-50% reduction, and it took me a while before I came back to the previously stellar fertility parameters. So when we started comparing between post-cycle therapy and fertility peptide therapy, at the nine month mark after post-cycle therapy, semen volume was three milliliters, sperm concentration per one milliliter was 120 million, total sperm pre-ejaculate 360 million, total model sperm 270 million, and model sperm per one milliliter, 19 million. Very comparable to nine months on our HCG and our FSH therapy, semen volume three and a half milliliters, so you get half a milliliter more, abstinence time between post-cycle therapy and this fertility peptide therapy was exactly four days. So you get a little bit more semen while you're using these fertility peptides. Sperm concentration per one milliliter was 116.4 million, so that's four million less almost, kind of disappointing, but total sperm per ejaculate was four times 7.3 million, so that's almost 50 million more. Total model sperm was 325.8 million, so that's also, let's say 50 million more model sperm, and model sperm per one milliliter was 93.1 million, so that's almost the same. But after 50 months of our HCG and our FSH therapy, you see a significant increase, so a little bit longer means much better semen parameters. Semen volume on a four day abstinence time was four milliliters, sperm concentration per one milliliter was 142.8 million, so that's another increase of 30 million per one milliliter, with a total sperm per ejaculate of 571.2 million. Epic. Total model sperm was 468.4 million, imagine that much model sperm invading, yeah, and the model sperm per one milliliter was 117.1 million, so that's a significant difference between post-cycle therapy and our HCG and our FSH, but again, I don't know what my semen parameters would have looked like if I abstained from anabolic energenics doubt and then some for another, what is it, six months after finishing that PCT, because I was very eager to get back in the gym and start kicking some ass again. So based on these results, you'd say that you should be able to start conceiving nine months after finishing a post-cycle therapy, which is ultimately a lot cheaper and doesn't involve daily injections. Wrong, there's a clear difference in semen motility and semen morphology where you rely on naturally produced luteinase hormone and follicle stimulating hormone. Again, in my case, it was in the bottom middle of the reference range, it might not be the case for you individually, if you're still reasonably young, I was 37 at the time, so I decided to go with recombinant, human-coreanic gonadotropin and recombinant follicle stimulating hormone therapy, which brought my beta-HG levels to supra-geological levels and kept my FSH levels in the middle of the range. So here you see in the graph the semen motility morphology nine months after finishing a post-cycle therapy, well actually the entire way through of finishing a post-cycle therapy and nine months later, progressive motility morphology is in the gutter. It's so low that the lines are overlapping. I started with a progressive motility morphology, let's say around 1-2% and ended up at 4%. Nine months of waiting for progressive motility and normal morphology to come up, nothing. And I was on a comparable antioxidant stack, doing everything right for the best testosterone synthesis and sperm degenesis within my testicles. But my natural, my endogenous LH and FSH was just not up to it, even though immortal sperm came down significantly from, let's say, 80% to ending up at 25% give or take. That's not what we're after. We're after the increase in progressive motility of the semen, as well as normal morphology of the semen. So we compare that to the semen motility morphology during 15 months of fertility peptide therapy. Again, the first month that I tested it was not at a suitable lab, so let's start at the second month, somewhere in March 2023, after removing the exogenous testosterone, my morphology was reasonably low, let's say 4%, and then it steadily went upwards to approximately 42% 15 months later. And same with the progressive motility that started low, and let's say 18%, and then steadily increased, minus the holiday to the United States to, well, what is it, 75% give or take? We have the actual data a little bit later on. So clear differences. Clear differences between relying on natural endogenous LH and FSH, or relying on exogenous RHG and RFSH. So here are the direct comparisons for sperm motility and sperm morphology. Nine months after finishing a post-psychotherapy, total sperm motility was 75%, but nine months during recombinant RHG and RFSH therapy, my total sperm motility was 80%, big difference. Progressive motility, 4% versus 68%, gigantic difference. Non-progressive motility, comparing 71%, which is very, very high, to 12%, which is almost where you want it to be. Immortal sperm, 25% versus 20%, sperm vitality, aka viability, 78% versus 86%, and it's still reasonably close. Normal morphology, 4% versus 35%, and morphology, according to strict criteria at the time, was 24%, but I did not check that after finishing a post-psychotherapy and relying on endogenous LH and FSH. Now, we fast forward a little bit, 50 months of RHG and RFSH therapy. Total sperm motility was 82%, so it's a little increase compared to the nine-month mark. Progressive motility, 76%, is another increase. Non-progressive motility reduced to 6%, immortal sperm reduced to 18%, minor changes. Sperm vitality, aka viability, increased to 89%. Normal morphology was 42%, but according to strict criteria, normal morphology was 29%. Again, that's double over where they recommended it to be. It should be over 14%, and DNA fragmentation ended up being 6%, which is very, very low, which is a good thing. So if you want to take it from me, right? It's one person, an NF1 anecdotal experience, doing copious amounts of semen analysis, way more than most people do, right? Comparing a phase two protocol involving fertility medications versus a phase four protocol doing a post-psychotherapy and then relying on endogenous LH and FSH, I would go with phase two. Would 100% go with phase two, even though it's significantly more expensive, you'll feel better, you'll look better, you'll be able to train harder and your fertility parameters will be godlike. Godlike, and that's ultimately what we're after, right? Now, big difference aside, obviously there's still a lot of variables in place, different phases of my life, 37 to 38 years old, 40 to 41 years old, different compounds being used, different stersers perhaps. And well, unlike you, I didn't have a video like this to design a fertility protocol with. So maybe you can get the job done a lot faster and don't need so many fertility medications, but I had to go through self experimentation, which you don't have to. All that aside, it's very important for you to do a monthly, yes, monthly, semen analysis. So you can keep track of how your semen analysis and fertility parameters are improving, because if you don't see steadily improving parameters for month to month, then your protocol probably needs some adjustments. And just because I got stellar fertility parameters by the end of my protocol, doesn't mean that you will. And just because you don't have stellar fertility parameters after months of trying to improve them to the highest possible you can, doesn't mean you can't get your partner pregnant. Let me look at my fertility parameters. After 15 months of trying naturally around ovulation multiple times, we decided to go with in vitro fertilization. And perhaps that's because my wife is a little bit older. She was 40 at the time that we really tried to conceive very, very, very actively, very enjoyable periods and nonetheless, but yeah, after months and months and months of trying and seeing negative results on the pregnancy test, we decided to go with IVF. I mean, I know bodybuilders that got their partner pregnant on cycle, you know, a proper bodybuilding cycle containing everything under sun with a total sperm peri-jaculate of only six million, not per milliliter peri-jaculate, just six million with a progressive motility of let's say 5% and a normal morphology of only 3%. And the baby is healthy, just the same. Beautiful childs growing up normally, no complications, but you and me both know that all of those children or large majority of them are girls. So again, on the topic of sex determination and sex differentiation, let's get into oxidative stress. So let's dive into this commonly reported higher likelihood of having a daughter compared to a son where you're trying to conceive a child during a steroid cycle or even after you've discontinued steroid usage. And this effect is observed anywhere from TRT and upwards and doesn't seem to be dose dependent. Men using steroids, whether that's TRT or there above, appear to have a higher chance of conceiving a daughter. So if you love steroids, I also hope that you love playing with Barbies or playing makeup. And if you're more kind of guided, like sitting with cars or play masculine sports, high contact sports, for example, you're going to have to let the steroids go for a while, buddy. To explain this observed effect and ways to potentially circumvent it, you need to understand the difference between the male Y chromosomes and the female X chromosomes. Males have one X chromosome and one Y chromosome, but the Y chromosome is much smaller than the X chromosome and contains fewer genes, many of which are specific to male development and responsible for initiating male sex differentiation during pregnancy. Females have two X chromosomes, one of which is generally inactivated in all cells of the body. This inactive and condensed X chromosome found in the nuclei of female cells is also known as the bar body X chromatin or sex chromatin. The inactivation prevents overexpression from X linked genes. However, the inactivation is not always complete. Some of the genes actually escape inactivation and contributes to cellular function. So the cellular function of females is different from males due to the difference in chromosomes. The male Y chromosome has fewer mechanisms to repair DNA damage, due to its smaller size and lack of homologous pairing with a matching Y chromosome during myiosis. Males are XY, not YY. So you don't have a backup sort of say like females do with an X and X chromosome. This makes the Y chromosome more susceptible to mutations or loss of function under oxidative stress. Oxidative damage to the Y chromosomes can impair male fertility, reducing sperm counts, reducing mortality, reducing morphology and viability and severe damage to the S-R-Y gene on the Y chromosome can result in failure of male sex differentiation. So that basically means that if you're undergoing a lot of chronic oxidative stress, your sperm is now handicapped. And through somehow some way, some magical cosmic event, your sperm with limited swimming capacity and weird morphology is able to reach the...  eic penetrates and delivers the Y chromosomes, then it probably doesn't result in a healthy embryo. And even if you do get an embryo, it might not implant. And even if it doesn't implant, well, it's very likely that you have a miscarriage. And it's also because the female X chromosomes, being larger and present in duplicates in the cells, have redundancy, a.k.a. a backup. If one of the X chromosomes is damaged, the other can often compensate, which makes a female generally more resilient to genetic issues. And if your sperm delivers an X chromosome and your partner has an X chromosome, backups. But with the Y chromosome, unfortunately, there's no backup. That sort of means a lower likelihood of transporting that properly and fertilizing an embryo for a healthy baby. Imature sperm cells being spermatocytes or spermatids have underdeveloped antioxidant defenses, making them more susceptible to oxidative damage. All the genesis within the seminophorous tubules in the testes can take approximately 64 to 78 days, let's say about two to two and a half months. The epididymitis secretes antioxidants to protect sperm, but imbalances between reactive oxygen species and antioxidants can still occur. Spermaturation within the epididymitis takes approximately two to three weeks, let's say around half a month. Spermatism is stored for several days to weeks within the epididymitis and to a certain extent within the VAS deferent, albeit that semen mostly passes through the VAS deferents on the way to the seminal vesicles. Prolonged semen storage without ejaculation can lead to sperm aging and oxidative stress within the epididymitis and the VAS deferents, reducing sperm quality in overall fertility parameters. And this is one of the reasons why no FAP semen retention is such a terrible idea for fertility. Ideally, during the entire time that you're trying to improve your fertility parameters, you should ejaculate at least three times weekly and it doesn't matter where you ejaculate, all it matters is that you ejaculate frequently, let's say every other day or three times weekly, at minimum to minimize oxidative stress to the semen and ensure that you have the highest possible progressive motility as well as normal morphology percentages. Once you're ready to conceive, you can switch to every other day inseminations or daily inseminations around the time of ovulation, more on this later on. Semen transport to the seminal vesicles and ultimately the oh so enjoyable ejaculation usually only takes seconds to minutes, after which it can either attempt to fertilize an egg following ovulation or end up in a semen sample cup ready for analysis. And for the sake of this video, we'll forego all potential fates of semen after ejaculation, I'm sure you can use your imagination and come up with a couple scenarios. Oxidative stress can still occur within the seminal vesicles, the prostate and the cowper's glands which all contribute fluids that produce semen. And while seminal fluid contains high levels of antioxidants that protect sperm from reactive oxidant species during transport and ejaculation, oxidative stress can still occur within these glands reducing semen quality. The cowper's glands contribute to neutralizing pre-exaculatory fluid which helps protect the semen during ejaculation, however insufficient secretion can leave sperm vulnerable to oxidative stress and if that's not bad enough, exposing the semen to residual acidity from urine lift in the urethra can further cause oxidative stress. So long story short, wash your junk thoroughly and practice some foreplay before you ejaculate, so don't turn it into a 3 minute affair, take your sweet time for the oxidative stress to be minimized. And again oxidative stress can also affect progressive motility and normal morphology of sperm, if you're undergoing a lot of oxidative stress currently then you can expect low progressive motility, low normal morphology and high DNA fragmentation on your semen analysis results indicating a very very very low chance to conceive whether that's a boy or a girl. The sperm themselves also have limited DNA repair mechanisms due to their condensed chromatins being in a transcriptionally inactive state. Sperm carry either a Y chromosome or an X chromosome so you could say that sperm is either male or female, not both and nothing in between. The female egg only carries the X chromosome, not the Y chromosome, so a female egg is always female until a male sperm delivers a Y chromosome for sexual differentiation. Under conditions of high oxidative stress whether that's in the male or female or both, the proportion of Y sperm, Y chromosomes reaching the egg may decrease, favoring the conception of a female X-X offspring. So it's almost 100% up to the father to produce a male offspring but certainly 100% up to him to provide a Y chromosome that has been produced under a low oxidative stress environment in order to increase the chances of conceiving a boy with his partner. And that being said, once the male sperm with Y chromosomes entered a vagina and uterus but there's a lot of reactive oxygen species present, then these male sperm with Y chromosomes might not reach the female egg with X chromosomes, allowing for normal fertilization to occur. So again, you need to be under low oxidative stress environment for at least 3 months, for the semen to be normal and a higher chance for Y chromosomes to end up in the female egg and for her, she also needs to be under low oxidative stress environment throughout the entire time that the egg is maturing and certainly for the 9 months after she gets pregnant until she gives birth and even after giving birth during breastfeeding, low oxidative stress environment. Being oxidative stress is highly important for both partners. You know what increases oxidative stress the most in body butters or general fitness enthusiasts? Steroids plus exercise. And which ones of these are you willing to give up or at least reduce to the point that oxidative stress is completely minimized in order for you to conceive a son with your partner? Now there is some conflicting scientific evidence regarding the use of Exoticist Disaster Replacement Therapy and its effect on oxidative stress or if it actually protects against oxidative stress. In this study performed by Christensen at all, titled Whole Body Oxidative Stress Reduction During Testosterone Therapy in Aging Men, a Randomized Plesebo-Controlled Trial, you see that Exoticist Disaster Replacement Therapy was shown to reduce Whole Body Oxidative Stress in obese elderly men over 67 years old, which was attributed to the improvement in body composition. Is that the testosterone replacement therapy or just following a better lifestyle? And well we could say that obese elderly men over 67 years old should not really attempt to conceive again. Unfortunately, I couldn't find any scientific evidence that shows that oxidative stress occurs within the testicles of humans while using antibiotic energenics steroids, again where most of the oxidative stress on the semen occurs. But there are some in vivo studies and animal models which show exactly that. This has been confirmed for the following compounds. If I couldn't convince you with the steroids vs. fertility video, maybe I can convince you now. Here's the list of steroid-induced impaired fertility and testicular oxidative stress or injury with testosterone. It has antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties in oxidative stress induction, animal and in vivo models. So if you're undergoing high oxidative stress and you identify as a cell in a petri dish or an animal, then exoxidant testosterone might actually offer antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects. Exoxidant testosterone restores spermatogenesis in oligo-osteno-spermia stemming from an animal model which we discussed at the start of this video. So use the timestamps to skip back, well almost two hours. And exoxidant testosterone decreases antioxidant defenses in healthy animals. So again, conflicting scientific evidence does it cause oxidative stress or not? I'll leave it up to you to follow the citations and make a decision going forward. Exogenous estradiol coming from estradiol benzoate worsened oxidative stress when combined with eccentric exercise. Nandrolone stemming from decaderebolan worsened oxidative stress when combined with swimming exercise which was ameliorated by torene and melatonin which are very potent antioxidants. Archimetallone aka anadrol causes oxidative stress in the testicles and imperish fertility parameters but that can be ameliorated with royal jelly or watercress and Caucasian waffle berry hydro-alcoholic extracts which are all high in antioxidants. Baldenone equipoise causes oxidative stress in the testicles as well as the nasal winstrol causes oxidative stress. So all of these you should avoid and if you want to dive diaper into the potential benefits of exogenous testosterone regarding oxidative stress you're welcome to do the research but I would still highly recommend you to discontinue it. And even if you don't take steroids oxidative stress markers might still be slightly elevated if you're a bodybuilder or you train vigorously. This study performed on bodybuilders that didn't take steroids performed by Selig et al. from October 20th 2024 so that's a very very new titled assessment of paraoxonase 1 and arial estrus activities and lipid profile in bodybuilders and comparative study of physical activity and anthropometry on atherosclerosis. This study shows that unless bodybuilders supplemented with antioxidants that oxidative stress markers are also elevated again in bodybuilders that train vigorously. Oxonative stress was considerably higher in high intensity resistance trained bodybuilders compared to those who performed moderate intensity resistance exercise which has been shown to increase antioxidant status in otherwise normal healthy individuals. So again if you're a bodybuilder that trains vigorously maybe take that down a notch from high intensity exercise to medium intensity exercise and if you're on steroids which are known to cause oxidative stress bring it down to TRT like I've been saying this entire video. The benefits of moderate intensity resistance exercise regarding the reduction of chronic oxidative stress markers and improvement in overall health parameters has been well established. This average gym goer level of intensity strengthens the body antioxidant defenses and reduces the risk of oxidative damage over time. South testosterone replacement therapy reduces oxidative stress potentially what at least in aging men it does and moderate intensity resistance training strengthens the body's antioxidant defenses then why not combine both you might ask and yes it makes absolute total sense but I couldn't find any scientific evidence to support that otherwise healthy men running testosterone replacement therapy or hormone replacement therapy and training with moderate intensity exercises have an improved antioxidant status and increased antioxidant defenses. If the previously discussed TRT plus fertility peptides phase one or phase one point one protocols with all of the antioxidants that you feel comfortable with are not getting the job done improving your overall semen parameters then you need to proceed to either phase two, three and four reassess your antioxidant intake, reduce your training intensity or maybe both again assuming that you want a son without autism but if you want a girl then you might be able to get the job done with a phase one or phase one point one protocol where you keep the exactness of testosterone in place running the fertility peptides which I already discussed just make sure that you still stay on top of all the antioxidant supplements and reduce the burden of oxidative stress so your DNA fragmentation is very very low and the overall quality of your semen is very very high that still not mitigates the fact that your daughter might have autism so let's address that here in this segment of this video keep in mind that there's a clear correlation between oxidative stress in both parents whether that's the father the mother or both both before and during pregnancy and autism so besides the higher likelihood of bodybuilders having daughters there also seems to be a disproportionate amount of bodybuilders having children that are autistic so I felt it's only fair to address it here while we're on the topic of oxidative stress I would highly advise you to watch the podcast between Dr. Peter Atia and Dr. Trinh Sutcliffe it's linked down below right below the humor and podcast discussing all kinds of fertility aids and watch both if you're interested in conceiving a child in the future after you're done watching this video obviously that podcast with Dr. Peter Atia and Dr. Trinh Sutcliffe is very very very informative regarding autism all the potential risks and all the potential contributing factors it's impossible for me to discuss all of that here so if you want to know more give that podcast a watch it has excellent content so let me just summarize it quickly in case you're not convinced yet to increase your antioxidant defenses I had a plenty of studies to confirm that the father with higher oxidative stress markers have a greater likelihood of having children with autism spectrum disorder oxidative stress to the sperm of the father can result in epigenetic changes to the sperm DNA resulting in methylation and histone modifications which ultimately affect fetal brain development on the other side oxidative stress in the mother before enduring pregnancy can reduce mitochondrial function which impacts ick viability and early embryonic development and keep in mind of the mitochondria that the fetus contains are stemming from the mother not to the father there's no mitochondria in the sperm delivering either the X or Y chromosomes oxidative stress during outside maturation can affect gene regulation in the embryo contributing to autism risk maternal oxidative stress and inflammation before enduring pregnancy can trigger maternal immune system responses which also has autism risk during early pregnancy the field brain undergoes rapid development making it highly susceptible to oxidative stress during this time high oxidative stress can lead to neuronal damage impaired synops formation and inflammation of these factors are observed in autism spectrum disorder the placentes also sensitive to oxidative stress leading to reduced nutrient and oxygen supply to the developing fetal brain and body and even after giving birth oxidative stress continues to influence autism risk breast milk contains antioxidants and essential fatty acids that help reduce oxidative stress while some breast milk formulas lack these beneficial ingredients and again if the breastfeeding mother is undergoing a lot of oxidative stress and damage then she's literally breastfeeding these reactive oxygen species to your child's which potentially has all kinds of deleterious effects including autism risk once born the baby is susceptible to environmental air pollution pesticides and dietary toxins which can all induce oxidative stress in the infants and contribute to autism risk and furthermore oxidative stress may impair immune function contribute to gut dysbiosis and neuro inflammation in infants both are linked to autism spectrum disorder and I'm not trying to fear monger here obviously it's going to be a lot easier for you to raise a healthy child compared to a child with autism or other kinds of complications because you didn't pay attention to your oxidative stress markers so a little bit of caution is advised start preparing well in advance both you and your partner to keep the burden of oxidative stress as low as possible otherwise you might face the consequences for a very long time and in this case we could take yours truly as an example both my parents were smokers and drinkers my father drank and smoke while his semen was maturing and then when he got his wife my mother pregnant she was smoking and drinking throughout the entirety of pregnancy and when I was born I was sick as a dog I had asthma I had all kinds of allergies out all kinds of digestive issues rashes and it lasted for years until they figured it out to feed me a little bit better but as soon as I started eating like a bodybuilder and removed all of the carbohydrates from my diet so we're talking about 17 years old yeah then the asthma was gone and the rashes were gone and all of these digestive issues were significantly less so I had to suffer quite a bit in my younger years because so I suspect because my parents didn't do their due diligence researching regarding that what they should have been doing before during and after pregnancy so right with the information we have available nowadays we don't have to make the same mistakes as your parents did but if you do make the same mistakes your parents did then honestly dude you're not fit to be a parent and just get some dogs or a couple cats or whatever animal you prefer all right enough about that childhood traumas aside at least I don't have autism or I think that I don't I'll leave it up to you guys if you have autism or not I didn't end up being a girl due to the high oxidative stress that my parents were undergoing around the time of conception otherwise this youtube channel would have been called vigorous Stephanie and it would be about something entirely different at one point you're happy with your fertility parameters and you're ready to start inseminating not so fast buddy just because you're not shooting blanks and you're staying on target doesn't mean that you're going to hit the targets the cervix is closed for 23 to 26 days out of the menstrual cycle so you're knocking vigorously obviously and blasting against the door that only opens for two out of four days out of the month timing is everything you and your partner need to start tracking her ovulation well before you're ready to start conceiving assuming she has a regular menstrual cycle typically ovulation occurs around 14 days before the next period and it's highly advised to have at least three to six months of ovulation cycles tracked so you can time exactly when the cervix is fully opened and you can deliver your x and y chromosomes basically when you start improving your fertility parameters that's the exact same time that your partner starts tracking her ovulation cycle when you are ready to give she knows when she's ready to receive there are several apps that can track the menstruation cycle we use the cycle tracker by apple which is included in the iphone so ideally you track her menstrual cycle for about three to six months so you know exactly when ovulation occurs and then the ideal intercourse timing would be one to two days prior and one to two days after the expected ovulation you can go by basal body temperature tracking when the basal body temperature rises to about 0.3 to 0.5 degrees celsius or 0.5 to 1 degree Fahrenheit which indicates ovulation and then the ideal intercourse timing would again be one day to two days prior and one to two days after basal body temperature increases indicating that ovulation is occurring or you can go with urinary luteinase hormone testing where you test her urine in the morning and evening with an lh ovulation predictor kit abbreviated to opk's four to five days before expected ovulation a positive test indicates that ovulation will occur in 12 to 36 hours to so the ideal intercourse timing would be within 12 to 24 hours after receiving a positive lh opk test result and there's even cervical mucus tracking but you should leave that up to her because she's probably a lot more familiar with her mucus and how that's changing during the menstrual cycle than you are when the mucus turns clear stretching egg whites that usually appears two to three days before ovulation so the ideal intercourse timing would be one to four days after cervical mucus is changing regarding the intercourse timing frequency to put it simply more often is better you can already start about five days before the expected ovulation having intercourse every other day with everyday intercourse around the expected ovulation up to two days after the expected ovulation so that means seven days of highly enjoyable vigorous manual labor of a few minutes to let's say half an hour every single time and unfortunately for all the sex beans out there there's absolutely no reason to have intercourse more than once per day to prevent semen and sperm depletion keep in mind that while semen can survive in the cervix for up to five days the vagina is a somewhat hostile environment for semen no matter how much effort you put into your fertility protocol semen isn't stored in the uterus so if the cervix isn't open around the time of ovulation that semen ends up dying yeah so let me teach you how semen survives in the vagina and uterus the vaginal pH barrier the natural vaginal acidity has a pH of 3.5 to 4.5 which prevents infection but is hostile to sperm and again when the mucus changes to the clear stretchy egg whites like cervical mucus the pH of the vagina also changes and comes closer to semen alkalinity with a pH of 7.2 to 8 which also neutralizes vaginal acidity temporarily the semen coagulant which protects sperm from vaginal acidity usually forms within one minute of ejaculation semen liquefaction occurs a little bit later on where prostate specific antigen liquefies semen within 15 to 30 minutes 60 minutes at maximum allowing sperm to swim freely towards the cervix while vaginal acidity is neutralized again as the cervical mucus changes around the time of ovulation it acts as a sperm highway two to three days before ovulation cervical mucus protects sperm from vaginal acidity allowing it to enter the cervix within minutes of ejaculation and the cervical mucus protects the sperm for a few hours now the highly progressive motile sperm the one that we're after in our fertility parameters can end up and enter the cervical crypts which are tiny folds within the cervix where they can be stored for up to five days and this guarantees sperm survival this stored sperm survives until ovulation occurs increasing chances of conception so even though the cervix is open but ovulation hasn't occurred yet you can donate or deliver your sperm with high progressive motility into these cervical crypts allowing them to be released around the time of ovulation and then if you have additional intercourse around time of ovulation imagine how much progressively motile sperm with normal morphology is present increasing the likelihood of conception but only around one percent from each ejaculation make it past the cervix sperm with normal progressive motility rely on flagula movement aka tail whipping and uterine contractions more than that later to move towards the fallopian tubes this journey can take as little as 30 minutes to a few hours so again timing is everything but with a few hour timing window you should be okay in case um you know shit it's a fan and you need to do the deed a little bit later on even though ovulation has already occurred so don't stress don't stress you'll be all right unfortunately sperm only survives in the vagina for a couple minutes if the cervix isn't opened meaning that your entire army of precious swimmers die 23 to 26 days out of the entire menstrual cycle but they can survive for up to five days if you time it right and the cervix is opened and the cervical mucus helps your sperm along for the journey so here's the ideal intercourse timing around ovulation five days before ovulation even though the cervix is likely closed you can have intercourse then you skip one day four days before ovulation where the cervix is also likely closed three days before ovulation where the cervix is possibly opened you can have intercourse again then two days before ovulation where the cervix is certainly open you don't have intercourse one day before ovulation where the cervix is open you have intercourse again then on the day of the ovulation you have intercourse and even the day after ovulation where the cervix is still open you also have intercourse now if you want to do it a little bit differently you can have intercourse four days before ovulation two days before ovulation one day before ovulation the day of ovulation and the day after ovulation i'll leave an entirely up to you i've done it both ways and unfortunately after 15 months of trying naturally which was highly really enjoyable nonetheless, we decided to go IVF. After intercourse, have your partner lay in our back for about 15 to 30 minutes for normal semen coagulation and semen liquefaction to occur, reducing the acidity of the vagina and with the help of the cervical mucus, the sperm is now allowed to swim into the uterus through the cervix where it can potentially be stored for up to five days and otherwise, if you time this around ovulation, then conception can actually occur pretty much immediately. There is some scientific evidence that female orgasm increases semen or tension in the vagina by approximately 15.7% compared to not having an orgasm. How much that actually contributes to an increased chance of fertilization, I'm not entirely sure. It was a small study with only six participants and they used a semen simulant, not actual semen because they probably wanted to prevent pregnancy in these six participants to measure the backflow of the semen following the use of a vibrator. Again, the citations are down below. I got this paper from Dr. Dean St. Marts ages ago. I think his wife found it online somewhere, so she tried to convince him to give her an orgasm around the time of conception and I used it as scientific evidence to give my wife an orgasm around the time of conception. When you look at it closely, keep in mind that if you do try to increase fertilization chances by giving your partner an orgasm, her orgasm needs to occur after you've already ejaculated and the sperm has coagulated and liquefied for the semen to travel into the cervix and uterus. If you're like me, where your partner is an orgasm first and then you ejaculate, then her orgasm comes too late. She needs to have an orgasm after you ejaculate and the semen already went through the process of coagulation and liquefaction for the sperm to be liberated. So timing is a little bit off here. Still an orgasm for you and her, perhaps not in that order, is still highly enjoyable for emotional bonding and that kind of stuff. But if you go with this scientific evidence, you need to ejaculate first and then keep her going while she's laying on her back for approximately 15 to 30 minutes or you can bail out and set it to vibrate until you're to finish yourself off. A highly G-style. The correlation between female orgasm and pregnancy rates has been widely contested. In scientific evidence, you can read all about it following the citations down below. But take it for me, if you're loving and caring husbands, make sure and ensure that your partner, your wife, has an orgasm or two every time you're trying to conceive and even during the off period where she's not receptive to semen and you're still attempting to have a good time. Make sure that she has an orgasm or two because when she's pregnant, when she's highly pregnant towards the end of carrying your child, then intercourse might be a little bit difficult, but there's always alternative ways for you to get stimulated. Yeah, and that's where the gratitude starts to show for all those orgasms that she had. Alright, and I think that pretty much covers everything I wanted to discuss in this video. Keep trying until she's pregnant. It might take months to years, probably longer than you initially expected. And if it doesn't happen within a window of time that you feel comfortable with, both you and her, then you have the following alternative options. There's the secular sperm aspiration where they insert, inject a needle into the testicles and use aspiration to retrieve semen. I would consider this a last resort. I think the fertility medications are going to get the job done. If you follow this video all the way through, I don't think you need a particular sperm aspiration unless you did something terrible with your testicles or, well, cut the vast difference leading to infertility. There's a female fertility medications treatment that has nothing to do with you, but maybe that's something your wife or partner needs to consider. There's comaphein citrate, which stimulates egg maturation and induced ovulation, various gutadetropin, including human carionic gutadetropin, follicle-stimulating hormone, and luteinizing hormone injections, or various combination thereof, which stimulates egg maturation and also induces ovulation. There's let's resolve, which induces ovulation. Again, my cursing serum is for dialyvels, luteinizing hormone, follicle-stimulating hormone levels go up, works the same for her as it would for you in the context of not using exorcists to stop some replacement therapy. Glucophage, aka metformin, can improve ovulation in cases of polycystic ovarian syndrome. Again, a histroscopy will determine if your partner has PCOS. Then there's intrauterine insemination, where your sperm is washed and directly inserted into the uterus around 24 hours of ovulation, which is often combined with human carionic  gonadotropin treatment to induce ovulation in her. Then there's in vitro fertilization, where the eggs are retrieved from the ovaries and fertilized with sperm in a fertility laboratory. So if you're undergoing a good amount of gonadotropin treatment to stimulate egg maturation, that usually goes in combination with IVF, right, you have gonadotropins to stimulate egg maturation, so you get 12, 18 eggs, or maybe even more that are mature, ready for retrieval. Then with in vitro fertilization, they use needle aspiration to collect the eggs. So if you have 12 eggs, that's 12 insertions, aspirations of a needle, and if you have 18 eggs or more, that's again 18 aspirations or more. Whatever eggs are retrieved are fertilized in the laboratory, and then they can do special treatments for that. IVF intracytoplasmic sperm injection, where single sperm is injected directly into the egg. This is better known as ICSI, and then there's IVF intracytoplasmic morphologically selected sperm injection, better known as MC, where the sperm is examined under a high-powered microscope to identify abnormalities in the head, mid-piece, and tail, and then only a single morphologically healthy sperm is injected directly into an egg. IVF is cheaper than ICSI, and ICSI is cheaper than MC. Then you have donor sperm or donor eggs, where donated sperm or eggs are used for intrauterine insemination or in vitro fertilization, whether that's ICSI or MC, and as your last option, there's surrogacy or gestational carriers. With traditional surrogacy, the surrogate's egg is fertilized using a donor or partner sperm by direct insemination or intrauterine insemination, and gestational surrogacy involves an in vitro fertilized created embryo, which is then carried by a surrogate, and whether they use a donor egg in donor sperm or the egg and the sperm from the parents, in which case the embryo is being carried by a surrogate. I'll leave that up to you, which routes you need to go with, discuss that with a fertility specialist, obviously, and then last but not least, there's always adoption, right? You take somebody else's child and raise it as your own. So there's plenty of options. If you do wanna have a child, in case this fertility protocol is unsuccessful because of steroid abuse and high oxidative stress and whatnot, you did to your testicles. So there's always hope and always options, but I think the large majority of you guys can get the job done if you watch this video from start to finish and make sure you leave a like and a comment and subscribe if you haven't already, and if you have a son. I heard that Steve is a pretty cool name. All right, I'll leave it here. Thank you guys so much for watching. You can find everything that I'm associated with down below in the YouTube description section, the citations, the links to the graphics, additional material, podcasts, and videos, it's all there. Do additional research so you know exactly what you're getting yourself into when you're trying to get your partner pregnant after years and decades of steroid use and abuse. And while you're at it, use some of my discount codes and affiliates to get yourself a discount while shopping online. And if you go do your blood work, do it over at Merrick Health, which have extensive lists of blood work parameters so you can keep yourself healthy. They even have tests for oxidative stress markers, which not many clinics in the world have on offer. Vigor's Crew, you guys know what to do. A antibiotic high fertility furtherable bicep for you guys. Good luck inseminating. And well, if you have some good news for me to share, just tag me in your baby pictures. I'll be happy to see them over the next couple of years. See you guys in the next deep dive.