There's really not much you can choose from if you want to stay safe. So my triforce of steroids has always been testosterone, primobalin, and anavar, but based on the scientific literature, there's not much on primo, man. Yeah. Growth hormone. Not not Yeah. Growth hormone, right? I mean, I would say the sa the safest thing that I would say would be testosterone and growth hormone, right? They're indogenous. You kind of at least could predict them as long as you're using a regular dose, right? again. Are you taking HIV studies and trying to translate in that into what we should do? Yeah. Right. Like when I used a bottle of ceram a day, I I followed the HIV protocol. My weight shot up. You talked about dosages massively. We got it out of you. Hey guys, I'm super excited for this podcast. Um, we're going to do this every month or give or take because we're the most nerdy guys in bodybuilding that post a lot. Um, so I think we made a good three to do this. We haven't decided on a name yet. I think anabolic round table is cool. I like it. Um, yeah, but we're open to suggestions, guys. So, if you know a better name for this podcast, supervisological man is uh is taken and I think that that podcast is kind of over and done with unless Derek comes out of the sauna. But this can be the anabolic round table um joined with Kurt Havens and Dr. Dean St. Mart. Let's let's get started with some introductions. Curt, you're new on the scene, but you're the senior. So, maybe we can get started with you. Um, sure. Who are you? Who am I? Who is your daddy and what does he do? Um, so I've been around fitness since I think I started lifting in 1987 when I was 12. Uh, uh, my father was always into this stuff, so he brought me to a gym when I was a little kid. I got I've been in the coaching scene for a while, probably since 1996ish. Uh, but I didn't bother coming on the internet until very recently. Um, yeah. I But you want to talk about like my first entrance into this stuff with EAS? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Go for it. So, I um spill the beans. So, I entered the first I'm really dating myself here. The first Body for Life challenge. I don't even know if people know what this stuff is anymore. Um, Bill Phillips owned a company called EAS and he had a big book and he was giving away a million bucks. Whoever could make the biggest transformation in three months and I entered the first one. I did not win. Uh, but I did okay. Yeah, I didn't get a million bucks. Um, and but I had the opportunity to help them when they were working on coming up with the idea for how to make this thing scalable. And that was when I met Dan Duchain. Like we talked about um there was like the Denver Broncos every there was all of these professional athletes there and no one was paying attention to any of them. They were all hoarding around this guy sitting at a desk writing and I asked someone who is that guy and they were like that's Dan. Why does anyone care? Like everyone else is bench press. Like Shannon Sharp is literally bench pressing 405 for reps and no one's paying any attention to what he's doing and they're all focused on this guy like he's the steroid guru. Okay. So I was a little late to the party. I This is not stuff that I knew anything about at the time. I was I was like 20 or 21. Um and so that was kind of my first feray into the world of bodybuilding and I started coaching and doing that stuff in the background. I pursued medicine then stopped and got a different job a corporate job for a bunch of years and then when that ended I got back into coaching went back to school mast's pursuing a PhD now in endocrinology and I was literally watching you guys over last summer and on a whim I decided to reach out to Paul Barnett and the rest has been kind of meteoric I guess. Yeah, I remember I saw you on Paul Bernett's channel. I'm like, "Okay, I got to get Kurt Havens on ASAP before he blows up." And now here we are, right? Your channel is growing. You're I I see you're making the rounds with all the podcasts, right? You're on Canadian bodybuilding and you're doing Where else? I I see you everywhere popping my feet. It's hilarious. Oh, yeah. I'm all over the place. A lot of them just come on my channel now. AJ and I do a thing, you know. AJ's another one. So, I looked up to him uh for years. He was always kind of a coach that I admired what he was doing. He always brought the guys in the craziest condition and he was someone that I held in super high regards and we became close friends very recently. So now we do a thing together. Uh and kind of like what we're going to do here. I think I my goal is kind of to bring a little more truth to bodybuilding. I just think there's a lot of garbage out there and we're just and that's how I became friends with Dean as well. I mean he is the same mission. Yeah. And we're trying to make this as you know accurate as we can and kind of disclose what we know, right? And we're always learning. I I'm the first to admit that I don't know everything and I have made mistakes. I've said incorrect things. It happens. It's a learning process for all of us. And I think us three and a couple other people in the fitness industry, we keep our each other on our toes and we run stuff past each other like like you mentioned that, you know, Primabolum was finally showed as an aromatase inhibitor. And then I go through the studies, I'm like, wait a minute, that's a bot transformation study. And it it it's certainly possible, but this is fungi that produce these metabolites. So I I went through all the drug testing, right, based on what you said and I'm like, you know what, this is so interesting. So I went through all of the the doping cases to see if these metabolites are actually present in humans. Couldn't find evidence that it is, but also no evidence that it isn't. Right? So I think through this collaboration road, I think we can all just raise the industry even more and more forward. Um Dean, you've been on my podcast now twice, right? I've been following you for years cuz you were one of the the few guys that actually back back when I got started learning. Um, one of the few guys that really made a scientific approach regarding the steroid stuff. Um, so I'm happy that you're also on board of this uh anabolic round table. Can you tell us a little bit about yourself again for the third time on my YouTube channel? So, I guess like like you, I I've got my wife to thank for uh what I'm doing now. It was Morgan that sort of pushed me online years ago when I first met her. Um she thought that what I sort of knew and when I speak to guys at the gym, she's like, "You really need to get online and get some value out there because you're you're keeping guys in our local environment safe. Why not apply that, you know, to the whole world?" And I guess that spiral then into formulating supplements with Lee at supplement needs and then I guess like what we've all come up against, you know, you've got sort of an abrasiveness when you're starting to debunk bro science where it's sort of like well we've done this for years and you're like well no this is the actual what's going on that my mission has always been just to keep this as safe as possible or keep guys lifting and you know doing things within reason and trying to actually back it up with some actual evidence than you know having an authority of saying just because I I say so. So my background is in drug design and pharmarmacology and synthetic chemistry. So all throughout my study years with my PhD I got fascinated with bodybuilding. Um I had to sort of transition I was a kickboxer and I transitioned away with a uh smashed ankle injury. So I had to sort of replace one sport with another. And that's where obviously then questions come in when you're reading online. And like all of us when you're in your like early 20ies, what you think you know from what you've studied versus what the real world says and what papers say is completely different. That I guess bodybuilding's beauty is that some of it is backed up by science. But then we also see how far science is behind sometimes that anecdote comes first and then the science comes later. Yeah. Yeah. That's very true. And we see now a lot of stuff that slowly gets proven that we've been doing for years, maybe even decades. And then maybe with some small nuances, the scientific evidence is slightly different. But it is always good to see that some things finally get confirmed. Like I we've been talking about Master and Primobolan being potential aromatas inhibitors um and or some of its metabolites. And then slowly you see some scientific evidence that might support that to a certain extent. Um even though we clearly see you know in real world practical applications that at least primo and balden and in some individuals mastone do lower levels. And I I think you know we're just a little bit ahead of our time sometimes in the things we uh we say. For the guys who don't know I'm vigorous Steve. I'm under an alias because I promised my family not to involve the family name. So, one of the few guys out there that still goes by an alias, just like the good old forum days. Um, I have a a bachelor degree in in knowledge engineering, so I know how to figure stuff out. And even though I'm not technically trained on scientific literature and uh biochemistry or pharmacology, I I think I'm slowly piecing it together over the last 25 years that I've been bodybuilding. Um, and for me, my YouTube channel was just about giving back because, you know, I learned so much through bodybuilding, whether that's about training or nutrition or pharmarmacology. Of course, everybody wants to see about steroids. So, it's it's mostly about steroids on my YouTube channel. Now, you get typ cast as you guys also get typ cast and you make a training video, nobody watches. Um, so so that's basically where I where I ended up. It's like, okay, you guys want to see more pharmacology stuff? I'll gladly do it. And that maybe brings us to the first topic, right? We have a list of topics. I want to know from you guys um what the harm reduction models are and have those changed over the last couple of years because everybody is about harm reduction and risk mitigation. Um and then we have IFB pros who we all aspire to look like. Um but I don't think they go hand in hand. Something that I see firsthand now that is very new to the industry is years ago you had the guys that were enhanced like pro bodybuilders, right? Or or gym rats that were just wanted to do gear and you had natural guys, right? And there was a clear line between the two, right? And you you knew what you were and you kind of hung out with those guys and you had a very firm belief in what you did, right? There was sometimes obviously natural guys would become enhance guys over time, but now there's this odd use of TRT, right? Like TRT has become this overpopular thing with young kids, right, that don't clearly don't need TRT. That's where that I think TRT in and of itself is a fantastic thing. I think when you have 20-year-olds doing TRT, I'm not sure what the function there is because they're probably not hypogonatal. And then on top of it to play with this this supposed safe thing is then they're adding other non at least in America they're adding things that are not legal like primal on top of this to leverage a performance benefit without ever actually using testosterone as a performance tool right they're just like it's it's almost like using lantis they're just creating like a baseline with testosterone and then stacking other things on top under the guise of TRT right some sort of enhanced TRT and then you have everything above that right? Then you have the standard steroid cycles and stuff. And I think that this is where whether this was from our other friend in Thailand who created this this supposed safe model of usage wherever this came from. This is what's confusing to me because when you look at the data like guys like Basin, right, we've seen so many times that up to 600 milligrams of testosterone is considered safe for for healthy individuals. It's where where this all of a sudden came from that testosterone was not a good thing and you want to leverage all sorts of other stuff on top of it, you know, at at the at the low level at the TRT level. It that's I think what's confusing to me is why is that considered safer, right? And also then why is it considered safer to use something like Masteron to control estrogen versus something like an AI which has been proven? Yeah, it's um it's just I think people like to reinvent the wheel and get credit for stuff when in reality the credit always goes to the researchers. So there's a lot of studies at least on testosterone and nanderone that shows that it's somewhat safe and efficacious. Um and then when you do the similar research on other performance enhancing drugs or other anabolic energy steroids, you see that the safety and efficacy or the efficacy is there in medical treatment but the safety data is severely lacking. So there's now a lot of extrapolation from animal models whether that is uh safe or not. We can go to this uh this study. So this is the the Bassin study where they go from 25 milligrams testosterone to 600 milligrams testosterone uh per week. Correct. For 12 weeks or 20 weeks? 20 weeks. Yeah. And there's a wash out period as well. There's a wash out period as well. Yeah. So this is quite an interesting study. Um this is one of the few highdose studies where they actually compare different dosages because there's other studies where they go in reasonably high dosages but that's all in particular medical treatment. This is in uh healthy individuals. And is this a study where they were specifically instructed not to train? Mhm. Or is that the other one? Uh it should be this one. And what what's fascinating though from a background point of view on this study is at least again I can only speak to what goes on in the United States. in the United States until basin came out with these things the the medical community here was in disbelief that testosterone had any positive effect on muscle. So as a whole physicians didn't understand that testosterone grew muscle. It was disputed. So we refer like in the endocrinology world it's actually referred as like the pre-basin era and the postbasin era which we were living in the postbasin era now. So he he was he was pretty groundbreaking in what he does and what he did. Okay. Yeah, it's it's very interesting to me these kinds of studies because it also shows I think that the changes on lipid parameters and liver enzymes and they tried quite a few markers and with it's also been indexed. I mentioned that in my Anavar deep dive but a lot of the things that are now part of um risk and harm medication models um are either not studies on humans at all um or have never been studied on healthy subjects. Y they've been studied on uh postmenopausal breast cancer right or or short stature or something like that and then the dosages are ramped up to well in the grams which is I don't know it's it's hilarious to me but at least testosterone is bio identical if you want to run ramp that up to a gram or two um that is what bodybuilders pro bodybuilders have been doing for decades now and and to kind of ramp up something else that isn't even uh FDA approved for humans anymore. Always seemed a bit weird to me. Now, does it get results? Of course it does. But there's a lot of different things that get results. Dean, what's your take on it? Because you you're you've been very adamant about harm mitigation, you know, for a very long time. Yeah. I mean, I I've never, you know, when you're accused that you're against medication or whatever, I've always been like, well, use a medication for the right purpose that it's designed for. And I guess one of the things that we probably all agree on the same point of view is you don't just start taking medication for what ifs like what if I get high blood pressure. You take it to address blood pressure. Like it's when we look at you know harm reduction. Again the three of us probably share the same thing towards oxidative stress is the biggest number one risk factor when you're messing with these things. And unless you have a good understanding of what oxidative stress is and how to mitigate it, it doesn't matter what blood pressure medication or statin you use, if you don't address oxidative stress, the statin is buying you time basically. And you know that's you know when we look at the the models of cardiovascular disease since like the probably the late 2000s they're now starting to really see the beauty of oxidative stress and foam cell production causing arthosiscrotic plaque as opposed to oh well high LDL is dumping cholesterol into the arteries through apo that's part of the equation but the other side of it is if you've got LDL particles and you lower predict production of cholesterol with a statin. The incidence rate of the relative risk reduction with a statin I think is like three in 100. So it's 3% people from a primary setting won't have a heart attack. And that's because you're still oxidizing cholesterol at 100% the capacity. It's just 50% the number. So when you're coming at it from that angle and the biggest thing you can actually educate someone on then is oxidative stress and viewing that LDL is just a particle being made in the liver for a job but it's getting you know damaged in the process going around the body whether that is oxidative stress from anabolic steroids depleting you know intracellular glutathione or vitamin E vitamin C or whether that is your nutrition or the environment itself like uh pollution or electromagnetic radiation whatever is going on by understanding that oxidative stress is your biggest enemy when you're using these um I guess anabolic steroids even testosterone you're setting yourself way above having the requirement for any medication to begin with that should be like your pillar at the top of oxidative stress with your sort of nutritional choices how you're going to mitigate the oxidative stress risk and then from there look at okay well what medications fit the different problems or purposes that I require. So yeah, there's no arguing that andotensin 2 goes up when you take testosterone if you are either genetically susceptible or in a dose response relationship setting. That doesn't necessarily mean like straight off the bat because you're using testosterone, here's your A or B. It's designed to serve the purpose of, you know, like we've done a podcast, me and Kurt, of if your blood pressure goes up, immediately question your environment, your nutrition, so your hydration balance, you know, um how much fluid you're ingesting, uh I guess arterial flexibility, even sleep, how much sleep you get. Yeah. Yeah. Sleep apnea, all these things, alcohol, even eating fruits and vegetables will lower it. Yeah. It's it's like you're looking at the bigger picture than immediately using a drug to solve a problem which is great which we have clear open access to address problems very quickly with medications but they're normally addressing the symptom as opposed to the actual root cause. So when when I started to sort of even come into this scene, it was with that viewpoint of having like conventional pharmarmacology training of how drugs were designed to treat problems. But from my own study then of like functional medicine of asking like the root cause question of why do you have high blood pressure? Why do you have high uh blood glucose? Consistently asking why until you get to the bottom of the the problem. And I guess that's where like even my uh when I went into chemical engineering it was always asking why has the problem happened until you get to the root cause. And if anyone's interested like I think there's AI don't know who come up with a concept but there's from problem solving it's called five W's. Normally you can get to the root of a problem by asking why five times. You ask why several like so you answer your question and you ask why to that answer and eventually you'll come to the root cause question. Well, what what what I always find striking is with some of these safer use models is that of course the ancillaries are thrown in right from the start but it doesn't really like you mentioned there's no questioning of how can we solve this without throwing the medication at it right or angotensin receptor blockers to lower blood pressure what about the magnesium what about the potassium what about the hydration the sleep apnea the sleep quality overall right all these things should be considered first before a medication is used. And of course, some of these medications have overlapping benefits, just like beta blockers. Um, but you don't have to throw a beta blocker and an angotens receptor blocker at it and then maybe even an aromatized inhibitor just preventatively in case of gynecomastia. I mean, these things are used as needed when all other options have failed. Um, so that's why I found it surprising that safer use models nowadays revolve around more medications, not more intelligent design of nutrition and the lifestyle when in reality it should it well it should be [\h__\h] about the lifestyle. It's that's just about taking stuff. That's not what bodybuilding was about. It was about training, nutrition, and then later on some performance enhancers and ancillaries were needed. So this is um it's very weird to me especially ramping up the dosages of particular compounds like angotens receptor blockers 80 milligrams per week or per day right no problem and then aromatize inhibitors they're the devil because when you read the postmenopausal breast uh women or the breast cancer studies you see that there's all have terrible side effects. Now, when you compare the side effects of post-menopausal women with bottomed out estrogen levels and the side effects of aromatize inhibitors, they're basically identical. Why? Because in both instances, serum estradile is zero. Mhm. So, if you take that away and you look at the studies of hormone replacement therapy where men are taking a low dose of an aromatiz inhibitor where serum estradile is a middle to the top of the reference range depending on bio feedback and response of the patient. No adverse effects. And how many compounds out there actually lower estradile? That should be remove the zinc. Yes. Or remove the tidal or remove the nicotine. Well, nicotine I mean it has some neutropic benefits if you take it as a you know a patch but smoking should be removed. There's there's so many compounds out there that lower estradile. Metformin lowers estradile and metformin is then pushed in these safer use. Well, I find it very funny. I I must say what what I like like when we come to a discussion surrounding like aromatase and inhibition is like what you say you're not looking to pop them a smarties of like this prophylaxis of I'm going to take 25 milligrams of aromisin every day just just in case I get high estrogen when you look at like the clinical data of aromisin you can get a very good understanding that 25 milligrams every 3 to four days is going to lower the aromatization rate by about 70% 60 to 70%. That doesn't necessarily mean that you need to take 25 milligs every 3 days or 4 days. It just means that you know 25 millig every 3 to 4 days is a 70% reduction. You go to 12 1/2 millig now that's 30% reduction. You've got a way of controlling the aromatization rate quite predictably than you know someone turn around and say oh let's add in 150 milligrams of mastron to control your high estrogen when you don't know how much of that molecule is going to interact with the aromatase enzyme how much of it's going to be excreted it's I get that side of things where it's like well you could just add in more androgens because of the evilness of AI eyes. But when you really debunk that argument, when you get down to the nittygritty argument of AIS versus another steroid, aromas and ezeain is basically the same structure as baldone. Mhm. Aside from the C7 uh substituent. So you're literally like you're taking something that is steroidal to block aromatase specifically. So your argument of adding in master or primone is defunct once you say aromomas as a steroid backbone very similar to baldone and baldone has a metabolite known as armyain which is being sold as a over-the-c counter pro hormone but in reality it was just an aromatize inhibitor that was uh what a suicide inhibitor also gets stuck in the aromatiz enzyme just like armed or aromosin and and basically rendering it inactive um so it's it's but then of course you can say that bald due to its oxidative stress is kidney toxic. And that brings us back to the oxidative stress, which there's also scientific evidence that shows that you need the oxidative stress otherwise you blunt the post exercise stress response and then it's less anabolic, right? So now people think that they need the oxidative stress, they need to forgo the post-workout vitamin C, vitamin E, fish oil, glutathione, etc. or torine, right? There's so many things that are antioxidants, melatonin, metal blue, whatever. They're trying to forgo all of that. And then as a result of that, we have a lot of bodybuilders in chronic oxidative stress. Um, literally looking like ashtrays in the face. Yeah. The aging the aging is a big thing. Those are all running the safer use protocols. And even to back up for a second, using the right drug for the right thing. So the the ARB usage stem from the water retention that was from estrogen. So instead of addressing the estrogen, they were addressing downstream what was occurring, right? To try to just block the water instead of managing the estrogen issue, right? Because God forbid you actually control your estrogen, right? Because apparently an estradile of 200 in men is clearly very anabolic. That's why women tend to be very muscular. Yeah. Yeah. Because it raises IGF-1, right, in animal models. Yeah. Because they're missing a binding protein that that we seem to have is the problem. I mean, what I'm waiting for patiently is for the systemic wide stem use of dopamine re-uptake inhibitors. Uh, because of they're allowing their estrogen to go so high that serotonin is so high in their brain that dopamine goes the opposite way with the seessaw. um you know you've already got potentially a subset of these models where SSRIs are becoming you know you know it's not to say that you can't use an SSRI and I know from watching your video Steve you you definitely have to modulate that as well in terms of a fine balance between dopamine and serotonin but knowing full well how estrogen influences certain transmission versus dopamine there could be you know you're going to got guys going out and buying in antiscychotics to try and drive their dopamine level up because of their brain chemistry is off. Yeah. Yeah. They're changing that they're chasing that trend blown high. You know, because it's literally a you know, a psychoactive drug basically, you know, it's nothing in the clinical literature regarding psychoactive. But I mean, I'm I'm running 25 milligrams Tremblone per week now after not having taken it for close to a decade. And I did my Tremblone deep dive. I figured 25 milligrams per week is is a disassociation dose between anabolism and androgenic response at 100 kilos 100 kg body weight based on the private discussion we had me and Dr. Dean um on how to interpret the Hersburgger bioassay which were up updated with the new standardized version. So I went through all of those uh the research right I combined it and I figured you know what it seems that uh tremblone is nine times or 8.8 8 times more anabolic than androgenic at 25 mg when you're 100 kg based on animal studies using highly dubious extrapulation. Did I get great results? Absolutely. Did I get a dopamineergic response? Absolutely. People are telling me on the vigorous Q&A and based on my videos that my behavior has changed. So imagine if you run your tremblone skyhigh and then let your estradile run skyhigh, which you can't even detect your estradile because Tremblone detects estradi on your blood work. So what is tremblone? What is estradi? Um Kurt, you mentioned to me that tremblone is built off estrogen. Can you go into depth of that? Well, it's it's just an estrain steroid. So we start with the the 19-nor it's easier to start with estrogen rather than start with testosterone and reduce. It's easier to to go up from estrogen. Um, when you just look at the structure, that's just that's just how 19s were. Basically, we arrived at them. I don't think I don't believe AJ Burch, the guy who invented Nanderlone, I don't believe that's how he started. I think he started with testosterone and was modifying it. But I think over time, it's just become more apparent that it's easier to go that direction. So, how many steps are there in between estradile and tremblong? Is there five steps of why? I mean, look, that would be that would be funny. Not stuff you're going to do at home. This is not stuff you're going to do in your bathtub at home. No, too bad. But you can you can reduce Phenex tablets. You could do that. Sure. Except the new Revlar stuff you can cuz the polymer. Good luck melting the plastic. Oh wow. I never really looked into this this bathtub approach of how to extract tremblone without the estradile from the river or s and and other formulation tablets. Yeah. We well back in the day they have the steer and the heer ones, right? So you would just use the heer and I think that's a lot of guys made that mistake. They would use the steer thinking that well that's for a male cow. I'm going to use the steer one and then they would wonder why they get gyno almost immediately from it. Yeah. That's the one that has the estradile in it. Yeah. And then pretty high do. And the weird thing is in in the animal models they use, you know, a couple implants in the in the ear. Mhm. Four months before they get slaughtered and they make phenomenal gains. But when you break the milligram dosages down, it's like 2 milligrams per week for a,000 pound animal. Yep. And they have a similar and receptors that the human, right? It's they're very very similar. So why don't we get those results? What's going on here? Well, it it only it's not in u it only seems to be in steers as well. So, I think part of the problem is our testosterone or our final growth, like we're too close to our final growth potential versus if you give it to a steer who's not anywhere near their maximum growth, you see much bigger growth. When you give it to a bull, they get almost nothing out of it. Ah, right. Because because the bull is already fully matured, right? So, I think the problem is humans through puberty basically we've gotten to our genetic potential, our natural genetic potential just through grow like linear growth, right? So, we just don't have that So, it's not to say I mean there's no ethical way to do it's not to say if you gave it to someone before puberty who knows where it would go. Well, there's plenty of case reports. All you have to go is to Tik Tok. There you go. So to get back on the the safer practices, like can we set a couple ground rules and guidelines for our audience to kind of um you know navigate through the the sea of misinformation and just just make some proper decisions from themselves. Like I'm sure all three of us have made mistakes in our time of uh experimenting with performance enhancing drugs. But now after decades decades ahead, right? I mean for Dean it's been decades for Kurt it's been well close to half a century. Um well well with performance and dancing. No I didn't start I didn't use any performance and ending till I was 40. Oh so you've been on on for a decade now. I was Yeah. So I did when I was 21 I did I got Greek Deca amps the the Helios those blue top ones. I don't know if you remember those. Yeah. Normal. Normal. Um and I didn't know there was no internet. This is like 19 97 or '98. So I didn't know what to do. I I injected into an orange first to see how that would work. Sure. By the second dose, I felt absolutely horrible. Yeah. And I was like, I'm not touching this garbage ever again. And then it was another 20 years before I touched that garbage. Um All right. So, yes, I didn't start I was pretty adamantly against using stuff. I focused on food and training do, you know, for as long as I could until my composition went the other direction. Right. Yeah. Because of age. Yeah. Okay. I mean, what about you, Dina? How many years has it been? Uh, 2012. 2012. But I guess my my entry into it was like what we discussed with hypoganatism where you're just now it's a lot more advanced in terms of how it's diagnosed. But back then was just like banging your head in the wall. That's like, right, I'm just going to put my own knowledge to the use here. Um, but you know, I I've put stuff like on Instagram like where you do stuff to prove bro science wrong where you're just like, well, they're all saying that this works and then you're like in your head, you know, it doesn't work and you're like, well, I'm just going to try it anyway just to see. And I mean, like 100 milligrams of tren every day for, you know, two weeks and then realize that nothing and this is just by itself. And then just realized afterwards that now I don't you know mental sides orever nothing like that touches me with with 19s. I remember at the end of it going where are they dry where where is these conclusions coming from online and so that myth went straight in the bin of going back to like with you where you're just using the the very smallest amount possible in order to have that anti catabolic effect in a prep and obviously the reverse. But I've never I never utilized it in a growth phase. So I can't say you know how anabolic it is to speak. So you know that is like the curious scientist where you know full well what's being said is completely wrong. Like well let's just give it a go to validate science and see that doesn't work. um like another one another experiment was uh 1,000 milligrams of test and sure enough I blew up but I blew up with a lot of water retention as well that you're walking around the gym you know pretty full and strong and brutish but then you realize okay well how healthy is it to run this sort of in terms of like tissue being gained versus a much lower dose and you're like you can see you can see how pros potentially escalate their way up in terms like that overall size, how strong you get, the more motor I guess recruitment you get from it and blah blah that yeah that higher dose probably does bring better effect if you're able to tolerate it long term but the tissue the size the volume that comes on is is fluid retention to speak like Kurt always says like side effects as opposed to positive effects injectable side effects yeah you know like that when you're when you're finished like how much of it is tissue you carry like now um like tea or tea the periodic pineapple thrown in that I put on the Instagram that you know you know like I carry 200 lb whatever 90 to 92 kilos relatively easy with with that little support. So, it's like how can you hold that muscle tissue long term as opposed to, you know, blowing up, gaining a lot of size, but actually how much of it is muscle mass, right? Yeah. It's a lot of water and then you need to throw the ancillaries at it again. Mhm. Right. Yeah. So, I I will say that 2,500 milligrams of testosterone was the best cycle I ever did. That was test in an aromatase inhibitor in growth hormone and some insulin. It was great. Was in a cutting phase. So, um, obviously you're not as big as during the offseason when you run half that, but eat a boatload of food. But would I do that now? No. No. Because like for me, the weird thing is like I I I've learned so much in the meantime, right? I used to be like the hardcore bro scientist and and just collect anecdotal information and put that to practice and then make that my own and then share that with my bodybuilding client. And then over the last couple of years, I've become more evidence-based. And even though I I realize that the evidence is far from complete. So we still have to fill in the gaps with basic human biology and the anecdotal experience. Um but would I do that now? No, man. Yeah. I had two I had two current things that similar to that where I I was looking back at old photos and I realized the leanest I ever was was when I was natural because I worked harder and I was younger, but I worked harder, right? You don't have a choice. So, you have to put the work in. And then when I when I started hanging out with AJ, you know, I kind of used him as a role model for a lot of things and he doesn't need a lot of stuff cuz the man works harder than anyone I know. And so, it kind of changed my outlook, too. I was like, you know what? I'm just being lazy. Why am I leaning on androgen so heavily and I just don't need it? Yeah. And you you don't need it. Then I will say that as you get older and you get more demanded financially and business-wise and family-wise, you just move less. So, it's actually harder to get lean. And of course, we can do the standing desk and do a little treadmill underneath. But when you were younger, especially when I I was drug free for 10, 11 years um before I took the plunge at 26. So, I've been probably cycling the longest out of all three of us. Um made plenty of mistakes, right? Going to the steroid message boards. But I I was also my leanest uh most of the time when I was drug free because I was just moving around more. I metabolism is better. And now I'm just sitting at the computer doing research, making YouTube content. Yeah. And then it's way harder to get lean. So now my diets last like 26 weeks um instead of doing it in 12 weeks. Yeah. And I I do use androgens. So for me, like a a safer practice would be is just to put like some sort of cap on your body weight and just use the lowest cocktail. And I'm I'm not against using multiple different compounds together alongside of it. Right. For just a low and effective dose, 2.4. use growth hormone, a little bit of test, a little bit of did, a little bit of that. Of course, my cocktails are still tin compounds. Um, because I still like to experiment, but then I I run my blood work every month to see what the changes are. And if I feel that it's not really getting the job done or it's, you know, affecting my health, then okay, you take a step back. And I think as long as you do the blood work and then kind of cap yourself a certain body weight, I think that is probably the safest route you can go or mitigate harm with organ imaging. And then as you get older, the dose just get less and and of course the the the body weight should get less also. It's just natural part of aging. I mean, even the British Society of Sexual Medicine, the BSSM guidelines for testosterone replacement therapy. Mhm. Nowhere within that guideline, this is used worldwide. So, they set TRT or prescriptive TRT for a total testosterone of less than 12 nanomole or a free testosterone value of less than 0.22. So, you have to meet those two criteria in order to be legally prescribed testosterone. Nowhere in that guideline paper do they touch about nutritional practices when someone starts TRT. So, you know, having a discussion as a GP to your patient that you're now increasing your androgen levels. So, you're going to have potentially elevated oxidative stress. So the the nutrition aspect doesn't even enter into the medical community of seeing you know this is a potential problem of why we might see cardiovascular disease associated to TRT if the underlying fundamental lifestyle isn't being managed when someone's prescribed these drugs. And the other side I had to laugh in the paper was in in part of like the clinician recommendations. It was like it'll be at the discretion of your GP whether they check your serum lipids or your blood glucose whilst doing therapy. So they completely just ignore like the basics of blood glucose metabolism and lipid metabolism when you're at a higher androgen level than your your like natural baseline. And let's be honest, nine out of 10 of those patients which are androgen deficient are do are there through their own chewing, right? That's lifestyle. It's like diabetes. androgen deficiency and diabetes in my opinion in nine out of 10 people is lifestyle disease. Y so their lipids will be skewed and their um glucose levels will be skewed. The fasting insulin levels will be skyh high. Hemoglobin A1c off the chart. So god forbid getting them healthy first. Um that's why when I I made a like a video series about things to consider before TRT and then I think I had like 40 minutes of disclaimers of things you could look into regarding like uh testicular ultrasound for varical seals and and you know necrotic tissue or whatever like some kids played a lot of soccer and got punch you know kicked in the nuts and then that manifests like decades later you know and all these things you can look into nutritional wise as well sleepwise like we mentioned earlier regarding the blood pressure Um, but I think I think this new generation is just not willing to do that because there's now so much steroid talk online and the older generation is not willing to do that because TRT is basically the new sports car, right? It's cheaper than a Ferrari. It's sexy. It's nice. You have the libido and energy levels to to, you know, sleep with the young girls again, right? But you don't have the money for the Ferrari, so you go with the TRT. Yeah, that's that's what it looks like to me, you know, this whole um so again I think the foundation should always be there like health first, nutrition, exercise, overthec counter supplements just to support what you can't get from your nutrition and blood work and organ imaging and then a certain dose to get the job done. And then if you want to turn pro, okay, you know, Harmon risk mitigation just goes out the window. And then hopefully you're smart enough to consult with a guy like me, uh, Dean or Kurt once in a while so we can reel you back in. Um, or or help you strategically choose shows so you can do three shows on one cycle and the rest of the year you're kind of off. Yeah. I I find work with pros, the open guys specifically, what separates them from everyone else is their their tolerance of risk. They just don't really have they don't have they're not averse to risk at all. So versus you see even in the the physique and the classic guys, even at the the top level, most of those guys still have concerns about their health. Yeah. The open guys don't seem to be as concerned. No. But they also respond better because the the cycles of the open guys like might be two or three grams in total and and a a good amount of growth hormone, right? Like they have HIV themselves. Um but that might be besides the growth hormone the cycles might be lower than some of the classic physiques at least the amateur level in some the pro I without name. I have a bunch of five and six gram guys in the open category. Yeah. disclose disclose the cycle just generic general like what what are the pro cycles it's back to kind of what and I just you know I I think I just did a video on this too it's something that I feel like I knew all along because it's what I was implementing in my coaching business and then when I got on the internet I think I was convinced otherwise that it was test and primo but everyone just used test and primo no one used an anymore no one used tremble it was it was all this stuff right no one used an AI and then I started coaching these guys. And that's not what I saw at all. So it's the standard is grams of test whatever they can tolerate. Is that 2 g? Is it three grams? Is it five grams? Um it's tends to be so the problem with things like nanderlone is you basically run out of room there, right? You can only run nanderlone so high before it becomes really not fun. So a lot of them don't primo, right? It's low do concentration. So you basically just they don't even mess with those things. A lot of times it's back to EQ again because it's cheap and they can use tons of it. And then a lot of times it's trend usually long estren trend e parabolum those sorts of things. Some of them will use acetate but again there are some top guys that are using grams of trend. That's not fun when you're using acetate. So Dean Dean I'm sure you've been around those one gram guys. And then I've seen uh uh certain guys who have consulted with me who are taking like metal trienolone you know 3 to 5 milligrams and you're just going wow how how how the tolerance is there from a prep perspective with everything else like one one cycle was basically tren ment and metal train alone and I'm just there scratching my head looking at going I would not like to be uh training around this person in the gym. because their fire would be pretty well lit. Well, the other one is Do you think this is the these high do cycles is the reason why we see so much coach hopping and so much sponsorship hopping and so many like silent blowouts where I mean recently Milos has been getting a lot of slack but Milos is not on grams of gear, you know, he's on TRT at most, but some of his clients just just bounce. So I I'm always wondering like are these the protocols or is there just something going on elsewhere, you know, ne neurologically where people just move around all the time and just go from team to team whoever wants to support them. I mean with I heard I heard AJ's frustration as well, right? And I've gone through these processes as well where you get guys absolutely dice to the socks, right? You compromise their health a little bit, but they win, right? This is the risk that they're willing to undertake. they win a world championships or or or pro show, whatever. They compromised their health, the cycle was heavy. You tell them to come off, but neurologically there's something going on and then it's the coach's fault, right? And then of course the coach gives everything. This is one of the reasons why I wanted to stop coaching after so many years. Um because you know, you give everything to the client, try to keep them healthy, but al also try to keep them in the winning circle. And then when [\h__\h] hits the fan for whatever small reason, right, they they overdid the diuretics in their flat and you can't bring them back, then it's your fault even though you were not there with them in the hotel room where they're panicking. And if you were there holding their hand through the process, um as soon as you leave, um you basically have to flush the diuretics down the toilet, right? Because the they start scrolling and and they see the competitors and they're like, "Oh [\h__\h] this guy's diced." Well, he's using a filter. What do you think? you know, well the one guy sorry no I was going to say that that's you know even part of the safe like the model discussion we were having was you know one of the very first things I brought to social media or even like when I was educating on that forum was you've got TRT and you've got your cycle blasting and cruising should not entertain into your thought process because you need to have that period of physiological level in order for your health to come back and and that TRT has to be strict like mentally you have to accept I'm going to lose tissue I'm going to deflate because of all the receptors aren't being activated to hold that tissue from multiple different pathways but like you said neurologically their brain is at this such a high dopamine threshold that is it their brain subconsciously saying don't do it you're going to suffer this sort of dopamine deficit and you do see guys then who do drop down from outrageous um AAS use to TRT and all of a sudden it's like oh life is absolutely [\h__\h] I've got you know low low drive no libido and you're sort of like going well it's your brain that's trying to look for that high dopamine from the cycle that you done you just have to accept that's your brain hasn't got the plasticity to instantly drop down to where it is now at that normal level but your kidneys, your heart, your liver, everything else will thank you for dropping to that physiological dose. It's probably where the worst decisions are made, right? When you're in the last couple of weeks of contest prep and then the last couple of weeks after contest prep, it's why so many guys start buying cars and shoes the last four weeks and then the the four weeks after the show, it's like a a hormonal roller coaster. Basically, the last ride of the roller coaster, right, where you're just pulling in, but it's just the high is gone. And you're like, "Ah, everything's so boring now." And I'm going to be honest, like I was off gear for a year, right? And still running ACG monotherapy. My testosterone levels were great. My fertility parameters were great. It just doesn't feel the same. And that's that's a whole year optimizing my neurotransmitters with with, you know, 5HTP and Lryptophane and Elyrosine and all that stuff. Still not after a year, I was kind of sick of it to be honest. It's like, man, I can't wait to get back on TRT and get my, you know, brain function back. So, I don't think it ever comes back. So, coming back to physiological levels of testosterone is absolutely a good idea or maybe even ATG monotherapy, but coming off completely after so many years. Oh, man. You turn into turn into a [\h__\h] Yeah. biggest um lessons that you know delivering consoles to guys that are thinking of doing AAS or doing you know their own private TRT is that once you do this longterm you know well enough you know at 12 to 16 weeks to dip your toes in the water but once you go longterm like 1 + 2 years your brain chemistry will not really return to where it was before or it will but it just will you'll have this comparison syndrome of how you were before. And you know the the the we all make the analogy it's like getting a Ferrari on loan. You're driving a Ferrari around and at the end it's like you have to hand back in the keys and you're going back to your own car and you could have a decent car like a BMW or whatever. But it's never going to have the same thrill as the Ferrari and you're always going to think what if or how it was driving the Ferrari that you're drawn in. And I think not from a physical dependence perspective, but I would anticipate testosterone and AAS will get reclassified as I guess psychoactive dependent drugs in terms of like dependence at some point when we start to realize the how the brain chemistry changes long term in people that it it's you know I see it. I've I've helped countless pros when they retire through PCT and I'd say about a good 60 70% of them end up back on TRT again because one obviously their epigenetics have changed. So their lipid metabolism gets all skewed because of the low hormone level even though it looks good on bloods and their neurochemistry is starting to suffer where they just don't give a f about things. They've no libido. So that's someone who's, you know, chronically used during their career that they're left with a choice of either stay off and live that blunted response or change the dial a little bit to more potentially optimal level versus where they sat for you know 10 or 15 years of their career. So that's a big consideration that you know regardless of safe use in the moment. No one wants to end up with neurodeenerative disease when they're in their 50s and 60s post use of these things. No, I agree. There's a great study by uh Timothy Pietowski and some of his um uh cohorts. I'll share it here. This I just made a reaction video on. So, I'll share my screen. Um let's see at the stage. Here I go back to it every time. The normalization of problematic trimlone use in online anabolic energetic steroid communities. Now, I just made a reaction video to the study. It's fresh off the press. This is from uh let's see, May 14th, 2024. So, it's only a week old. And here they mention that a lot of guys, they basically always go back to trend, myself included, um because it works so well. But there's also sort of addiction behavior with elicit substances, especially with performance-enhancing drugs that people just can't let it go. And it's it's unclear if that's from neurotransmission um changes that occur when you run train or other steroids that you just want to go back to it. Like there seems to be some sort of addictive behavior associated with steroids. And I think this is one of the first couple of studies that is going to show that over the next couple of years. Um because it is it is getting more problematic. And it's weird that it seems that a lot of people actually want to go into that behavior before they even start. Right? Because the fascination and aromatization of these kinds of content. I mean, even due to podcasts like this where we talk about it openly, it it gets more and more and more out there and people want to know what the fuss is about and think they can handle it. And this study also discusses that that trend users like there's two classes of trend users, right? The noviceses and the experienced. and noviceses um they will experience all the side effects and the the the masters of tremblone they don't experience any side effects or they got it completely under control they don't get any mental changes or bronco constriction or that kind of stuff and they run 700 milligrams so and it's the same with drug addiction right I'm not an addict I got it under control so I would advise everybody to watch that video and read that study it's very very interesting because it will give you some introspection on what is going on in our community. Yeah, I see. I get a lot of lifestyle guys that were former alcoholics or former drug addicts that have switched over to this stuff. Even if it's TRT, there's definitely an addictive component there. Um, and with the tremolo, sorry, I was just going to say with the tremolone thing, because I've experienced that myself. I mean, the first time I used it, I think you also chase a feeling, right? The first time you use Tremolon, you expect it's I don't know if you expect a response because you've heard about it or if it's doing something in your brain immediately. So you're you're seeking something out, but you you'll titrate the dose up until you get that response, right? So very few people their first time using trend use a very tiny amount. I feel like it starts to creep and then you have horrible you have a horrible experience. Like I remember yelling at my wife uh in prep. Really embarrassing, right? Like some of those things you remember and you're like just gives you a horrible like what was I doing? Um but you can use I will tell you 25 milligrams a week you get that response also. Wow. 100%. Wow. And I'm I'm a a animal in the gym. It's insane. I'm having so much fun. But I also notice it, you know, at home like the irritability is there, you know, but it it's it's minute, but I'm in tune with my body and I know where it's coming from, right? So, I'm stopping the train this week after 6 weeks on 25 milligrams. So, most guys would run 150 milligrams in a week and I I took six weeks, but I still noticed it. How did you dose it? How are you dosing the 25 if you have subq micro? Okay. Okay. Yeah. So I I mix half an amp of test bayer test of iron that's about 156 milligrams because they're overfilled and then 0.25 milliliters train acetate. But I just preload like two weeks worth. So I do one of test and 0.5 milll train acetate to shake that up. Turns nice and yellow. And then I draw with an insulin syringe 0.17 I use on our milliliters on the insulin syringe. And so I do that subq every day and I still get minor bronco constriction but again I'm in tune with my body. I think a normal guy would not notice these kinds of things but since I have so much experience I can tell like oh yeah tren is definitely working right and it was a worthy experiment. Um because people say that they can run tremolone without any side effects. But if you get side effects at 25 milligrams a week, imagine what a thousand milligrams does. Yeah. They're just unaware of, right? And I that was something I always noticed about trend like when I was when I initially used it was you could almost hear yourself saying these horrible things, right? Like you're almost removed from your body. Like I could hear myself talking and it's only to the people that you care about, right? Like I could go to the I could I could you could call a random friend up and be totally cool, right? But then you come home to your wife and you're a total [\h__\h] Total. Yeah. Totally. It's like you have no control, but you can hear yourself saying these horrible things and and there's like no filter. It's completely gone. Yeah. That's that's why coaching these kinds of athletes is so difficult sometimes. and telling somebody to get off the train when they're on a gram of trend or 700 or 350 or even and they come to you, they have this horrible blood work. You tell them, "So, it's time to get off trend." They don't want to do it. And that's the addiction. That's the dopamineergic signaling. It's hilarious to see when you're distanced from it. It's like, "Ah, here we go again." Right? This guy just paid like an arm and a leg for a consultation and I'm going to give him the same advice and he's not going to follow it and then he's going to go to the next guy and pay consultation there until he get what he wants. 100% addiction, dude. So, these these researchers, give this study a read. All the citations for this podcast will be down below. This this this one will be Yeah, you'll you'll recognize yourself if you've used strain in the past. And I think like the the underlying like biology too, we could discuss this on another podcast, is your neurons have what's called like a gated voltage. And I've spoke about this before. And for your nerve to fire, it has to reach this excitation potential voltage. The more it works two ways. You either have a bunch of neurotransmitter that excites the the nerve and the nerve then fires and obviously then dopamine crosses across the sinaps to the other side. Or you get really sort of ramped up like with the likes of androgens with intracellular signaling that affects calcium. And now the polarization of the membrane changes. So again to make it more excitable that when you stop using these things those gated voltages of the nerves are sitting so high that's where you get that like blunted feeling when you come back down because that signaling to the nerve is not hitting the excitation potential and that's you know that's one of the big problems of probably even when you come off Steve of the nerves threshold we don't even have a quantifiable time limit on when that threshold falls back to how it should be. And that's where then you get guys, you know, entertaining dodgy practices when they have that low dopamine or falling into like porn addiction to try and get their dopamine level really high in order to get sexually excited and then all of a sudden they've no libido towards their partner, but they can easily get excitable towards porn. And then that that spirals where you know one type doesn't fulfill it and that you know that chronically then leads to issues with dopamine long term that you have to really realize when you start messing with these androgens or part of your lifestyle. You have to be aware that you've got no quantifiable way of ever figuring out where your nerve threshold is sitting. So you can't say oh now it's at 900 m volts now it's at 700 you know like you can't measure that that voltage. So when someone says oh when when is my brain going to be normal again after using AAS or TRT it's like how long is a piece of string? Yeah. No. So basically based on this you would say that that harm mitigation and and and you know not taking any risks would just be TRT then even even then when you view like TRT um how's that change in a person's epigenetics versus where they sat naturally is the other side to no but if you like let's say your testosterone levels were low and you bring that to the top of the reference range which might be higher than you had during puberty I I mean, how is there I don't think there's much risk there, but then as long as you start stacking the TRT plus, HRT+ and then throwing in, you know, the goodies, the primo and the master and low train on top, I think I think then you're already away from safer practices. Yeah, you're well away from it. And how many guys how many guys actually stay on? Yeah. So, to be clear, like I'm on 150 test, 70R, and 25 train. So, that's already not safe, right? And that's that's less than 300 milligrams a week. And I I agree. I I would agree because I just did my blood work before and after and and things have not gotten any better besides my lipoprotein little A because of course testosterone and the Zetam does lower that. Um so I did put in the aetam pre uh you know preventatively because I know based on my previous blood work results that lipids just change. Um so yeah my lipoprotein A and ApoE B um improved but everything else ceued right creatine phosphokinise creatinine like those derogenase liver enzymes all went up yeah and that's in a low low and effective dose of less than 300 milligrams a week so I don't think that there's harm and risk mitigation models I think there's only I think there's only risk acceptance yeah I've you know I done a tongue and cheek post before saying what's the safest way to do it and the next slide was just don't do them and it's sort of like well people are still going to do them like well that's the point the point is to be sarcastic that you know there there is no safe way or risk reduction you you have to have that responsible like you said acceptance that things are we're all adults we all make our own responsible decisions you know we all get in our cars every day to drive somewhere we're we're all making a responsible decision to drive correctly and drive with our seat belts on and this that and the other that speak for yourself driving Thailand on a motorbike with no seat belts that you know we we all make risk decisions every day and whether we accept that risk or not um you know when it comes to these things I just don't like even when it comes to like female androgen use is another can of worms of where you have safe female use her in my get Victoria Felar on. She'll she'll have some work for us, you know, there's to me there's no not even like even like okay yeah maybe risk acceptance if that female wants to accept the risks but the risks are much much higher that h I'd take a guess and say probably eight out of 10 women haven't been fully informed consentwise surrounding what what they're getting into. They I think 9.9. Yeah, I was being I was being nice there. But they really don't have like with males the consented risk informed decision to use a isn't as complex as to speak as a female's physiology, you know. Yeah. Okay. You you say to a man like, okay, your your lipids might get skewed, so your heart disease risk goes up. Your cine and blood pressure might change, so your kidneys might be at risk. you know, your liver metabolism may change. These are all like healthconscious decisions that yeah, okay, maybe you might be able to mitigate a bit with lifestyle and nutrition and whatever else. Comes to the female side, it's sort of like, well, we're going to put in a high amount of androgens that you've never biologically developed to have, um, good look and where where they're going to go and what effect they're going to have. Because again, you can still say, "Oh, heart disease risk, kidney risks, liver disease, but now you've got like the androgenic sides of them once female physiology changes postuse. That's another can of worms of how do you pick up the pieces there when there's irreversible damage done to the female physiology reproductively?" You know, you know what makes it even worse? these studies that say that there's no viralization on 300 milligrams master per week. All funded by Cintex, baby. Yeah. And what was the max I don't remember off the top of my head. What was the the the FDA? 2,800 milligrams oral denalone per day. Uh per week. Can you imagine? Yeah. No verilization. No. None. None. Safe. Very safe. And same with the Adavar studies. No viralization. None. in in and of course later on they do recognize verilization when they use that in the what Turner syndrome or Kleinfelter something like that um of course in the CL what Kleinfelter is for men right turner is for women if I remember correctly so they do recognize that there's some verily or androgenic effects in these these kids than when they go through puberty later in life but that's only in rep um retrospective studies so this is why sometimes I feel the scientific evidence is severely lacking and a little bit bias towards the medication and not the patient. Um, and that makes the decision making process even harder, especially for women because the like the effects of androgens on the reproductive tract, the the ovaries and stuff, good luck finding it, man. Good luck. No, and a lot of those studies were removed. If you if you've ever seen the original Nanderlone stuff that they were doing, right, we talked about original tremolone. I mean, that's there's a reason why they've been removed. Yeah. Yeah. I hope those ever surface though. I would love to read them. Oh, we can I can't remember exa. I can't remember exactly, but I have it on Instagram the amount of molecule differences between half a milligram of testosterone that a female makes roughly per day versus how many molecules are in 10 milligrams of anavar per day. Oh yes. It's it's in like the it's in like the billions. I'm going to pull it up here. It's just like when you look at it, you're like, "Wow, 10 milligrams." You think 10 milligrams is safe? This is the That's the nerdy stuff though. Like I made several videos about the avocados constant and the molar masses of of steroids and that goes way over people's heads because if you start discounting for the esester and the difference in molecular weight, you might get like, you know, you do let's do test and primo in a 1:1 ratio, right? and you go testosterone propionate methylone initate you might get like 30% more testosterone so it's not in a 1:1 ratio why is my estrogen in a range so so these kinds of things all right I uh proposed a little pe break and then we should go over to the next uh subject I pull up that uh thing on Instagram I'm not even sure how to pronounce this number um the constraint you No, no. This this uh this Instagram post of how many molecules are in 10 milligrams of anavar versus uh 10 milligrams of tes. Oh, that post is from a while ago. I remember that. It is. It is. That's a great post though. That's a Google plex. I have I think it's like 10 quintilion or something. I'm not I'm not even sure of once you go. It's quintilian. Yeah, because for from for like 10 or 20 milligrams, I remember using the quintilian amount as well. That's like Steve, in your video you did years ago on the primo versron, one of your first ones when you did that. Yeah, one of the first comp making the comparison videos, which is funny cuz looking back at it, you you specifically said at the end you're like, "Who would want to run a primo only cycle?" And you said, "I would." And then you said, "Who would run our mass run only cycle?" You're like, "I wouldn't." And it's and now years later, right, it's like look where we've we've come. You were right. You were right all along. Yeah. Well, I mean, it's speculating a lot. No, if you know, you throw it out there and now we become to realize that some things are just [\h__\h] right? There's a andone only cycle that works. Tres alone has actually been investigated as an as a standalone therapy and it it does work. And then plenty of guys who run tresone only and they get they get great response. You know, 50 milligrams to 150 milligrams a week and that's their TRT. They want to reinvent the wheel because they get adverse effects from testosterone only. And then there's testosterone only. And and there's even guys running tremblone or baldone only, but mastone only. Come on now. Balden only. Yeah. Welcome to Europe. Wow. How does sexual function How does sexual function work on that? Well, it's like the last month of contest. Okay, that's different. There's no sexual function at that point. No, no, no. Nobody cares. They only care about cake at that point. So we can proceed with uh either switching the topic entirely going to the diminishing returns or we can just keep on the same pace and uh discuss if uh steroids education has made a difference and if evidence-based bodybuilding pharmacology is [\h__\h] Maybe just continue with that. Yeah. Um and then save the diminishing returns in the binding proteins for the next episode. Sure. All right. Cool. So to switch topics um I want to ask you guys right we're all on YouTube sharing um you know risk mitigation and risk ac acceptance protocols uh I want to know has a decade of public steroid education made any difference or did it just make things worse because it seems to me that things are just getting worse before they're getting better. Yeah I was about to be I was about to be very polite and say yeah drastically worse. Um, if anything, it's made it more accessible of people putting up on Tik Tok or Instagram, this is what I'm taking. Um, like what I shared in our group, like the social media post, here's what I'm taking. My blood work is perfectly healthy, and all they showed was their total testosterone and their SHBG in the gutter. And it's like, oh, I'm massively healthy. And it's like, well, where's your lipid panel? That's probably in the trash. Where's your liver enzymes? You know, it's it's all well and good with this glorification of people being transparent and saying, you know, this is what is happening or what I'm doing. You know, I'm quote unquote healthy. Um, you know, even from my own perspective, and we joked about it earlier, for, you know, transparency of being like an educator, I'll use like coded symbols to give people an insight into what's going on. You get these DMs of like, "Oh, what's a pineapple? What's a tomato?" And it's all like, "Tmato, P is for pineapple." And then I'll put the banana I'll put the banana in. The banana the banana is like, "What the hell is a banana?" Just bolone, of course. And I was like, "It's bolonone." And I wouldn't touch it to be honest from my point of view. And then you're like, "It's a nana for N." And they're like, "Oh." And now now they're making sense of the whole code. But that is really because if you have a code, if you have young followers, the ones that have a bit of sense and have been around and have done their research can basically attest what tea for tomato is or P for pineapple. But if it's someone young and they're looking at it, you're like, "Oh, is that how much fruit you're eating?" And you're like, "Yes, it is." and you're like, you know, you're you're not protecting them, but you're still being transparent, but you're not openly saying, well, this is quote unquote safe because this is what I do personally. and you're you're you're still being transparent to your followers of allowing them to see what you're doing, but you're protecting not vulnerable, but ones that may not, I guess, have the risk aversion sense to see what's being done and then go, well, if he's doing it, I'm going to mirror what he's doing. And we've seen that, you know, throughout the ages of influence on social media where people follow what others are doing just because everyone likes to copy or um he's doing it, therefore it's safe and and I'd never want to be, you know, held in that regard. So, so Kurt, I know that you specifically don't mention any dosages and you haven't you've done that from the start, right? I try. Like what is your Well, I try. What is what is your reasoning behind I just I I don't think it's safe to really recommend these things and there's a different tolerance right and what you might need might be totally different from what I need and it doesn't I think and at the pro level I think a lot of them shy away from it because it takes away from their work ethic and their genetics what they're eating I mean some of these guys the guy I was talking about before he's doing you know six or seven grams a year I mean that man eats I mean we're eating 8 to 9,000 calories a day the guy trains like an I mean, there's a lot that goes into this stuff. He lives and breathes this stuff, right? His sleep is monitored. Everything is monitored. So, it's not it's not just a function of the milligrams that he's using. And he has the best genetics in the world. So, what you know, I Yeah. I just think from an ethical point of view, I don't some of that Rick Collins says he's like similar to what Dean pointed out. He goes, you tell people this is what you've heard people use. You don't ever say use this or use that because you're really setting yourself up for disaster if that's you if that's your coaching. Yeah. So I'm I'm the guy that says exactly that. Use this, use that, but also consider this and that. And it's the problem with that is is of course you never know who you're talking to, right? Your audience could be highly intellectual or kids like Dean said. What I think that my YouTube channel has accomplished is that at the higher level, from the amateur to the IVB pro level, people are off better with this kinds of information. But maybe at the lower level, the younger level, they're off worse because they lack the experience. They might feel incentivized to experiment things that I'm doing or what people are doing that I bring on this YouTube channel. They might think that they know by watching my videos, but that's only disseminated downwards in a 20 minute, 30 minute video, which is already too long for most people. Um, based on days, weeks, months of research, right? That tremblone video took me months to prepare for, right? And the nandalone video I'm preparing now already for for four weeks and I'm still not done, you know, because it will be the best nandlone video on the on the YouTubes once it's ready. Um, so you might watch one of my videos and then think you know, but going through the citations and actually reading and then having the experience, right? And then people listen selectively. So if I say do this, do that, but also pay attention to these blood workers and do this preventatively and and again the nutrition and the blah blah blah blah blah. I mean, it gets old fast. So they they selectively pick and choose what they want to hear. And I'm I'm not sure if that's my responsibility because I'm presenting the information the best I can, but I can't decide what people take away from the YouTube channel. Like when I go to the Olympia, I've been there twice now, right? and then several other IFB pro shows here in Thailand or amateur shows. The large majority of the people that come up to me thank me for the information that I provide and especially the younger kids and this is just 100% of the younger kids like 16 to 18 to 20. They say the exact same thing. I thought I was ready but after watching your YouTube channel I decided not to do it. Wow. That's 100%. So, I think that it's making a difference. But how many of those kids that decided to do something based on what they saw on my YouTube channel and other channels that didn't come up to me or don't meet me at the Olympia that I'm not sure about. And you know, I I think it's hard for beginners to kind of disseminate between good information and bad information. And unfortunately the good information has smaller reaches on social media. I mean I have the biggest one of the biggest education platforms right besides Derek Moralitz more dates but it's it's a little bit more reaction content now and he doesn't post so much anymore because he's too busy. That was good information for the large majority of it and and but there's there's so much larger YouTube channels out there with terrible information. Just absolutely terrible, right? just running out of our own cycle. I mean, come on, dude. It's not that's not good information. You know, something else that something else that I consider and I don't know how it is in England or in Thailand, but in the United States, you're education. Education comes into that. So, for instance, I'm not covered by the good Samaritan law. So, like if I perform CPR on someone in public, I'm now responsible for that person. I have to ride the ambulance with them. Versus if if a regular person off the street just does CPR, they're just covered. They can't get sued. I can get sued, right? Because I should know better. I'm now responsible. Same with my advice. So, like I have to be very careful with what I say because a judge isn't going to take the fact that I can't claim I didn't know. Like, I didn't realize that Halo Testing was deadly. I just told kids to take it. You know what I mean? So like I that's always something I keep in the back of my mind as well. And I think just ethically I just try to stay away from the harm stuff if I can, right? But we all know that when coaching there's like especially at the pro level there is harm that's done. Yeah. And it doesn't matter how many disclaimers you put in your email. If if people feel that you did them wrong they will sue you. Of course that's in the western world here in Thailand it's a little bit different. Yeah. um like I am with the best lawyers obviously and they tell me not to worry about anything. So, and this is also one of the reasons why I'm always under an alias because I knew that talking about performance-enhancing drugs publicly in this great of a detail. I think I'm I'm one of the most detailed YouTube channels. Um like I go very in depth, right? Besides you two, but you're you don't post as much as I do. Um and and as a broad fair, you know, broad range of topics. Not yet at least, right? I'm I'm waiting for you guys to pump out more content, especially you, Dean. Get busy. Um, so so I I also know that I have a broad audience. Um, you know, and then hopefully the disclaimer and being away from the Western world where lawsuit, especially in America where lawsuits are just, you know, falling out of everybody's pockets. Um, I I think that should cover it a little bit. And I always emphasize that it's in the responsibility of the audience to make their best decisions. Right. But did it get any better? I don't think so. Because I see it all around. Like here in Thailand, for example, these guys, they don't speak a word of English. They don't have access to my YouTube channel. And after 18 years of being here, the drug abuse has become more rampant than it was 20 years ago. And I have nothing to do with that because they don't watch my YouTube channel. They they know of me. I tried to educate everybody in the national team on how to use them safely. And that trickles down. But then three steps removed from this trickling down, it's still horrendous. So I I think you know generally speaking like for the beginners, it's just gotten worse because it's so easily accessible. I think also there's there's a level of probably cognitive bias or cognitive dissonance of if it doesn't suit what you're seeking, you're going to seek someone who is saying what you want to hear. And it, you know, when we, we've all gotten caught in the crossfire of certain tribes where what we're saying is going against what is trying to be said otherwise. And you know, at the end of the day, I've always just come back and went, right, if that's what you want to choose to believe, that's fine. You know, no one's sitting on top of their pedestal going, well, you're effing wrong for saying this. how we've all sort of come about it from a an education perspective is well here's the evidence to support what we're saying. Nothing is cherrypicked. It's all valid to a specific point. Sure enough, what we'll probably see if we ever do discuss science is if you look hard enough, you'll probably find a study that supports your viewpoint. Um, so talking about the carnivore diet, you know, and it and it's you can really get into the nitty-gritty of like throwing scientific I guess citations at one another to try and argue your point that I guess as I've gotten older, there's no point if someone has a level of bias and that's their personal belief. You just have to meet in the middle and agree to disagree. Um, you know, even looking back at what went on in the world four years ago, I was probably, you know, one of the first ones on social media to point out the flaws of the research that was going to come from a pharmarmacology perspective. And sure enough, I was just like batting away flies that were annoying you that you were going, you know, I'm not going to say I'm right. But there will come a point from what I've said historically comes true because from a scientific perspective, it just doesn't add up. and you know understanding drug design and everything and here we are four years later where all the answers are becoming apparent that you know that's that's a clear example of someone just using scientific knowledge that might not be actually cited and indepth to what's currently going on and then when you gather the data you look back then historically and go well actually I was right all along because you know there was the mechanisms behind what's going on and that's and in case in case you wonder go back to Puppet now and look at those same citations that came out four years ago. Retracted, retracted, retracted. So much retracted on this kind of topics. I mean, that's Well, yeah. No, it's alarming. You were right, Dean. I mean, yeah, you were definitely right. Mhm. you know and it's when it comes to something signs like that and this is again where it comes down to someone's like personal belief of holding strongly um you a a time period like like that period was quite sensitive where you are trying to be very honest and open and accept how serious it is and even like when we look at what we're speaking about now in terms of like even steroids the historical data always shows the answer then so like what we're talking about like neurodeenerative disease uh personality disorder changes I keep saying you know in 15 years time like the public health service of the UK is going to be overwhelmed with guys who are now in their early 20s really taking the abuse ending up in their sort of late 30s early 40s and that neuro degeneration has caught up with them so now they have like borderline personality disorder or they're suffering with cognitive deficits where they and have, you know, relatively good short-term memory or they have schizophrenic bouts or bipolar depression. Like all these things are more than likely where we're heading with how some things are being done. And it's the historical viewpoint when we look back and go, well, yeah, we seen this coming, but how reactive were we? Um, I still think like from a education perspective, it's not lost. Like none of us have given up. we're still here, you know, eight eight nine years later, still saying the same message that has hopefully continued to evolve and grow and reach, you know, all parts of the world. Um, but we're always going to have people on the other side of fence that it's whether it's whether people choose to believe what we're saying versus what they're saying. And like you said, you can't get inside someone's head and make them think a certain way. you you present what you believe is your best evidence for a a viewpoint and whether they accept that or not is is up to them. What I sometimes I think about like dumbing it down a little bit so everybody has access to these kinds of information and but I always find myself purposely making it complicated. So there's a little bit of a filter that you need a certain points of IQ to understand my YouTube channel because yeah you because otherw and the videos are long and lengthy and in-depth, right? And I go over I think 95% that's relevant. Sometimes I omit some stuff because it would just go into a tangent. Um and I think the people who are intelligent and really on top of their stuff and and want to know more, they appreciate that. And the guys that have the the 7second, you know, goldfish Tik Tok brain, they would just scroll ahead and they will never learn and they will never have access to that information because they simply can't sit through it. But I think that's the large majority of the steroid users. Now, it's not like before where it was hidden and you had to earn it, right? you you would have to bench three plates and squat, you know, four plates and deadlift five plates. Or somebody at the gym would say, "Hey, dude, you've been here seven years grinding away. Maybe it's time you, you know, look into a little bit of testosterone with the animal kickstart. Horrible advice, but then at least they open the doors for you, right?" So, I had to earn it and I'm sure you guys had to earn it or or figure it out on your own. But now it's everywhere. Um, and it's glorified, especially with Tremblone and Sarmms. Um, and I think that makes it very problematic for younger kids who don't have that mature decision-making process yet. And yeah, like you said, they will mess themselves up. But kids have been messing themselves up with charms five, seven, eight, 10 years ago. And before that was pro hormones. Yeah. Okay. And I I I knew kids in high school, like two or three that were just going into their parents' steroid jar, you know, the big kadana balls from Thailand, the the the pinkies, they would order a thousand at a time, and they would just grab a handful and go to the gym. Like they were 16, and they would just take their parents' debolt orals. They didn't even know what it was. It was vitamins. And it would be swollen, red, and puffy and gyno and acne, but they would be big and strong. And and where did those kids end up? Nowhere. haven't heard from them since they weren't even on the, you know, when you go to school and you have like a reunion part, you weren't even there. Probably shrink to zero and that's why they didn't want to show up. So, this stuff has been going on, but I think now because of the internet and everybody talking about it publicly after Rich Piana and Boston Lloyd and and you know, guys like Dan Duchaine, uh, just it becomes more and more public and now everybody has access to it. But there's more people able to make horrible decisions and not willing to sit through the education that we offer because it's too complicated to it's too long. It's too lengthy. Like Kurt's podcasts are at least 30 minutes. It's long, man. It's long. I wouldn't be I I could sit through it. I watch all of your stuff, but most people can't. And I think like Dean and I at least don't do I'm not a big confirmation bias guy. So I I'm not going to just tell people what they want to hear, right? Yeah. Like I don't I don't tend to make a lot of content just to make people happy. So I don't they generally ditch out pretty quickly. Yeah. I I made a video one time about what was the best time to inject and then I came to the conclusion that it's before fasted cardio. And the whole reason why I made that video is to for people to do their fasted cardio. Yeah. So at le hopefully somebody took something positive away from that. Yeah. I mean I mean even like the the nuances of like growth hormone with most of us now viewing you know something I said Yeah. You ruined it for me. Yeah. I was doing intramus I was doing intramuscular injections precardio and then everybody was in my inbox. Yeah. what Steve Dean said takes like 4 hours to peak and I'm like you're like sub subq subq like you know and that's the devil in the detail of like Mhm. I if you if you don't know that knowledge like that of doing an IM injection of growth hormone peaks within 45 minutes to 60 minutes then you doing your growth hormone injection before cardio where you're pinching out your belly fat to put it in is missing the mark. So, you know, it that's even like further nuance where we even see where people try and turn others against one another of, oh, well, they've said this and you're saying this and it's sort of like, well, no, you know, you know, an IM injection, you know, but at the end of the day, how many people are shooting up IM GH who have the the balls to do it to speak that they are going straight for their belly and and jabbing it in, oh, let's load up a uh probably at the least case uh 25g orange into somewhere lean. You know, the the insulin pin is just the easier choice and less painful. Yeah. But you know, you keep me on my toes, man. But you Well, even crazier I mean, even crazier with that is you people that are intelligent arguing that they're doing they're doing sight injections with this stuff. That's not how it works. like stick it in your biceps not going to make your bicep grow. That's called inflammation. I did this seven years ago where I shot growth from an entire year pharmaceutical in my right pack because it's a little bit smaller. Didn't do anything. Yeah. When it wouldn't talking about in incre you get fullness. Will I get side enhancement from it? I'm not entirely sure. Who knows? Probably not. No. No. It's just like bit injectable BPC. Yeah. Some of it acts locally but then it diffuses into systemic circulation. So So doing it locally Yeah. you're going to get a a chunk of it binding in that area, but as it starts to spread out and diffuse into the bloodstream, you're you're actually it's like come back. Well, you and you only have so many receptors there, right? So, like if you put if you injected 10 units of growth hormone in your chest, like all 10 units going to be able to do anything there, it can't. So, no. And when you look at the vascular ter, if you really look into the mechanics, I mean, it's not like it's going to diffuse into the muscle and then enter the bloodstream. No, the the vascular already takes it from a very small spot and it just goes out. So it diffuses a little bit and then it just trickles out. So you know like of course all these nuances they matter but I think in the big picture as long as you get it in Yeah. it's it's going to work you know. Yeah. And it's really like from a an education perspective that everyone has to aside from lunatics, everyone has to support one another in terms of like the content that's being done. The the effort that has gone to create that content to educate someone has to be acknowledged rather than immediately attacking someone for what they've put out. um within reason, like I said, if there are, you know, lunatics making crazy claims, then sure enough, they're they're going to be open to interpretation. But for for all it's worth, like we said with Derek putting out content in the beginning that reached hundreds of thousands of people, um that it's there to to educate and make the space a little more safer as opposed to just saying something for fame. I think how how a lot of us have entered into this sort of I guess roller coaster of education is to make things safer as opposed to I'm going to make this content to be as controversial as possible. So they get a load of followers where your message gets completely diluted down where people are following you for the controversy as opposed to your authority of of educating people. Well, why do you think that works for a lot of people? because people love drama. Because I always say that there's a large majority of the people out there who are not intelligent enough to pick up on educational content because it goes over their head and it's lengthy and you need to sit down and you need to take notes and go to Puppet and then do your own deep dive, right? Go down the rabbit hole. Like I I've been watching like Dr. Scott Stevenson's content for since the beginning, right? Since the intense muscle board and you read you listen to him or you read something and you're like [\h__\h] Well, now I got to set two hours aside. Yeah. But not not many people are willing to do that, you know? So, so this is why controversy in reaction channels and drama does so well. Uh whereas through education, it's it's hard, right? And I mean, you got to give Andrew Yuberman and Peter some credit there because that's pure education. And are they 100% correct? No. Are they correct most of the time? Yes. But then again, I'm not 100% correct. uh all the time either I make mistakes here and there and you and you come back and it's a learning process for all of us but it's you know it's funny that I think that general population takes more from Yubberman and Peter Ailla than the entire bodybuilding community takes from our channels that would rather watch pros train or watch people talk [\h__\h] Yep. Which says a lot about the bodybuilding industry or the fitness industry. So, like again, I I don't have a nearly as big of a following as you do, but my my biggest performing thing on Instagram is that real with Wesley Visitors has 13,000 likes and a million views cuz he talked about drugs. Yeah, you still my mask on. But that's my point is like, you know, I could put something or I put, like I said to you guys yesterday in that chat, I, you know, I I'll post something about why we methylate oral steroids and I'll use a picture of anadrol and everyone will just dwell on anadrol. They don't even read the post. They just It's a pretty picture of the anadrol. They're like, I did anrol once. It's like it's not even about anrol. Yeah. Yeah. It's it's it's a shame, but not everybody has a passion for this kind of nerdy stuff like we do, you know? That's why it's good that we're doing this podcast together. Um because it's it's far and few between, man. People that really And the weird thing is like there are people out there because I I you know, they send me studies and they contribute to uh videos that I make and but they're all hidden away. Yeah. Yeah. Kind of like Dean Dean being hidden away. Dean needs to get more on social media. Well, and like I' I've told you guys before, like most of the people that are are doing what I'm doing or not, you would never see them in the public eye and they have any interest in this stuff and they don't have any. The difference is we all can apply it to bodybuilding too. Like I explained to a bunch of chemists and engineers at Merc that we use tremolone and they thought I was nuts. Like why would you ever take that? And I was like it was a human grade drug first. They're like, "No way. No way. Was that human grade? Why would you ever That's what we do because we're crazy. They just It's weird because I I I went through all the animal studies and there's nothing there about liver enzymes or lipids or, you know, metabolic changes. It's all just can does it grow tissue? Yes, it does. Trembolone is an endocrine disruptor by the way. End environmental endocrine disruptor. So when you're people are working about PCBs and heavy metals and plastics from the or whatever is in the containers, right? Triml is on that list. Yeah. It's an environmental pollutant. There's so it's so much use of it like most of the trend is being used by the cattle ranches. Um but apparently apparently it's also good for uh emissions because you get to produce more meat for less uh methane production and they use less water. They eat less grass. Yeah. but funded by the cattle ranches of California. So, take it with a grain of salt. Last last topic I want to uh handle for this um podcast is evidence-based bodybuilding pharmacology [\h__\h] It probably depends on who it's coming from. Yeah, it's if the last science class you took was earth science in the nth grade, then you probably shouldn't be delving into pharmarmacology. Um, but that's unfortunately most of it, right? I think Dean and I have been experienced a ton of this recently with androgen receptor stuff, right? Arguing with people with no education on this topic. And that doesn't mean that they don't have an opinion and it's not valid, right? They have they might have more years working with bodybuilders or stuff, but the problem is we we see this stuff at a different level. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, and it's weird because I I just did a a deep dive on the androgen receptors and I guess we'll discuss this in a month from now because we had so many more topics about drug metabolism and why steroids might stop working after a certain time. So, we'll go into myostat androgen receptors and SHBG and that kind of stuff. Um but it it's weird like the scientific evidence is clearly there that androgen receptors um you know do upregulate in the presence of steroids and they might fall back down to baseline after a while like we discussed this with Dean but what what I see is like the decision-m process on why to use certain steroids and why not to use certain steroids is based on scientific evidence that has not been duplicated amongst the various steroids. So again the balden studies like there's baldenone has been extensively studied regarding kidney toxicity and the the conclusions and the animal models and the human observational studies is that it's largely due to oxidative stress and the absence of estradiol. Now we can mitigate that right? Mhm. We can mitigate the oxidative stress and we can mitigate the absence of estradile by taking a [\h__\h] testosterone base. Um, good luck finding those studies being performed on trembolone or primobalin or mastronone or other steroids. Not even testosterone hasn't been examined to that extent. And what I see in the scientific community is that they get one new paper and they find something interesting like trimmolone being carcinogenic for example and then they want to duplicate because it's safe. They can get funding to try this again. So you have eight 12 studies on trim's carcinogenic car being a carcinogen. Um and then nothing of the sorts on primabolan. So saying that a particular steroid is safer than the other ones even though the same studies have not been duplicated ising asinine to me because I don't think any of the steroids are safe. I think if you all run them through the same same um parameters of of analysis, right? Check them for heart enlargement, check them for kidney toxicity, check them for liver toxicity, neurotoxicity. I mean, Winstrom, nandelon, tremblone, and testosterone has been checked for neurotoxicity. That's it. So, we can't say that primobal or mastone are not neurotoxic because those studies have not been performed and never will be. No, because it's unethical. Primo might Primo might be in the United States. There's currently six pharmaceutical companies that are producing Priabalin. Now why? I don't know. So that's part of the reason why I had the instructions the different send those links so I can invest in their stock. Sure, I will. Yeah, cuz I have a lot of Bayer stock. Uh it's not any of the larger companies that you would think. They're smaller than Sigma, but so something interesting is going on with Primobal and I don't know what. Yeah, maybe it's a a brisk or medication. Who knows? The weird thing is primobalin is the same efficacy as mastro as bre cancer. So who knows but it could be something cool. So, so this is why I always like I'm going through all those steroid studies, right? And you guys have been doing a killer job researching the steroids more than I think us three have been research steroids the most besides the guys that actually wrote book about it, right? Like um there's a couple steroid books out there and some of them are better than others. But even then, I think among us three, we've probably researched the most steroid studies out of anybody or a combination of all three. And I I can tell you firsthand that it's it's just severely lacking. Besides testosterone and it's severely lacking and and people pop tremblone like candy and there's zero human studies even even within testosterone we don't know the pharmacocinetics of testosterone cipionate. We we just base it on anate because we don't study it. So like we use an anth studies because it's more predictable as an esther and it's easier to produce. So cipionate if anyone's ever brewed you you know that as soon as it gets hot you have to to remove it from temperature. So if you're making batches for a study it becomes very tenuous to kind of get it accurate. That's why you see a lot of even the pharma stuffate in the United States you'll see pharmaceutical stuff that's dosed incorrectly because it was produced wrong. Uh so that's why sometimes when they do like third party testing you know the cipion is only 170 70 milligrams. Yeah. So as soon as ribbons appear when it's when it's heated as soon as ribbons appear you have to take it off the heat otherwise it's junk. Ah where it's much more predictable. I've said it before from a chemistry perspective in 3D that uh cyclopentane ring on cypionate when you look at you know PD7 which removes the esester probably some of the thing that causes post injection pain for cipionate versus an ante it's always cipionate when people have post injection pain tends to be I don't get on well with cipionate it's probably the affinity of that PD7B enzyme taking that big bulky cyclopentane ring away from the testosterone as opposed to just testosterone and ante is a five chain carbon that's very flexible and moves in space very well that cyclopentane ring is very rigid in space and it's probably you know some of the the post injection pain is the drug itself crystallizing inside the tissue and causing local irritation which is funny because one of the original reasons why they chose cipionate for an esther in United States was because it was supposed to reduce PIP from an anth. I guess certain people are more prone to it and so you know up John or whoever did cipionate first was like let's try this and I think I think parabolindex hydroenzo cararbonate is also a similar structure in phenyl propriate right yeah and we don't know and no one knows that the pharmacocinetics it's when guys will make up things about NPP they're like well it you know it has a halflife of does it how do you know that it's never been studied and parabol all that all cared about was figuring out how to get 50 milligs of API they didn't care about anything else and then they estimated everything else. How to dose it, when to dose it, right? Like the stuff that you're looking at that was done after the fact. The chemists were only given a job to get how do you get this exact dose? Then they work backwards. That's right. 77 Yeah. 76 milligs per ampule. It's the magic formula. No, they wanted 50 milligrams AP. That's all they cared about. Yeah. And the weird thing is like the dosing protocol for parabolan based on the the the insert which we only have one page. The other side of the page I was never able to find. Um again the dosing protocol is one injection per week for the first three weeks and then one per month. Yep. Yeah. So it's it's a longer 20. Yeah. It's longer than an amphate. We know that. But yeah. How much? I think the halflife was estimated around 8 days. Okay. Um I I did find it somewhere, but is that a study or just taken from some publication? I think it would take it from a publication because the the the pentane with the oxygen I think it's going to change it entirely. I don't know if it tastes accurate. Do you know anything? I don't I've never seen anything published from crude reading like Steve said I would always put like hexacarbon melate the parabolan esester to be about 8 to 10 days. Um but we don't have any strict strict rule of thumb to it. Similarly with phenyl propionate making a an estimate based off a propriionate Esther and then you've got a phenal group attached you're looking at maybe 3 to 5 days. If you're going to take the phenal ring that's not phenal ring the cyclopentane ring that's on cipionate with obviously a twocarbon chain versus a twocarbon chain with a phenal group. It's probably going to fall somewhere close to sipulate in terms of halflife. Mhm. And yes, they're being removed. So based on all of the research that you've guys have done, right, which anabolic androgenic steroids would you consider have been well investigated? Like I feel it's testosterone and andone. And maybe anavar. Anavore. Anavirus. Anavar is misunderstood, I think, but it's been well studied. Anadrol we don't know that much about. It's still FDA approved. I don't know that much about it. I think Anavar is just misunderstood when the studies again people are reading the abstracts like I did a video on the weight loss thing, right? They were they were using that in obese men and they were using it versus testosterone and ante given once every two weeks. So clearly clearly the dosing is notic and then the study was aborted because the liver enzymes got skewed. So then they switch and then they got fatter. So it doesn't but it's water retention. Yeah. Yeah. So, so that that kind of brings me again to the safer safer use practices or risk um tolerance is that there's really not much you can choose from if you want to stay safe. And even with Nandalone, I mean from 25 milligs, 50 milligrams onwards, people already start to experience side effects, you know. And I I I really did my absolute best to find everything about Primobalin and I came to the conclusion this is poorly investigated. So my triforce of steroids has always been testosterone, primobalin, and anavar, but based on the scientific literature. There's not much on primo, man. Yeah. Growth hormone. Not not Yeah. Growth hormone, right? I mean, I would say the sa the safest thing that I would say would be testosterone and growth hormone, right? They're indogenous. You kind of at least could predict them. As long as you're using a regular dose, right? Again, are you taking HIV studies and trying to translate in that into what we should do? Yeah. Right. Like when I used a bottle of ceram a day, I I followed the HIV protocol. My weight shot up. You talked about dosages massively. We got it out of you. Well, got nothing. I got I just most was warm. Oh, yeah. Peed out from the Yeah. I mean, you didn't respond like Chase Irons did. His might be fluid as well. Yeah. He's a big boy. No, my scale my scale weight went up. I was going for a while, two weeks straight, I was like a kilogram a day. It was unreal. And I had to eat. Paul and I were like tracking my food. We were trying to see what I could tolerate without getting fat. I was eating a a gallon of ice cream a night before bed on purpose before just to see what I what would make what would make me get fat and I could not get fat. Was it was it Ben & Jerry's just like Rich Piana recommended? No, it was u some store brand garbage. I spent all my money on the sher stem. I couldn't do the baron at Ben & Jerry's. Yeah. A bottle a day, man. You could put your kids through college. Yeah. The retail's $5,000 a box. That's four boxes a month. That's $280,000. But you didn't pay retail. Let's be honest. I did not pay retail. No, I did not go to CVS and buy it over the counter. That would have been crazy. Yeah. So, so to kind of close that off with the phic for for evidence-based like steroid selection, I I think that most people would be if they really do the research, they'd be appalled by what they find like I was and I'm still I I still have to do Winstrol and Anadrol and Andreone Foley and a couple other ones prov if if you do the research you see that provotes as fertility medications for sake and that there's like 50 studies on proviron and 30 studies on halo testing as a fertility medication and it's it was prescribed you know I I think the total was like 500 life births on these kinds of medications and look at the years when was it studied like 75 to 79 yeah yeah yeah I mean it was a different error in research so if you want to if you want to be evidence-based you got to you can say that you can run halo testin and it's a great fertility medication and not mention that the time machine is uh you know that things do change over time and because of that the recent thing with Halo Testin so I talked to some of the labs in China that produced some of these raws the sales of Halo Testin quadrupled in 3 months so they sold four times as much Halo Testin raw after those videos cancelled Yep. should have bought some stockmen in Halo Testing. Yeah. Well, first because I I I remember when I started talking about Primo publicly, I did buy Bayer stock and it went up I'm sure quite a bit. But when I started talking about laglutide and doulaglutide and semiglutide, I also bought Novo Nordesk stock and that went up even more. And when I started talking about tepida or I I or semiglutis lily I think I also bought illy stock. So maybe I'm financially incentivized to No, I am. Well, Chase and I talked about Sarristen once and it doubled the black market price. Yeah, that's what I heard. And this is why Primo is so expensive. That's my fault. Yeah, it's $36 per now. That's my fault. And no and mine and pulse cuz we keep hyping it. In Primobalins's defense though, it is fragile. It is hard to make. It's similar to where it does get destroyed. But again, if you're buying it from if you're buying the rough in China, what is it? It's $2 a bottle. I I get my bear remob snob. So Bayer's paying Bayer's It probably cost bear 30 cents to make an amp. Yeah. And the ampules in in Turkey are like$1 or $2 each, but the the black market it's gone from $12 to 36. And some sources you can still get it from 25. But that's that's that's the downside of talking about steroids publicly. The price goes up. Yep. Yeah. So maybe we should all go underground again and go to intense muscle and just talk about it there. Maybe that's what we're all doing anyway. Hey, any parting words? We've been going on for two hours for this episode. On that on this note you said before about a book. So I actually am writing an anabolics book that should hopefully be bigger than Llewellyn's stuff. Uh just taking me taking all my citations from the videos. I'm taking everything you say word for word. That's what I'm doing. Oh, perfect. Yeah. I just have AI rewriting your stuff. At least give me a credit like at the bottom somewhere. I I learned this [\h__\h] from Vigorous Steve. Well, that'll be useful when I finally get mine done then to slug in. Um but but mine mine has sort of taken how I sort of came about with the functional medicine side of the the health detriments and actually like trying to make people realize surrounding like the root cause mechanisms of why heart disease develops with AAS and you know potential strategies of getting you know not safer but understanding some of that risk reduction if you accept that risk as a responsible decision like what we talked about in the podcast. So, but that's just taken me forever to try and fit in to I I'll sit and write for 25 minutes and that's all I have time some days to spend on. Yeah. Um but we'll get there. You'll get there. You'll get there. But Kurt, you already have an ebook out, right? The growth money. Yep. That's about my website. We'll link that. We'll link that down below. Dean, you got a whole SN education platform where people can talk or learn all your private what is it seminars or or Yeah, they're just slides and stuff. They're like lectures basically of just you know like what you've done with basic steroid profile. It's just somewhere that someone can come into like a a structured learning environment and then you know I've got another team of guys that are educators on female health rehab training. It's not just me about steroids. So that that's SN education. Um link that and then obviously the the website how I got propelled into this's supplement needs the supplement brand. So can put the link below for that. And what's your social media? Instagram YouTube. You have a YouTube right? Or you're just it's like a ghost town. The YouTube's a ghost town. I have I have over a thousand subscribers. I feel sorry for them people. But my my handle on everything is Dean STM. Um maybe sometime if the book gets done, I will make an appearance onto YouTube. I have the nice camera now after you uh broke my balls over a camera and a proper mic. You can't come on my YouTube channel if you don't have a proper mic, man. And Dean, we must have we have hours of content together on my channel. So people like, you know, they can always watch. Yeah, I mean there's there is I was going to say there is a link on my Instagram in the the link tree for every podcast I've ever done, including yours, Stephen, like a a historical list where I've listed there must be like a hundred podcasts over the years that are all there for people to to follow and listen to for free. Cool. That's good. That's good. Kurt, where can people find you in the meantime? Instagram, Kurt. YouTube, Kurt. Havens. I try to keep it really simple. uh and here monthly apparently. Yeah. Yeah, we should do this monthly guys. So next next month I want to discuss uh why do steroids have diminishing returns and then we can go into the androgen receptors myostatin SSBG binding proteins implications of free androgens etc. And I'm sure we can come up with a couple more uh topics in the meantime. Um, dear audience, if you have some suggestions, post it down below. Get the algorithm going. And if you agree with the anabolic round table, even though that was originally taken by Dan Duchain, um, I like this title. I can be Sir Lancelot because I do a lot of injections. And then Kurt can be Merlin because you age backwards. Okay. Dean, who do you want to be? You would you want to be King Arthur? Uh King Arthur or Sir Anabolics. Sir Sandabolics. Good. I got it. All right, guys. We'll we'll drop this every month. Um thanks guys much for watching and leave a couple comments and likes for the algorithm. That really helps us out. And we'll uh we'll see you end next month on the Anabolic round table. For now, Kurt, Dean, and Steve, we are out. Thank you. Take care.