What's up, guys? Let's do some sort of Q&A or something. Let's go live. Let's [\h__\h] a bit. I am very rusty when it comes to recording. Today, I I tried to record some videos and I couldn't get past the intro. So, after about one and a half weeks of no recording videos, I figured, you know what? Let's do a live stream so I can get my mojo back because today I tried and I didn't really get anywhere. So, uh, uh, let's let's save all the PD questions for the vigorous Q&A. Let's just hang out and chill out and talk about my holiday to Japan. Um, oh, somebody already donated, I guess. Much appreciated. Whatever this $17.90, is it dollars? It's probably something else. Anyway, uh, good to see you guys again. Uh, last couple of videos didn't really do so well. Um, so we need a little bit of revamp when it comes to topics. It's a shame, you know, all the topics that I like to make, they don't really get views. Um, so we're going to have to uh re uh reassess the strategy. Um, Japan was great. Thanks for asking. I had a lot of fun. It was a very power holiday. So, a lot of walking, 22,000 steps per day. I am exhausted. I am [\h__\h] exhausted. And I already said [\h__\h] within the first minute. Okay. Demonetized right away. Okay. I'm relying on your super chats. Uh yeah, it was it was very tired. So, three days in Kyoto. The first two days was uh bloody hot. Um we saw a lot of temples, a lot of shrines, a lot of castles. It was great. Ate a lot of food, a lot of sushi, a lot of ramen, drank too much beer and whiskey, but that's part of the holiday, right? Uh third day was a lot of rain, so we did some shopping. I bought absolutely nothing because no clo Well, I bought one shirt. That's not true. I bought one shirt. Um, which which is nice. I'll wear that on uh this Sunday when I go out with my wife. Nice shirt. Uh, but I didn't really buy anything else. I went to this market and they had these embroidered jackets. So, I'm asking for all my favorite animes and uh nothing was in my size and they had this beautiful embroidered jacket of Fist of the Northstar, Hokto Shinkin. They had a large which I could barely fit into. It was so tight uh that I didn't uh wanted to spend the money to buy it. They had an exel embroidered jacket of Yura. But I mean walking around with Yura who um or Yuri, you know, nobody knows Yuri is the wife of uh Ken Shiro which unfortunately died in the series. Um again if you know you know everybody knows Baky nowadays or Naruto or Dragon Ball Z but nobody knows Hogon or Shinken anyway. So they had that jacket but I wasn't in my size. So, I'll be on the lookout for that jacket because now I really want to buy that. That was like the perfect uh impulse buy. Uh but unfortunately not in my size. So, I bought um I don't know, some coffee mug at Super Nintendo Land and that's about it. Yeah. And the rest was all spent on um taxis and uh food and alcohol. So, I'm a little bit tired. Yeah, I'm a little bit tired. Um, barely slept anything on my holiday, you know, wake up early. I had to wake up an hour early and and go to bed an hour later because emails, right? Worker never stops. So, yeah, Hookon and Shinken Fist of Northstar, one of the greats. Two series, right? The first series is easy to come by, but the second series is hard to come by. Or at least back when I watched it, you uh you would have to watch that with the yellow subtitles. Not the proper uh you know, black and white subtitles, but the yellow subtitles, the fan subs. And uh yeah, good times. That Bowser statue was awesome. Yes, Super Nintendoland's a lot of fun, dude. But it's so overcrowded. Oh my [\h__\h] god, I got terrible anxiety. There's so many people and it's not only Japanese people. It's like tour buses of Chinese people, Malaysian people, Indonesian people, mostly Asian tourists, a little bit of foreigner here and there, but um yeah, Super Nintendo Land in the what was it called? Uh Universal Studios was great. We got a fast pass those because nobody has time to stand in line. So, I got fast pass for everything, which basically means you have a a timed entry ticket where you have to show up at a certain time for a certain ride and you can pass it. you only have to wait like 10 minutes. Um, so that was good, but that means that you also uh, you know, have very little time to do all the mini games in Super Nintendo Land. So, we frantically, you know, went through all the mini games to get keys so you can do the final stage. And then me and my buddy, we did all the same games and I got three keys and he only got one. So, he wasn't able to do the final game. And I tried to bribe the official, but in Japan that apparently doesn't really go far. So, I try I try to hand him like a thousand yen or 2,000 yen to let my buddy in. He wasn't having it. And if it was in Thailand, they would have gotten off with a thousand yen easily. Like, he already spent so much to go in there, so what's another thousand yen, right? Anyway, we had a good time. Um, let's see what else. We had Coobe beef in CBY. I wanted to vlog for you guys. Um, but when I arrived, you know, from that trip, I was kind of bloated and it was so hot. I felt a little bit uncomfortable the first two days I was also mad constipated. Lucky me. So I didn't really feel like vlogging and then I start when I started vlogging my wife was like why are you working? This is holiday. Cut the crap. So I I took some pictures but um no vlogging. So it'll be no Japan video. I'll I'll try to do better in the United States. So that's why I'm just here discussing my trip. I did take a lot of pictures though. Um so maybe at one point I'll just slowly release that. But you know me. I I feel comfortable sitting here talking to you guys about vlogging. I know feel a bit awkward. Yeah, I need to work on that, I guess. So, next trial will be in uh in in America. Any food adventure? So, yeah, I had Coobe beef in Coobe. It was great. Now I can never have uh beef again. Um because that was stellar. Was in the Oriental Hotel. There's two Oriental hotels apparently in Coobe. So, we went to the one in the harbor and then we had to walk another 30 uh minutes to the real one because we wanted to uh you know walk up an appetite a 10-minute walk before having a s seven course dinner with um a coobe beef most of them. And then my buddy had the genius idea to do wine pairing with every course. Yeah. It didn't end well. didn't end [\h__\h] well. So, basically, uh my wife also did wine pairing, but she shouldn't really be drinking. Yeah, even though the the she got a period after we come back. So, uh I guess we'll have to try another round. Um let's see. Uh where was I? Okay, so we she did wine pairing and I did wine pairing and everybody did wine pairing, but she only had like one um you know, taste of the wine with each course and then I drank the rest. And of course, I also brought cigars to Japan, which you can actually import cigars into Japan, no problem. Uh I got the best of the best cigars, illegally imported here in Thailand. I brought with uh them to uh to Japan. And then after, let's say, seven glasses of wine, which is actually 10 and a half because I also finished my wife's wine. Uh we had another four shots of vodka or whiskey with my cigar. I was so plastered, I couldn't walk. So we had to take a taxi home from Coobe to Osaka. Don't ask me how much money we spent. It was insane. But it was a good time. All right, I see some super chats coming in. So, let's that's enough of my holiday. Let's get to the super chats again. Guys, please do me a solid and just save the direct questions for the vigorous Q&A, right? We're only I mean it's in what, three days? Yeah, three days. So, so let's let's just do the the super chats there. Uh about the daughter, thanks for the inclin. Do you think steroids have higher likelihood of having daughters and might name her Zelda? Okay, that's [\h__\h] epic. Yeah, Zelda Fitzgerald, right? So, you're actually naming her after uh Zelda Fitzgerald. Uh because that's what the Princess Zelda was named after. So, if you go with Zelda, you have my seal of approval. I have a cat named Zelda. We have already have our son and daughter names picked out, but you'll have to stay tuned uh until they are born. Right. So uh yeah, steroid users have a likely higher likelihood to have daughters because of oxidative stress. When you train firepertrophy, your oxidative stress goes up. When you're on steroids, this exacerbates the oxidative stress that you get to yourself. So that's why you see sometimes steroid users that train insane. You know, progressive overload, sets of failure and beyond that literally look like smokers. I think the oxidative stress of being on steroids and training you know sets of failure after sets of failure after sets of failure is probably similar oxidative stress albeit that you know smoking is you know mostly oxidative stress in the lungs and training on steroids is basically systemic. Um, so oxidative stress when it comes to the X and Y chromosomes, it seems that the what was it, the Y chromosome is more subject to oxidative stress. And that's why um if you're in a high oxidative stress environment, you're more likely to get daughters. That being said, are smokers and drinkers more likely likely to get daughters? I don't think there's such a correlation. So, I did a lot of research on this topic and I can't really find more than oxidative stress. So maybe it's a testicular temperature. Of course there's animals out there, right? We're switching subjects now. But there's animals out there who have offspring. Crocodiles for example. When the temperature of the the mountain of eggs is uh above a certain amount of degrees, they get uh you know boys. And if it's below, they get daughters or vice versa. I can't really remember. It's been a while since I watched National Geographic. That's a docu drama um you know TV channel nowadays but you know back in the good days when they actually had nature documentaries um that's what you would watch right Discovery Channel National Geographic you would actually learn something and now you would just want to kill yourself watching those kind of TV channels so that's uh besides the point I don't think that really applies to humans albeit that your body temperature is a little bit higher and thus your testicles have to hang further for the ideal temperature for spermatogenesis but then your testicles are kind of shut down. So, I I still don't exactly know why why uh bodybuilders have daughters. Maybe it's because testosterone levels are so high that the nature is just like, you know what, I'll give you a daughter so you can't spread all of this crazy high testosterone around anymore. Uh in Israel, we have steroid gurus. Some of them are IFBB who have absolutely no clue about HPTA. They can ruin their client's health. Is this worldwide epidemic? Yes, it's the same in Thailand. Let me zoom in a little bit. Uh where Oh my god. Hold on. Okay. Can we solve this? Uh can you answer my previous super chat? Where's your previous super chat? I don't see your previous super chat, buddy. And the chat is going super fast. So there's 100 people in the chat. Uh no, it's a worldwide epidemic, dude. I mean a lot of people just don't know what they're doing. So this is uh just an issue you know. So you know if you have a problem with the steroid gurus find a knowledgeable person that you can follow advice from and you know to weed out the hurt smart people are on YouTube and the more subscribers they have the more um you know people resonate with their message. So you can usually take that as a you know some sort of validation although that's not always true. So, you know, some people just can't be saved. They rather listen to people who are dumb um because it's easy, right? They get an easy answer for an easy question. And, you know, with my uh answers, it's like a 40-minute video that most people don't have time to watch because they're so busy watching Netflix or doing stupid [\h__\h] with their life. So, they have an opportunity to get educated, but they decide not to take it. Right? Dumb will always be dumb. So that's why my audience is not so big because there's a lot of dumb people on the planet and not so many smart ones. So uh where's your previous super chat, dude? I uh I can't find it. No, I don't see it. All right, I'm going to keep scrolling. And guys, do me solid, you know, save the super chats about George for the vigorous Q&A. Um it's uh Jesus [\h__\h] Christ. All right, here it is. Uh yeah. God, is this really necessary to do this now? I thought we're going to have some fun. You know what? I'm I'm just going to not do super chats about drugs. Let me uh save it for next time. Here, let me update it. I don't feel like doing super chats about drugs. No super chats about PDS for [\h__\h] Where is it? sake. Thanks. Let's do that Saturday, man. There. It's right there. It's right there. Okay, I'll answer a few more because you guys already paid. But now you're you're forewarned. Now you're forewarned. All right. Where is it? Man, the chat is a mess already. I don't know what's going on. Uh, let's see. My feritin is 23 nanogs per milliliter. The risk of my blood work is in range. I feel good. Not sure how to correct this. Uh eat more beef. Right. Just because your ferotin is low doesn't mean you're in a horrible state of health. Could be that your liver inflammation is very very low or your iron levels are uh you know sufficient to the point you don't need to store it in in the exacellers or exist tissues. So look into your entire blood work and don't panic if one marker is a little bit lower or higher than uh you know than everything else because feritin is also related to your serum iron levels and your inflammatory markers and your total iron binding capacity and your transferin levels. So if your feritin is a little bit low and everything else is in range and you're eating healthy and you feel good, your armatic is fine, your red blood cell is good, your endurance is fine and you have nothing to worry about. So, keep that in mind. All right, Chelsea, much appreciated. I'm sure you have a question. Let me scroll down. Um, where is it? I don't see it. Remind me, please. All right. Put your super chats in the same time. Thank you. Okay. Thank you, too. Is it 2000 something? I don't know what currency that is. All right. Somebody asked about um what the [\h__\h] is this? How big is your snake? Yeah, that's this is this is the Q&A that I want. Yeah, this is more fun than answering dress questions. Uh you have to ask my wife. Yeah, we're married. So, uh but when I put the ring on her finger and she put the ring on my finger, my snake was hers. And uh anything she would like to disclose about my snake or not about or not disclose? Uh yeah. How big is it? Jesus Christ. Is it going to be one of those? Sorry, dude. Trying to lighten up. Yeah. So, you have to ask her, dude. Um but yeah, I mean, let's be honest, you moved to Asia for a reason, right? Yeah. Yeah. So, you can be a little bit more closer to the average here. And you bodybuild for a reason, right? to overcompensate for something that is not there. The last thing I need is a sports car and then I'm and then I'm good, right? Then I'm good. I'm just waiting for Brian Johnson to uh you know disclose his penis protocol and then uh yeah and then I can gain at least an inch from two to three inches. Thank God. All right, let's see. Did I answer this one? Yeah. Did I answer this? this one. Please give me a general PD protocol for a track athlete. Go watch the [\h__\h] endurance videos. Please. Please. Why? I don't get it why people have to ask the same exact [\h__\h] questions that I have videos about. I know it's intimidating to watch a video that's like over five minutes. I know it's scary, right? I know everybody's highly busy. I get it, right? You're too busy watching Netflix. You're too busy masturbating. You're too busy watching Logan Paul and and and stupid [\h__\h] [\h__\h] that is entertaining. But a super chat, where was it? Here. 20 bucks, Kelsey. 20 bucks. You paid 20 bucks for a question that I already have two hours of content about. What are you doing? Well, I'll take your money. All right. I'll unless you retract it, which you shouldn't, uh, because I'll have to block you then. But do yourself a favor. Go watch those endurance videos. I have two videos about supplements, right? Over the counter supplements. You don't even need to take drugs. And then, uh, I have, what was it, four videos already with three pending about performance-enhancing drugs. So, do yourself a favor. Go watch those. Come on. Come on. Here we go. All right. Favorite movie. Um, Pulp Fiction. I can watch that over and over and over again. I think I watched Pulp Fiction like 15 times. First time I was 15. Um, no, I was 13. Was I 13? I think I was very young. Yeah. Yeah. And I grew up the hard way that way. Let's see. Did your cats miss you? Uh, they couldn't recognize me. Every time I come back, if I'm gone longer than a week, they don't recognize me. So, every cat needs to sniff me up and down and then they recognize me cuz cats go by smell and not by appearance. And then they're all over me. So, um yeah, we the first night they were a little bit hesitant, but the second night they all slept in our bed, which is the usual common occurrence um in this household. All the cats sleep in the bed. So, we have eight uh you well, not humans, but eight uh creatures in the bed at night. Yeah. Trying to get my wife pregnant is difficult. Yeah. Yeah. So, I have to lock them out of the bedroom. And then, of course, they're outside of the bedroom howling to be let in. Good luck trying to focus during that time. Yeah. Let's see. He knows us so well. He's got a Taiwanese girlfriend. Yeah, we always, you know, if you can't uh yeah, get uh, you know, grow your penis with growth from Monsialis and and cream, which is always out of stock, then, you know, the next best thing is move to Asia and get a short girl uh, you know, a shorter girlfriend with a shorter uh cervix, right? Or the the not cervix, the uh, you know, wherever you put your penis in. Um, yeah. So, you feel more like a man and you have like an inch left. You're like, "Yes, I have a big penis." But in reality, you just got a smaller girlfriend. Yeah. Works well, dude. And then after a while, you know, you Yeah. You kind of, you know, Yeah. you stretch her out and then you you you lose your entire 3-in penis into her vagina. Anyway, uh any experiences with psychedelics? Uh uh yes, many many a psychedelic experience. Uh, I wish I could have done that in Super Nintendo land, but the laws in Japan, they can they can apparently hold you for like 23 days without charging you. So, after I was doing some research, I would realized uh uh no can do. So, uh unfortunately, no no micro doses in Super Nintendo land. Um but yeah, many experience with psychedelics back in the day when I was in Holland. It's uh a lot of fun and I don't understand why people are always so worried about psychedelics. you need to be right here so you have a mental fortitude so you can handle them. And then uh when you're uh you know mentally uh you know in a good spot and you do them then you can have the time of your life and some life-changing experiences as long as you don't overdo it, right? And whatever whatever little thing is nagging in the back of your head uh that will come forward. So, you better make sure that your [\h__\h] is in order because if there's a little thing in the back of your head that uh that will eat at you when you get into this thought loop, uh yeah, you're in for a wild ride, especially at hero dosages. So, make sure that you uh do it right. Why no videos in Dutch? Um why? For what? For 16 million people that live there. You know, the world is bigger than Holland, dude. Yeah. learn another lang learn the language of the world that's what I did that's why I'm here talking in English so Holland is a very small country um and and catering to a very small country with people who have no incentive to buy [\h__\h] um it's pointless right it's a business after all so why not appear you know to a wider audience people who speak English that are willing to do super chats I mean I can't remember the last time I had a consultation from somebody from Holland I think it's been like five or six years. And five or six years ago, I was [\h__\h] cheap. Way cheaper than I am now. So, you know, you have to go where the money is, and the money is not in Holland. So, there will be no videos in Dutch. Plus, I I I don't like talking Dutch. Even when I went to uh Japan with my best friend who is from Holland, who lives in China, who also escaped, you know, good on him. Um, we speak English. Yeah. Feels better. feels better to speak another language and then once in once in a while we have to use code uh for plants uh for the evening and then we talk a little bit of Dutch but that's about it. Let's see where are we? Oh yeah. Although there's no drug questions, right? So nobody wants to uh partake. Speak some Dutch, bro. So, I'd rather speak English. Feels more comfortable. I speak English with my wife. I speak English with my friends. And I only speak Dutch with my parents. Um, yeah. And that's about as far as my Dutch goes. Did you and your wife do any day trips during your Japanese vacation? Um, yes. So, we went to Kyoto, Osaka, and Coobe. That was a day trip and we did uh there's something I can highly recommend if you go to Kyoto. Um there is a train called the Romantic Railway. It's a little bit out out of Kyoto. It's next to the Bamboo Forest. So it's uh well south northwest northeast. Yeah, northwest of Kyoto. You can take a you know subway there. The subways in Japan are great. So you go to the Romantic Railway, you take the train. actually filmed all of this but you know making video about that on a steroid YouTube channel probably not get any views so I probably won't do it because my uh mountain of work is substantial. So we did the romantic railway great picturesque scenic railway uh from Kyoto to I don't know some railway station 20 minutes 30 minutes uh through the mountains and you go past this river that is winding and you know have some rapids here and there beautiful picturesque scenery and all the mountains and a lot of trees apparently it's even more beautiful if you go through uh during autumn because then you have the sakura and of of course all the you know the sak sakura trees which are pink purple and then of course all the rest of the trees are all red, you know, and falling leaves and stuff. Highly romantic. That's why they called it the romantic railway. And then you take the boat back. So that's what we did. Absolutely fantastic and very very very affordable. And then we went to the bamboo forest which is literally a 200 meter walk. A lot of bamboo obviously as the name implies. So that was great. And uh what else did we do? Yeah, Super Nintendo Land. That was fun. That was fun. Let's see. That sounds horrible. Sounds horrible when I speak German. Any advice for genetic freaks? Those just thoughts still is do tough to estimate. Uh I know. Hire a coach. If you're a genetic freak, hire a coach so you can go far. You don't have to make the mistakes that everybody else has to make. Just cost money, you know. So, set the money aside. And what is this? Is what rich Piana said, the dick to balls ratio something true? No. Oh, that your dick has to hang lower than your balls. Um, yeah. Yeah, I mean it does look more impressive, right? When your dig hangs lower than your balls, but you know, if your balls are zero, then the the you know, yeah, it also doesn't really look well. I mean, I will say that now that I've been an HCG monotherapy and off cycle, I will say that it does look a lot more cosmetically appealing, albeit that, you know, leg day and a doctor work and just getting off from the toilet is um cumbersome because you have to move all of this extra junk that wasn't there for like 10 years aside. Cool. That mountain trip sounds nice. Yeah, go have fun. Go have fun. Kyoto is a very nice city. Osaka is overcrowded. It's uh you know Dutton Buri and Shinsi and the other market area it's all restaurants so don't even can't even do shopping and then you go to Osaka station where there's a lot of shopping and but it's all you know just mountain of people and that's doesn't really um you know give you a nice shopping experience because you're literally evading all these people and uh yeah so yeah Steve's out of pocket today. Exactly. Yeah, sometimes you have to be out of pocket. Do a trend Reddit stories for easy views. I know I tried everything, dude. I tried reaction videos, nobody watches. I tried science videos, nobody watches. I do live streams, well, 130. So, that's something. Um, I realized a while ago that the only way I can get views if I talk about insane dosages like two and a half grams of test or incorrect or, you know, mountains of growth hormone. So, basically, my audience is telling me to kill myself with uh taking crazy amounts of copious uh drugs. So, I don't know what to think of it. I really don't know. Um kind of like Sean Strickland. Who's Sean Strickland? Let me Google that. Sean Strickland, American mixed martial artist. Do I look like this guy? Uh, yeah. I have a shaved head. Guess that's where it ends. He's a lot younger than I am, though. All right. Where are we? Let's select something interesting. Rainy or Rajy? I read this wrong. How can I improve my hamstrings? uh do hamstring curls until it pump it it it's pumped to the core. Uh what a lot of people do is they bury their knees into the hamstring curl machine, which is what you shouldn't be doing. You should bury your hips and let the knees come up. You should do your hamstring curls laying seated like you're doing bicep curls, right? You literally need to contract your glutes and your hamstrings to the point your knees come up. Um if you scroll down my Instagram, I have a lot of training videos which never got real, so I stopped doing them. Plus, if I do training videos now, I'll train too hard because I know that people are watching, so there won't be any two or three reps in reserves. And then I'll train myself to death again. But, um, yeah, focus on your execution and give yourself some time and eat a caloric surplus for about a year, but don't get fat. Not too fat. A little bit fluffy is fine, but not too fat to the point we can't even see your hamstring separation. Uh, be in a chloric surplus for a while. Take a little bit of PDS and focus on your execution, and then everything will turn out okay. Sometimes some sometimes these live streams just chat keeps resetting and I don't know where the [\h__\h] we are. All right, here we are. Boss man Steve, how are you? Is this a Q&A or just a live stream? Now, this is a pre-recorded. I recorded this like two weeks ago and um but I knew exactly which questions were coming and what people were going to ask because I have the power of foresight. Um, but yeah, this is this Yeah, man. This was like uh recorded in August. The Q&A will be on Saturday. They were just shooting [\h__\h] here so I can have a little bit of camera experience again because I tried to record today and I didn't really get past the um the intro. So, I need some camera time because I didn't record anything for one and a half weeks. Anything to note from switching from bass system to tester? Okay, do this with me. Read the subtitles. No super chats about PES for [\h__\h] sake. Thanks. Save it for Saturday. Here we go again. I'm going to take all your money. I'm going to take all your money and not answer any questions about drugs because [\h__\h] you. It's not Saturday. We're doing a live stream for fun, guys. It's, you know, it's it's very hard to point people in the right direction, right? Everybody has Everybody thinks that they're entitled to your private life and entitled to all of your time. That's why I get so many DMs, like 200 DMs, 250 DMs per day about drugs. I know this is a drug uh channel, but you know, sometimes it's I don't want to talk about drugs. Is that okay? You know, can I not talk about drugs? Am I typ cast now? Is this the vigorous drugs channel? It kind of is, right? Anyway, I read the [\h__\h] subtitles and do me a solid and uh let's not talk about drugs for a change. Please, I'll take all your money. Please ask me more drug questions. Just I'll take all of it. I spent a lot of money on my holidays, so I I need some more money. Please. There you go. Get some. Yeah, take the money. That's the direction. Just take the money like Liver King. Just take the [\h__\h] money. Yeah, lie. Keep lying. Keep cheating. H I was off cycle. Now I'm But actually, I was on cycle and now I'm going back on cycle, which means he's going to increase the dose. And all these people just keep giving him money. So there you go. Boss man knows for a fun live stream. Loving, you know, let's just troll for an hour or maybe a little bit longer. Maxabolan was the animal. Money to feed the snake. Exactly. Yeah, the snake is hungry. It's uh Did I Did this Did I feed the snake today? [\h__\h] My wife's probably already sleeping. Might have to wake her up. Yeah, sneak in. But if all the cats are there, probably can't do it. Then I can't focus and snake will be flaccid. Yeah, I got to feed the snake. Troll Steve is bass Steve. Sometimes you got to troll a little bit, man. I I feel I've been way too serious these last couple of months. It's um life's too short to be serious and answer drug questions 24/7. You kind of lose your soul. Steve, what do you Steve? What do you think about serums? It's what make you pull your hair out. You see, this is why I don't have any hair. Oh, and for all the questions that ask about micro dotting, I'll give you some ASMR. You hear? Can you guys hear that? You hear? Is there dandruff? No. Right. It's not micro dotting. And this green hue, it's from the lights. I'll show you another secret here. Let me go to the back. Am I wearing underwear? No. One second, guys. Let me put my robe on properly cuz no underwear. You see all this light? All right. This is a studio light. So when you think I have green hair, it's because the light behind me is a reflecting of my physique. So on this side here, see this all this purple light? That's the light behind me. But you know the same question. The good thing is that you know even dumb questions help with the algorithm. Um so it doesn't really matter what people ask. Uh, any question helps the algorithm. So, every every video I see, uh, Steve, did you do micro pigmentation? Every video I see, uh, you know, Steve, why is your your skull green? And Steve, why are you um, why don't you why do you talk like you don't know anything? This question, it all helps with the algorithm. So, ask all your dumb questions, please. Fuel, how do you like living in Thailand? Do you ever wish you lived somewhere else or is just your favorite place? Um, after going to the Japan for a week, um, you know, Thailand is is not perfect, but all things considering, it is a very easy place to live. Um, is it, you know, does it have its uh annoyances? Of course, but that's with all places. Uh, you know, I could live in Las Vegas for like six months and then after that I would get annoyed. But I think if you live in the United States for over what was it 90 days, you have to start paying taxes, which um I I'm I'm trying to keep my tax um footprint as low as possible. So I would I would like to live in uh you know, Las Vegas a couple months, maybe Dubai a couple months, Thailand a couple months, you know, ideally bypassing the super hot season and just you know, country hopping. But I have six cats, so those uh aspirations are uh are closed. Uh I I just live here and make trips once in a while, you know. But I think from all the places that I've been to in the world, and I've been to many places. I've been all over Asia. I've been uh you know, well, LA and Las Vegas doesn't really count, but this year I'll go all over the United States. Seven destinations in a month. And I've been all over Europe. And I've been to Dubai and Kuwait. And I would say that all things considering, Thailand is still the best. Yeah. Even though I do feel that I've kind of outgrown this place, but I've been here for what, 15 years, 17 years. So sometimes it's just time to do something else. So I'll go to the US for an entire month and by that time I'll probably be sick of it. Then I'll really like Thailand again. You know, you get bored. Uh, what's your favorite movie? Didn't I just answer that or did I go so far up the chat that I don't even know what's going on with this chat? I really don't. What the [\h__\h] dude? Streamyard is just All right, I'm going to scroll all the way down and then scroll up. Okay, same question from Ian. Did you ever get into any video games in mass media? No, what was it? Mass multiplayer online orgy or or orgs. Well, whatever the abbreviation stuff for mass online orgies. Um, role playing games. Yeah, mass online role playing game orgies. Close enough. Uh, no, I never got into it. I'm simply too busy. I was playing The Legend of Zelda recently and um it's such a sinkhole of time and it felt too clo too similar to the previous Zelda game. So, I I didn't really get into it as much as I used to do. So, I'm I'm waiting for a new Nintendo console with a new Zelda game and hopefully they do something new and then I can enjoy it a little bit more. Or I'm just getting too old for that [\h__\h] I don't know. I like the, you know, real life. Real life is like a video game, too. So, when I went to Japan, I treated everything like a video game. You want to do the shrine, okay, you go climb the mountain at the same time. You know, you sweat buckets. Highly uncomfortable. But I did climb that mountain, [\h__\h] Yeah. 1 hour up and 40 minutes down. I was completely drenched. And then you want to take a picture at the top, but it's already uh you know, sun goes down, so it's kind of dark. So you take that picture at the mountain top and you can't even see the view. So no picture evidence. But yeah, the what is Futinari? No, that's something else. Uh Fuku Fukushima. No, [\h__\h] man. What was it? Inari shrine. Fukushima. Fukushim. Yeah, Fukushima. No, that's the that's the nuclear power plant and we don't speak a local language. Fushima. Fushima Inari Taisha. Okay. It's with all the um little gates. I went there and then my buddy was like, "Let's go to the mountain top." So, I was like, "Yeah, sure." And it was an hour upstairs. I was drenched in sweat. Yeah, it's not good if you just took Inklex two days prior and you're literally pumped to the core, right? shin splint, lower back pumps, you know, hamstring cramps, the full shebang was not fun. Um, so that was my real life video game moment. I gained a lot of experience point doing that hike. Steve, you offer the most informative content on this platform. Want to say thank you. Unfortunately, most people want estrogen. No, easy. I need to put my glasses on. I'm gonna do some LASIC soon. So, I might be offline for a week to recover from lasic surgery because I can't [\h__\h] see anything anymore. Easy entertainment instead. Yeah, it's um you know, sometimes you just got to say no to all the questions and just have fun with it. Let's see. Much appreciated for your super chat. Do you watch anime? I used to watch all of them. There was um a website called an DB, the animation or anime database.net net and I think I topped out like 250 series. This is a very long time ago. Uh and I can't remember half of it besides visit the Northstar. Um but yeah, I watched all the Gibly movies up until Ponyo I think and uh I watched all the Macros movies. Not Rootech. No, Macros. Yeah, Macros. Lin Ninme. The best music performer in all anime. I'm really dating myself now, right? Um, in Holland there was a cartoon about a duck. There was actually anime also. Can't remember what that's called. Any Dutch guys in the in the chat can remind me. There was a an anime produced in Japan about a duck and there was a a Hitler duck as well and a an African-American duck from uh the Caribbean. It was very interesting but also very violent from what I remember. But maybe I watched that because I was young. Anyway, I watched a lot of anime, but I I haven't really watched anything new. So, Baky or um I watched a little bit of Naruto when it came out and Dragon Ball Z obviously, but that spans generations. Not the remake, but the old ones. Um but Baky I never really got into. Um I did watch Berserk that is making a little bit of a resurgence. And actually watch read a lot of the manga as well. Um, but it's I mean getting older, you lose interest, you know, and I'm just busy. I'm too busy for my own good. All right, where are we? Okay, I think I got covered all the super chats. Let me keep scrolling. Man, this must be like a million comments because this chat keeps resetting. So if I'm missing your questions, Steve, you have questions. Yeah, I get answers. But save it for Saturday. Saturday, I got more qu more answers. Thanks for the money, dude. Save it for Saturday. Ranjy, Steve, you're my true guru. I'm prepping alone just by the knowledge provided by you learned a lot. Thanks for everything. Love you. All right, get a Q card. No, but much appreciated, dude. Um, learn as much as you can, right? Because at one point I will retire from YouTube. I'm not sure when. Uh, but when I have kids, um, which shouldn't be too long now, I probably won't have as much time as I do now. Uh, yeah. So, might be less content going forward. 250. Yeah, DB was awesome. Exactly. Kenny knows. Pad Labore. Yeah, that was also very good. Macros. Micros and L. Wasn't that the remake? I think I have a soundtrack somewhere. I have like two terabytes of anime soundtracks. It's such a shame that that YouTube is just it's like creatively castrating you. So, you can't really make content that you really want to make because I'd use all these anime. When I was traveling for a year, I had like uh a Steve around the world YouTube channel. It's it's all deleted so don't start looking for it. um where I made like videos of my travel um and then I used anime soundtrack and I would upload it, but even then I would get copyright strikes and I would time the cuts and the the the screen and just me just traveling throughout Asia based on the sound and these [\h__\h] music videos were [\h__\h] gold. And I still have them on my uh uh my hard disk of course and sometimes you watch it back. I mean it's been man 12 years since I traveled and then you get this raw emotion of traveling and this raw emotion of the anime that you were watching man tearjerking for sure but only I would get it because that was my anime and my my traveling so ah let's see usually here for the PDS but my schedule never allows me to watch the Saturday Q&A so Gabe um this 10 bucks you can just uh do the Patreon or YouTube membership That's 10 bucks also. And then you literally have four weeks to ask questions uh on the posts that I always post on Patreon. Literally one post live there now. Um did I forget the one for YouTube? I probably did. I'll I'll post it after this one. So you can put your 10 bucks there and then you can ask like questions unlimited. I'll answer them on the vigorous Q&A. You don't have to be there live, but you can just post them and then I'll uh I'lluh I'll I'll I'll just answer them, you know, and then you know uh what is it? Alvaro will make the time stamps and then you can watch it back. So, put that $10 to good deals next time and then ask your questions. Duck duct ters or ducttails just right a Hitler duck. Yeah. Is it dictators? Man, the dictators. No, that's not me. It's the propaganda movie. Um, man, somebody would know. Yeah, Hitler duck. Yeah, that's the kind of [\h__\h] I watch. Can't believe that. It was made for kids. All right. Hey Steve, I know you're into Bitcoin. What's your sentiment on gold miners in the current market? I see a lot of anticipation for a rally. Um, this just, you know, like the the pre having year, so don't expect too much. I mean, today they had CPI data and uh you would expect the market to move unless the market moved in the last 10 minutes or last 46 minutes, but I I don't see any movement. Barely see any movement. I see a downwards trend. And even though that last dip was to the 300 day moving average was promising because that could be the last the last shakeout before it rallies again. Um I think a lot of people are tired and waiting for the ETFs to be approved and then it might rally again. But you know this buy every bottom and if you see an overbought market sell a little bit so you can trade it in the meantime. That's what I'm doing. But it's it's going to be stagnant until the at least the having and there might be a rally, right? I might be mistaken. Maybe there's some good news in the middle of October when the ETFs get approved. But I think that the ETFs will get approved in March. And in the meantime, Gary Gensler is just going to, you know, be a sour puss and just trying to ruin the market for everything because Black Rockck is in his ear just uh whispering, "Bring the price down. Bring the price down. Bring the price down. It will get approved in March." And then we can start, you know, offering it. And by the time they probably have like 250,000 Bitcoin because all the weak hands would have sold by that time. But I'm not [\h__\h] selling. I'm buying more, [\h__\h] Yeah, I'm buying a lot more. So, keep selling. I'll buy it. It's either going to my hands or Black Rockck hands. And uh you know, by the time the next Bitcoin bull market goes live. Um yeah, good stuff. Good stuff. I can't wait. And I'm a patient [\h__\h] I mean, I waited 11 years for my first cycle. I can wait another two years for a bull market. Not these people that are in Tik Tok, they have a 7-second attention span. Then they're trading and then it goes up and then it goes down and they don't know what decision to make. So, they sell at the at the low point and they buy high, sell low, buy high, sell low, and then uh they're broke. Yeah. And I do the exact opposite. And just wait. Just wait. What time is Saturday PED stream? Um, well, it's 12 my time, but I don't know what time that is for you. That's why I usually post the the, you know, you go to savvy time, type in savvy time.com. That's my uh favorite um time zone calculator and then you put in 12 a.m. ICT time. That's Sunday. ICT is Indochina Central time, right? The same time zone that Bangkok is in. Yes, I'm in Bangkok, Thailand, in case you didn't know. Um, and then 12:00 my time, Sunday morning, right? Just like it is 1:00 Thursday morning, uh, right now for me, uh, that's when it goes live for the private members and an hour later it goes public. So, you'll have to wait a little bit and otherwise just ring that notification bell on my YouTube channel so you can get notified when new content drops. You think you successfully impregnated the wife over the vacation? No, she has a period now, so she's not pregnant. Again, we only have like a couple days during ovulation to really go for it. And I did a many a attempt on holiday, but uh unsuccessful so far. So guys, give us some time, right? I know every time I see people, is pregnant yet? No. No. And the answer will be no until we pass the third trimester. So until then, the answer will be no. So I might just say that she had a period when she didn't have her period, but this time she really had a period. So we're just going to keep trying, right? Give it give it like six months. Give it like six months. And then people say, "I got my wife pregnant on cycle. You were probably trying for five [\h__\h] years. So shut the [\h__\h] up." I see who's probably dead on arrival. The microphone is clicking. Really? [\h__\h] Maybe I'm moving too much. All right, I'm trying to do the best I can, guys. Thoughts on Jason Blaha? Um, no thoughts. Yeah, no thoughts. No positive thoughts, no negative thoughts. I am neutral. Leave me out of it. Otherwise, the trolls will come. So, whatever Jason Blah is doing right now, is he still an assassin? I wish him all the best. Your vids helped me diagnose my prolactinoma. Awesome. Without you and Derek, I would have gone misdiagnosed for years. I was just wanted to say thank you. That is [\h__\h] awesome. So, um, you know, with the MRI that you did on your pituitary gland, I hope they were able to determine that it's benign and that you can just go about your business uh worry-f free. And then hope that your LH, FSH, u growth hormone, all the pituitary hormones are somewhat manageable because you know having an adinoma in the pituitary gland um causing high prolactin levels is um yeah something that is pretty rough and I hope you don't have to be on cabberoline or dopamine receptor agonist for life to keep your prolactin levels in range but at least you got a diagnosed so you're one step ahead. Good on you. And I hope it's not too debilitating. Day crypto traders be like, "Yeah, what's up, Big Steve? When our vacation when our vacation in Greece?" Um, I don't know. Stay tuned. But everybody's going to Greece, right? So, I feel left out. Uh, maybe at one point, but I can vicariously uh live through other people's Greece vacation. And so to the point I don't have to go there because I've seen my Konos and uh what is it? Uh the the you know Santorini all over my Instagram feed. So I don't really have to go there. Unable to find your videos on targeted fat loss. Is it deleted? No. I just type in fat loss and you should get it. Really? It's there. It's there 100%. 100%. All right. Regarding benign prolactinomia, is a long-term gab cabola bad? Well, you might get um you know left ventricular hypertrophy and you might get uh well raging hard on so long because your prolactin levels are so low. So honestly I haven't really dived into the the you know the case of prolactinomas and elevated prolactin levels chronically to the point you know serious health ramifications start to manifest but I do know that serious health ramifications might manifest when you take care regine so yeah don't do that unless you do it under medical supervision where are we man I don't know what happen what's happening with my chat on uh on live stream, but it just keeps messing up. Damn, you accidentally skipped some normal chat questions. All right, let me scroll up. Normal looking patiently looking for normal chat questions, Steve. Some of the links on your website are sold out. Uh do you plan on updating them? I can't. You know, sometimes the links are still valid that lead to products that are sold out and then get back into stock, but it's there's there's so many links to website uh things that it's hard to update honestly. And I I recently tried to add in all the science.bio links, which is just back. And it's just so much to get through. I mean, I'm so [\h__\h] busy, dude. I'm I'm sorry to say, but I'm honestly sick of all the work that I have to do. like I had a mountain of work uh that I came back from Japan and even then I was working two hours per day and and even when you hire people they only do eight hours of work for you not the extra work that you ask them to do. So um yeah I'm just a little bit overwhelmed with all the things that I need to do. So my sincere apologies that not everything is uh you know in tip-top shape and hiring more people is uh that you then need to you know push into a certain direction and they still make mistakes and then I get frustrated and then I figure out I need to do it anyway by myself. So I'm just I'm just whatever dude. You guys will figure it out and then hopefully use my discount code. But I'm doing more than enough I think for you guys. Coach, do you spend in share market? No. Yes, finally. Alfred your dog is quack quack. Yeah, Alfred your dog is quack. That was the [\h__\h] series. Alfred J. Quack. Type it in. It's an animation from 1983. It was [\h__\h] Dutch Japanese children animated comedy drama television based on a work of Harmon von Vain. [\h__\h] sick. I should watch that again. But probably if I watch it now, it wasn't that good. That's the problem with childhood memories, right? You romanticize everything and then you watch it back and you're like, man, this was actually horrible. Just like watching The Mask or Transformers. You watch that back now and you're like, "This [\h__\h] is so stupid. Why did I like this?" Steve, have you ever been to Hungary? No, not yet. So many so many places that I still need to v visit in my life. My wife thinks bodybuilders are mentally unstable. Your opinion? Your wife is right. Your wife is [\h__\h] right, dude. I uh Yeah, I did. Yeah, they're mentally unstable. We start this bodybuilding journey because we're deeply insecure about our body composition and then we get even more deeply insecure because there's always somebody bigger and then we start to pinpoint about body parts that are inferior. So, you know, you're never in you're never good enough when you look at the mirror and then when you're in peak physical performance, you're happy for like one hour and then every moment after that, you're in the worst shape of your life compared to that peak physical shape and then you just hate your reflection, dude. Yeah. And then you know you throw the drugs on top of that and you get through this roller coaster of mood changes and combine that with body dysmorphia and then you know and a healthy obsession with eating and a healthy obsession with foods right you eat super clean during the week and then you have this cheat meals it's like this roller coaster so yeah maybe I should have never started it but then again a bodybuilder bodybuilding also brings you a lot of good in your life so you have to take the good with the bad just like anything in life right relationship ships. There's a good and a bad. In bodybuilding, there's a good and a bad. And making money, there's a good with a bad. And um yeah, there's you can't appreciate the ups without going through a couple extreme lows. And with bodybuilding, there's a couple extreme lows. I'll tell you that. Yeah, I'll tell you that. All right. Let me scroll down a little bit. Trend builders are definitely unstable. True. But even guys on testosterone replacement therapy are mad unstable, dude. I mean, I meet them all the time. You try to give them advice during consultations and then five minutes later, literally after the consultation, they made all these changes and then a week later they uh, you know, make all these changes to your protocol and then they they bear the hole for themselves even deeper. So, so people are just beyond help, man. I try to do my part. I try to do the best I can, but I even I know I'm beyond help. That's why I have a wife to kind of keep me on the path. All right, Steve, if you were not a bodybuilder, what sport do you think you would be into? Powerlifting, tennis, um, swimming. I like swimming a lot. I liked uh probably just Yeah, trekking, mountain climbing, that kind of [\h__\h] I always loved doing that. I mean, it's brutal, man. When I was traveling a year through Asia, I would just look at AI get a motorbike. I look for a mountain and then I would just climb it. I don't know. I don't know if it's wrong. I just make my own destiny, right? And then I would find like some shrine on top of the mountain, which somehow in Asia that's like a fetish. You build a shrine on top of a mountain and then you have to climb it. even if that the last part is super dangerous and with the rubs that are super dodgy and slippery and [\h__\h] you know, on these um limestone mountains that if it rains a little bit, it turns into a little water slide. Uh yeah, we just climbed it, man. Lots of fun. So that's what I did in Japan. Also, we climbed the Fushima Inari Shrine, which was steps, you know, was not not difficult in a in a climbing sense, but yeah, I think I would travel more and um climb more mountains. and do all these uh you know viewing areas so you get your steps in. It's like doing the stairmaster for fun. Coach Greg also has done a video on how every bodybuilder is mentally unstable. Yeah. Yeah. It's not it's not only the people he makes videos about and also Greg is also a little bit mentally unstable. But same as me. I think it's just the bodybuilding community, dude. Everybody's mentally unstable and we portray that we're not by being highly disciplined and in creating this ultimate physique, but in the back we're all mentally unstable. Yeah. Yeah. And you know, unfortunately, um it it's becoming more and more apparent on social media, but I still love this [\h__\h] All right, let's scroll down a bit. sees hill, need to climb it. Yeah, that's my fetish. I see a mountain, I have to climb it. I see an Amazonian goddess, have to climb it. Of course, it's not really climbing, but it's still uh it's still a feat in itself. Yeah. Even though my wife is not as tall as an Amazonian goddess, she does have the proportions uh of an Amazonian goddess for sure, especially in high heels. since she's a little bit taller. Oh yeah, send me to jail for sure. Henry, what's up? Turn in late. What's the occasion? Um, I tried to record today and I couldn't get through the intro, so I need some camera experience and some interaction with people because in Japan, I had zero interactions. Uh, well, when the Japanese are drunk, they're very easy to talk to. But during the day, no, dude. They don't want anything to do with you. And I was on my best behavior really. I dressed up nice, right? I abide by all the rules. I didn't uh make a scene, but still the Japanese people are like, "The look at you like the [\h__\h] is this guy with all of his muscle? What the hell's this problem? He must have a tiny penis." Then of course later in the evening, you're all drunk, right? That's the salary man lifestyle. And then they want they're all over you. They want to grab your muscles and then like like a little kid do like the you know front of a bicep like a kid with shoulders up that kind of stuff. It was hilarious. And then just like the last time when it was in Tokyo a couple years ago in 2017 all these guys they forget the briefcases and then you have to run after them to give them the briefcases. And at least in Tokyo they pay for your dinner when that happens. But in Osaka they didn't do that. Too bad. It's okay. What is this? Eigor. Weird question. With all the zoo in the house, how do you manage your toilet situation? With all the zoo in the house? Oh, you mean the cats? Well, we have six or Yeah. six litter boxes. So, um you know, you're on pooper scooper duty. You know, luckily I have an assistant who was also on pooper scooper duty. So, I pay a guy to do it when I don't want to. But yeah, I scoop poop once in a while and uh I do it multiple times because uh with six cats and swings cats eat a lot because they have to regulate their body temperature. So we're um yeah, we're scooping poop all the freaking time and one of the cats uh man mad stinky. And I tried to change her diet and I tried to change uh you know uh the supplement protocol. It's just mad stinky. So, it is what it is. And she has the tendency not to bury her [\h__\h] Yeah. So, I have to literally We have a CCTV installed at the two areas where we have litter boxes so we can kind of keep track on who's taking shits and who's not burying the [\h__\h] And then we can kind of scold them if we catch them in the act. So sometimes you catch the cats, they don't bury it, and then I put her right back in the litter box and I just watch her and she buries that [\h__\h] She knows. Yeah, she knows she did something wrong. And I just watch her like get to [\h__\h] work, bury that [\h__\h] and then you have to clean her paws because it's like half fast. And uh yeah, automatic litter box is a game changer. I'm just scared that they get stuck in that thing, you know. What is this, Steve? if you have an open relationship. No, man. No. No. You know, people who have an open relationship are with a partner that they shouldn't be with. And then it's not because the partner is willing to accept an open relationship, but it's just because you feel like uh, you know, [\h__\h] somewhere else. I mean, do all the [\h__\h] you need to do before you get into a relationship that's longerlasting. And if that happens, you know, to the point you have a relationship when you're 30 or 40 year old, when you're done [\h__\h] you know, everything that moves, I get it. But if you're in an open relationship, it means that you don't love and respect your partner. It's that simple. Yeah, but I need to, you know, I need I have urges. Get those urges out of the way before you get into a relationship. And then you don't need to, you know, and if you want to go to the go-go bar sometimes, okay, fine. We get it. and you want to watch the entertainment, you want to go to the shrimp club, just don't get your [\h__\h] hands dirty, right? Just watch, but don't touch. I think that's still fine. It's like next level entertainment. And other than that, you know, get all the [\h__\h] out the door before you get into the relationship. I did. That's why I don't understand semen retention, right? Spread the love around until you get so jaded and so sick of it that you figure every woman out in five minutes. This is one of those girls, right? This one has daddy issues. This one has, you know, money problems. This one has an alcohol addiction. This you once you get to that point when you know women inside out and within five to 15 minutes, you literally know everything about them, you know, simply by their manners. Um, and to the point you don't even want to take the girls home anymore because you know exactly what's going to happen, right? This one gives rim jobs. This guy this deep throater. This one, you know, will steal your [\h__\h] wallet after you're done. Right? When you've gone through all that [\h__\h] then you're ready to settle down. And then you don't need an open relationship because you know that every woman that you [\h__\h] before the girl that you end up marrying was trash. And every girl that you're going to meet after marrying is going to be trash. So you're right in the middle at the top of the period with the woman you should be with. That's the position I am in. I don't need to have an open relationship. Yeah. Really, no woman in this planet compares to mine. I'd say it. Your woman doesn't compare to mine. And that way you don't have to worry that Steve is gonna end up in your girl's coochie, right? Because my wife is better than yours. You don't have to worry that I'm going to take your girl away from you. It seems open relationships are becoming popular, at least in my circle. Not uh for me, but friends are doing it. I mean, you can have an open relationship. You can have like five girlfriends at the same time if you can have the money and the financial and and you know the time investment you know willing to do all that [\h__\h] I mean I did you know because you don't the girls are like you know you don't have so much in common. So you have one girl to go to the movies with, another girl to have dinner with, another movie, another girl to I do shopping with, right? You have you find some sort of similar interest so you can spend some time together before you get your nookie in because there's always um you know a lead some lead time, let's put it that way. Because otherwise you might as well just spend your money on prostitutes. It's very minimal lead time. You just the $100. Yeah. Okay. Come over, right? You don't even have to do anything. That's your lead time is minimal, but you have to pay for the service. So, and there's something to say for that as well. Very time efficient, albeit that sometimes it's kind of frowned upon. So, if you want to do that, just don't talk about it. Um, where were we? Man, I kind of lost my train of thought. Oh, yeah. About open relationship. So, if you want to have a couple girls in parallel, that's fine. But as soon as you go into an open relationship, I don't think that the trust and the respect isn't there. So, if you want to do like five relationships in parallel, just keep your [\h__\h] mouth shut and do it. Yeah. You're non-exclusive. You're just seeing multiple people. Um because every person that you meet is fulfilling a particular interest that you have that is similar to them. And those girls are probably not exclusive with you either. So, wear your condoms and um you know, rinse with Listerine before you go down. And and please take it from the Thai girls, shower them, right? At least Thai girls have the self-respect to shower properly and and brush your teeth and do the whole lististering uh before you do the nasty. But the western women, man, when I come, you go to you go to Thailand when you're 23 years old and all these girls start showering, you know, and they take such good care of themselves and they have beautiful [\h__\h] and then you have to go back and you meet girls in the club and they don't want to shower and they give you this attitude like, "You think I'm dirty?" Yeah, we just spent three hours dancing and rubbing and and you know doing the nasty on the dance floor. We had a little bit of alcohol and we're both sweaty. Get in the [\h__\h] shower and they don't want to do it. I'm out the door, you know. So, I got jaded. I got spoiled. That's why I moved to Asia because after coming to Thailand and realizing that uh you know there's a better way then I didn't want to do it anymore. So and if you're in an open relationship and none of the girls want to shower one might take it over here. Man, there's a better way. There's a better way. Matt Epton, what's up bro? What is the best cigar I can buy for 20 to $40 in your opinion? Uh, well, you're in the United States, so you're [\h__\h] out of luck. You can't get Cubans over there. Um, and I'm not too familiar with Dominican or Nicaraguan or or just anything that's produced domestically, if they even produce something domestically, but uh, pedron. Yeah, it's Patron is the tequila and Padron is the cigars, right? So, um, you know what you do? You go to a cigar lounge and or you know a humidor, right? The Casadel Habano, something like that. And you just uh you go in there and said, "I want three cigars. I want one $20, $130, $140. But don't tell me which uh which one is what price range. I want one Maduro Leaf wrapped, one uh aged limit edition, and one on recommendation of the guy that works there, right? a $20, a $30, and a $40. Smoke them. Keep the wrapper, right? Take the wrapper off before you toss it away. Make a little note. Whichever one you like most, bring that back and buy a whole case. And it's very likely that that one is only $20 because the 30 and $40 cigars, the difference you barely taste. I brought $80 cigars with me, $50 cigars, $20 cigars. And they all tasted great. Albeit that the $80 cigar tasted better than everything else. But you're not asking for an $80 cigar. And you know what's funny? Those Cuban cigars right now, they're so marked up for whatever reason because the dollar is uh, you know, more valuable or because the, you know, they're creating like this artificial demand over in Cuba or simply because they had, you know, harvesting issues. a Maduro 5 from Cohiba, a Kenyos, a long one, like the thickest one, the one you can club people to death with. You know, if somebody is bothering you in cigar lounge, you just whip out your Maduro 5 Genius size and just let it [\h__\h] get away from you or [\h__\h] slap you with this thing so hard you'll think it's 1985. Um, was that the sign of the the depression? Was that depression? Was that 86? 1986. I got to get my year straight. Depression, man. Never mind. 2010. That was Yeah, you you'll think it's 2010. At least that was a big depression, big economic crisis. Um, that used to be like $35. Now it's 80 bucks and you get a smaller size. You just get a regular size, not not the big one for 35. It's like marked up like four times. [\h__\h] sake, dude. My favorite cigars marked up four times. I got to get my ass a Cuba. So, just ask around in the humidor and then uh you know, get some recommendations and buy more of the one you like cuz sometimes you get great cigars for 10 bucks, 15 bucks and you don't have to go on this power trip of smoking $50 or $80 cigars unless you really know that you like them. Like this $80 cigars, they're still worth it. But I bought two to smoke with my best friend because both of our birthdays are in September. Actually, his birthday is today. So, happy birthday, Peter. You're the man. Um, that's the only exclusive reason I would smoke an $80 cigar. Yeah. And that was paired with a lot of alcohol, unfortunately. So, I was uh intoxicated multiple days. That's why I'm still recovering. Rob, planning a trip to Italy next year with my wife. I've never been to Europe before. I was hoping to know what a recommendation you have for Italy. Um, I've only been to the north of Italy, uh, which borders with Switzerland on a trip with my dad through Switzerland. And he's like, "You want to go to Italy?" My dad's just big troll just like I am. You want to go to Italy? I said, "Yes, Dad. Let's go to Italy with my sister after my parents divorced." So we drove around through the south of Europe basically and or the middle part of Europe depending on how you look at it. So we went to Switzerland and Austria and Luxembourg and Holland and we we did a little like a 1hour tour through Italy. So that's the my extent of Italy. Um so yeah, you're asking the wrong spot, but Venice looks nice and Sicily looks cool. Uh so that that would be my go-to places. And after that, the tower of pizza, you know, to get your picture in. You make sure you lean, you know, and you do the photo uh make sure you're in the right spot so you can lean, get the the cool Instagram picture, right? And you take it in portrait mode so it looks a little bit blurry and then you can show off on Instagram. But yeah, that's the extent of it, man. It's I've seen the north Italy. I can't even remember what city we passed through, but it was a lot of fun. Do you think you'll check out Starfield when you get back home? Um, hey man, if I want bugs, I'll go play Skyrim Man. You play these games for the bugs, right? No, I I don't have time for Starfield. I'll um I I'm I'm really into Foundation now. The second season, [\h__\h] epic. Yeah, I like Foundation. I I saw the payoff coming from episode eight and nine. I saw it coming a mile away. Let's see. Zubar. Zubar. Zubar. Hamit. I tried cigars a while and I couldn't just find the appeal for it. Never tasted good. Prefer my whiskey and tequila. Yeah, it's an acquired taste. Um I I smoked my first cigar when I was 15 because that's what successful people did or at least in my eyes. And I had an uncle who smoked cigars so I was exposed to it. So, I bought the biggest cigar that I could find at uh some local place where they sell tobacco products. They had like a tiny humidor with some cigars. I take it take the biggest one. It was 15 or 15 gilders, something like that. Was [\h__\h] a lot of money back then. Yeah, those were the days. Um so, I bought it. Came in its own tube, you know, with a little bit of um what is this? Cedar wrap. So, I was pure perfectly humidized or p perfect humidity. And then I uh graduated, right? I had my last graduation um uh what is it uh exam and then I brought my cigar with a good friend. We wanted to smoke the cigar. We had a lighter. We didn't know he had to cut off the end. [\h__\h] newbies. So we had to bite it off. We bit off the end of this 15 Gilder cigar. So it's like $5 nowadays or Yeah. Yeah. Five $6. So imagine how bad it was. Um was a Romeo and Juliet. Very big but horrible quality now looking back on it. So we bit off the end. So we had tobacco in our mouth the whole time and we didn't even know that we shouldn't inhale. So the first puff that I took inhaling, right? I was already used to smoking cigarettes and weed. Um yeah, we were on the floor coughing. So that was my first cigar experience. And um after that I learned a little bit better. So but yeah, if you like whiskey and tequila, keep it up, man. That's an acquired taste as well. I do like my uh man, Japan has some good whisies, dude. Yamazaki 12-year-old, Hibikis, Centtory Gold. I spent too much money on this [\h__\h] Yeah, but only once in a while. Once in a while, you got to have the snob moment. I saw a cool question, but it the chat reset it. Oh, here we are. Chris, yo, look at that. Back. Steve, I'm a cat guy if you remember. Oh, yeah. Second cat is here. Good. Seven weeks now. They get along fine, but don't seem to play much together. Only with me. Any tips on fellow cat papa? Uh, both female. Yeah, the females, they um they don't play as much together as the males do. But usually as they get more time together, they start to get more playful. And you got to keep in mind that, you know, sometimes they have their zooi moments. So like once every 3 days, my cats are in full zoomy mode and they're like all hyped and start running around and then they play with each other, they play with you. They're very um you know, into this ballsy move. So, you know, you got to take it as the days come by, I would say. But seven weeks is maybe a little bit too short for them to really bond together. I think my cats started sleeping together and and spending more time together maybe two or three months into it. Uh but they yeah, usually they like more time alone. And when you have two cats, usually what they do, especially the women, the females, the same as women in real life, um they want attention for themselves. So when one is sleeping, one of them will come out. Of course, nobody has two girlfriends living in the same house unless you do the herm quest like Tony. But yeah, talking to Tony, I think it's a handful. So don't even try. Uh, but when you have two cats, usually they play it like this. One is sleeping and then one comes out to play. So they can get all of your attention for themselves. When you have six cats, they do the exact same thing. Five are asleep and then one will wake up and like, is everybody else asleep? And then they'll start uh you know trying to get your attention and then you know when you have six cats it just happens over and over after each other. So you spend the whole days of playing with one cat. Yeah. So that's why there's no videos. Yeah. That's why there's no videos. I'm just playing with cats all day. Thank god I don't have to live off the YouTube money. I can just live off my investments now. Uh, here we go. Uncommon Charlie, save this question for the next vigorous Q&A because no super chats about PDS for [\h__\h] sake. Thanks. It's right there on the bottom. So, see you. Let's see you Saturday. Yeah, they have cat moments every two to three days and they like their own speed. Yeah, exactly. And it just, you know, it's playing through it. But if you have young cats, they have more zoomy moments than when they're older. Um, I have one cat, I think all of my cats are over 6 months old now. We have one cat that's the oldest that we adopted basically from the catery where we got all of our cats from, right? We all have swings cats. She's 3 years old. That's the one that makes the stinky poops. So, I'm not sure what's going on in her gut microbiome, but I tried to reset it. Um, but to no avail. So, it's just something you have to deal with, man. Cats uh uh are on their own schedule and sometimes they really want pets and sometimes they really want uh attention and sometimes they want nothing to do with you and then you want to give them pets and then like no [\h__\h] [\h__\h] off I want to sleep. What's up dude? I'm here. Isn't it [\h__\h] late in Australia? I can hear a cat screaming. Oh, it's twin. I think she wants some intentional. Hey, let me let me bring out one of the cats. Hey, twin. Where are you? Come on. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You're not going onto the thing. All right. All right, guys. Here's my baby. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Zooies. Right. This is my baby. Yeah. You don't like to be then. It's so weird that she never likes to be hold. And then she starts screaming in the middle of the night for pets. So, let's see if we can. Hey, twin. You wanted attention. Now you're here. Right. Now you're going to be with daddy. What? What is you don't like? Daddy, you don't want to be on camera. All right, let me put you on the mattress. I have a mattress here, too. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Here. There you go. But you got to be nice, okay? Because daddy is working. No. All right, you're out of here then. So that's zooming mode. Can't do anything right. You try to pet them and then they want to play and you put them on the mattress and then they want to come down. So they're on their own schedule, dude. And then the weird one is the twin rover. I named her after the the dual boss of The Legend of Zelda. So you have Kotaku Kome and Kotaku, right? And they fuse together into Twin Roa, who's a gray, super hot, and he keeps spanking her, right? You remember that sound, right, from the Legend of Zelda. Every time you hit Twin Roa, she makes this very um pleasing noise. You'll hear that later on when you grow up in real life as well. Um very erotic. So I named I named her after that character. Um, and she likes a spanking, too. And she always begs for pets in the middle of the night. So, she'll come up, snuggle up to you, very, very cute, and then starts begging for pets. And in the beginning, she didn't want anything to do with me after we got her from the catery. But now, she's um, yeah, now she begs for pets every night. So, she's one of the two cats that's actively on my chest just looking at me, waiting for pets. And then you start rubbing her and she's in heaven. And the other one is a kid named after Skull Kid because his head literally looks like the Skull Kid. Also a Zelda character. I mean, all my cats are named after Zelda characters because I just don't [\h__\h] grow up. Um, yeah. So, he's on my lap all the time, too. So, they're kind of alternating the the first cat and the last cat. They're kind of alternating between uh yeah, between chest time and pet time. Thomas, how is the language in which you think changed over the years? Are all your thoughts fully in English right now, or do you still sprinkle a little bit of Dutch? Yeah, it's all in English. It's all in English, dude. I uh I mean, I speak English with my wife. I speak English here on YouTube. I speak English with my clients. I speak English all the [\h__\h] time. And uh I I completely overrit in the Dutch. Um so yeah, it's uh it's great. I just wish I was born, you know, in the in the English-speaking country. So I didn't occasionally have this horrible pronunciation and this horrible Dutch accent and this weird grammatical issues or or pronunciation issues um to uh to to be a little bit more tolerable here on YouTube. So, that's why I didn't didn't get through my videos today because I was just making mistake after mistake after mistake. And after an hour of not getting through the intro, I threw in the towel and I figured, you know what? Let's do a live stream so I can get a little bit of um video experience after taking one half week off. Let's see. Your pronunciation is spicy like a South African. Yeah. Yeah. It's funny with Noel Diesel and his uh his um partner. We can speak South African or Dutch. It's very similar. So, we can understand each other. It's pretty funny. Hey, what's up? We got a doctor in town. What's up, dude? I don't know if I can bring myself to doing that. Huh? True addict. Oh, what what what are we talking about? Did I make Did I mix Mitch something Adam Steve? All right, here he is. Steve, looking forward to seeing you next month, brother. Everything should be come out and see you at Swiss. Dr. Hotkiss, what's up, Adam? Yeah, I'm looking forward to Swiss. I just really really hope I really hope I'm not going to have any uh flight delays because I'm flying from Beijing to Korea to LA. Then I have a 4-hour layover where I have to, you know, get into the country or I pass immigration. And then I have to check into my onward flight to meet Scott McNal in uh Detroit. And then the next day we're driving down to um where is it? Uh Columbus, Ohio. We're driving down. It's about 3 three and a half hours. So if I miss one of these flights or one of these are delayed, I'm [\h__\h] I'm [\h__\h] you know, so if I arrive in LA a day later or I miss the flight to Detroit, I'll probably have to just book another ticket straight to uh to Columbus, um but at least I got like two days to spare. So I should arrive on Thursday with a full day in between and then Friday and Saturday it starts. Um so I'm looking forward to see you there, man. It should be a lot of fun. Yeah, I'm looking forward to finally see everybody because I haven't met Chase Iron or Paul Barnett or Scott Stevens, Scott McNell I've met, but Scott Stevenson I haven't met. Um, and then everybody's going to dwarf me because by that time I'll probably still be off cycle. Uh, unfortunately, somebody's going to have to hook me up though with ATCG and FSH because uh, the protocol shouldn't have any or not longer than a week. Have you ever been to Canada? Uh, no. I wanted to come this year, but Derek had other plans on the time that I was able to come to Canada, so I decided to go to China instead. Yeah. So, maybe at one point I'll go to Canada, but this this next trip is like almost a month in America. And, um, if I go to Canada, it's going to be in the [\h__\h] summer because I can't stand the cold for longer than um, two days. Um, so stay tuned. How's the Ink legs going for you? Uh, yeah, pretty good. I'm happy I got that video out right before I left because I literally said it live by the time I entered the airplane to Japan. And then when I uh arrived in Japan 6 hours later, I was pleasantly surprised with all of the views. So, uh, I was morbidly bloated though in Japan the first two days uh, from the flights and not really sleeping in the airplane and then walking around and eating all the sushi and this ramen and all the salty food. So I was like mad bloated. Um and then I started losing weight, started losing weight, started losing weight. So I left about 101 kilos and then I was as as high I think it's like 103 104 kilos um two days later. It's all the bloat from the flight and salty food. And then I arrived back in Thailand 98 kilos. So I had quite the fluctuation of water retention and I've started it again. But I'm doing all my injections before bed. So, after this um live stream is done, I'm going to do uh 500 micrograms, 250 micrograms bilaterally into the quads because I did legs yesterday. And then uh let's see if we can make a [\h__\h] nice transformation over the next couple of weeks. Um because I do need to get back in shape and show up somewhat presentable because nobody's going to take advice from me at Swiss or uh take pictures with me at Mr. Olympia if I look like I am right now. Even though I look look okay. Um but not as good as for comfort. And that's why we're all mentally deranged, right? You think you look horrible even though in reality you don't look horrible. You actually look quite good. You did a Japanese sodium load protocol for blood maxing. Yeah. Yeah. You go to the kiten sushi. So that's sushi on a on a conveyor belt, right? So you just grab what you want and you order a little bit more. And uh I [\h__\h] love sushi, dude. So I I kept sushi after sushi after sushi and I always dip royally into the the you know the the soy sauce and then you know you go out a little bit later in the day and you have a couple glasses of alcohol and then you feel like a little bit hungry so you go to the ramen shop and then you have this you know thick greasy ramen with uh probably a boatload of MSG and then some more soy sauce and then next day you look in your face you're like who the [\h__\h] is that? Is that me? Start touching your face, you know, all these indentations. You're like, [\h__\h] dude. What the hell happened? Yeah. And then, you know, by the last couple of days, I was looking extremely lean. And now I added in a load of Incorrect again, and I'm starting to hold water again. So, can't win. Can't [\h__\h] win. Steve, are you familiar with Dark Souls? Yes, but it's too diff. I'm not gonna lie, dude. It's it's too it's too frustrating to play. You just die all the [\h__\h] time and I I can't deal with that. Right. Life is is challenging enough and even though in life you only you don't get any response. So you have to be super super careful what you do and who you befriend and what the investments you make and uh you know which girl you stick your dick into, right? Because you don't get any response. So again, you have to be [\h__\h] careful. Um you know, I think life is challenging enough. Um, so I don't need the challenge of Dark Souls on top of it. Uh, I like to navigate real life more than I like to navigate video games. So that's why I choose to play Zelda because the it's it's forgiving and it's easy, you know, and and it's still fun. So all the people say you have to play Dark Souls in the highest difficulty level. They're probably failing at real life. Um, yeah, because you know, making money and having a long-lasting relationship and traveling and doing all the hard stuff in the gym, I think that's a better challenge than playing video games. But that's just me. Anton, as a fellow expat, do you never miss home? No. You never wanted to move back to the Netherlands? No. I'm so happy. I'm so happy I don't live there anymore, man. Oh my god. I'm so happy I don't live there anymore. Yeah. Is it annoying hearing uh from normies that you look fine and good even though you know you look like crap? No, it just it just makes you realize that you're, you know, overly critical. But I I've been overly critical of myself my entire life. I mean, that's why I can't get through [\h__\h] videos because, you know, you wanted to say it a certain way and then it's not up to par. So, you record it again and again and again and again for a [\h__\h] hour to the point you just want to smash the entire studio and delete your YouTube channel and throw a t tempered tantrum and uh and then you know 10 minutes later you're fine again. But it's just yeah, you get very self-conscious and you get overly self-critical and I've been that in every aspect of my life and it's honestly debilitating. Uh, so when normies tell me I look fine, um, it's a breath of fresh air because I'm so hard on myself that sometimes you don't even know what to do with it. Um, yeah, but we're still uh, you know, you need a little bit of self-critical thinking because otherwise you don't better yourself. You know, I mean, you you want to be a little bit better every day and you want to excel in life and and and I think people who don't do that, they don't have that introspection and they're not really self-critical. They really don't exceed. I've met plenty of people that are just happy golucky all the time. And when you look at their accomplishments, it's yeah, can can't you can count it on like two fingers. So it's Yeah, but that's just brutally me. Yeah, you just want more and better for yourself. All right, there you go. Steve looks amazing. Thank you, buddy. Thanks, bro. I'll take it to heart. Yeah. And then I'll stand in front of the mirror. I'm like, "Oh, this this is fast and I'm not happy about this." You know, and then my wife at least when my wife says I look handsome, then I'm okay. And then I give her, you know, a reward. Yeah. I thought it's on Ian McCarthy. Who's Ian McCarthy? Is that somebody Ian McCarthy? Who the [\h__\h] is that? Ian McCarthy. Ian Mckllen. Yeah, that one I know. an actor. Uh, an irriment. Iron McD. Do it. Slice his head off. Uh, Ian McAy. Who the [\h__\h] is that? Am I economics? I don't know. I said somebody on Instagram some fitness influencer Ian Brown McCarthy. I don't know, dude. No, I don't know. Am I supposed to know? Sorry. Oh, the message bug. I actually broke one of my controllers while playing one of the games. Yeah, it's too uh it's too frustrating. So, giving my wife the daily rewards vlog. Yeah, only on only Only Fans. Only fans.com/vigoroussteve. That's where all the action is documented. All right, let's see. Where are we? Everybody's upset that I'm not answering direct questions. I would break my controller out of rage for sure. I like challenging games back in the younger years like Mega Man on the Game Boy, but now with my old man Reflex and Zelda it is. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, I I don't see how Chase Irons is still playing these video games. I mean, we're about the same age, but he still plays Dark Souls in all these hardcore games. And what what came out? Dungeon Master. No, not Dungeon Master, but some Yeah, Diablo, right? Diablo I came out. Too difficult, man. too difficult, too frustrating. It's uh I can't deal with that [\h__\h] At the end of the day, my energy is spent. I always have to deal with like extremely difficult and complicated cases during consultations and then trying to come up with video topics that are interesting, short, funny, intelligent, but not too intelligent to the point people cut out. I mean, that's the most challenging thing I have to do, you know? I mean, so many videos that I have on a cutting floor that I just I don't think they're up to par. And then even videos that I think are up to par, they don't get any views anyway. So, I don't even think, you know, why the [\h__\h] bother? I should just make videos and then just throw it against the wall and hope something sticks. Let's see. Uh, we need Steve to make videos about superfological levels of reaction uh in video games. Oh man, I I throw temper tantrums. It's uh and then you get that audience that's high on uh you know energy drinks like I show speed who actually whipped out his [\h__\h] live on on stream. There's no coming back from now dude. Let's see some more questions or are we going to throw in a towel for today? I'm still I think I'm still recovering from my holiday. It was like non-stop sightseeing, non-stop walking, and and too much alcohol in the evening, which I shouldn't be doing at my age, but uh yeah. Do you eat a keto diet? Yes. Uh normally I do eat keto, eggs, salmon, white fish, chicken here and there, some beef, but on holiday I was uh Yeah, on holiday I was all carbs. Um but I just ate two meals a day. So in the afternoon I ate some sushi you know uh raw fish on rice basically and uh and in the evening we would have uh something a little bit more luxurious. Uh so we had like a five course tofu dinner and a seven course coobe beef dinner and uh yeah some you know isakaya ramen [\h__\h] uh with some more beers. So, are you using any neutropics? Yeah, today I took a gorilla mode respawn, but I think I'm so exhausted from my trip that it's not really working. I don't feel as cognitively uh insinuated as I normally am. So, give me a couple days to recover cuz I'm man, this holiday, dude, I was I [\h__\h] broken. I barely slept. I barely slept. My wife is also dead tired. Uh we did so much se sightseeing that Saturday almost collapsed. Like Friday I had that uh seven course dinner with my wine and my wife's wine and then another four shots of whiskey. Very good whisies I might add. But the cigar was so big that it took four whiskies four whisies to finish the cigar. Or maybe we just drink like a bunch of uh you know [\h__\h] retards. But uh yeah, I drank way too much. I couldn't walk. Shame on me. But it was a birthday drink, so you know, sometimes you got to live a little bit. And then Saturday, I went to go out in Osaka. I wanted to do some shopping, you know, buy some souvenirs. Um but after a while, my wife's like, "Uh, this holiday sucks. All we've been doing is walking." My wife's spoiled, though. Last time we went to Bali, we didn't do anything. We just hired a taxi the whole day and just drove through the sides and and then in the taxi it was so comfortable. We just slept in traffic. So, need more Wagyu beef. Dude, that's so expensive. You guys don't want You guys want to know how much I spent on the coob? Well, I didn't spend it. My buddy spent it. But this is literally the most expensive dinner I've ever had in my life. And I And I've been to Morocco. No, wait. No, it's the wrong movie. Quad. And I've been to the Gambinsky Hotel in Bali, which you guys funded. So yeah, it's uh the Wagyu beef was very expensive, that seven course dinner. But again, we had wine and uh and whiskey and then the cigar. So yeah, $1,500. Yeah. For four people though. So one five. Disgusting. Never doing that again. How many grams of salt did you consume a day? Uh well, a lot. A lot. I was also sweating buckets. it's uh it was very hot in Japan. Hotter than I thought it would be, you know. Not as humid as Thailand, though. Uh so, the weird thing is I was sweating buckets, but I also got dry skin. Go figure. Um well, four or four showers a day. So yeah, I consumed a lot of salt, but then by the end of it, my body was used to it and I was just flushing the whole time. I drank as much water as I could. So by the time we came back, I dropped 3 kilos and I was 98 kilos again. If carnivore aliens ever came to Earth, Steve, will you be the most expensive meats list out there? Steve will be on the most expensive meat list out there. Yes, the quality is on point. I think I think my beef my my skeletal muscles kind of is not tender at all. It's, you know, full with adhesions and tough bits. So, I'll probably be the last guy to get eaten. I hope so. Um, I would surely fight those aliens with all the might that I have because this is my [\h__\h] planet. And, uh, welcome to Earth, right? I mean, Will Smith hits different. Ask Chris Rock. Ask Chris Rock. How many grams of salt is a lot? I think I had like 10 grams of sodium in a day. Yeah, everything is salty in Japan, including the people. Oh, we're still live, man. I hit my tripod. Uh, I'm going to call it quits, guys. I'm a little bit sleepy now. Oh, here's he's going to MC is going to Japan. Um, how hardcore was customs? I Yeah, so they didn't check anything. Uh but I'm always scared to bring anything to these uh you know sterophobic countries. So um again the tension there is like up to 23 days without reason. So don't do anything. Don't bring anything illegal I would say. Um so Osaka the immigration took quite some time. Took like over an hour um to pass through immigration but luggage checks was pretty straightforward. you have some sort of app and a QR code that you need to scan and then you just declare that you don't have anything to declare and they could just walk and they they before me they asked like two people who are both Japanese who looked like money so they probably thought that they brought in you know some extra gold and some extra cigars so they got the luggage search but I always travel looking like a bum you know full full hoodie so I don't look too muscular right and then I just look like an average Joe that's a a little bit overweight and then I can always pass through. So, you have to type cast yourself. All right, guys. I'm going to wrap it up. Uh, it's time to go to bed. It's 2 o'clock and I'm still trying to deal with my regular time zone. So, thank you guys so much for bearing with me. Um, hopefully I didn't waste your time too much. We'll be doing a drug super chats the next vigorous Q&A which is on Saturday and then we'll do two and a half hours of straight drug talk. I promise you guys I [\h__\h] promise you we'll only talk about drugs. Nothing but drugs. Everything is about drugs. Performance announcing drugs that is with a little bit of a recreational drug sprinkled in because I do have memories of my recreational drug phase which is now decades away. um allegedly. So, uh yeah, stay tuned. See you Saturday. Thanks for allowing me to get back to my regular camera time again so I can record some uh videos tomorrow, which will probably be 30 minutes again. Then I'll just have to slap myself across the face like, "Steve, why are you making long videos when people only have time for 8 minute, 10 minute videos?" Okay, enough ranting. Peace out. See you guys ASAP.