 amsitin, in anticipation, watching of what's going to happen with obviously the popularity of the high dose SLU, and I think you're going to try it, Steve. I'm on it right now. Let me tell you this, it's easy to get lean and difficult to get fat. So, yeah, so far so good, but I'll do some blood work and then I'll make a video about it and then draw my conclusions. What's the total usage? 400 milligrams per day. No, everything combined. Oh, everything combined? Oh, you have 20 minutes? Sure. Yeah, okay, okay, so I was on 300 tests, 300 deca and 150 train because I ran out of mint, so 750 milligrams total. So that's pretty okay, so advice. Then I did one milligram in-collects and mitochondrial support stack. So that's one milligram Mod-C, one milligram SS-31, 10 milligrams methylene blue, and then a whopping, albeit animal dose extrapolated, clinically approved dose for animals, 400 milligrams per day. Welcome to the Anabolic Ground Table, episode 15, that's one year in three months. Good luck finding underpriced, that's last so long. With Dr. Dean St. Mart and Kurt Havens, we're going to discuss about kidney health. But first, let's talk about combining tests, nandrolone, tracelone and tremblone. I wanted to do this. I want, I'm like, you know what, forget about it. Everybody says it's a bad idea. They have a combination of three-in-a-test, three-in-a-deca and 150-MENT alone has been good so far. So I started up on Tren and then I wanted to prepare my sterile valve with the following combination, three-in-a-test, three-in-a-deca, 150-MENT alone and starting with 25 milligrams of Tren and then just doubling it every week to the point I break. And then I ran out of MENT alone. I had 50 milligrams left and I contacted my source, you're like, dude, it's nothing right now. Primo, Mastrone and MENT alone, forget about it. So the test, deca and Tren it is. Which? So let's see the next episode of him in a good, last day. Okay. And so you were, you were, you were daily dosing the Tren and the test and the ment and then you were doing weekly injections. Now the ment, I had to replace the ment for the Tren alone because the ment ran out. So I have like one week of 50 milligrams of ment and 25 milligrams of Tren and three-in-a-deca, three-in-a-test. And I just dump it all the weeks worth into a sterile vial and then I draw what I need. Okay. Swallow around. Yeah. Okay. That's all micro dosages daily. Yeah. Okay. But this Tren or test, Tren or deca and 150 MENT alone, I've great mood. Now I take methylene blue and fluvoxamine. So I'm sure that has something to do with it. Just probably some level of balance happening with the fluvoxamine, a mitochondria level. You got a good balance probably between serotonin and dopamine. So one's probably not as dominant as would normally be in a normal environment if someone wasn't using an SSRI. Yeah. I think so too. You'd be sort of anticipating with that potent combination that you're going to be either very, very high in terms of like very elated and let's go do shit and then the complete opposite where the Jekyll and Heights and how it happens where the aggressive side comes out, which probably can happen in the gym if you're a very controlled emotional person. I think we touched on it before that as you get older and you've got emotional maturity and you've got emotional intelligence, you can almost contain that aggression for when you train or release that aggression when you train and allow it to interfere with personal or professional life. So you can be bipolar, but you have to release the one side of the bipolar in the gym only. No one else. So let's see, maybe four to four to five weeks from now I turn to a total dickhead and then my wife will tell me, say, I like you better on that previous cycle, but babe, I can't find Tristelon. So you gotta throw the mass drone then, baby. Guys, how are you? We haven't talked to him in five weeks. Kurt, what's been going on with you in the meantime? Same stuff, man. Discoaching. Discoaching. Yeah, fully booked. Working on that thing with, yeah, and working on that project with AJ. We're just trying to get that. When we can align our schedules we film, we should hopefully, you know, within a week or two we should have enough to get that up online and then we'll continue to add content to it. It's not, it's a little different than the other online stuff I've done or that's out there. It's not geared toward bodybuilders. It's more geared toward lifestyle guys and fathers specifically for husbands. I should sign up. It's men to be, yeah, you should sign up. Yeah, two months. It's just geared to help men become more optimal and how they incorporate all of these lifestyle things, you know, in a sane way because we're just seeing a lot of, we both realize that there's just a lot of really poor thinking out there as, you know, everything becomes obsessive and it doesn't need to be that way. You know, or in using all these silly things. While we make content about some of these, you know, some of these obscure compounds, most guys don't need to be used in 12 different things. Right? Most guys could just use TRT. They don't need to add. It's not going to bring much to the table for most guys to add this stuff. No, but it's Pandora's box, right? I always tell them on the podcast is once you start TRT, then it's TRT plus and then it's HRT plus and then you start adding pluses to the pointer plus size or you're like a 10 star rating, you know, like five stars on GTA when you get chased by the cops. I think the funny thing will be, I just want to put it out here first. I think the interesting thing will be as Primo and Mastron go the way the dinosaur, Echo Poise is going to come back. And all the people that talk down on Echo Poise are going to eat their words and they're going to slowly transition into talk about Echo Poise again. It's going to be kind of interesting. The other studies on kidney health, that's why we're doing the podcast today. But we need to keep that in mind, right? We got rat studies with the dose. It doesn't equate to a human dose. Much larger, right? We have case studies and I tell you first hand, a case study that's done in a hospital with some kidney failure that's doing steroids, it's going to liven up what they're using. It wasn't necessarily EQ. We don't know what it was on. No, I picked those studies apart when I did that deep dive like two years ago. It was two hours because people were so worried. So I was like, okay, I'll do a deep dive for you guys. Yeah. So if I stood over you in a white lab coat and your kidney's failing and I'm like, Steve, what are you on? You're very nervous, right? You think you're dying? You think you're going to get hooked up to a bunch of machines? You're going to become a really poor history teller and you're going to say, whatever you think I want to hear, you're not going to necessarily tell me what you're doing, right? Were you using DMP? Probably. Were you doing stuff that you shouldn't have done that actually destroyed your kidneys? Probably. Forgot what you told Mr. Aten did there. It was not 600 milligrams of EQ that destroyed the guys' kidneys. The other one that's going to be interesting to see, the people, I'll give people a really easy shortcut, you could probably accomplish the same thing that Prima does by using a little bit of Remedex and a little bit of Proviron. Probably do the same damn thing because I'm not really convinced Primo does anything on its own, right? In every study about Primo bone, it pretty much failed to grow muscle. No. They even stimulated lats. They stimulated the lats on a sheep, right? To get to grow literally grew no tissue, right? I would say Primo to me is a test modifier. You're talking about Mastro and Primo now. What's that? You're talking about Mastro and Primo. Primo. Primo. What study shows that Primo grew any significant amount of tissue over Plesibo? It's been a while since I made that deep dive. I know with Mastro and I couldn't find any scientific evidence that it grew muscle. Oh, well Mastro is a cosmetic drug. I've always said that Mastro didn't do anything. Primo is blood building though. It does increase hematocrit unlike Mastro. Yeah, no, I'm just saying, but as far as tissue growth point of view, I'm not against Primo. I just, I think it makes your testosterone work better is what I think. Yeah, as that is with the case with most DSE derivatives. Yeah, so all my point is like, we're not really missing much by Primo being out of the market. There's plenty of other ways to do it. I do like my Primo. Luckily, I have stock. Well, there you go. Yeah, I stocked up. We talked about this how many months ago, eight months ago, and I went through my rolodex. Yeah, and this buddy of mine brought me like, 30 ampoules of Bayerima Bollin last batch. So I'm good. But yeah, running a test deck and Trin now. So let's see if I survive. Dean, you went on holiday. I did. That's why we're representing the dead bod. We're delayed and I record them at my vacation. So it was well, well needed. But like anyone who's listening to this and if you like run a business, you don't really switch off. You check your emails in the morning for half an hour when the kids are still sleeping. In order to not only urgent needs for taking care of and the rest of it sat until I came home. So I came back to a nice list on Friday last week to plow through, but we're back on course again. So definitely two week vacation, well needed, nice food, nice time on the beach, nice tan. One more, can you ask for? Nice hair. Did you put any other deads at the shame over there in the beach? You know what, right? And I guess this would be fun for those who are listening. When you transition out of being a bodybuilder, and I've done this before with my retirement in 2022, but like this time I am mentally that's it. It's the end of competitive bodybuilder. Sure. Sure. Sure. I've heard this before. I tell myself every year. Is it like muscle dysmorphia? Like muscle dysmorphia, that you don't see yourself as big enough. Maybe it's like shred of morphia, but like you look at yourself and you think, oh, I could be more conditioned. And then like someone's probably looking at you thinking, geez, that guy's ripped and in your head, you're like comparing yourself to how you looked last year at like 4% body fat, you're thinking, man, I'm still fat here. And I remember like before we went away on holiday, I had planned to do the diet that we talked about back in like May, June. I had some stuff from my father got ill, business took over. So really, and then I tore ligaments in my back literally three weeks before our holiday that I couldn't train in the gym. So at that point, I'd already pulled the train out after like six weeks. When things took over at life, I was like, I'm not going to see the end of this diet considering how life is becoming. So I'm not under any pressure to get in condition for a holiday. Like mentally, you're like, I'm going to turn up probably in better shape than most guys not being ignorant, but you're going to be in a better condition than the average person. And so that's sort of pressure to get into like ripped conditions sort of came away from from me a little bit. And then when I tore my ligaments, my back and I literally couldn't train for the three weeks before the vacation. When I got away on holiday, you're like looking at yourself and you've got you've got a six pack, you look in condition when your head you're still thinking you're a fat beep. So disappointing to yourself. You know, so yeah, exactly. Well, like it, that is how polarizing bodybuilding and getting in bodybuilding conditioning can do that when you step away from it and you can, you can accept how you look visually and that you're not looking for more muscle mass, but you're still thinking in your head, man, you're so fat. And then you're thinking of what you're going to destroy to eat on holiday. Obviously, with me, it's not much recluting free, but you're still thinking I'm going to have this amount of food at dinner, I'm going to have a nice steak and have all these sort of things. But then part of your head is like, man, you could be so much more conditioned. You just gotta ask the wife if you look good enough. If she said, don't worry, you're still fuckable, then it's then it's okay. Exactly. Exactly. That's all reassurance. Obviously, Morgan as well as from Anna was a competitor, she's critical. She'll tell you now you got a bit fat there. You're looking a bit full. You got the premise in there. Say, babe, how do I look? Do I look good enough for holiday? You say, yeah, for holiday, you look okay. But for the stage, I get about it. I know. So I've been born, I've been back just straight up physiological. I've got nothing with everything going on. I've got barely enough time to try and train at the moment. So it's just, it's just a matter of trying to fit a couple of sessions in training. At the moment for me and my back, one of the things that the ligament there my back caused was the nerve running from L four down my leg was irritated. Literally, the most stupidest injury you could think about, I went to pick up a play from a way tree with a straight back. And with a sorry, a curved back, I reached over to pull the plate off the tree. And all I felt was my hip go click clunk. And when I stood up, I was like, Oh, that wasn't right. So I basically like self adjusted my hip and moved my hip to the right. And so the ligaments between L four and the the sacral iliac ligaments, they got torn. Luckily, between Morgan, Martin, the guy I see, and then we've a Dr. Lauren, she's a chiropractor beside as an educate, as an hope she adjusted me, but she was like, you really put your hips out of alignment with just lifting that plate like if basically self adjusted yourself the wrong way. And that's lifting a plate. I literally walked into the gym to start dead lifts first plate lift and the guy, the guy beside me, when I lifted the plate off, he looked at me and he's like, that didn't look good. And I'm standing there and my brain is trying to register what I don't because obviously it's not like when you tear like a muscle or you, I guess you do something with like your QL or you you sort of cause a muscle spasm, you know, it's a different feeling or one of your muscles locks up. This was like my brain was trying to figure out what the hell it happened with like this electric sensation ran up my leg. My spine just felt like it wasn't the right place. Are you straight home? Would you finish your workout? No, I went straight home. We were supposed to go to like a kids concert event in Belfast that we booked. Morgan, thankfully we had like an hour plan in that morning for me to train. So Morgan treated me instead of training in our clinic had me like sent me straight again to walk around. But literally I demoed to England that week and had the hips adjusted and everything else. So feels good now, but I'm still a bit cautious that when you do something like that. You get a false sense of confidence with those lower limb lumbar ligaments that I'll start slowly. How much she's from now on? Pretty, pretty much the, the lazy way of training. I did do a little bit. We had like a home gym sort of thing in the apartment complex on holiday and I felt good to do some really light stuff. But getting back into it now. You did exercise mimetic exercises. There's a pity I didn't pack up. Obviously we can delve into a layer of my, I didn't bring anything like that with me. And obviously at the end of the, the diet I did, I will say during that three week non-training period, I did keep continuing with SLU and the mitochondria stuff that I do put down to help and maintain body composition with no training. I was obviously a little flat looking, but you'd be surprised what you maintain with very little training. And then yeah, it usually takes like a month or two before it really goes away. And then it's like from one day to the next you wake up, you're like, what the hell happened? Did I get sarcopenia overnight? Well, it's with, with chemicals in place with natural people, there's been a bunch of studies to show how fast you lose it. There was a group, they did a study, they had people exercise for 12 weeks. They gained obviously different various amounts of tissue, right, depending on their genes, all natural. Then they had half of them stop lifting for 10 days. The group who stopped lifting for 10 days lost all of the tissue they gained for those 12 weeks. So three months of training gone in 10 days. That's about drugs. So atrophy occurs atrophy. And this is one of the reasons why a bro split doesn't work outside of being enhanced, because the atrophy effect, right? So you got about two days where it's ramped up, and then it goes right back down. So if you had chest every Monday, you're literally doing two steps forward, one and a half backwards. That's why natural guys don't grow doing that stuff. No, that's why you had push-ball legs or some sort of overlap training, worse love. That's a frequency is much more important than volume. I remember when I broke my leg in a motorcycle accident, and then by the time I flew home from Thailand to Holland, my leg was half the size. And it's like five days later. And I was at the peak of my natural, you know, not at the peak, and not at the end of my natural limit, but I was pretty close. And that leg was completely atrophied a week, insane. Just from immobility. And thank God, don't break your legs in a motorcycle accident, guys. Don't do it. How's everything been with the play out? Yeah, it's great. Actually, I got the gyna removed and the plate out, and I actually have an excuse to do a show about it. I just don't want to. I'm just using the drugs and getting lean and enjoying myself. It's my birthday end of the month. So we got a fit for 42 challenge for myself. And now that I put the work on a little bit of a downturn, so I don't force myself to be cognitively present during the day where I have to do deep research. I haven't done any deep research in a very long time. So I go to the gym when I want, I eat when I want. If I'm tired, it doesn't matter. And the rest of the time I spend with my daughter. So it's actually good. It's very productive for training. When I put in the towel on my business, and business is just continuous. So luckily, I didn't skip a beat. I think eventually it will. But for now, the income is steady and I'm just enjoying my body. So I'm getting leaner slowly. I think I got about eight weeks left. And then, but in four weeks, it should look pretty good. I think in four weeks, I'll take the deck and the train out and then I'll put some DHC derivatives for the cosmetic effect and see what I actually look like. Because now I'm basically a water balloon at the end of the day. In the morning, I'm like, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's funny though, like a couple days ago, I looked at the mirror from afar and I'm like, what the fuck is that big guy? I said, Oh, it's me. You know, when you train back, you're weird out and your traps are all pumped up and you start walking in a tank top. You're like, fucks that new guy in the gym. I said, Oh, it's me. Okay. I ran the right track. So I'm having a lot of fun, you know, bodybuilding and being a dad and driving motorcycles. It sucks though, because every every time I want to take my bike out, it starts raining. I have to take it out to the middle of the night because it's the traffic is so much more favorable. So yesterday and like the whole last week, 12 o'clock at midnight, let's take a bike out and go outside raining. Probably a bit too dangerous with considering the power of your bike. Yeah, yeah, and I just don't like riding in the rain. It's, it's not fun. You know, I like it to be sunny and hot and then you're blast. No, speed limit. Speed limit. Hey, Kurt, you found a study about exercise pills, not really being a metabolic booster. So let's discuss that. Let me share my screen. I woke up feeling spicy. Yeah, feeling rebellious. I guess to sort of open what this paper discusses is what we already know to be insanity of expecting to take a pill that will do the exact same as exercise. Whereas what we have done, or less, it's going to be less than that. Well, that's it. But what I mean is what we come at the angle of is some of these things that discusses in the paper alongside exercise. So yeah, this is sort of coming at the angle of what society would want to do. And that's just pop the pill and say that the exercise for an hour. Yeah, it's the same with the the Trevor Groom up and Grittism up, right? What they want is to take a pill and it grows muscle. Which I mean, some steroids or steroids do that to a certain extent. I mean, testosterone built issue without exercising. It will do it to an extent, depending if if you're a cow. Yeah, we touched on this. It more has to do with the age and the stem cell availability that the cow has at the time it's given. It's not most human males are already at their natural genetic limit. The same as if you give tremolone to a bull, they don't grow. Right. So, you know, we are, we would be considered bulls. You give a tremolo and you have a walk or an egress not going to grow. But that's not a tremolo and fault. That's an age fault or maturation fault from testosterone. What I find interesting is the problem I see with all these pills is that it breeds laziness. Right. Everyone's looking for this excuse or this thing that's going to get them to the next level. There is no thing that's going to get you there. And in fact, the laziness is so extreme now that I so when I posted it originally, I put just the abstract in my stories. Right. And then the next slide, I linked the whole story because I figured, well, if I want people to actually understand this, that they should probably read the whole study. And I know that most people probably don't know how to find the study. So I posted the link, the amount of DMs I got commenting on it and asking me what my opinion was when I gave them the study was like just reaffirmed the laziness. It's like they literally want to read themselves. They don't want to read it. Ask, you're going to ask me and you're not going to read it. If I were your teacher, I'd tell you. No joke. You know what the title of this podcast is going to be, exercise mimics don't work. I got to debate them in, man. That is a big, no, it doesn't work, but the study is just showing it's not a replacement for exercise. And that's that's all I've been saying since day one, when you guys brought this stuff up is that you can say, I do cardio, I run 20 miles a week. I guarantee you, my career is better than anyone that uses these stupid drugs. True. You know, what's funny with these drugs is that the term exercise mimics always comes from the animal models, right? They discuss that here in the study. They go over iCar and caroterein and metformin is discussed a little bit and they all discuss mitochondrial health here in this study. The term exercise mimics is basically a comparison in this high fat diet model or high fat high carb diet model where mice or rats are exposed to. And then they do one exercise group and one drug group and see that the results are comparable. But you know, if it speeds up metabolism, it doesn't means that it gives you the same metabolic and hormonal response as exercise. Because if you do research and exercise, what it releases, I mean, it releases growth hormone, testosterone, vascular and ulterior growth factor, brain drive neurotropic factor, MOTC levels go up from exercise. I discussed that in a MOTC deep dive. And none of these studies show that SLU, BP32 or iCar or metformin or whatever increase MOTC levels or any of these other hormonal markers that exercise does increase. Look at GOPs. We pretty GOP. They're naturally occurring thing. And you know what they come from? I tell you fiber. So the average American needs no fiber. They wonder why their guts are mess. And then they need to take a drug to basically replace the oatmeal that they should be eating anyway. Yeah, you know, not to people's oatmeal, but it doesn't make any sense. Just do the damn work. Right. If you want to add to that work by taking performance and dancing things, so be it. But don't try to use them as an excuse not to do things. Right. Now, that's what we see quite often is that, you know, people in the comment section, you know, compound XYZ didn't work. It's probably because you didn't work. Yeah, you didn't work. Exactly. Your diet sucks. Your training sucks. You don't do any cardio. Right. You're not getting sleep. You're getting sleep. You're stressed out. Yeah, oxidative stress and all that stuff. Your mitochondria are just broken. So it might take some time to fix them. And it starts again with the diet and, you know, making sure that that's all on point first. But like even exercise and comparing it to a single compound, so an exercise, memetic being a chemical. So let's be even more strict. So a single chemical can do the exact same work in our bodies as exercise being at the top of it, moving our muscular system. And from that, then use your cardiovascular system. And from the cardiovascular system, you have blood and nutrients going to the tissues and then the tissues using those nutrients for XYZ or doing exercise without nutrients available, operating off another energy system. It's bonkers to everything that we could develop a single compound, a single chemical that you ingest orally or inject and it's going to have the same effect as moving your muscular system alongside obviously your skeleton and your cardiovascular system and all the benefits that come from that. It's just crazy. So, Steve, post up an image of human metabolism, like the math of human metabolism. So people can see this when people try to summarize this in a statement like this does this. I don't know a single, I know some pretty smart people. I don't know a single person that can explain this whole diagram. Yeah, that diagram, it just, and when we're looking at like the Krebs cycle or the citric acid cycle, being a tiny little part of this whole big map, it's profound to even ever make absolute statements. And I guess that's where when we're talking about things like SLU, cardy and lipotropin, GH fragment, all these little things that play into helping move your skeleton, like resistance training, cardio exercise, we're using these things to augment the processes, not actually be the process. No, right. And that's the key thing to take away from. I will say that if you add these compounds in, stack them together with diet and exercise, it makes the diet and exercise significantly more effective and easier. Because I do remember, you know, doing natural, doing the whole diet and exercise thing and getting leaner took significantly longer, and was a lot more strenuous than it is now with these compounds in place. I also spend the time in the lake. Well, the value is... You did it. I think that there's a lot of importance in doing it naturally so you understand how your body works and what a response to, right? If you're 18 years old and you just throw drugs in the equation, you never actually learned what your body's doing. And then you become entirely reliant. Those are the same guys that when they either have to come off because their health fails or they go on a cruise, they lose all their tissue, right? And they're constantly going up and down because they never learned how to train. I trained it, I was natural, I was zero hormones until I was 40. Wow. Yeah. I could get more peeled. I mean, I said to you, picture, I could get leaner naturally than most pro bodybuilders are getting with all these freaking drugs because I have self-control and discipline. That's what you need to learn that first before you throw the chemicals in. If there's no substitution for work. True. Right? No. I brought that up before, like long before. Well, I always go back and say if I could teach everything I know now to like my 20, mid-20 year old self who had no problem with self-control, losing body fat and everything from martial arts, that would be so much easier. But it does start with the ethic of having the control of like when people look at what it takes to get truly contest peeled to the point where there is no fat on your feet, on your glutes, sitting, standing hurts, like once we all have big smiles on our faces, bloody hurts. Your feet, the feet are miserable. What would you know? When you have to wear three pairs of socks, and one of them is like those big thick fluffy socks as the final layer of socks. When you sit down, like you sit on something hard and you actually pinch your sciatic nerve because you got nothing left in your butt. You know, I've said it before, what we've spoken about before with using GLPs, the mitochondrial optimization. If you're someone who's had that ethic to get to that level of body fat, these things will make it harder.  emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions because quite honestly, the amount of cardio, the amount of dieting that's required repetitively to get down to those deep set points. We spoke about it before, but I chronicled in pictures on SN Education's forum before of like 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014. And each prep or long diet phase, I got harder and harder and harder as I broke through stick of points that you'd end up with at the end of a prep. Yeah. And you do have to do multiple diets to get past these plateaus more efficiently. Like you get to a plateau and you've got two choices out or really dig in deep with more cardio, less food, and you will get conditioned, which will end up like a skeleton with lots of muscle mass in the process. That if anyone's listening under first or second time competitors, you need to understand what your limits are for that first long diet, if it is your first ever diet. Yeah. And the difference between offseason and getting in shape is such a, it's mind fuck for most guys. Like I'm getting small and getting small and getting small that prevents them from actually getting lean because they never really get into that flat state that you need to be to really shave off that last little bit of body fat. Yep. Same with guys trying to get big, right? They get stuck in this, as soon as their face shows a little bit around this or where the body fat like even increases, they pull the food right back and they never grow, right? These are the guys that get stuck at 180 forever. Maintaining bro. Well, they're not even doing that because I never let my body fat get in control but I still had to eat. Yeah. You can still control your body fat and grow. That's why I would refer to it as progress season because you're not really off. That implies you're on vacation. There's no vacation when you want to look like a bodybuilder. No, and then most guys in the offseason they start eating hamburgers. Yeah, hamburgers. Yeah, stick with your hands. Then how can you eat? Why don't you eat the same things that got you lean? Just eat more of the same foods that got you lean. So you're a little bit of a surp... Yeah, if you just double your car portion, you'll grow. Yeah. It's really simple. You have a car, you see, wait. It's really that simple. I know, well, we've made it. The internet, I think, I was talking to my wife about that this morning. When I started doing this stuff, there was no internet. We had to look through books and stuff like, I've said this a million times. It's just, it's incredibly frustrating to me because most of the information on the internet is either garbage or confusing or misleading or it could seem like this complicated thing. And it's not that difficult to get in shape. You have to do the damn work. Yeah. But anyone can get in shape. I've never met anyone that couldn't get in shape. The ones that don't seem to do it are not putting the work. It's always surprising. Like now with the GLP, one receptor agonist in this mitochondrial support stack that people still cannot get in shape. Because it's so goddamn fucking easy on them. They're eating so easy. McDonald's three times a day. McDonald's one time a day. During the women in the United States use a GLP or are still doing as much cocaine and drink and diet coke as they were before the GLP. It's just, they're shit food. They don't exercise. When that study we looked at last video, we ranked these things with the initial, what was the first statement? It was about the population that uses GLP drugs. If they would simply exercise, they would not experience the side effects that is experienced at these drugs. But no one wants to do that. Yeah, it's a shame. It's a shame that it gets a bad rep. Yeah, I lost my vision on GLP once. So you stopped eating any kind of nutrition foods. And now you're, you know, I will say, I was in a meeting with pharmacists. I was in a meeting with pharmacists since our last video and we were discussing GLPs. And the, at least the stance in the United States is that we don't know the long-term effects of any of these drugs. So no doctor, no pharmacist, no scientist, at least in the United States can tell you that a GLP drug is safe long-term. We don't know, right? We've not, these drugs are rushed to the market. They continually rush to the market and they're not necessarily safe. I'm not saying don't use them. I'm saying just be aware that, especially if someone online is telling you that these are perfectly harmless, they're full of shit. We don't know that. No one can tell you that. Right, but there's no thing that's wrong. In the scientific evidence, you know, I mean, when I did a retrogelutide deep dive or even when I talked about lyricalutides, terzepidide back in the day, you know, you go through all the side effects and how you can mitigate them by just following a healthy lifestyle. Doesn't mean that they're not there. Like I just did my bloodthrower to see what, because I haven't used the GLP one receptor agonist for a while. So I started back with retrogelutide to make it died a little bit more tolerable. So my mood stays intact. And it's either hardcore dieting in no mood or using a GLP one to suppress the appetite and then my mood is high. So it's, you know, I'm trying to find a fucking balance. So that's why I use them because my mood is so much better on a GLP one, even though a lot of guys get depression on it, which is weird. I've seen the research around that, which is quite fascinating, but disruption to serotonin metabolism more so. And dopamine as well. And some of the suicidal tendencies that they're trying to postulate towards trezeppity more so is what you see a lot of anecdotal reports surrounding like increases in anxiety and then the anxiety trigger enough, not nice thoughts. So like Kurt said, we talk about these things. We talk about mechanistic actions, but yes, very well true that like us, we discuss these things, but there's never an absolute of you must do this or this is safe or whatever. There's people who will talk about these things and make them gospel that everyone should be taking a GLP and everyone should be doing this, that and the other, that just no way you could make these absolute statements towards stuff that existed for maybe, I think Lyric Glutide was released 50 and 16 years ago, I think after top of my head, it's not too long. Before it hit the market, I think it was first, I first started using it about four years ago. Yeah, four years because it was about six months before the Olympia. Then I started talking about it. Nobody talked about it about Lyric Glutide and semi-glutide. And then I went to the Olympia and it was on all the billboards. Ozympic, Ozympic everywhere. I was like, what the, this is my fault. Because nobody talked about it back then. So it's only been around for four years and you see plenty of issues, but that's always or most of the time in people who are unhealthy to begin with. So they were diabetic or that, you know, to life-solid issues. To this point though, I think drug was invented a long time ago. The drug was invented a long time ago. It just didn't come to the public eye. Like all these drugs, most of the time you don't see them for years. There's a process for the FDA to approve something. So I've just looked it up there. Lyric Glutide was approved by the FDA in 2010 for the US and 2009 for the EU. So it's been around, like I said, about 15 years that these sort of first line things that were designed for type two diabetes, we just started to make the connection between the GLP-1 receptor, improving pancreatic function. And then as a consequence, Grahlin become unsuppressed. That now obviously we're looking at using these compounds from an appetite suppression perspective as opposed to type two diabetes and a pancreatic effect. That I think slowly over time, these things will be classed as, well, they're already classed, but they will become anti-obesity drugs as opposed to diabetic drugs. Because I think right now, in terms of how they're discussed, here's a diabetic drug that you can take off label, which will suppress your appetites. Do you think it are gonna make a combination with AOD-9604? Well, the way it's going and bio-glutides, eventually you're gonna have this big giant protein that just serves bloody everything. And then maybe you're getting close to like, well Kurt is on about exercise memetics, that you just got this big giant protein that has all these peptide chains coming off it. Yeah. It just diffuses. It's like 20 different peptides. Which if anyone has any background in drug development, creating protein drugs is a big, big, big wormhole in that if the protein incorrectly falls, you are FUCKED. Yeah. So, like it's a pipe dream. A few moments later. Welcome to the Unabullet Ground Table, episode 15, part two. We had some technical difficulties the last time. And then scheduling happened. Kurt got busy, Dean got busy, and I got busy. And now we're back for part two. We were talking about bio-glutide. And I believe in the meantime, people were actually trying that, but I'm still not convinced that the bio-glutide that's on the market is actually real. Because there's no cast number. And the people that have been trying it so far, they've reported not really astronomical effects. Yeah. Did you guys hear anything in the meantime? No. Not really, right? Just so people are shown with the oral bio-glutides, whatever it is, SS, whatever the code name is, all of that. Yeah, and 931, I think. Yeah, sorry. So yeah, I mean, Time Hotel, and this alongside the other mega-dosing experiments we're seeing come out. I'm sitting in anticipation, watching of what's gonna happen. Obviously, the popularity of the high-dose SLU. And I think you're gonna try it, Steve. I'm on it right now. Now, let me tell you this. It's easier to get lean and difficult to get fat. So it's basically like DNP. And my hands are very clammy and sweaty, and it's very easy to get flat also. So I had to increase my carbs and fat loss is just continuous. So when my mom was here for three weeks, obviously you eat a little bit more off-diet. You wanted to eat Thai food and Italian and Japanese, and she had a whole list of restaurants ready. So we went to all of them, and I'm no longer at a point where I bring Tupperware. So if we go to a restaurant, I'm just gonna eat. Normally I would just get chunky in that setting, but I didn't. That's the first. After three weeks of eating in restaurants, I barely gained any fat. So it took me one week to get back on the program, and I'm continuously losing fat. So I did some blood work after the four-week mark, but I was also on trend. So I started my sister out and see went up slightly. That always happens to me when I'm on the Trimbalani sandwich. And now the blood work again, I think this weekend or the weekend after, and then I'll release a video about high-dose SLU. But so far, so good. I didn't see any negative effects besides my wallet being drained, because it's not cheap, but it's cheaper than doing the capsules because I got the powder from China, obviously. So yeah, so far, so good. But I'll do some blood work, and then I'll make a video about it, and then draw my conclusions. What's the total usage? 400 milligrams per day. No, everything combined. Everything combined? Oh, you have 20 minutes? Sure. Yeah, okay, okay, so. Fuck, here we go. I was on 300 tests, 300 DECA, and 150 trend, because I ran out of mint. So I did like, I ran out of mint, and I didn't want to get more. So I ran 2,500 grams of trend, because okay, that's fun. 50 milligrams of trend per week. Okay, that's fun. I was like, fuck it. I have like six weeks left on 150 milligrams. Got one valve of trend left. So I did six weeks on 150 milligrams trends. Not the end of the world, so 750 milligrams total. Yeah, so that's pretty okay, so I did one milligram in-collects, and mitochondrial support stack. So that's one milligram mod C, one milligram SS3-1, 10 milligrams methylene blue, and then a whopping, albeit animal dose extrapolated, clinically approved dose for animals, 400 milligrams per day. So that's 100 milligrams, four times per day, but because the half-life is pretty short, and I had one of those microgram scales, but in the end, I just eyeballed it with a little spoon, because I measured it like for two weeks, 100 milligrams so many times. So you know, this looks pretty accurate, so sometimes it's 90 milligrams, sometimes it's 120, so I'll probably end up between 350 and 450 per day. And yeah, it's strong, very energetic. One milligram of used in-collects a day? Yeah, cool. Yeah, it's close to the X-BREX. Actually, it's already expired. It expired September 2025. So I have three vials to go. And so that's another 120 days at one milligram a day. Yeah, I like it more than GH. Okay. I started GH yesterday at six, yeah, I started GH yesterday at six I use, and today I'm sleepy AF. So at least from in-collects, I don't get sleepy. The bumps are insane. Do you feel good on them? Yeah. Some guys have told me they don't feel great on in-collects. It definitely works, but... Really? Wow, what do they say? Just didn't feel very well. Hmm, send it to me. I'll take care of it. I think you finish it all. Oh, shit. Oh, that's fine. Yeah, so now last week I started 600 tests, 600 DECA, and 250, no, 250 on the draw. Okay. Yeah. That's the potent stack. Yeah. Yeah, added in the GH, and now we're gonna close it off until the end of the year with the buying, because again, I kept getting flat, and I kept eating more food. So the SLU is making me burn through carbohydrates quite fast. I'm at 150 carbs per day right now, still flat. So I was like, you know what, anodrol, GH, I don't wanna eat more, so I'm gonna get lean. And then hopefully at one point, this face will represent what I got going on underneath my shirt. Because yeah, with test DECA, anodrol and GH hold a lot of water. I wake up and I look nice. You're like, I look pretty lean, and then you have one meal and one workout. And you're like, ooh, the pumps are insane though. It's a lot of fun. So it's so far so good. Might add in a little bit of Primo later on. Take the DECA out, add the Primo, maybe a little bit of masteron. Still have some left. I'm like, remember when we warned everybody about the raw shortage, and nobody stocked up. Nope. And I did though, and I know you guys did also. So I'm enjoying myself running Test and Primo at masteron. And everybody else is like, ah, Steve, where'd you get it? Said, oh, I got it last year. When we know the shit was going to hit the fat. Yeah, they know when to listen. So surprisingly, I think some people at the Mr. Olympia showed that they were not really able to source high quality gear, even though it was one of the best lineups ever. You saw it like in a couple, like in the third and second, fourth call out, in classic physique, in mince physique, and also open bodybuilding, where some guys are like, doesn't look like your gear's real. Or you peaked horribly. Yeah. You know? Well. And bodybuilding's going to get interesting. Yeah, it's not going to get any better. Did you guys see the interview with Janak Shik at, I think, Big Bodybuilding? I heard. Okay. It's great. It's already at 20,000 views. The guy from Janak Shik, Mike, I think, his name, he said it's terrible right now. People can't even get test. Yep, I see that here. And then. Fuck, dude. Well, I don't think price is going to get even higher soon. Yeah, it's... Yeah, well, I mean... It's not even a price thing. If there's just no supply, what are they going to do? Yeah. TRT prescribed. Good. Yeah, I know a clinic. For you. Well, in the UK, a TRT prescription of four shots of sustenance per month, or even two every two weeks, is around 250 pounds. So it's... Wow. They dose the Susanan one shot every two weeks? Yeah, some of the TRT clinics in the UK do once every two weeks. It's got to feel good. Some of the clinics that then offer testosterone and anti-arcipinate as like a single vial, or it's normally a multi-dose vial, the prescriptions are insane and cost that. That's why a lot of people in the UK sort of go underground for their TRT, just from the share markup of what it is to get it pharmaceutical. Yeah, it's the same in most countries. The TRT prices are insane. My neighbor, he started TRT a couple months ago and he got it prescribed here through a reputable clinic and they were charging him on Arm and Leg. So I told him, watch this YouTube channel, my YouTube channel, about how to self administer TRT and then he just started buying it that the pharmacy did or recommended and now he spends like $10 a week or something on his test and a Romacin and some ancillaries. So he's like, man, it's been less than 50 bucks a month now. And that's how much TRT should cost in my opinion. Unless you need real proper guidance, like the guidance, okay, fine. Coach or some doctor that you have to pay for, fine. But if you know what to do, self prescription is reasonably inexpensive. Yeah. You know, so, well, it is what it is. So we're now like 50 minutes into this podcast. We wanted to talk about kidney health. So let's transition into that. Last time we talked a lot about blood pressure management. People got upset, but that's okay. Because telmasartan should be around year round. So I think now is a good time to kind of transition into kidney health and how to manage that. It's not so many things we can discuss obviously, because well, once the kidneys are broken, you're kind of done and dusted for, right? Career is over. So most of the stuff that we do is preventative. One of that is managing your blood pressure. So let's not hammer on that again. I want to start with Dean, because you're a doctor. So I'm told. Yeah, someone told. Someone said you're a doctor. I just play one online. At least I don't hold it above everybody's health, that I'm a doctor. So yeah, maybe you can share some insights on where to get started with kidney health, besides managing blood pressure. You know, hydration is always important. I think when we look at the causality of kidney disease and do steroids themselves cause kidney disease, I don't think we have conclusive evidence in humans to say that steroids cause kidney disease. It's almost a secondary artifact. I guess one thing that maybe may occur is if you've got genetic underlying susceptibility for glomular sclerosis, whether that is primary or secondary. So normally what you'll see most pro bodybuilders end up with is focal, segmental, glomular sclerosis, FSGS. That's what Flexwheeler ended up getting. And sometimes that can be primary driven by oxidative stress, no doubt from anabolic steroids, blood pressure, but there can be changes in the tubules of the kidney genetically. So I guess most people probably won't screen their genetics to see how they're at risk of kidney disease before going down this path. But the most important thing, obviously we've covered it in the last podcast, blood pressure is at the very top for kidney health because the kidneys are basically taking the brunt of that pressure. The way I was trying to explain it is, imagine your kidneys are like a spider web that those glomulars are like a spider web, very delicate, they catch and filter selective things. If you drop some water onto a spider web, gently, it'll pass down through the spider web out to the side. If you get a hose and you blast a spider web with a hose, go buy. You get an angry spider. Yeah, you get an angry spider. But that's sort of the analogy of the thinking ahead. If you're blasting these glomulars, they're very delicate web type structures with high blood pressure. Eventually over time, little tiny tears are going to occur and they're not going to select to be catch or filter what you're supposed to. So I guess without even segueing into like blood pressure, oxidative stress is the very first place to begin with the kidneys. Some really useful interest in research around the use of glutathione, cordyceps mushroom towards improving kidney health. We've also got some nice, I guess Chinese herbal studies with astragalus for selectively removing some creatinine from the bloodstream. And I guess, you know, when we're looking at kidney health, we shouldn't really panic surrounding a creatinine value specifically in that the amount of things that are going to influence creatinine like our liver markers, training intensity, creatinine supplementation, high protein diet. If we're really trying to assess kidney filtration rate, we'd probably best avoiding creatinine as a supplement for two weeks, lower protein intake down to maybe one gram per pound body weight, resting for four days prior to your blood draw. And this is only if we were really suspecting that that creatinine value is creating a very low filtration rate. But the other thing I guess to make people aware of is that the EGF4 calculation is based on the normal population. So it doesn't take into account BMO or so, it doesn't take into account how much muscle mass you're carrying, your age, your height, your race. So we see that there's difference between blacks and Caucasians in terms of the effects on blood pressure and EGF4 and creatinine production. It's more so then we have to then decide based on other factors like you said, there's cystatin C or ADMA, just so there's other markers that we can use to really accurately assess the kidneys. Yeah, you have the DMSA and ADMA. I tried to look for testing them here in Thailand, but they're not available, but cystatin C is, so it's dimethyl... Asymmetric dimethyl-erginine, the ADMA. And that's more so really a marker of ADMA is involved in nitric oxide breakdown. So it just gives us an idea surrounding oxidative stress in relation to the kidney health. So if you're methylene blue, then you might get a skewed level. Because it inhibits nitric oxide synthase. It's high dose. I think in terms of first step kidney health, one-on-one oxidative stress is at the top. And managing appropriately NAC or glutathione or your glycine glutamine, things that are laying into the creation of glutathione. And then do we have data to say like what we've discussed in the past with the steroid ranking, certain steroids are more nephrotoxic towards the kidneys? I don't think we have that data other than the rabbit study that we always bring up about baldenone. Well, there's actually quite a few studies that study the effects of baldenone in animals and humans. And humans are all retro-perfective studies, obviously, because it will be unethical to kind of prescribe people baldenone and then see what happens on with the kidneys. But long story short, the conclusions of most of these studies show that the nephrotoxic effects of baldenone can be prevented or ameliorated with antioxidants. Whether that's vitamin C or a royal jelly. So that's an extracted honey production process. What was it? Cordyceps and a few other things that ameliorated the negative effects of baldenone. So I always recommend it if you run baldenone, which is the only steroid that has been studied in the context of kidney toxicity. I think there was one deannable study as well showing some kidney toxicity that it's very important to take your antioxidant. And luckily people are now coming full circle to reintroduce antioxidants again, because the natural community was going a little bit hard on preventing antioxidant intake, especially around training, around to train before or after, because it blunts the post-exercise stress response. And of course, natties need every angle they can get, so they would not take antioxidants. And then the steroid community did a poor extrapolation from that time. We don't need it too, because otherwise our steroids are not going to work. That's how they avoided antioxidants altogether. That's a good way to get to kidney problems if you're running baldenone or perhaps some other steroids. And the funny thing is, like these studies that were performed on baldenone on the animals and humans have not been reproduced in other steroids. So based on the chemical composition, it's very likely that any kind of steroid due to oxidative stress could cause some kidney problems, but unfortunately it's never been studied. So people say that baldenone is kidney toxic, yes, but the other steroids probably also, unless you take some freaking antioxidant. And it seems not to matter what kind of antioxidant as long as you take some antioxidant. And it could be Methylene Blue, Glutathane, NAC, Vitamin E. Estradiol is some antioxidant effects in the endothelium. So I think if you keep your antioxidant status quite high, you're already preventing a world of pain later on in life. And that always makes me wonder, all these body butters that got kidney problems, how bad was their oxidative stress? You know, in hindsight. I guess so. I was just thinking the human studies was the EQ run solo, it was when it's parenable, right? Not equipoise. Yeah, parenable, yeah. So some are used parenable and others were using undergound labs. You don't know the carrier oil, you don't know how much benzoyl, benzoate, benzoalcohol was used, some people are allergic to those. You don't know, they weren't tested. Okay, I would say standard for EQ would be two and 20 for BA, BB. Yeah. So they can order to make it liquid at 200. What, I was just curious because I wonder if it were used solo, if the suppression, the full suppression of Estradiol from the EQ alone could have just allowed some oxidative stress to occur. Exactly. Right, so it wasn't necessarily again, EQ directly, it was what else the EQ on it's, like who would run EQ on its own? Yeah, a lot of Europeans go back in the day. Well, some horses, yeah. Horses, but it's a naturally carbon-hormone horses, so it's different than horse. Yeah, and beetles, I think. Okay. Yeah, I think more of a study with cows, right? And they did, they have the control group and the equipoise group, and when they tested them both at the end of the study, they all tested positive for equipoise, they realized that cows produced both unknown as well. Ah, right, right, right. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, it's funny in that sense that only bouldernut has been extensively studied in this context and not the other hormones, where you would expect, you know, in a safety and efficacy profile study, that mastrone or primobolon or trimbolone at least would have some scientific data, but again, mastrone and primobolon is paper thin and only in the context of cancer. And trimbolone, there's nothing to be found unless you go to the vault of Merck. And there was nothing out there to be stopped.  in-vitrofabriolab there. It's a trial on outcomes of pregnant women and things like that. Probably the reason why they did the EQ was when it was parenobol, it was around from what, 1939-1979? So it was prescription drugs for a long time. But hard to find. I don't know a lot of bodybuilders in the 70s that didn't even have access to it, even though it was around. Yeah, and otherwise they probably got the veterinary grade, 50ml for 1ml. Yeah, the Gannaball or whatever. Yeah, Gannaball. Oh man, or the big Pfizer-Equipoise bottles, 50ml. Yeah, the ones you can fucking hammer somebody to death with. Yeah, so in that context, scientifically there's not much to go with. And we do know that oxidative stress and high blood pressure obviously is deleterious to kidney health. But I always wonder if there's something else. Like regarding Boston Lloyd passing away, he was pre-erectalus. But we always suspected that due to his abuse of adipotide, that his kidney started to fail really later on in life. So adipotide is a peptide that causes apoptosis in the fat cells and you have to inject that sub-Q. But obviously if you inject something subcutaneously, it might cause systemic and it could probably also cause apoptosis in the nifrons. So I always tell people to avoid compounds like adipotide because that sounds like kidney disease in a bottle basically, or kidney failure in a bottle. Yeah, people still use it though. I'm fine. You're fine until you're not. Yeah, well, kids just don't really show physical stress until they're at 25%. And at that point, you're on dialysis. Mine was functioning at 40 and I had no physical signs. Oh, yeah, you have one kidney, right? Yeah, I have unilateral renal agenesis. Okay, so you have to be extra careful. So you make... Go on. No, you can... I'm just wondering, like, of course, you learn to live with that. So maybe you can give some insight on what you typically avoid, what you have to do proactively to keep your single kidney functioning at the highest capacity. So it's not as rare as people would think. It seems to mostly be occurring in men when women are born with... So it's something you're born with. It's supposed to be on chromosome 6. It's a defect of chromosome 6. I don't have a defect on my chromosome 6, so they're not sure where mine came from. It's generally carried on the mother's side down and expressed in the sun. It's found in mothers with double uterus. A lot of times, we'll pass on that kidney gene, but again, they don't understand the connection there. I didn't discover until I was 40. And I was out of the gym at that period of time for like a decade and I was drinking a lot of alcohol at that time, which I'm sure did not help my kidneys. I had smoked in the past, probably didn't help my kidneys. Not eating any sort of structured diet for that period of time as well. And when it was discovered, it was my EGFO was a 40. So again, no physical signs. It was running poorly, but close enough that it was a trouble. At that point, I just went back to the gym. I stopped drinking. I haven't drank since. Obviously, I cleaned my diet back up and I went back to what I'm doing now. I did introduce testosterone at that point, which just for general health, my testosterone was low. Later on, I introduced growth hormone, which probably was the largest contributor to improving my kidney function. My eGFR is now 108. So I went from 40 to 108 and re-grew my nephrons. And is an eGFR based on C-sat and C or creatinine? Even my regular eGFR with weight, not a lot of muscle, not included with some want to weight. Okay. So that was probably the largest contributor for me. But the warning is if people are using underground lab GH, that's not missing and have the same effect, right? Because of the Blocsimer 188 that we talked about in the letter one, right? Did we talk about the last video? Yeah. The additive that can cause other. So I usually see what guys do in the generic stuff when they get to like six IUs or two milligrams, the kidney function starts to go down. And when they type with the dose down, a lot of times it'll go back up. That doesn't mean every single brand of underground lab GH is going to do that, but we don't know what grade fillers they're using. That's the issue. No, they don't test for that. And John and Shayk or the other labs, they don't test for the fillers. No, they're just isolating the GH part. So just a warning, I wouldn't go trying to mimic that at home yourself without. So I monitored by a doctor. Right. So it's a little different. I mean, I don't think I do anything crazy out of the ordinary to my maintenance. Like I said, I would never drink alcohol again. I use creatine. So creatine in recent studies has actually shown that improves kidney function, especially people with kidney disease. My protein is a gram per pound or a little more. That doesn't affect kidney function. My pillow. Yeah, I burnt down a little bit. I think I used to eat more. Just I don't even know what it was doing when I was eating that much. Yeah, I don't think anything out of the ordinary. I think it's just being aware. You know, I obviously don't play any contact sports anymore, things like that. All right. You know, I think that's something I'm not supposed to ski anymore. You know, but I don't think anything really out of the ordinary. Just, you know, get labs. Right. Keep track of it. And it's, you know, it could be worth getting, you know, some scans or ultrasounds just to have a look at your organs. Because like I said, it's not that rare. They usually find it during an autopsy, though. Most men aren't aware that they have it for most of their life. Right. So it's something you live with and then it progresses to the point that it's still livable till you pass away. Well, what was fascinating is I guess a lot of people with not necessarily the majority, but a lot of people with it will end up developing high blood pressure or diabetes or something related to kidney health. Like that and something the doctor will start to figure out what's wrong. I didn't have any of those signs. My blood pressure was always normal. And obviously I'm not overweight out of diabetes. I don't have any of the classic symptoms of someone with kidney issues. Right. Because they went out and detected and when, you know, when you're younger and the doctor palpitates to like fill your organs, I don't know what he was feeling because there's no kidney there. So that's misdiagnosis of the century, right? Yeah. Please, please, please do an ultrasound or MRI. So see what's going on. Yeah, I've had my fair share of ultrasounds and MRIs on the kidney because you know, creatinine super high 1.95 at my highest, but it was very, very heavy and doing too many sets of failure and taking too much creatine. And then you realize when you do more research and this is what many bodybuilders go through. Where at first you do your creatinine test, you get your eGFR, it's like 50 or something like that. And the doctor is giving you the fear of mongering, preachy, you know, talk that you're going to die. And then later on you realize that, okay, creatinine can be elevated from training intensity and your hydration and creatine supplementation. And, you know, of course, you can look at two other biomarkers regarding your kidney health like creatine, phosphokines, blood through your nitrogen and cyst adenine or the asymmetrical dimethyl arginine. Yeah. Okay. So that one, that's what you find out later because general practitioners never bring that to the forefront. Now some of the T-articulantics talk about cyst adenine and what is it, ADMA? SMA? SMA. I can't remember what it is off the top, but it's a microvoxidine of stress. No, the ASMA, asymmetric dimethyl arginine. Oh, ADMA, sorry. ADMA, sorry. Okay. So later on you figure out that that's actually the correct way to keep track of it and protein in your urine. That's an early indication. So I don't know about you guys, but over the last decade, I've coached many a bodybuilder through the protein in the urine scare back to good health by recommending them to keep their estrogen in a range, looking into the oxidative stress, their blood pressure, and using something like astrogalus root extractor to lower the inflammation around the kidneys. Now it doesn't mean that it's always gets resolved. I think a slight amount of albumin in the urine is livable. Of course, it's not ideal, but if you see a protein plus one on your urinalysis, that's when I would start to worry. Have you guys seen that and how reversible is that? Well, what have you done to kind of improve the conditions of these bodybuilders because it's still happening, but it shouldn't happen anymore. I guess what you've touched on there is the size of the protein. So when we're looking at detecting creatinine in the urine, creatinine is a tiny little molecule. And then the next step up is the statin C, which is even bigger. So if you put into Google, anyone watching this, if you put creatinine molecular shape or molecular size, the statin molecular size and an albumin, you'd see the difference in the gradient of size of the amino acid structure. With albumin, I guess at that point, if you have a big, giant protein not being filtered back into the bloodstream by the kidneys, where the kidneys should basically be quite selective in what it filters, if you have a big, massive hole that's allowing the albumin to pass down into urine collection, I think once you've got a level of albumin, urea, as in you've got albumin versus protein, urea, it's going to be quite difficult to reverse repairing like the analogy with the spiderweb, where you've got a giant hole in the spiderweb. At that point, you're probably best off playing to your strengths and removing some of the stuff that's going to put pressure on the kidneys themselves, so that filtering capacity. So that's where some of the myths of high protein intakes being damaged into the kidneys come from, because obviously if you've got albumin, urea in your urine, and you're eating a very high protein diet, you're creating albumin within the body, which is then passing into your urine, so it's coming as a direct out effect of your nutrition. So you reduce your protein, of course you're going to have less protein in your urine then, but it doesn't necessarily mean that high protein diet is the cause for having the kidney disease in the first place. Or that you'll fix your kidneys somehow in the meantime. Correct. You're just leaking less because you're consume less. Correct. And I think at that point, your strategy is to almost, I wouldn't say cheat to result, but you've got a damaged kidney, which is going to be quite difficult to repair. So your strategy is basically how can I preserve the function of the kidney as it is now versus repairing the kidney. So it's not like the liver where we know the liver has those BMSC stem cells that can come in and repair the liver to an extent. It's very, very unlikely that you're going to get stem cell infiltration into repair nephrons that have been damaged. Like a nephron, if you look at the anatomy of a nephron versus the anatomy of like a hepatocyte liver cell, nephrons are so complex in that you've got at least 10 distinct sections too that are doing different jobs based on the point along the nephron. It's not just like a liver cell has CYP enzymes, it produces bile. It's a very relatively simple cell. The nephron, has a filtering capacity, has a reabsorption. It's tightly controlling the blood volume. It's correcting blood volume drops with renin. It's retaining sodium. It's excreting potassium. It's regulating glucose. There's so many different things to that. Once it's damaged, your best strategy is offsetting further damage than, oh, I'm going to fix my kidneys. Like I said, when people see these changes in creatinine, creatinine falls from removing creatine and not training to failure, not eating a high protein diet, some antioxidants. Yeah, of course, the un-papered EGF4 is going to go up because it's a calculation, but it doesn't necessarily mean that the actual physical structures repair itself. At that point, to be honest, when you've got some level of kidney disease or kidney damage, bloods are useful to monitor a track and progression of the disease. Really using something like CT scans of the kidneys or ultrasounds to track the physical progression of the organ in real time is really a better solution. You brought up anyone listening to this that's worried about kidney health, what you're doing. A hundred urine test strips on Amazon cost about $9. And for the cost of like $9 to tests, you could do one test every day and that's three months covered. What do you talk like $45 to cover yourself for a year? Not even at $36, $4 quarters. You know, it's a very inexpensive way. And then if you want, whenever you see your primary care physician, get them to do an advanced ACR test where they actually look at albumin to creatinine ratio of your urine to give you an even better insight. Yeah, you can also do a 24 hour urine collection test. I would recommend everybody to do that twice a year. It's very cumbersome obviously because if you drink like four to six to eight liters of water, you have to collect all of it. You can miss a drop because that's how they get the actual colonial filtration rate based on your urinary cyst adency and urinary creatinine levels compared to what's in your blood. And if you miss one urine, then obviously the calculation is not going to be correct. So that's what I would recommend everybody to do at least once or twice per year. And it's cumbersome, but it's less cumbersome than going in for an MRI or CT scan. You know, this you could do from the comforts of your home, you bring it back with you to the gym if you pee there and then you collect everything and just throw in a big jug and then take it with you to the clinic. Let's say, look at all the urine I produced, aren't you proud of me? I got like one time, I got like 10 liters. So and then I did the ultrasound right to see if anything was going on. I had one of those, you know, health preaches from the doctor after my creatinine was like 1.9. So I did the 24 hour urine collection test and an ultrasound and everything came back normally. And you see that the funny thing is the eGFR can be super low. And then you do the actual GFR based on the creatinine from your urine and your blood results. And then you see, okay, creatinine is highest in my blood, but it's also high in my urine and it's actually filtering appropriately. You just produce a lot more and then you check your system and see and it's perfectly in line like 0.68 milligrams per liter and you're like, okay, can breathe again. But I think many of these bodybuilders including myself, you know, when you don't know yet, you get, yeah, you get scared and then you go through the ringer of all these tests. But I think it's important to keep doing that every year because, you know, blood pressure you can manage obviously, liver will regenerate, but the kidneys are once it's broken, it's kind of broken forever. And I don't really feel that stem cells are that conclusive to make it better. And well, you could do a kidney transplant, but with the rejection drugs, you know, and then the invasive surgery, I don't think that's a permanent solution either. And then kidneys after the surgery, how long do you last, seven or 10 years, something like that, you know, it's not like they last the rest of your life. Yeah, so it's prevention is the best cure in the sense. I see a lot of guys that had protein urea was able to reverse it. But that's never really to the point that they had like a plus three or severe album, albumin aria, where, you know, they're beyond help, because at some point you just have to tell them to stop. I'm sure Dante Turgel could have some horror stories because everybody went to him. The point is just like he's exhausted because it keeps happening. And it's it's weird because it seems a lot of bodybuilders still don't control their blood pressure or manage to oxidize the stress or avoid compounds like FTP and anapotide. You know, Kurt, did you ever get like in your coaching career, like guys with severe kidney problems that were irreversible? No, I have a current client who has some ongoing kidney issues with infections in his kidneys, but he's under care of several doctors. I'm not sure exactly what's going on. Yeah, okay. I started Ben Chow did a show and he had some protein urea, he had some kidney issues, and he was able with a lower dose and some mitochondrial peptides, because I was able to keep everything under control while he was prepping for a show. So that's an anecdotal report of one, that it is doable to get back on stage. Of course, he didn't post his blood work results, but what I understood from the Instagram stories is that his kidney function actually improved during this contest prep. He kept the dose just moderate and he credits the improvement of the blood work regarding the kidney markers to the oxygen or to the mitochondrial peptides like MOTC, SS-31, and etc. Now there isn't really much in the scientific evidence to support it, these mitochondrial peptides, but you would say that upregulating mitochondrial function and reducing oxidative stress should have some overlapping benefits in the kidneys. My kidney markers did not improve over the last year that I've been using these peptides, but then again, my kidneys are functioning perfectly fine. My creatinine is a little bit elevated, but it's not something I'm worried about. Did you guys see anything, any improvement from certain compounds in kidney markers besides acergalozoic extract that is able to lower creatinine to a certain extent and growth hormone to a certain extent? Not really. I guess even what you said there about peptides improving kidney function are not seeing an improvement in kidney function blood work. I think it's very selective because you have to then view, do those peptides influence, creatinine metabolism and the fact that mechanical breakdown of muscle tissues can release creatinine and you're going to have an increase of creatinine activity. I think I'm very skeptical. Blood work, like I said a few moments ago, it's not the greatest controller of kidney health management. You could have a very high creatinine value and why I often say to people is your trend is more important than the actual figure. So let's say in the UK, I'm not sure of a milligram is per deciliter for the US, and I always have to use a calculator, but for the UK, the core off I think is around 125 for creatinine and the normal range. Let's say you start your cycle and your creatinine is 110 and you're training intensely, you're having creatinine as a supplementary, eating high protein diets and then six weeks later you've put on four or five kilos of muscle mass from going back on cycle. I probably expect that person's creatinine to maybe go up five or six, so go from 110 to about 115. That to me is a normal trend and then that's a steady trend because they have an influence on any of the factors that affect it like training, creatinine intake dietary protein, they've kept all the variables the same so there's no change in bias. Now if that person's baseline was 110, for six weeks on cycle it goes to 115 and then six weeks later at the end of the 12-week cycle, the creatinine is now about 145. That change in trend now to me is well, I really have put on 15 kilos of muscle mass or something's not right with the kidneys where more creatinine is going into your bloodstream. Again, you come off cycle, you lower that creatinine kinase activity, you lower obviously your muscle protein synthesis with being back to like either you know TRT or whatever that naturally might see that creatinine level fall and what maybe you might reflectively see is you're going from 145 back then to that baseline of 110 before you went on cycle. That's sort of returning to your baseline number on your trend and saying okay well something changed at the end of week 12-week cycle, whether it was oxidative stress or whatever which is causing more creatinine to come back into the bloodstream but now being back at TRT you're back to your baseline creatinine. Returning to that baseline number doesn't tell you that you didn't do damage to your kidney at that 145, it's just saying that all variables considered you've gone back to 110. And you lost all your gains. Is that your muscle mass is the same as before the cycle? It chips up elevated by two or three points so you know you're keeping some of the muscle mass in the strain. That's just an example of like if you ended up with a very high number and then coming off cycle and going back to like your baseline TRT and I'm talking like oh let's say you go back to TRT and we're at the end of your eight or nine weeks TRT before going back on again. At that point again it's not like green light that I've not done any damage to my kidneys, it's a sanity check but the sanity check is basically okay should I be doing 3D diagnostics or not? Okay let's just go back on cycle again. So the use of blood work you should be trying to do further calculations so the crock-fort gelt equation is the main one that uses BMR even though BMR is very flawed it sort of can assess your body mass ratio towards your kidney filtration and then it's able to deduce is that crackly in value coming from muscle mass or it changed the calculation slightly and then you've got this astatancy crackly in calculation or I think it's called the epi calculation that uses both values and you can add in other variables to the calculation in terms of ethnicity, age, height, weight and also if you suspect that you've got unstable kidney function it'll change the GF4 with an error ratio on it, add it so then you can then actually then get a relatively good understanding of well how well are my kidneys working because you have to view EGF4 was designed for when a drug has to be administered IV how well can the kidneys take this brunt because the kidneys are going to take that drug very quickly that if kidney filtration rate is very poor there's a likelihood that that drug administered intravenously is going to damage the kidneys potentially irreversibly so it's a risk decision matrix as well with even if you're going to have contrast CT scans. Yeah, I'm just going to bring the galonidium contrast and iodine to make the checker kidney function first because it's very heavy on the kidneys. And normally what they do is they'll do a it's basically what what the sort of term is an excessive hydration protocol that as soon as they administer the contrast agent they excessively flush the kidneys to dilute that compound down very quickly. It's like a shunt procedure but you know even in that case if let's just say someone does inject your kidney health and decides from listening to some of our education I'm going to book in for CT underground when they do the follow-up prior to giving the contrast agent they might well find out there's actually something wrong with your kidneys. That I will have to find that out before because I do extensive testing for the kidneys before and I had to argue one time because my creatinine was elevated so your creatinine is too high so I might have more muscle mass that they're creating and I trained pretty hard so please check my sister and see blood urine nitrogen etc and they're like okay your kidney function is actually fine so this is something you have to argue with a doctor as well as a bodybuilder okay your creatinine might be 1.6 1.7 even which is linear to your body weight and training intensity and then they might not even accept you a purchase from several bodybuilders as well so yeah they didn't want to do galvanidium contrast or radioactive iodine for a CT scan so then you will run into this issue where you actually need to stop training stop creatinine and and over hydrate yourself for two weeks leading into the CT scan so you qualify and your your kidney markers are actually in an acceptable range for the doctor you know so this is always a bit of an issue I get the more muscular you get and the more gear you take the further you get away from what is accepted in the medical field and you might be perfectly healthy but on paper it doesn't look that way you know and then you can't even do the ultrasound through the CT scan because you're paying it's the same as blood donations right yeah your hemoglobin is way too high bro you can't donate what am I gonna do now you know let me take care of some of this ematicrate and so yeah these are the problems you're running to but it's it's also induced right it's we do it to ourselves to get so far away from the medical field and what's generally accepted so you need to wise it up and you know be a little bit ahead of the curve did you ever did you guys ever see a correlation between training intensity training volume training frequency in creatinine levels yeah as I have yeah yeah card for sure yeah I mean it just to break down right just yeah it's generally if you tell guys to not train so hard for a couple days before labs you should go back down I've seen I forgot about this I saw a former client his creatinine got over two from TMP did you do labs in your TMP I did TMP once and I didn't run labs okay I was just curious if you saw the same thing I don't have a ton of experience with TMP I was in Holland so you can only do labs once a year we didn't have private clinics so I would be you know like on TRT dose or off off everything okay when I did labs but like most of my experimentation with labs was here in Thailand because I could just run it every month if I want to you know have you seen it with TMP I'm not personally know but I can I can understand why it may may occur I mean you have to think how DMP works as a mechanistic factor of creating oxidative stress with uncoupling if you're creating oxidative stress in the body like what we talked about at the very beginning with something like DMP where it's unhinged oxidative stress it's very well likely that you're going to have the kidneys take that brunt as well as you know muscle protein breakdown with something like DMP unless you're using something to slow down or improve nitrogen retention like being on cycle and have an appropriate diet setup with that excessive lipolysis and free fatty acid oxidation with the uncoupling yeah it's very well understandable to see someone's crackney and go sky high with DMP especially if you're basically cooking cells from the inside out yeah I didn't I didn't advise them to take TMP I didn't find out till they went to the hospital that he was using DMP oh god  alucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucucuc and figure out the ratio between test and EQ, right? So you're not running it at a weird amount, right? Exactly, so you keep your estrogen nicely at the top of the reference range or slightly over. So no, the kidney issues from both the known is in the scientific evidence, but anecdotally for the bodybuilders who bodybuild, who know how to do this properly and stay healthy, no issues. I've seen it with DMP, you know, other people, obviously, and in other drugs, worsening kidney functions or uncontrolled blood pressure, where you just see creatinine or raptomialysis, which also happens sometimes, but that's usually in the endurance athletes, where they're like, I'm gonna run a marathon and then they don't consume adequate carbohydrates. And then they get raptomialysis and then there are CPKs, like 25,000 and creatinine is four and shaking, shivering in the hospital. Yeah. You know, and then they think they come back from that also, you know, this is the hydration for three days, four days, and it's perfectly fine again. My record with CPK looking on blood work is 12,000 and a world's strongest man athlete. So someone's yet to beat that record, but everything was creatinine was perfect, the statin C was perfect. So it shows you the density that these guys train at is. 12,000. On human. The highest ever guy, it was 3,500, 5,000 something like that. Gotta train harder. What you were saying before about labs and kidney function, my, I have scans done on mine. That's why I know there's an improvement. We're not just going by more curse than the blood, like you're saying. No. Yeah, it's important to do the scans. You know, it's cumbersome and annoying and you have to go through the doctor and explain why that you want to be preventative. But I think it's important to do every six months or depending on your source, assourcing or at least once a year. Of course, if you're on TRT, you're managing your blood pressure, you know, once every five years, fine. But if you're like for me, I use drugs to experiment and make videos about. So I go to a hospital all the time just to make sure that I'm okay and that I don't need to pull the plug or that I need to pull the plug because the experiment is a little bit too crazy for my liking, you know? So I do it frequently just to stay on top of my health. But so far, not on wood, besides that spout with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease which was food induced, not drug induced, you know, prevented from taking drugs obviously because of the stem cells in the liver. But yeah, I was able to resolve that as well. So I do notice that with training intensity, sometimes the back in the day you get clients and they're really like their drop sets in high density, right? They're hours in the gym and you see that the creatinine, the CPK is really high. And then you bring them down to, you know, maybe more frequency, higher intensity with low volume approach. And then the CPK and the creatinine goes down and they actually start growing because there's a lot less muscle breakdown instead of doing these crazy triple drop sets. And then I go, I'm finally growing, I'm a kidney marker, you're improving. So you're not burning yourself away from the inside out. So all these little things, you know, can contribute as well. And that's why I think that some of the bigger guys that train that way and have a high protein or a high carbohydrate diet, which also acts protein sparing obviously because it's an energy source more readily available than protein. So you have less muscle protein breakdown. I think their creatinine levels are actually quite okay because they train optimally and they eat optimally. And there's very low breakdown of protein and that's represented in the serum creatinine and creatine phosphokines. Yep, I drink carbs while I lift to prevent. Oh, really? Okay. Yeah. Yeah, so I think one of the reasons my micron levels are a little bit higher is because due to a ketogenic diet, I'm always on a high protein diet and I don't do interworkout carbs because that brings me out of ketosis. I have post-workout carbs, seven grams from fruits, but it's not much or 150 in disguise, but most of the time it's 70. You mean you're not doing the fruit diet? We don't know. No, no, no, I tried that. I was kidding. And then my insulin levels are all over the place. It was fun though. It's fun to eat a lot of candy. I felt like a little boy. I've been like a teenager. Felt like Halloween every day. Hahaha. Hahaha. Man, what a fun two months it was. No, nobody does it now. It went away quickly. Do we ruin that for everyone? Yeah. It's like one of those fat diets. I tried it though. I mean Chase, we tried it. Chase, come off of it after a couple of weeks. I think Mark Bell stopped. I stopped after four days. It was fun while it lasted man. Yeah. It was fun while it lasted. I think probably a dirty side that we've not discussed is the D word when it comes to kidney health. Diabetes. That and diuretics. Diuretics, yeah. We're talking about the fruit that they have, the sugar diet. Yeah. I mean, I'm considering the weekend that has gone by and some of the protocols I've seen. Sometimes utilized in the past. It's no wonder that some of the 90s bodybuilders ended up with kidney problems where you're sucking the kidneys dry almost like the Sahara Desert. Mercury based diuretics baby. You drink this. You have this. What is it Chad? It'll make your first place. Okay. Between injectable asics and, you know, I think what obviously what everything we've noticed over the last two years with bodybuilding since we started this podcast people are doing less crazy shit now when it comes to they're talking about it less because they don't want to get out it. Yeah. Well, yeah, well, that's that's to I mean, I mean, I've seen a well known pro bodybuilding coach. This is now like four years ago and one of the peaking protocols was A-50 milligram diazide every six to eight hours from four to five days out. Five days out. On the stage. Yeah. Five days. So this competitor ended up like a mummy on stage. Oh, it's not even a mummy. It's the end of the posts. Like the homostatic rebound. You're talking about a blood pressure. You know, but like a competitor that ends up like a Mitchell a man of like the marshmallow man with excessive anti diuretic hormone basically just goes out the window and now the person's sucking up every ounce of fluids that they're eating or drinking postage. The mineral imbalance heading for an arrhythmia. So when it comes to like kidney health, diuretics can be a big contributor towards chronic kidney disease. Yeah. And it can be so acute in terms of the window that it's been used that the damage that's done from that acute use is irreversible long term. So, you know, we've done the podcast on pleaking and getting ready for shows. Right. If someone has to, you know, manipulate diuresis and help their body expel a bit of fluid, you know, being a bit more intelligent with diuretic usage, understanding, you know, metabolically for their blood panel, if they've got, you know, healthy, magnesium, sodium, potassium chloride under bloods before even messing with diuretic skin on stage. We're going to for it. What's interesting is that with a telnosartan and bageloflowsen before bed, you can actually induce enough diuresis the night of or the day before the show and that you just get a driver look without this excessive sodium or potassium excretion that you get from traditional diuretics. So we're talking about 20 to 40 milligrams telnosartan and 25 milligrams and bageloflowsen. Or what is it? Half the dose of the bageloflowsen, but in bageloflowsen, it's a little bit easier to source. You can dry out quite nice and reduce the load of sodium without this weird, aldosterone rebound. And it seems to be quite favorable if you do growth hormone loading. So you use the impact of flow and to, you know, remove a little bit of the sodium in the glucose that might be excessive after a carb load, whereas with the diuretics, you you flush out all the water. It takes the water away from your intestinal tract and the kidneys, obviously. And they have blood pressure issues and constipation. So the coaches and the competitors I talked to, they switched the impact of flow and telnosartan for diuresis instead of. I was going to. You might, you might, if you go a little bit crazy post show, you use a little bit of aldactone to kind of keep the diuresis going. But again, with the impact of flow and you can retain the sodium balance quite well. And then, of course, you get the ad benefit of the glucose excretion where you don't get into this weird hormonal diabetes roller coaster because you're celebrating eating cheesecake 24 hours a day. You know, I was kind of joke that you mean you don't correct spale with more diuretics. Yeah, you do IV lasics every six hours, right? Right on the clock. 20 milligrams per somebody and two mls. Fuck, man. Back in the day, that was all it was available, dude. Yeah, normal is really using SGT2 as an intelligent way of clean. I'm going to get so many emails about this right now. And I'll read you. Yeah, we're giving away the secrets. Yeah, shit. People are going to be like, so we can use diabetic medications to correct. So you can't bulk it up. What about metformin? Can I use metformin? If you want to buy a bloated stomach on stage. Sure. Well, you know, that that aside diuretics and kidney health, you know, never mind steroids, the ad diuretics, heavy stimulant use, you know, excessive water consumption. You know, there is a lot of peaking protocols that relied around water ramping, which makes sense. Which makes which makes sense on paper. But again, every sort of swing there's around about that. If you drive water intake up higher and higher and higher, you're obviously diluting blood sodium with the excretion. And all top process there was basically that your body's going to accommodate diuresis to whatever fluid you're going to take your ramp up to something. Let's say normally you're drinking four litres and then by the end of the week, you're drinking 10. The kidneys get used to accommodate that 10 litre excretion that when you stop drinking the fluid, you continue to excrete or overshoot. But it's a temporary change with aldosterone and actually got a radical. Yeah, it's going up. But then eventually ADH comes up to me that and you've got about an eight to ten window, eight to ten hour window to take advantage of and then biology takes over. And then you retain everything and that's how you get cart failure. Yeah. And then obviously the blood pressure impacting the kidneys. So post show kidney out management, never mind running a cycle into a show. The two or three days peaking if you start doing silly things. You're doing everything right or leading into the show. It's usually after the show that you damage yourself. There's actually several Thai bodybuilders that died here. They did the Mr. Thailand. They do the aldosterone and the LASIK protocol the one week on aldosterone, 100 milligrams a day and then injectable LASIKs or tablet LASIKs the night before the show to make weight and get into the class and stand constipated on stage, but good enough to win. Then they qualify for Southeast Asia Championships or Asia Championships. Like, fuck man, I got to be in shape in three months. I better start eating because I can only eat for a week. And then I get to get back on a diet and then they retain everything. They stop the diuretics, stop the cycle and they retain all that water. They gain 25 kilos, not pounds, 50 pounds. And they have a heart attack. And this happened multiple times here in Thailand and all over Asia because these guys, they don't know. They just eat like assholes and then they don't be for a week, basically. And then the heart fills. Yeah. It's insane. So luckily, the English speaking bodybuilders, they're a little bit more aware. You should do that. You know, Steve, can you discuss the growth hormone loading thing that you're talking about? Ah, OK, so growth hormone loading is basically, you know, for the guys that are not 100 percent in shape, they take the growth hormone out three weeks before. I don't know. Let's be honest. True conditioning is hard to get by. Yeah. And like a look at Samson Dauda and Andrew Jack this weekend from the Olympia, they're finally in shape. After how many shows? All right. And then both of them are small. That's why Andrew was fourth. Samson was third because he retains the muscle a little bit better. So for the guys that have never been in shape, you take the growth hormone out and you manipulate the drugs a little bit to get fullness for something else, maybe from superdraw or halotest or whatever. You take the growth hormone out at the two week, three week mark and then you reintroduce it the last couple of days, the last two days, for example, before the show to restore a little bit of fullness that you might not get from carbohydrates or the steroids. Works very well for women. It's going to say, yeah, men, a little risk. It works very well for men, but you need to run like 24 IE's per day. One or one water retention that would occur with it. No, because it usually takes three or four days to say. OK, so you're missing that. Yes, so you're so from one or two days of growth hormone loading, especially after a weigh in, right? You you cut down your you might fast or cut fluids for the weigh in. Then you start growth hormone loading. And if you manipulate the electrolytes well, then the fullness comes back to the point that looks athletic. OK. And so and then the water comes after the show. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then after the show, you might need to take some old actone to kind of clear that up or in back with frozen to kind of, you know, because you do retain a little bit of exorciodium. So it's a careful, little balancing act. But if you do it right, I did it at the World Championships many times because growth hormone doesn't show up on a urine test. It all supposed to be natural, right? On the day of the show. So you do like for the women, maybe eight to twelve IE's or for the men, 24 IE's and they're off all the all the PD's on the day of the show. And then growth hormone is basically the only thing you can load into them because it's you can't detect that in serum or in urine urine. Yeah. And then and then we'll get some fullness that is unique. And they're like, I can't put my finger on it. And that's exactly what I wanted. Because they look fuller than everybody else. You know, so it's and of course, I would be there in person to kind of coach them through that protocol. And I believe, Dean, we discussed the protocol about glucagon, right? That's also a way to load up. It's also not detectable. I've never used it myself. But like all these little strategies is something you can practice with, but you need to take the growth hormone out. But you don't need to take the growth hormone out if you're truly in shape. Yeah, I agree. Let's be honest. I usually just lower it. Yeah, lower it. Yeah. You know, you go from from 18, I use the 12 or something like that. Or most guys I have go 46. Yeah. So you reduce the water attention that way. And again, if you're truly in shape and you only need a quarter dyes at or something like that at the end, that's fine. You know. Mm. I I found some ways to get to the stage. I found if if it was left in, you have like a much more like rounder looking physique. Whereas if I took it out for 10 days, you are absolutely like detail or as deep lines in the condition. So for me, anyway, the sensitivity of the the fluid or mineral retention was quite noticeable towards whether you're looking for a big visual globally appearance on stage or whether you really want to show the judges what sort of lines are in the glutes and hamstring. Yeah. And it seems that the water attention is only in the muscle if you do it for one or two days. Can it depends on the individual? Some people can get away with three days, but after three to four days, you you start to get subcutaneous water attention and you lose detail. So it's a it's a balancing act that most of the time paid off for my athletes. Now, keep in mind, most of my athletes were either bikini or they were covered in dream time or you don't see detail anyway. So you'd rather bring the fullness and separation. I had to give these guys a hug and you're it's like you've been wrestling in the mud, dude. I gave a lot of hugs at the World Championships because a lot of my guys are top three in the prize money. So I was like, bring it in, bro. And then you're like, you got to hold dream time. I love your body. Yeah, disgusting. Disgusting. Yeah, but that's, you know, that's what I was because still coaching. But I know several people do the growth from unloading and to great success. And it does bring a nice athletic and aesthetic look to the physique. Yeah, but you would change the water after the show, so you got to be extra careful. So it's OK, you can eat the night of the show, right? You go get your cheesecake factory in your in your, you know, your red velvet cheesecake, eight to nerd calories. And then Sunday, you're back on a diet. It's that simple. You got to deplete because you were 95, 99% carb-loaded for the show. Maybe you did some fat loading. So your insulin sensitivity is already ruined on the day of the show. You don't eat so much, right? Because you want to retain that look. You might do some growth hormone and anodrol and suspension or whatever. You have your cheesecake in the evening and then Sunday, you're back on the cardio machine and the dieting, you're just hydrating. But because if you start, if you continue to eat. That ain't good, man. You're beyond full. Then you're turned to the Michelin man, you know, in your old things starts to. I would do my wife on time. She was like eating for two days and then we flew back and you get more water attention in the place. Right. Then by the time she arrived, oh my God, she looked like worse than she started her diet. I said, okay, we're not doing this anymore. Yeah. So the diuretics for kidney health. Not a good idea unless you stay hydrated and you control your electrolyte intake because some guys like Chase, for example, he's on a low dose hydrochlorothiazide with his high dose growth hormone and it seems to be working quite well. And his kidney function is intact. I think that the problems come from kidney use is when you do it in combination of weird sodium and potassium protocols and water restriction, especially lasix like loop diuretics that are pushing against the kidneys to excrete, but there's no nothing to excrete. That's that's right. The problem is coming again, you know, mercury based diuretics are not being used anymore because they don't do diuretic testing into the Olympia anymore, but that that used to be a thing. Or a coach, which is recommended some weird protocol or insane diuretics in any combination thereof because they were not on the list yet. And then, you know, whatever we can do to get a diuretics effect, which again, most of these guys were in true shape. So it wasn't even necessary. Yeah. Then again, when you look at the pictures of the nineties to look a little bit better than the athletes now. So maybe maybe you do have to sacrifice your kidneys for a couple Olympias. Hey, man. I don't know. And I saw some on Instagram. You see the comparison. This was Mr. Olympia 2000, I don't know, 97 or something. And this is the current Mr. Olympia. Worst detail versus separation, worst vascularity. I'm like, there's something to say for that, you know? So maybe you just need to sacrifice your health to look absolutely insane inside out. Although, I mean, back then dieting mentality compared to today as well, back then they were just they'd eat sawdust, you know, they'd eat sawdust, if they're told today it's like it's been 24 hours and I haven't had a refeed. Yeah. I need some carbs. It's like, you know, I'm not. I honestly with some of the physiques, yeah, they have huge amounts of muscle mass and then you've got the area where these guys need to eat a lot of food to maintain that muscle mass. No doubt. But the point is to get on stage with like 90s conditioning, where you can like put your finger in between the distraitions that. Today are the guys truly dieting as hard as they should be, you know? And I think a lot of a lot of the coaches are being emotionally manipulated to keep them fed. So it's sort of like, OK, well, I need to keep this client on my side to retain this person and in the current business. Now, you need to keep these guys, you know, you see the fallout sometimes when a high level competitor leaves a coach, it's just drama all around. They didn't have to deal with that in the 90s. You had the bodybuilding magazines that was all filtered. There's no social media. You'd be lucky if you see one of these guys at a guest posing at your local gym or local bodybuilding show. But now everything is 24 seven full time access and there's a huge business. You know, so yeah, I think some of the coaches are a little bit complacent because they're afraid to lose the client and coach hopping is a real thing, obviously. And then social media blows smoke up their asses. So yeah, my coach is just telling me to fucking do two hours of cardio and no food. And fuck this guy. Everybody tells me I'm the greatest ever, you know. So you have to keep it real. I lost a lot of clients this way back in the day. Because, you know, they were the best in our country. And I tell them, suck fucking up and actually come in shape, you know, and train, keep the intensity going because how are you going to retain muscle mass? And I'm so tired. They should shut the fuck up. And you have to do this. Yeah, it's probably welcome to the real world. I'm hungry. I'm fly hungry. And dude, then now you can't even say that anymore because there's retarded tight. You know, she's just a retarded. Tired. They should. You know, this is what I'm tired. What are you talking about? You know, that's what I wear. And I just read some of the current levels of open bodybuilding. Very impressive physics. But it also is the Georgian. The Georgian is rewarding, fuller looking physics beyond, you know, 90s condition. Then it sort of comes with a game of least effort of I just have to be just in shape or I have just a bit of indentation to my glutes. And that's it. Not like wall not cracking lines, you know, completely stride down the glutes, full separation hamstrings. It's like I just have to be just on the mark and then my fullness will carry me through to win that. Personally, I think the sort of 90s level condition was always what I strive for. Competing. That's why classic is so much fun because these guys are actually in shape. I mean, that was a great line up this year. They have to make their weight. Yeah. Like Ramon Dino, he looked inside out. Mike Summer fell also because he had to drop because he was not as tall as you thought he was. Yeah, I think Logan looked really good. Yeah, Logan was really good. And he was so, it was kind of far down. I think he needed to fill up a little bit. His condition is pretty good. When you're in true condition and you have a weigh in today before, two days before, it's hard to load up. It's hard to load up, you know. That's the problem with making a weight class. That is what it is. The top three in classic. For me, maybe I'm biased because I really like classic bodybuilding. But the top three of classic physique were the shine outs of the weekend, in my view. Yeah, I agree. Yeah, that seems a little bit more attainable, even though when I stood next to Ramon Dino, he dwarfed me and we were the same weight. I was like, why are you so fucking? It's a whole different animal, obviously. But it seems a little bit within arm's length. If I just train hard enough, I can be a classic guy. But if you see like, you know, Adityupan or Somsondatta, you're like, or Derek or Andrew, you're like, I can never be this way. When I met Jay Cutler in 2006, it's how I felt. After he won the Mr. Olympia, I shook his hand. He came to Holland for the Dutch Grand Prix. I shook his hand. I was like, I can never, it will never happen for me to be like this. So I literally just said, fuck it. You know, it's not the direction I want to go in. Because, and then William Bonac and a couple other Dutch bodybuilders were there as well, but they were still not that size, that Mr. Olympia size. So I remember when I met Jay Cutler at that time, I was like, no, fuck it. It will never happen for me. You know, so thank God for classic to keep us motivated. Anything else to discuss about kidney health? We're pretty much done. I think for what we've covered, blood pressure aside and hydration, oxidative stress, check your protein and in your check of your own for protein with very simple to buy test strips on Amazon or wherever. Maybe do an ACR every six or 12 months. If depending on how long you've been on, maybe do an ultrasound of the kidneys. You know, if you've been using things for at least two years, an ultrasound is non-invasive. It'll see if there's any shattering on the kidneys. Give you a bit of an insight before you have to pay for either an MRI or a CT scan. And obviously the radiation with CT has to be considered. Hey, attention, I've seen this. We never touched on this, but cost of chondritis, inflammation of the intracastal muscles can give the faults, can give the fault signal of pain around your kidneys. They get increased echosynicity of the kidneys and then they worry a little bit also. Yeah, that's why it's also good to take some time off, especially if you're thick back, take some time off when you do an ultrasound. Because again, it's not the most accurate way. And with all the muscle in between, especially if it's inflamed, it can cause some sort of false positive or misreading of the echosynicity of your kidneys. So yeah, that's important. And then diuretics most definitely don't do five days of diazide before an ultrasound. And I can't take LASIKs in the morning if I want to look at Instagram. Probably not. I knew a guy. I knew a guy would take LASIKs every morning and take his pictures. Oh, every day. Good following, though. Yeah. Is he still alive? Yeah, still alive. But the following is leaving because he had to shrink down. Because he had to quit. Some guys are insane, man. Some guys are insane. It's a shame, though, because the information again is out there. You don't have to destroy your kidneys. Again, it's okay to call a throw in the towel when you see something off in your blood to work or ultrasound or you're like, hmm, I don't really feel comfortable with this. It's not bad yet, but I better stop for now and assess what's going on. Like I recently had a talk with a bodybuilder who saw a little bit of protein and insuring and just decided to come off everything and go risk averse or risk off and just let his muscle mass come down and it improved. But there was still a bit of protein and insuring. So he's like, oh, fuck it. I'm done. No more competing. I'm just going to do social media and on TRT, most of us can still look pretty good. I will look crazy now, but if you've built a good amount of muscle mass, you can sustain it on TRT and that's pretty kidney friendly, in my opinion. Yeah.  and all. So, do you guys want to run the Olympia a little bit and then throw in a talk for this podcast? Sure. Yeah, did you guys watch it? Would you watch a live stream or something like that? I do not. Like I said, I would send a service. Oh, right. Yeah, it was a service. Right. Okay, Dean, did you watch it? I didn't watch it live. We were at my parents for the weekend, so I had to catch up Saturday and Sunday morning. So I sort of had an embargo on social media so I couldn't see what was going on on Saturday and Sunday so that I didn't ruin it for myself. So you were like off social media, no Instagram to get spoiled? No scrolling on my phone, anyway. Answer some DMs and out of it. Because I wanted to watch it. I wanted to watch back the stream. So I guess the open, I was a bit, I don't know, it was always going to be a trope between Derek, Hadi and Samson, to an extent. Now with Samson placing fourth, this sort of goes back to Samson played the conditioning game this year to come in a little bit smaller and then compared to Derek or Hadi who were a little more fuller for their height, that sort of luck was rewarded. And I guess we open now, we're getting stuck in it. And a never ending loop of fullness. The detail is still amazing at pro level, but it could be just a little bit better. I know we're always going on about more fat loss or whatever, but the detail could be a little bit better compared to what we see in classic in the open guys. But then you're having to sacrifice the fullness of what we see in Samson. So it's, I don't know, I think for the next two or three years that bigger, softer look, if you want to call it, is getting rewarded. I mean, I say soft, it's not a disrespectful soft. It's just not that granite hard conditioning. Yeah, I think it's the passing open. Hadi has it a little bit from the back, that sort of graininess, but then from the front, that doesn't really display the same way. I don't know, I think it's all up in the air now whether Derek will hold it. You know, it's nice to see someone repeat what Jade on in 2009 was, then say it come and re-win the title back. You must be tired though. You did the Arnold Classic and the Pittsburgh and the Mr. Olympia. That's three shows. And for the Pittsburgh, you looked a little bit off. I think his best look was at the Arnold Classic. That's in my opinion, like a top 10 physique of all time. That was like perfectly peak, perfectly full, perfectly dry, good condition, good detail. Pittsburgh a little bit off and then Mr. Olympia was close to the Arnold, but still not quite. I mean, it's a two day show. It's a lot of obligations. These guys are fucking tired. You know, Martin Fitzwater really brought it. I thought Sasan Haradi looked absolutely amazing. Didn't get a fair vote. Yeah, that's a six. Sixteenth. She has sixteenth. I'd have him in the top 10 over other guys, you know, but he's he's a new face. So, you know, you got to earn your stripes, I guess. Nick, a little bit of a mistiming peak issue. Lakes were a little bit small, even though his upper body was quite large and then he had some stomach issues. So you need to go back to the drawing board and then. Yeah, Andrew Jack really impressed me. But I mean, how many Olympias did he do before you finally nailed it? It's like his third, fourth, fifth Olympia. So can you hold that? It's like another big Rami story, right? Where he nails it once and then gets a high placing and then let's see what happened the next year. Yeah, so I'll probably go to the Arnold Classic, but I bootlegged the Olympia the first time since it was live streamed. I was about to live stream, but after last year with the LEDs and the back and the bad quality of the lighting, I decided to know what this year I'm just going to do a free YouTube stream and see what goes on. And they, they turned off the LEDs for the, for the pre-judging for open, but not for classic physique or the other classes. So I still felt that it was very hard to see the physiques. And you see it in the pictures also, like some pictures, these athletes look really, really good. And other pictures, they look completely washed out. And I think it's just the backdrop. So I decided to use my money as a voting power and not vote. I'm spending my $80 somewhere else. So, yeah, I mean, the, the whole thing is lighting will make or break different physiques as well. You know, and that can create a less level playing field, depending on shadows on someone's contour shape or body. It's a no-protein-surfing. That's for sure. Can't not see anything. You just see contours because he's backlit, you know, and he's a dark guy just by himself, you know, he uses a little bit of protein. Not as much as the other competitors, but yeah, if you're a little bit lighter skin, then it contrasts better with the background that has a boatload of LEDs blasting your face. So, you know, Terrence is not doing himself any favors. He was just, should do the Arnold Classic or he get a black backdrop or the Detroit pro like Fawad's show where you get a black backdrop. I think these guys would look a lot better. So, um, yeah, that's why this year I didn't want to go to the Olympia and one of those reasons, because last year was called VIP. I said, I'm roll seven and he like, I couldn't see anything. No, it's a very expensive ticket not to see anything. So I try to go to the Arnold Classic now and then actually watch the show there would have a black backdrop and proper lighting, you know, where it's made by Arnold and you would have final say. So let's see. Yeah, but it was a good show though. Still the Mr. Limp, it was a good show from a classic physique perspective. Very interesting. Very good physiques. I find it crazy how they can have, I didn't see the exact number this year. I know last year it was, I think 42 or 43. 58. It was 58 this year. Yeah, but a couple guys didn't make height, I think, or didn't make weight. Cause they had to re-weight everybody. That is, I don't know how you can judge like some of these guys are obviously carried points and they've won shows and they're just not getting a look in because of, as a George, how can you remember beyond, beyond three callouts of six, like six, 12, 18, after that, it's just a pot look. There were some amazing guys in like the 16th place, right? You don't get placed after 16th place. I think you look at some of the pictures like, how the fuck this guy not make top 10, you know, of course it's a very tough class and it really depends on what you like. Yeah, but a lot of guys higher than where they placed and it's a little bit of popularity contest also, you know, because if you're a big name, you're more likely to place higher than, you know, a new face or somebody was from China or from an Arab country because they don't know you. You know, so yeah, it makes it tough. Let's see what happens next year when they introduce the differences in a point system and, and you know, make it a little bit different to qualify. But yeah, if the sanctions fees are cheaper, I believe for classic physique and men's physique shows. So there's more men's physique shows and classic physique shows than our 212 and open shows correct me if I'm wrong, but I think it's cheaper to host the classic and the prize money is less. So if you want to do an IHB show alongside your MPC amateur show where you give away pro cards, then yeah, it's easier to do classic physique because it's easier to host and the ticket sales give me lower and you don't have to give away so much of the prize money. Whereas where it's open now, it's almost unaffordable. I had Pittsburgh is 100 K out of classic is 500 K and then Mr. Olympia 600 K just take it away from 212. The key on person went from 90 K to 50 K. You see that? That's just change in prize money. Have have to. I would be pissed. He's so pissed. Yes, I watched the bootleg and then the desktop bodybuildings play by play. It was actually quite enjoyable. Xavier did a good play by play. So that's what I watched. Pretty enjoyable weekend. All right, guys, let's wrap it up here. I think we have two hours and 15 minutes. You'll be good enough. Let's do the next one about liver health. Okay. And then then we got all the major, major organs met. And then after that, what organ should we do? Maybe digestion. That's going to get no views because it's not about drugs. Brain brain brain. Man, you're going to ruffle some feathers there. Yeah, we could do the brain. No, we could do the brain. Okay. So we do liver brain and then let's see what's left. But let's meet a little bit earlier because we're way behind now on the counter. So maybe in two weeks, three weeks, we'll do another podcast and then plus I miss talk to you guys. So, you know, I don't make any videos with me on so might as well do more on the ground tables. Cool. Okay, guys, it was great to talk to you. We'll see you next time. Guys, you can find all of your social media links down below. As usual, I care to have the social media account and Dean also, even though they don't post much, which is shit. I would just go on about a ground table once a month is enough. It is enough. Right. So we'll see you guys in a couple of weeks. And for now, right of time, I hope you guys enjoyed it and don't forget the like. Peace out.