 what about honorable mention for DHB, right? That's an injectable drug that's overtoxic. Yeah, but it's only two studies. But it was pretty toxic in the long. Yeah, it was brief. 112 milligrams for a 220-pound person. Yeah. So liver growth. Yeah, and apparently, anecdotally, as of recently, there's a lot of bodybuilders running it in the placement of an astronaut in Primo, because it's so much easier to get and so much more affordable, and they get comparable cosmetic results, but no post-injection pain and no significant changes to liver enzymes. So it's one of those drugs that still haven't touched it yet, the list. The list is very small. I wonder if there's... I don't know of any way to brew it without guicol. So I wonder if there is any... Okay, yeah, because that's what I think was the previous formulations, was just in guicol. But you could smell that when the package arrives. Welcome to the Anabolic Groundtable, episode 16. We wanted to do the brain, but our brain surgeon couldn't make it. So we're going to discuss the liver instead. We have no show notes, zero preparation, and Dean got punched or kicked in the face. So let's get started with that. Dean, you did not do rhinoplasty after your hair transplant. You didn't want to level up the prettiness. Actually, you got... In your attempt to get a medal in kickboxing, you got kicked in the face. So please... Yeah, hooked in the face. So yeah, my brother convinced me to go back to martial arts after an 11-year break. And we went to the WKA World Championships. I had a final of the kumite, 20 seconds to go, got hooked right across the face. In counter to the guy threw a kick, I dodged it, countered with a punch in the stomach. And as the punch landed in the stomach, my nose decided to go on holiday off to the right. It was one of those punches where you know it's not even like... When I was growing up doing kickboxing, you get punched in the face, and you turn around to someone behind you go, have I broke my nose? You've always had this worry that something's going to happen to your nose and you get punched in the face. But this was like... I didn't even have to ask anyone you knew just by the feel of the bone was sitting over here. So you were right there in your peripheral vision, like, yeah, that's broken. And then blood coming down the back of my throat and the bone coming out the side there. So yeah, I was admitted to hospital over in Sheffield. ENT basically said unless your nose is fixed ASAP within like 20 minutes, 30 minutes, you have to wait four to five days for the inflammation to settle. Luckily, CT scan was clear of septal hematoma that's your biggest risk when you break your nose. And he just basically said you're cleared to fly home, like it's only a 30 minute flight back to Belfast. If it does bleed, go straight to A&E on your way home driving the car. And then I booked him a private surgeon and he, you know, assessed everything and basically said I'll make a slot ASAP this Sunday. So within a week between it being broke and it was fixed again under general anesthetic. So I've got this lovely splint for the next six weeks. So we're like, what, nine or 10 days in middle of December, it'll be reviewed. But yesterday night in my sleep, this, this is almost like a spring that like grip your nose with some adhesive. It came off in my sleep was slowly slipping off my nose over the last few days. But happy to say my nose is straight underneath. So it's just a matter of patience. And do you say that again, you dropped out a little bit? Oh, sorry, it's just a matter of patience. So wait until the middle of December for the splints to come off. All right. Doing all the usual sort of stuff. Wait, I was just gonna ask, like, what's the fucking healing protocol? One, no, two, wait, wait, wait. Obviously, when you have surgery, even like tendon surgeries, muscle tears, but you know, any sort of surgery, the best thing is waiting for the inflammation to die down from like, let your body let your immune system go in and clean up the debris and the mess, you know, you've had technically with like, no surgery, you've had someone go in with an instrument up your nose and push everything back straight. Which I'd say is quite fun if you were to watch because I mean, I've, I broke my finger years ago, when I was a goalkeeper growing up and that had to be set back in place. Yeah, it happened to me with a dislocation on my pinky playing basketball, just up. All right, it sticks up and then you yeah, because the doctor's gonna do it. And so you just pull it back like that low, like this little game, you know, pull it back. And the doctor looked at me like, what the fuck are you doing? So they did, you can't do it, then I'm gonna have to do it myself. Well, I, that pinky was out of place off to like, to the right and the orthopedic consultant, I think it was like 16, give it a local anesthetic. And I remember at the time he said to me, you know, I can do this to someone no problem. But I probably throw up if someone was to do it to me. And I'm like, what do you mean? And he literally just got my finger bent in an L shape across the other fingers. Let go and it just click, click, click back straight. And like, you're just watching this obviously can't feel a thing, but you're like, it would be like almost just like torture and somewhere you just grabbed her finger on the body of body of lice with fingers get like, so with the protocol being diligent, the first whatever week, staying very hydrated, it was a general anesthetic. So that's gonna have knock on effects or like dizziness, dehydration, tiredness, conservation, you know, yeah, concept. I think to be honest, my bells didn't really take a hit, which is good. The first two days, it was like having a very bad cold, there was a lot of congestion, a lot of mucus, but you know, using saline nasal spray rinse you can buy in the UK, you can get Stereo-Mar, which is just a pressurized nozzle with saline water, keep spraying it up to gently break up, I guess, the mucus, or whatever else is up there. You don't have those, the pseudo fed nasal sprays that all the Americans get addicted to, right? You don't have that there. So after the surgery, that is one of the things that is prescribed. Oh, shit. You know, the Psyllomatazolean or oxymatazolean spray. But like you said there, yeah, if you're using these things chronically, you're going to get addicted to them and that. When you stop using it, like PPI is there's a rebound from homeostasis. So I've tried to limit the use of it. I can see the logic and that helps you to breathe through your nose, helps relieve some of the congestion, but just keeping things clean and sterile, no blowing of your nose, just letting sort of stuff come down naturally. Yeah, I think I'm pretty much in the clear now. Like just I had one day like last week, last Wednesday where it was throbbing. But at that point it was throbbing because all the left side of my nose was real itchy from that laceration of the bone that went out that way. Last night I seen that's completely healed. There's not even a scar, which is amazing. I think, you know, from where I take things now, it's really about you're not allowed to do any training for two weeks and I can accept that you can't do anything that raises your blood pressure strain or, you know, valve salvia where you're like bracing your core and building pressure in your head. But my plan is from next week to get back to some level of like 50, 60% in the gym because it's been well, maybe three and a half weeks since I've gone to gym. Like we discussed the last time with the back injury, my body weight has held 88, 89 kilos on my back. Less full. Just a little bit more to your T-dose? Yeah, if you're less full, you know, border or not, there's been no muscle loss to speak, which we covered. With moving from here, now we're into this sort of cleared period where like 12 to 40 in days post surgery or we're getting there. Start using stuff like PPC157 TB-500 to improve angiogenesis, improve blood flow, but try improve collagen deposition because part of your bone matrix is collagen. So we've got, you know, we've got good data to show that collagen, tripeptide collagen, which is a three peptide, three amino acid peptides. KBV would be a tripeptide, but just tripeptide collagen would be hydroxyproline, proline, and I think lysine, I think is your own that's attached. It's just a three short chain amino acid peptide that acts like a cell signaling molecule to improve collagen deposition as well and has interior higher bioavailability absorption than regular marine collagen. So I've got a mixture of that between like our joint stack and we've got a tripeptide collagen product for female skin health, but obviously it applies to bone as well. That's where the basis of then trying to get that collagen matrix building up again as the condrocytes then go in and create the hard and the bone. So normally fractures first two weeks is like inflammation, resolving inflammation. Then the next order two to three weeks is what they call like callus formation where you've got like soft tissue deposition into the fracture. And then after that, you have like reorganization of the matrix of tissue where it then starts to develop hard bone, which is where I think the like recovery period of six to eight weeks. With the surgeon, you're not allowed to contact sports for at least four to six months, and you know, to let it let itself itself. When I do go back to martial arts, I didn't go back, go back competing for another few years. More than likely I wear a face guard to protect my nose because I don't think I want to go through this whole procedure again because that was a wanting when I said to Morgan, my wife, I was going back kickbox and said, don't get hurt. First, first, first competition you have boom, boom. I mean, I would have loving it being a joke tour will Friday after the kumite when I sent her a text message. Oh, yeah, by the way, we're on our way to A&E. She's like immediately trying to follow me video call and the phone to my brother. I'm like I can't even face her. And my brother was just like to a broke as those will let you know later. So between BBC TV 500, do you know one that is very interesting? And I ran it before and it did have some level of benefit over on to a broke my elbow years ago as a goalkeeper. Again, all these injuries are goalkeeping around cartilacs as a bioregular peptide. Obviously, has some research obviously out of Russia to improving condosite activity and then improving cartilage and bone remineralization that my plan is to run cartilacs for six to eight weeks. I think when people look at bioregulators, there the evidence is super thin. So I got offered by regulators like all of them from previous sponsors. And I look at the scientific evidence and there's nothing, literally nothing. And nobody was talking about it. So I've heard one or two people talk about cartilacs that they got some results out of that from chronic knee pain or elbow pain. So if you have results, if you have data, please let us know because yeah, I mean, whether it works or not, right? Data is data. I want to see obviously, I know that this based on how it looked last night with the split fall of my sleep, my nose looks as I had my small bit of inflammation at the bridge of where it's been fixed. It's pretty much looks good. There's no bruising. Yeah, you would expect you to look like a panda, you know, like blood protrusions all over your nose and I wrote off work for two weeks. I was like, I'm not going to be able to do anything for two weeks. I'm going to be like publicly at all people who see me beating up from surgery. But we're out to the other side and like when I've got broke, I didn't even have the black eyes then. You see me after my gyno surgery, I was like, I blood up until my penis basically. I did the liposuction also. I was a mess dude and like inflammation and it looked like jelly rolls, black jelly rolls. You have to wait for the immune system to clean up the mess. Two weeks. I think like you said, with bioregulators, they're not like peptides and that, they are peptides, but they work at a genome level. So the influence histone deacetylation and switching on and off genes related to whatever area they've been isolated from. And again, you've got obviously the cartilax as in the alax, bioregulators and you have to like add gen. So all these sort of peptides you see like cortogen, cortilax, there are so many of them. And of course, it's all Russian made so that or Indian made and the research is obviously a little bit and I watched it talking about research. We should talk about bioglutide. Holy moly. But continue with cartilax. In terms of like that, the evidence, yeah, it's pretty thin. Is it it? Running two milligrams for six weeks cost wise. I think in terms of like the 20 milligram vials, which is 10 days, you're going to need about 20 milligrams, 10 days, 40 days, you're gonna need four or five vials, which is about 250 pounds. If that two milligrams every day speeds up the callus formation. So what I'm thinking here is in six weeks, this splint comes off, you're still at risk of damaging your nose until the bone fully hardens. Can I speed up that collagen deposition that when I get to six or seven weeks after the surgery, I'm in a position where that matrix has gone beyond the soft stage and starting to develop hard that I might get back to contact sports much quicker than four to six months. Like I might be able to go back to some level of competition, you know, after 12 or 14 weeks, anything that reduces time to speed up the recovery process. I would take it to pick your opponents very carefully. Yeah, I mean, not the face. Maybe you can make like a back job before you do actual competitions when you go sparring today. Anything got liver punches, shoulder tabs, back of the head fine, but not nose pain. What I bought is like a big face shield for my head guard. So kids wear these. Yeah, but your nose is still exposed, right? No, no, no. This one basically comes out like a fishbowl from your face completely. Like a motorcycle. Yeah, it's basically like that. And I said to my brother when I looked at it, safe strike by top 10, I said to him like, for sparring and, you know, sparring in the beginning with him and entering maybe some competitions next year, I'll wear it. But it comes out from your face that you're giving that space when you do point fighting, you know, like sport karate or point fighting kickboxing, which is what we we do or kumite, obviously can't wear a head guard and kumite. You you're giving space where you have someone that hits the front of your face, guys, they're going to get a point rather than hitting your face through, you know, there's a bit of a three inch gap from your face with the face shield. Right. That I'm not going to wear that forever, but it'll be something to gain a bit of confidence that I know I'm not going to break my nose from the first punch I get come back. That aside, what are things have I been looking at? Probably during this time. Vitamin D, vitamin K, magnesium, phosphorus. Yeah, exactly. All these simple things that, again, I made a post on it during the day of as much as it's crazy to do like all these protocols, optimal hormones and everything else. When it comes to like a break and it's being set, like new nutritional basics and patients pays off, but, you know, optimal vitamin D, where it's based on where you live, it could be 5000 10,000 I use of vitamin D tree, vitamin K2, 100 to 200 micrograms, vitamin K2, MK7 daily calcium, 800 to 1200 milligrams of calcium, elemental calcium, depending on your nutrition, magnesium, I've probably doubled my magnesium intake over where it sits at the moment. So it's close to about 2000 milligrams elemental. And what was your phosphorus? Phosphorus, I keep around four or 500 milligrams from potassium diphosphate, which is in one of our products. So, you know, it's hard to find like you have 99 milligram phosphate phosphorus tablets, but phosphorus is found in a lot of animal protein. So if you go through an nutritional database and you index all your food, you see that you get a couple thousand milligrams of phosphorus already. So I did like 200 milligrams of phosphorus when I had that leg surgery. But even then three months after a leg surgery, you could see that the bone was healing, but these still have like these little holes where the screws used to be. Now it feels a lot better though. Yeah, but now it's almost one year post-op. Taking time like that with patients and letting it adjust itself. So yeah, basics, basics always first with something like this, not really, you know, you laugh, but like rest and having to take a step back. I think what humbled me about the whole scenario was after the CT scan, they admitted me into awards to see an NHS ENT consultant to sort of say, okay, yeah, you can fly home. It was after midnight when they admitted me into the ward. So I just went to sleep waiting until the next morning. But the next morning, there was three other guys in the ward room with me. And one of them just overheard how the injury happened. And he went, oh, a kickboxer, are you? And then he sort of got into, you know, a conversation of how he's in there. And it turns out the other three guys that were in the ward were undergoing therapy for cancer, like Troton, Troton neck cancer, for my remember. I don't, I don't, I didn't really press on it. But with the guy that was talking to me, he was in his like early 80s, he had been in there three weeks still waiting on a decision matrix on surgery, medication, chemo, radiotherapy. And he said, to be honest, he was just getting to the point and there was like, you're just time is being wasted on not taking action. That's a medical system in the Western world, man. That's why a lot of medical tourism just just goes somewhere else and pay the money. But if you don't have money, then it's difficult. You know, with that, that really quickly reframes and I've said this to perspective, like I'm there with a broken nose and you're thinking, this is, this sucks, I have to have surgery and whatever, you know, around the weekend of doing other divisions. But at three o'clock on Saturday afternoon, when the consultant came back and said, yeah, your blood count is, is after dropping, but we're happy that, you know, you've not had excessive blood loss from it, that we can release you saying goodbye to that guy in the bed across from me. You know, feeling gratitude that I get to walk out at Ward and these guys are in a much more serious position. I always reminds you that when things happen to you, there could be much worse things going on in other people's lives that not that you feel guilty, but saying goodbye to those guys, getting that sort of release of, yeah, you're free to go and it can be fixed. That, you know, made me really grateful for it. And you'll heal like two times faster than average also, because you got all the cheat codes. Yeah, you know, as much of an inconvenience as it is, you know, I appreciate that it sort of made me slow down a bit the last couple of weeks with work and everything and being in the family, obviously trying to explain to the boys that it was an accident and not kickboxing related because one of them does karate and you don't want to have him thinking, oh, I'm going to get seriously hurt doing karate. It happens, man. It happens just not an unfortunate accident. It's just one of those things, but like they had it, the reframing, it's always a nice reminder that things can be much worse. Yeah, I know. Kurt, what's new with you? Nothing, man. Just working. Still healthy, still working. Still healthy. Been more than a year on TRT. Man, any injuries? The Olympics was one year. No. Honestly, no. I'm pretty convinced it's because I sleep really well that allows me to keep the size and the condition. Okay. You know, because you notice right when you ramp the gear up, your sleep goes to shit and then you need more gear to keep going. Your sleep goes even worse and I'm pretty convinced the sleep is probably the most performance and dancing thing we have available. Yeah, and then you're enhancing your sleep with how many milligrams, six milligrams? Three milligrams of zirustym? Three. Three, right. Six, six I use. Or nine I use. Nine. Yeah, I came off the GH because it was making me too sleepy. So I just do 10 I use post leg day and that's it. Okay. Because otherwise I got too much stuff going. So I finished the high dose SLU experiment. No change on blood rock, besides my lipids were lower. So HDL came down to 40. LDL was like 55. But then again, I take a ZMI, Bersinger-Bergamot and Emla extract, but that came down from 70 to 55 give or take. Triglycerides were like 24. Oh, wow, with your diet too. Yeah. So and I've had diet low triglycerides. It's the lowest I've ever seen it. And everything else is pretty much the same. Hemoglobin A1c was like 4.6. It's great. So that's pretty low. So I checked my counter markers, checked everything and yeah. So apparently no on blood work, nothing. I didn't do any imaging yet, but I'll do that somewhere in January. Your A1c was trending higher though, for it. No, it was like 4.9. I mean, I do a ketogenic diet. So when hemoglobin A1c is like I have like 70 grams of carbs, maybe 100 grams of carbs per day. I was eating a little bit more carbs because I felt hypoglycemic at times. That feels that it SLU, PP332 with a higher dose really speeds up your metabolism. So fat loss was easy and getting fat was difficult, which is weird for me. Usually getting fat is easy. Yeah. So I'm happy I ran it for like eight to nine weeks and I stopped it and no rebound. I think the mitochondrial upregulation is longer lasting because mitochondria, depending on the resource that you read, they have approximately a hundred day active life. So every hundred days you can turn over with mitochondria, but it could be years, could be a couple of days, depending on oxidative stress. But since I manage oxidative stress, let's just assume that mitochondrial biogenesis and content of my body is upregulated for a hundred days after stopping the SLU. And I'm still taking my C and SS3-1. So I get some upregulation in that sense. I think I'm good until the end of the year. Yeah, and that's exactly what my diet ends. So pre-lein and it was a fun experiment, but nothing to really show in blood work. What's the percent upregulation in mitochondria? That you really don't see in the data. Okay. You don't see that with MOTC or SS3-1 either. Just say mitochondrial biogenesis through a particular pathway, whether that's the estrogen-related receptor alpha or MOTC directly helping with mitochondrial biogenesis. Yeah, the percentages are, I can't remember reading that in the scientific. I've never seen it. No, Dean, did you see anything in it? No. No, I've never seen anything directly. That's why I'm very interested to see the long-term aspect is with HIDOS SLU. I guess one thing I've done, a bit of a, not a deep dive to speak, but I'm covering it with SN education on SLU of looking at what are some of the metabolic pathways that estrogen receptor-related alpha and PGC1 alpha interact with in terms of like the knock-on effect to oxidative phosphorylation. Obviously, when we have lipolysis or fatty acid oxidation is probably the better term. When we have fatty acid oxidation occurring chronically within our cells, there is a potential risk that our PDK4 enzyme basically gets up-regulated, so PDH-down regulates, and so your ability to use glucose by the cell gets impacted. I'm very intrigued. I think it's great and a great experiment, but I'm just thinking of the long-term picture, four to six weeks might not show anything chronically. So doing the sort of imaging and markers, cancer markers, everything else like that is a great way of proving this is the outcome. Yeah, but if you do it multiple cycles, then you might still get some. Yeah, the only downside that I noticed was hypoglycemia, but then again, when you don't eat so many carbs, you take retidutide, which is a glucocon agonist. What is doing what? I think it's one of those ones where there's going to be a sweet spot. We have the human equivalent dosage from animals. Is that technically the best dosage for humans? And when you screen everything out, I think what would be really cool to do would be looking at I guess some markers of mitochondrial health and mitochondrial efficiency, like actually being able to work out the efficiency of the mitochondrial complexes. I think there's a private test I see online, Mito, which basically characterizes the efficiency of each complex in the mitochondria. I'm not sure how their assay works, but I think it's a saliva test. It'll be a really useful way of pre and post SLU to show what's the change in the energy kinetics of each of the complexes. Now somebody in the US has to do that because I think they only deliver in the US. And otherwise I have to use my shipping forwarder, but then I'm not sure how stable it would be. It takes about four weeks to arrive. So my motorcycle parts are stuck with my shipping forwarder. It takes weeks, man. Yes, that would be a fun experiment, but I'm done for now. So I'm just going to see how long this up regulation of energy and enhanced fat loss lasts. And then if it's approximately, I don't know, the lifespan of mitochondria, then I know 100 days later give or take when the energy level starts to diminish that the regulation is complete and then back to baseline, which would be a longer effect and or a similar effect to up regulating your amatocrit with the EPO or bold and on around a draw and a little bit longer effect compared to TRT, right? You stopped your TRT six weeks later, you're in the gutter. But the first four weeks, you're like, you know, actually, I feel pretty okay. And then suddenly you do your blood to work week five or six, you're androgen deficient, and then you feel it. So I think that at one point there will be a crash or decline back to baseline and then I'll feel it. But so far, so far so good. Yeah. Dean, maybe talk about the different dosing protocol for the GLPs, the combated stuff versus the the pharma stuff you did post on Instagram, right? So it wasn't even there's obviously the debate both sides. One is on about micro dosing. One's on about macro dosing. There's no debate. It's no debate. We don't listen to chiropractors. I think I think what I wanted to do is present both sides on. Yeah, maybe there's forum and against the both sides. Macro dosing, you're going to see a bigger occupation of the receptors very quickly in terms of C max, which  could bring adverse events, which is interiorly the appetite suppression. And then the other side is, if you microdose your offset and C-max in that period of time of absorption, but from a pharmacokinetics perspective, by the time you get to the half-life of the company, like five half lives, steady state concentration in theory is achieved. But in saying that, I mean, they've been studied with one injection per week, but that's how we have to view these drugs we're designed for, I don't like saying it, but unhealthy people speak. And injection convenience, just like Nabilo, you go to the doctor, you take one shot every 12 weeks, first four weeks are great. And the last eight weeks, you're like, oh, there's also chemical difference between the compounded and the foam stuff. In terms of like, when we look at potentially the pharmaceutical made GLPs versus what is made underground, if you want to call it that, they could still be interiorly from a pharmaceutical facility. A lot of these, like a lot of drugs have some level of patent protection in terms of how they are delivered. There's some level of absorption matrix associated with the compound, which favors how well it stays in the body. And we know with, for example, triseptide, overretetrutide, we have this aspect linker on the peptide, which enhances stability. If the underground manufacturer wasn't as careful at creating the same compound, then there might be differences in how the drug is absorbed and distributed versus the underground versus pharmaceutical. And so interiorly and underground made version might need to be dosed more frequent if it's not of the same pharmacology as a real pharmaceutical. Because the pharmacokinetics are affected in the half-life is shorter. Correct. Is that okay? That's what we're seeing here. Is the study the one that's the most important? I didn't take that into consideration. I can't argue for it. Both of them make sense, to be honest. This is where I don't think one is wrong over the other. But we know obviously how it's been studied. These unhealthy populations may have some level of glucogon, well, not glucogon even, the GLP receptor could be internalized. So it is a cell service receptor like insulin. In unhealthy populations, like type 1 diabetics or even type 2, you might need to dose this once per week to get a big high C max in order to see an effect from the drug. And that effect, I guess, at week like five, six of these compounds, the outcome is HBNC control, like controlling blood sugar stabilization. The appetite suppression is technically a side effect of the drug. It's not. Yes. It's purpose to be the primary outcome for obese people who may or may not have type 2 diabetes. But dosing it in that large bolus might actually cause issues for a metabolically healthy person who may need to dose it less frequently or dose it more frequently for a much lower dose, sort of micro-dose. Which one is the correct way, again, compliance, safety, if you do like not to create dosages, but let's say you do two and a half milligrams of retitroutide or two milligrams of terzepotide, you try and mirror what the clinical studies have. And that, for that person who has like, I don't know, eight to 10% body fat, that it just makes them completely nauseous, causes pain and paralysis after, you know, smooth muscle of the intestine. Then they might benefit from going to a lower dose, whereby the appetite suppression is still present, but it's not to the extent that it's causing adversity. And you're still getting maybe some of the GLP, one response of improving pancreatic control of insulin, etc. So it wasn't, my post wasn't like, one's right, one's wrong, there's arguments for and against, but like Kurt brought up, I wanted to highlight, when you look at the research on the pharmaceutical made compound of how it's been engineered, that, I forget now what you call it exactly, but the part of the polymer that's coming off the GLP aspect is what is making it resistant to TP4. So in terms of to bep to the peptidol peptidol is four enzymes, which cleave that metabolism, these kinds of hormones. What I would also like to contribute is that these people that are in the studies, right, they're higher body fat levels. And I'm sure you guys have noticed that with insulin, for example, if you take five I use post-workout, you're 20% body fat, your blood glucose levels are not as affected as when you take them at 8% body fat, five I use, because the dispersion and the absorption at a lower body fat percentage is significantly higher. So if you take a pharmaceutical compound at 25% body fat once per week, maybe the the curve of absorption is significantly different compared to micro dosing, lower dosages, multiple times per week, because you have low body fat levels and you use it purely for appetite control because you can control your hemoglobin and you won't see your blood glucose and because you live the lifestyle. So I think maybe a ballast dose is better for fat ease. And micro dosing is better for people who are actually in shape and uses for appetite suppression because you don't want too much appetite suppression. Because I remember when lyricly tight came out, I used a pharmaceutical brand to it. But that's the only thing that was available. We didn't have generics of lyricly tight at that time three, four years ago. So I got the pharmaceutical version, paid an arm and a leg. And I would dose that six days a week and skip it on Sunday. Because on Sunday, I wouldn't get too much appetite suppression so I could have my refeeds. And this seemed to work quite well. Now with these longer acting to look like the time to type your jeopardy retrogensite. Obviously, you can't skip a day or two because it's still active. It has a multiple day half-life. But it seems that with the micro dosages, you don't have to suffer through these nauseating effects, which a lot of people experience with. Bolas injections, especially at lower body fat levels. So the first couple of days, you're just knocked out. Good luck doing a heavy squat. Good luck doing leg presses or reverse hyper extensions or what is it? You know, glute work where you have a barbell in your chest, in your stomach. It just presses your stomach too much and you can't even train properly. So I would always favor towards micro dose just simply from a management perspective. Minimal side effects, maximum results. But if Bolas injection for fat is, yeah, and they don't know how to inject and use the auto injector, I did two milligram semi-glute tight or the one half milligram duly glute tight. Sure. Go for it. But I don't identify as a fatty. Yeah. No, I was just, I wanted to talk about it because I was just trying to point out the differences that people can understand. Right. So you're looking at obese people with the pharma grade. Right. And what's happening when your body fats over 15 or much higher, there's chronic inflammation, right? So the phospholipid layer of the cell doesn't allow that receptor to go to the surface is easy. That's why one of the reasons why the bigger dose will work better. Maybe there's also micro dosing simply because it gets absorbed so slowly. You have more steady state release. Just want people to understand the difference. It's almost like an ester attach, right? The difference between the pharma, GOP and the underground potentially similar to growth hormone, right? It's the same parent thing. But it just made to do a different process. So it's not going to react the same way at the same delivery mechanism. Is different. I mean, everybody who's tried the lyroglutide or the diligulatide or the semi-glutide pens compared to underground lab, there's a unique smell. And it's the same with growth hormone insulin. Some brands may have a unique smell. Some just smell like nothing. But that's the additional ingredients that help with the delivery. Yeah. It contributes a little bit to the aroma, basically. And you're injecting that. But yeah, with peptides, it's a couple of binders and probably not of the patented ingredients that help with the pharmacodynamics or kinetics. Did you guys read up? I was going to say, it's good that we've sort of talked about that publicly to not play into. Do you say this and they're wrong? It's, you know, just let's discuss it logically, right? I get very emotionally filled. Yeah. Well, we have enough educators like that already. Did you guys read up on bioglutide that it might potentially just be a scam and that all the scientific evidence is fraudulent and found? I didn't say that. Yes. There's a guy that really went into the research and you see that the research from bioglutide done by Biomed, the guy that owns it, a Vietnamese guy, it's a known scammer or counterfeiter. And he probably copied a lot of the scientific evidence from terzeparite and retrogethite into the scientific evidence of bioglutide to make it appear that it's just as effective or more effective with this additional IGF-1 agonism, but hey, there's no cast number. And all the people that I know that allegedly got bioglutide from China, there's one or two sources that were selling it, said that it didn't do anything. So the scientific evidence is saying that the owner of Biomed might not be a legitimate businessman. Yeah, no cast number. And again, those studies of bioglutide don't think they're published in reputable publication sites. So bioglutide, I think we can write off. Okay. If you want IGF-1, use IGF-1. Or similar to the curcumin stuff, all that original data on curcumin and all those health benefits and cancer stuff that was done in India turns out that guy literally made up all the data. Yeah. And when you dive into cerebral lysine, it's the same thing. I did a cerebral lysine deep dive and you realize that it doesn't contain brain drive, neurotropic factor. We're initially, that's what they claimed. It might act as a brain drive neurotropic factor, a secretagogue, with some of the peptide chains, but exercise also enhances brain drive. No neurotropic factor. Cerebral lysine does do something though. I mean, it's not placebo. It clearly does something in higher dose juice where it removes brain fog and makes you feel more recovered from a mental perspective. But what it contains exactly, you know, I think bioglutide, cerebrolysin and some of the bioregulators, it's a bit dubious from what I've seen so far. The last thing before we get into the liver stuff, we've been rambling quite long already. Victor Conte passed away. So I wanted to give him an honorable mention because he's one of the first drug educators and influencers and the guys that did drug design for people to beat the drug test. You passed away at a belief 72 years old. I'm not exactly sure what the cause is, but I mean, he was one of the OG guys back in the day that contributed quite a bit to the athletic community like tetrahydro just renown. That's the compound he designed and many athletes. We shall not name any names, but has used that compound until they had a drug test for it. Did you guys do any research on Victor Conte and what kind of things you contributed or don't really know? No, I know the name. Ordered on the very interesting Netflix documentary made on him. Yeah, fascinating. You know, fascinating how they set up their own like analytical lab for these athletes and how they, you know, alongside his chemist Patrick, how they how they reshaped that athletics, the documentary of anyone as Netflix watching this go on to it. I think it's like uncovering the truth or something of what it is. It's something like series, but yeah, it was fascinating to see how eventually they got them, which was by just searching through the trash. Yeah, basically. And then I think you went to jail for this stuff, right? For a while. I think, but then I guess the positive span at the end of the documentary was he then took a serious role in trying to develop, you know, drug testing and becoming affiliated with that sort of background knowledge. I guess it sort of stands on what we're seeing with, you know, how transparency is evolving over time. Back then, how secretive it was to hide the use of, you know, hormone optimization or, you know, anything that's going to have an anabolic aids. What what risks they'd go to, I guess is what you'd say. Yeah. To make sure that they're like, what was crazy to see was they, they got ahead of the curve at like the epi-test-ostrone ratio. So they were like administering epi-test-ostrone so that when he had urine tests, they were maintaining the ratio of, I think anything above, I think it's sixes to one, is it Steve? Yeah, six to one, four to one, for six to one, depending on the federation. Four to one's the natural limit, right? Right. Yeah, you know, the upper limit of six to one, which is wild. Yeah. So you could actually buy epi-test-ostrone on many of the chemical research websites. And of course, it doesn't really matter because nowadays they have carbon radio isotoping. So you could see that the testosterone and epi-testosterone is coming from exhaustion of sources, but back in the day when they didn't have carbon radio isotoping, yeah, you could just administer epi-testosterone sub-Q and four to one ratio and then figure out the clearance. And then, you know, with a good lab, you could actually detect that and, you know, I might have helped with similar practices too. With testosterone propionate, you can see carbon 12 and carbon 13 running parallel in C-RET. First, like an antincipinate, you only see the exogenous. Right. Yeah. So if you don't do that, that carbon radio isotoping and you just go by epi-testosterone to testosterone ratio, two days before the show, before the drug test, it's enough to get a favorable rating. Yeah. When you have to fail the epi-ratio first before they do the other tests, because the cost is too great. Yeah. So you'd have to be pretty dumb to fail that first. Yeah, it's an acute test, just like Victor Conte said at the Joe Rogan podcast. It's an acute test, not a drug test. So yeah, I learned a lot from that guy in my career of helping athlete to beat the drug test at the Olympics and various other sports at the world championships and that kind of stuff. It's just very hard to keep track of it, because every year there's new testing parameters and it goes super fast now. So that's why I retired from it, because it's very hard to keep track. And there's more and more drugs that are getting added and then you try to go through the metabolic pathways and there's no data on it. That's a little tricky to keep track. And everybody wants to use the new and approved stuff. But if it's on the list and have a testing parameter for it, then it's very difficult to make them or help them beat the test. So I retired from that stuff. All right, with that out of the way, 45 minutes of rambling, let's get into the liver health. Where should we start? Should we start with the liver enzyme ratio, the ALT and the AST being elevated by training? You know, just start off simple. A lot of people, they do their blood work the first time. They go to a hepatologist and the hepatologist thinks you have liver cancer or liver failure because your liver enzymes are over 50. The ALT and the AST are over 50. Doesn't realize that amino trans races are also found in skeletal muscle and then raised within a couple of days following training, but they stay elevated and compound due to continuous workouts. And I believe that ALT is a half-life. What was it? 18 hours or AST is a half-life of 18 hours and ALT is a little bit longer, 48 hours. But since AST is produced so fast, you often see in body butters that AST is higher, especially in hands body butters because probably some overlap from drug metabolism. That AST is one and a half times or twice as high as ALT and stays elevated shorter compared to ALT. So if you stop training for a week, you stop taking all this oral garbage. You see that these liver enzymes drop in half and then your doctor is like, how the hell did you drop your liver enzymes this fast? So I took the drugs out and I took the training out. And if you're fast, you can, you know, you stop eating besides maybe a little bit of vegetables, then it goes on even faster. This is no enteropathic recirculation. You basically 100 percent detoxifying all these liver enzymes. So usually. Sorry, if you usually get to test TGT and Vilebrupa and two, if those are normal, it just shows exercise. Right. Right. So gamma G T is is related to what? Glutathione. So it's a part of the cell membrane that is what is the very susceptible or helps with glutathione metabolism. Dean, help me out here. It's cleavage. Obviously, glutathione is glutamic acid. Now I'm having a brain. Glutamic acid, glycine and. I'm stuck now of what the three amino acids are of glutathione, which is strange. Glycine, glutamic acid and cystine. Jesus Christ. Cystine, the most important one. Yeah. So gamma glutamyl transferase basically breaks. I think it's the bond between the cystine, glycine and glutamic acid to recycle the peptide back into the amino acid constituents. So like you said, it sits on the cell membrane. And I think inside the cell, you have GCC, which is what couples cystine onto glycine and glutamic acid to make glutathione. So when GTT goes up, it's a sign that you've created more copies of the enzyme on the surface of the receptor to try and recycle glutathione faster back into the cell is constituents back in. So when GTT goes up, it can be a sign of, I guess, acute liver inflammation. It can be a sign of acute infection, which will affect liver inflammation as well. You're using glutathione to offset infections. I think all cause mortality. I think we covered this before GTT. Once it starts going above 25 to 30, all cause mortality starts increasing quite quickly. So it's one of those ones that needs to be appreciated. With, like Kurt said, ALT and AST ratio is what's normally more important than the actual numbers. Normally there are one is to one ratio. I think and what it's called is the Doritis ratio. If you have a higher amount, let's say one and a half to two times AST, I think it's a sign of acute liver inflammation. And if there's a higher ALT to AST ratio, it's a sign of longer term potential fibrosis or even cirrhosis. So it's looking at and when it's in the red, you have to take into consideration, like Kurt said, well, where's Billy Rubin? Where's ALP? Because ALP, if the if the biliary tree is obstructed, ALP will go up and Billy Rubin will go up. GTT might go up. You're trying to paint a bigger picture that AST and ALT if they are raised in the red, but it's a one is to one ratio to speak. You can do like you said, you just take a break from training for four to five days and see do the numbers fall in tandem together in that one is to one ratio. If if we look at, you know, the markers on blood work and we see raised Billy Rubin and raised ALP, but ALT and AST are still not elevated, you know, in the hundreds. But we've got raised Billy Rubin and raised ALP. You're probably going to start seeing this function, the liver enzymes coming from the biliary tree and boil, right crystallizing and causing potential fatty liver disease. So I guess. Like cancer risk or fibrosis, cirrhosis, I think the very first thing most bodybuilders need to consider when it comes to the liver is fatty liver disease or it's it's not even like non alcohol, fatty liver disease is not how they term anymore. I think it's muscles, which is metabolic associated steatotic disease. Yeah, they're reaching this, yeah, which is to be a bit more PC, I think, towards the impact of chemicals, medications, the environment, etc. on developing fat in the liver. That's not just because you were staying from alcohol, saying non alcohol, fatty liver. When you associate to metabolic inflammation and metabolic steatosis, then you have to figure out, well, what's the root cause? Is it raised cholesterol? Is it impact from what you're ingesting? Lack of choline, inositolic improving fat transport down into the small intestine. Risk wise, I guess if you do suspect something's not right with delivered, then you can do, you know, non invasive fiber scan, which is a transient elastography, which sends a pulse of energy across the liver and measures the resistance or the sheer force of the the pulse of energy going across the liver to give you a sign of like liver flexibility or liver steatosis from resistance. But with fiber scanners, there is a caveat that because it's it's a pulsed wave that goes in between your ribs from the side. So it's not invasive. It's relatively straight forward, it's about 10 or 15 minutes to do. And you get an answer very quickly on your your like your fat score of your liver and your liver's elasticity. You could still get a good result with a fiber scan, but miss a small pocket of scaring on the liver that a global scan with an ultrasound would pick up. Yeah, like like the global picture should come from MRI or a a abdomen ultrasound, but fiber scans, non invasive, you can do it, you know, privately, relatively easily. And you can then take direct action off that result versus what your blood enzymes are saying. So it's I guess it's it's important to track the liver enzymes, especially with like contest prep, etc. Probably because and a lot of people misunderstand what I've said before. So I think it's good to clarify this. The animal research suggests that when the endomethceptor is activated within the liver, the bone derived mesenchymal stem cells cannot infiltrate the liver. So they've done a really nice study with rats, whereby they basically have a super physiological level of testosterone and then they knock out the endogen receptor within the liver and show that when they induce a level of damage to the liver, the ones that have the endogen receptor knocked out allow the stem cells in to repair the insult to the liver, where the ones that endogen receptor activation don't see as much of an improvement to tissue regeneration. And that was where my hypothesis is that if you are running chronic, super physiological levels of androgens, if that research from animals does apply to humans and you're running toxic oral cycles to speak where you're creating liver inflammation, you're creating stress on the liver cells and you're still cruising in a super physiological level. The inflammation you've created at the liver, you're stopping that, I guess, repair process or the infiltration of the stem cells. And that potentially is where I think maybe that link of hepatocarcinoma come from. What we see in the case reports of guys developing liver cancer is because they blocked that infiltration of stem cells. Does that happen all throughout the body? There's no other evidence to say that. So it's not blocking stem cells of everywhere in the body, but it is very well postulate that if it does occur in the liver, there is probably some potential of other stem cell infiltrations being interfered with. It enters. They enter the inflammatory cells in the paddock tissue and they cause the paddock cell growth as well. Like you're saying, through the endogen receptor, we don't see that in other parts of the body. That's why you see liver weight usually goes up in these Herzberger Bioassay studies with the steroids in rat models, where liver weight significantly increases. And that's what that is proven with most steroids. Now, I've also said that I've had many clients that do stem cells. And the large majority of the stem cell clinic, regardless of what kind of stem cells they inject, always recommend the client to come off steroids completely for the duration that the treatment takes place. And it could be a couple of weeks, depending on the stem cell, or at least a couple of days before the stem cell treatment, depends if it's systemic or localized, because a lot of clinics offer the systemic stem cell treatment. It goes intravenous with all kinds of other treatment options. And what they do is upregulate mitochondrial biogenesis with SS31 and somatomidecondrial peptides, administer the stem cells all while you're basically hydrogen deficient. And that seems to have a good outcome. This is why at DMA, I talked about this, I think in a previous video, this is why it's important to blast in cruise. Right. This is what the cruise below super physiological amounts are needed for, so the stem cells can actually go to the liver and help with repair. Yeah, regenerate and heal the damage. If someone's on TRT and they blast, it's not like you're going on a cruise, you're recovering. What are you recovering? You shut down anyway. It's just so the stem cells can do their job. Right. Because otherwise, they get that pluripotent amount of stem cells, the ones that are vague, that can go anywhere, are just committed to the muscle line from the androgens. And how long would you suggest the cruising period? And we're talking about like, super physiological levels or low, right? Just 800, 900, 900 grams per deciliter, no more. What's the... Yeah, I mean, what's the safest way is where time on equals time off? Hmm, right. And then I've argued that that super physiological level could be dictated off your genetic makeup. So if you were unfortunate and you have low testosterone naturally, like 350, 300 nanogram per deciliter, and you're running TRT at 800 nanogram per deciliter, in theory, depending on how your genetics change from the exposure to the androgens over time and epigenetic control, technically, that TRT, those versus where you sat naturally, couldn't really be super physiological. So even going on your TRT health phase could have that effect. So you're in a position of... Like you see there with the...  stem cell clinics where you have to come off everything. And that's to ensure that, yeah, it might suck, you might be in a hypergonadal state, but it's allowing the stem cells to infiltrate, take residency, I guess, mature, and then you can influence their biology with hormone optimization once they've taken residency. So, yeah, it's fascinating. I might explain why some stem cells fail because they don't take that aspect seriously. Yeah, you go back to the gym too fast and you create localized inflammation, which also damages or prevents the stem cells from taking residency. I had a lot of people that, yeah, I'm going to go to the gym again and then surgery or treatment failed, because the body's just too stressed from the workout. And super physiological amounts of testosterone is not just defined by the blood level. That's where the 300 milligram and above become super physiological, because that's the time that there's a body response that's greater than the body can naturally do. And 250 and under, that's why that's generally at the TRT range, because even if you're nanogram per deciliter is 2,000, you're probably not getting much more of a response at the end of the receptor than you would from your natural hormones. That's why you can't just look at the blood level and determine super physiological versus not. Yeah, it might just be better to do an HCG protocol or come off completely. I mean, it's not the end of the world. It's come off many times. And you're underdind deficient for a while, if that makes your stem cells work better. It's three months, even in three months underdind deficiency, it's okay, it sucks, but if it allows you to heal. Yeah, and if you're still lifting, you're not going to lose much muscle. No, right? No. I think so, and underdind deficiency. No, I'm not saying it doesn't. But the guys that tend to lose, the guys that gain a bunch when they blast and then lose a bunch when they cruise, it's because they're training, they're creating like a lunatic when they're on drugs and then they can't maintain that when they're not. And so the stimulus from exercise is reduced. So then the muscle mass is reduced. If you train the same, whether you're on or you're off, like blaster cruise or whatever, then the muscle mass should be maintained. Yeah. You're going to lose some fluid and some inflammation when you come off, but you shouldn't see these big problems. No, you shouldn't. But when you see the guys that blow up on a cycle and then travel up and blow up. Yeah, the Lebronis, no. You're an alcoholic off cycle and then train your balls off on cycle and take all the anodrome that you can find. So let's move on with the oral steroids. I mean, that's always been touted as very damaging to the liver. Now we see that scientifically, especially with halo testin, superdrol, I think all the case reports on superdrol have shown liver failure or liver injury. In many of these case reports, people are also drinking and taking other pro hormones. So it's case reports, you can't really take too much about it. But I remember when I did the superdrol deep dive, every single case report showed liver problems. And in halo testin, it's a case with anodrol, it seems to be less likely, even though the... I thought halo testin was safe for women and kids. Yeah, allegedly. Oh, shit. I didn't see as liver enzymes go up on a halo testin or only cycle. Yeah, yeah, okay. Good luck. Good luck with that. You know, some of the orals are, of course, less invasive than others, but then dose and duration and what else you're doing, like proviron. I mean, it's not really anabolic, it lowers SHBG, but it also doesn't really seem to affect liver enzymes. That's where the methyl group is. Yeah, exactly. It doesn't do the methyl group. The lower down the methyl is on the carbon chain, the less toxic it is. As you move up, it tends to become more toxic. Or the more methyls you add. Yeah, halo testin, all those are like very toxic. And that's why, so that's why primoacetate and proviron aren't particularly liver toxic, but they have huge phase one metabolisms that just, right, you lose a huge portion. Yeah, you lose a lot. Yeah. And that brings us to the injectable orals. Now, the only ones that are really work are injectable anodrol and injectable YK-11. YK-11 injectable... Winsraw. Oh, yeah, injectable Winsraw. And people make injectable D-ball. Oh, right. Yeah, never used that though. Did that change liver enzymes for you guys? Did you ever try it? I never tried it. I've seen both of them. Because it's still 17 alpha-alkylated. Right. And it's a warning of the equipoise. Right. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Yeah, so with YK-11, it had no effect on my liver enzymes after six weeks of 30 milligrams per day. That's the only injectable oral that had no effect on my liver enzymes. But it does when it's orally, when it's observable. I think also not. Interesting. Well, that would make sense because why would it become more liver toxic if you inject it if it's not to be injectable? Right, exactly. The problem is, like Winsraw is the same drug. You're just changing where it's being administered. It's not going to change the fact that it's still toxic. Yeah. But Winsraw seems to destroy your lipids more than your liver enzymes. Yeah. Well, that's hepatic lipase clearance. Yeah. So the androdens increase hepatic lipase, so then the etchils is going to get excreted faster than you can produce it. Right. Orals have a much worse effect there. Right. But the liver also magnifies these drugs as well. That's why EQ and D-Ball are the same chemical, but when you, right, because it's methylated D-Ball and you take it orally, it magnifies its response. Right. Yeah. And you have a little bit of different metabolism because it goes through the liver so you have more methyl ester dial. Whereas injectable bolvenone seems to produce more esterone. And some of the metabolites... Because it's interesting to own. It goes down to interesting to own. Right. So with the oral steroids, are there some guidelines that we can follow to make them less liver toxic besides not taking them or limiting the dose into duration? Four to six weeks. One's twice a year. I usually want guys to either save it for a prep for a show. Right. Or if they're very large and they need to leverage it in an offseason, I try to minimize it at the end of the cycle for a very short period of time. Yeah. Like, I don't know, four weeks, right? Because your appetizers are going to go to shit anyway. And I wouldn't leverage... I wouldn't let anivar, windstraw, those to me are more cosmetic. I wouldn't leverage them in an offseason. Right. You know. No, I agree. Yeah. So you do anodual at the end of a quote unquote offseason phase where you need to break through some strict plateaus. Yes. Or maybe you use it throughout but once a week. And your weaker body parts develop a little bit of this non-genomic signaling that helps with strength. You could break it. If you're getting stronger, you're going to get bigger. I would still default to the more classic if you're just trying to get growth out of it, just use it daily. Right. Because you're only in the spiritual period of time versus, you know, as a pre-workout, I know that's really common now. Right. And we talked about why anivar and windstraw work that way as well. Right. Because those two specifically commit the three amino acids for creatine production to creatine. Right. So they ramp up strength immediately and through non-genomic methods. But they also... One of the reasons why they build skeletal muscle is because you're now missing three amino acids out of the liver that should go to protein synthesis. Yeah. You know. And the rat liver and where they went wrong is the rat liver is not a human liver. Right. We see this with tremolone too. When you look at the metabolite studies, the way a rat breaks down tremolone has totally different metabolites than a human. Right. We're much more similar to a cow when it comes to the metabolites. Yeah. That's what the mistake with the anabolic ratings for a lot of these drugs is it was based on a rat or a rooster. We're not even remotely close to a rat. No, I know. I know. I know. But people still... And then some of the anabolic ratings are just taken out of thin air. Yeah. 500, 500. Show me the fucking Hursberger Bioassay. Show it to me. What's Helo-Test in the game, G-100? Yeah, or 2300 or something like that. Ridiculous. Couldn't find it. Couldn't find that Hursberger Bioassay. I looked everywhere. It doesn't exist. Yeah. Yeah, some of them exist. And then they have the anabolic to androgenic disassociation times 100 is the anabolic to androgenic rating. That's what William Lebelin did based on what is the handbook for experimental pharmacology, volume 43, some German by Charles D. Kokakian. I did a super long deep dive on it and he realized that he just multiplied it by 100. Yeah. And the ranges come from multiple studies. And he tried to find those studies, the ones that are indexed in that handbook experimental pharmacology you could find. But there's some of the references in anabolic 11. They don't exist. They don't exist. They don't exist. They don't exist. What about the EQ1? Yeah. That was just made up. Yeah. Yeah, or a nandrolone is compared or a trimblon hexhydrobenzoacarbonyate was compared to nandrolone acetate. I looked everywhere, dude. Couldn't find. Couldn't find. It's not even trimblon versus testosterone. It's trimblon versus nandrolone. And then there are follow-up Hursberger Bioassays that show completely different anabolic to degrading or disassociation. If you kind of go back in time and re-engineer or backwards engineer the formulas that they use for that, I think it's in a trimblon deep dive, what the actual trimblon compared to testosterone. And then it's versus testosterone injected and methyl testosterone orally. So that's even not the delury methods aren't even the same. And they don't account for the ester. So yeah, it was a clusterfuck. So let's not even go there. What I do think is that when you go on oral steroids, it's very important to take some inocidal choline and totca to help with fat acid transport and bowel acid synthesis, bowel acid excretion, and eat some freaking fiber in your diet to bind up those fibers and toxins or to bind up the bowel acid and the toxins. Because otherwise you get interopatic recirculation and all the toxins that you're just excreting, you just reabsorb. That's why in some guys that don't eat fiber, their bilirubin is sky high. So at a carnivore diet doesn't really work. It's just zero fiber. I mean, you see that in ferritin and bilirubin and all these crazy itch increases over time. It just gets reabsorbed. Dean, I know we talked about this in a previous podcast about totca, ox bile, choline, right? We discussed obviously when you're taking oral, stay effect, bile viscosity and potential bile output from the liver itself. Bile is very important because it helps with maintaining pH of the intestine. It's a lubricant as well. It helps move things along. That's why normally you get a bowel movement when you wake up in the morning. You have a mass movement in response to bile being secreted from the gallbladder down into the intestine and getting everything moving along. I think when we talked about that, things like ox bile, totca, choline, inositol, the ox bile and totca is playing into the bile viscosity, which is going to, you have secondary protein within the guts whereby if there is per bile output, it can have downstream effects on to leptin signalling. Then you effectively feel fuller for longer. That's where that lack of appetite and all of that with high oral dosage tends to come from that. If you supplement with an adequate amount of ox bile or totca, whichever sort of suits your nutrition and your fat intake tends to offset some of the appetite issues that come at orals towards the liver. We also have to view that with the liver, anything that's absorbed from the guts, the first place it's heading to is the liver. Also in terms of, someone asked me before about, you have systemic circulation of oral compounds. Normally what happens with oral steroids is you will get packaging alongside chylomicrons, cholesterol particles of the oral lipophilic steroid into systemic circulation, into the bloodstream and into the liver. You can also have lymphatic absorption of a compound where an oral could be distributed in your lymph, but to be honest, it operates like 5% absorption roughly. I think it's a little bit more if you inject the lymphatic absorption compared to oral absorption because the lymphatic system is of course activated by movement and it's basically on the outside of your body. Whereas if you take oral steroids through a portal vein, you absorb everything through the liver and then it might end up in the lymphatic system a little bit later on. Someone asked me about figuring out different ways of improving absorption, like fat intake, which is where some people do suggest taking fat alongside an oral to improve the chylomicron delivery of the drug across the membrane of the guts. But what I am saying that is if our bio-health isn't optimal, you could be at risk then of dysbiosis of imbalance in the commensal bacteria. It doesn't necessarily mean that it's pathogenic that there's going to be a disease coming from it, but the lining of the gut then can become compromised based on the dysbiosis. Now, interior you could develop some level of leaky gut or gut permeability, which can let local endotoxin from your gut microbiome or LPS, lipopolysaccharide, pass into the bloodstream straight to the liver and cause liver inflammation. That obviously can affect your liver enzymes and your cholesterol. A good marker towards gut related liver inflammation to speak is ferritin. Ferritin is the stored form of iron inside your tissue, mainly inside your liver. But the ferritin that the assay operates on for blood work is basically an empty cage that would contain iron. Basically, when you detect ferritin in your bloodstream, the iron that was inside the cage is missing. It's been offloaded like a shotgun shell, bursts out into your tissues. First place that ferritin normally interferes with is your liver insulin receptors. It can cause insulin resistance or hepatic insulin resistance, which can then have knock-on effects on your liver, liver, glycogen and everything else. Using that to then decide what impact does the oral having to the gut microbiome link back to the liver. Estrogen, for all we joke about, estrogen receptor beta, they think is a contributor to keeping our gut tight, keeping our gut junctions tight. So in theory, like that balance of when you're using an oral androgen, if you're not producing enough estrogen to fulfill that estrogen beta interaction in the gut, you could be creating some level of leaky gut junctions, which then opens up the liver to inflammation. So there's a lot of things here that, you know, is there human data there? So this is all biochemistry based thinking, but the biggest impact aurals will have in my view is towards upsetting. Obviously, demethylation that delivers what creates the liver inflammation, but it's the downstream effects on bile health, bile flow, bile viscosity, which then impacts your gut and your body, which then can feed into inflammation into the body silently. So the aurals, is there a way of doing them safely to sort of answer what we said? Maybe if you stay on top of your bile health, like I said, fiber, prebiotics, paying attention to your digestive response to certain foods, fermentation, other things, you know, antioxidants, GGT will give you an idea of how much support you need from NAC or glutathione directly, whether that's liposomal, injectable, reduced oral glutathione, which to be honest is a waste of time. That will allow you to see what impact is that drug having on your detox mechanism, because obviously one of the ways we make these drugs, I guess, how we inactivate them or make them inaccessible to the body is by changing. But also changing their structure through phase two metabolism, which is making them more readily excreted, which is where sulfation, glucuronidation and glutathione conjugation comes in. That, again, having adequate nutrition to play into sulfation, to provide sulfate groups for your body to utilize, similarly with glucuronic acids, where it's for calcium deglucrate or cruciferous vegetables, or you're sort of ensuring that your fiber intake is optimal. When people look at things like for supporting the liver, like taking dim or... CdG. Dynomethane and... You have dim and then you've got IEC tree, sorry, which is a di-carbonate, which is the precursor. How they work is by helping to induce enzymes within the liver. So I guess this is another side junction to cover is that depending on what you are taking, where that's supplements, food, the environment, different things are going to affect your CYP enzymes, whether they're going to induce them, which is speed them up, or inhibit them, which is slow them down. There's big implications here. Luckily on Wikipedia, that's all indexed. It is, and there's some nice papers where it's all indexed as well. For example, when we're looking at testosterone, CYP3A4 is the main oxidation enzyme that we consider. That is within the gut as well. So CYPs aren't just within the liver, they're in basically every cell, but we basically say they're at the liver because that's what delivers a role is to do these metabolic transformations with first-past metabolism. With CYP3A4, I think off the top of my head, one of the inducers of it, which will speed it up, is St. John's Wart. St. John's Wart is an inducer. If you speed up CYP3A4, you're going to metabolize and clear testosterone quicker. Not only testosterone, there's a whole list of substrates that go through the 3A4. Caffeine is another one that goes through 3A4. Normally, a crude way of assessing whether genetically, from an inheriting aspect of your CYP3A4 genetics is if caffeine is a substance that causes anxiety or jitters with low dose exposure, it's probably a way to assume that your testosterone metabolism is going to be slow. So your caffeine metabolism is slow, causing side effects, which means that in terms of how you then assess your response to testosterone, if you don't get on the caffeine, you might want to consider when you're using testosterone using a lower dose, because in theory you're going to be a slow metabolizer. But in saying that, it just becomes a mind field in terms of there's that many interactions with CYP3A4. I did videos on this. It's a mind fuck. You could be taking one supplement that induces it, but another supplement that inhibits it, and then another supplement that induces it, and then over on net effect, you don't even know what's going on. No, you don't know. So rather than getting a tizzy over, I'm taking this supplement which slows it down, this one speeds it up, monitoring like GGT, ALP, AST. It gives you a better idea of what's going on within the internal biology than hyperfocusing that. It shouldn't take this because it's going to speed it up, shouldn't take this because it's going to slow it down. I did experience with this, with grapefruit and fluvoxamine and Moudafonelle and St. John's words with all inhibit or induce 3A4 to a certain extent. There's no change on blood work. No change. Does grapefruit and fluvoxamine make your anodrol more potent? I think sublingual or injectable administration is more potent than oral administration, noticeably. And if you inject your anodrol, man, the pumps are almost twice as pronounced. If you take anodrol sublingually, you bypass first metabolism, then you don't get that metabolite, the very androgenic metabolite, again, based on Hershberg bioassays. What was it, mastanolone or no menstrual loan is providing. There's a metabolite of anodrol that is produced in the liver that is very androgenic, allegedly. And if you take it sublingually or you inject it, you miss this first pass metabolism into this active metabolite. And allegedly, that should be a less androgenic effect and thus make anodrol more anabolic. So I noticed from injectable anodrol, but then again from injectable deanobol, you know, people that I talked to, is that it's way more potent in descent and less strenuous on the liver. That being said, if you have more of this active hormone in your body, the second pass would get a harder punch, sort of say, to make it easy, because there's more molecules now, because there's no first pass, right? So it hits harder on the androgen receptor on skeletal muscle, exactly what you want. But then there's more flow through the liver on the second pass. So the liver damage might still be exactly the same. Yeah, because the anodrol doesn't interact with the androgen receptor at all. So we don't know. You don't know what it's doing, right? Or the liver. Okay, yeah. I do like injectable anodrol. What about honorable mention for DHB, right? That's an injectable drug that's over toxic. Yeah, but it's only two studies. And it's weird. I've seen it in person, though. Yeah, you've seen it in person also, right? And I've seen it in person also. And then Skipp Hill has been recommending DHB because Primo Mastrone are not available. And his clients do blood work and they love it. And there's no liver changes. And so they, yeah, they recently did a very extensive DHB podcast, basically on Think Big. I'll link it down below, guys. You should watch it where Scott was recommending it and Skip and Andrew and they say it's like a budget Primo and Mastrone that is a little bit better than EQ. And all their clients love it and it doesn't seem to be toxic at all. And there's no post injection pain, like with the first couple of batches of DHB. So there might be something to say for it, but there's two studies that showed that it's highly liver toxic. Yeah, apparently as of recent, the humans seem to be responding quite well to it. And winning shows. Yeah, I don't know of any liver toxicity of glycol, but could it be glycol using DHB? Yeah, maybe in the studies. Same as with, what is Epi-Conan alone, one of the metabolites from testosterone that shows that it's a pyrogenic, but they're all injecting pro-plynglycol or polyethylene glycol, which is a fucking pyrogenic as well. So is it the Epi-Conanan alone or are you pronouncing it or is it the ejecting carioral? Because if they did it IV, there was no response like that. But if they injected it, there was like tremendous post injection pain and, you know, side irritation and redness. And that's the, if you inject it, it goes systemic. And then if you do it intramuscularly, it causes localized irritation. But is it the drug or the carior oil? So I figured it was the carior oil because it's not used in medical settings. And there's even a black label warning that they shouldn't use polyethylene glycol or pro-prylene glycol in pediatrics because it was so fucking toxic. And it would literally ruin these kids. So DHB, I don't know, the scientific, it's only two studies that I was able to find. But it was pretty toxic in the one. Yeah, it was pretty fucking toxic. 112 milligrams for a 220 pound person. Yeah. It's your liver growth, which is... Yeah, and apparently anecdotally, as of recently, there's a lot of bodybuilders running it in a placement of an astronaut and a premote because it's so much easier to get and so much more affordable and they get comparable cosmetic results. But no post injection pain and no, no significant changes deliver in them. So yeah, I might have to talk with Skip and Andrew and, you know, Scott and maybe they can convince me. It's one of those drugs that's still on the haven't touched it yet list. The list is very small. I don't know of any way to brew it without glycol. So I wonder if there is any. Okay, yeah. Because it does fall out. Even an MCT. I believe so. Yeah. Because that's what I think it was the previous formulations was just in glycol. But you could smell that when the package arrives. Yeah. Did you? The postman's like, I don't know what this is. It's gross. But it doesn't smell right. And you open it, you take all the bubble wrap and the silver foil and all the extra secret stuff that they put in there to make it deliver safe. And you could smell it through everything before you even draw. You smell the glycol. That's that's how I got introduced. I ordered some injectable anodol and it was 100% glycol. And you get it on your finger, your finger shorts burning and you rub it over the syringe and the whole syringe falls apart and the rubber stopper starts to expand right before your eyes. What the fuck is this? I injected it once and then I felt toxic for a week. Never again. You could probably use grain alcohol with anodol instead of glycol. Yeah. Or just take it sublingually or orally like like it's like just taking the way it's designed to hit. Yeah. But he injectable anodol and MCT oil works fine. Man, I got it in the drawer maybe. And it stays liquid. Yeah. Yeah. 50 milligrams per mil. And it's like a USB and BB at trends like Elmer's glue. Oh, really? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know so much about brewing, but I know the injectable anodol that I have here is stays in solution and it gives me crazy pumps. Yeah. 50 milligrams pre-workout, 25 milligrams bilaterally. No hepatic changes. I love it. There you go. To come back to the bowel flow. Yeah. Glucogon, insulin, thyroid hormones and sobotarone, the GC1, that experimental thyroid hormone replacement. They all increase bowel flow. And what you see with a lot of guys that have, that don't take T4 with their growth hormone for increased thyroid conversion, right? To kind of compensate for that. Or they get into this 1200 calorie crash diet. Their bowel flow reduces to the point it's zero. Then their liver enzymes, their ferritin and their high sensitivity seroactive protein goes up. And everything, the little food that they eat just stays there until they take adult colax or vicinity. And that's, it's very common. You see it on blood work and especially back in the day when people would do these crazy crash diets and didn't understand how to piece everything together. You see the blood work. You see thyroid is zero basically. TSH is sky high. What is it? Hashimoto's disease levels. And then T4, T3 is basically in the gutter. And they eat like a little girl that's like 10 years old. They probably eat more or a ballerina or whatever about bulimic person. And they haven't gone to the bathroom in 10 days. You know exactly what's going on.  well, we see it, you learned of it because of postmenopausal women when their estrogen goes down to the to the dysthetonary, because biofluo is impaired by that. You see that it's probably one of the contributors to the distended gut, especially from bodybuilders from 20 years ago. They've leveraged too many AIs to crush the estrogen before a show, then they have no digestion, and the gut is sticking out. Yeah, and at three days of car body is still in there on stage. People can't move. Yeah, so the smarter coach now keeps the estrogen in the range, unless you really need to crush it for peak conditions. I don't crush guys anymore. No, and then otherwise you would use TATCA and what is it called, the high dose magnesium and maybe a little bit of sanity to kind of move everything along. And those guys are not distended at all, can pull vacuums on the day of the show. Of course, like jeans competitions, a lot of guys just don't eat on competition day. I don't think guys like to do the show. No, never. No, should be in there locked, sealed away. And then you just relax and your inflatable mattress backstage. And you don't need to eat much. You just bump up your gone stage and you go back to your inflatable mattress. Maybe check some glucagon, Stafel or AMP. Yeah. What you said there about estrogen is very interesting because low estrogen will reduce bile synthesis. So your your bile level goes down. But high estrogen makes your bile more viscous and more sludge like so that how the bile is flowing gets impacted. So you're making enough bile, but it's not. It doesn't have to correct viscosity to flow properly down through the bile channels. And that's where if you do have high estrogen, and you do see some issues with constipation, just touch ox bile to help improve that viscosity, overcome it will help things to move move down and along. When it's probably the high estrogen bile impedances probably goes back to females. So during ovulation during pregnancy, as estrogen goes up, it's going to slow that down. It's acting to slow digestion down to this more nutrition, right? So the transient time in the intestines is longer. Some more nutrition is extracted from the food, right? But we're mimicking that a man that are running their estrogen high. That's that's right. The meta this is we keep estrogen in range, right? Low is bad, high is bad. You just put it in the middle. Yeah, or at least top of the range to match your testosterone, which is super physiological. Like for me, 30 to 40, 45, 50. Yeah. It's ideal. So that's basically top of 175 to 200 bicarbones for Dean. Basically, what is 160 right at the top of the reference range in bicarbones? Yeah, 150 to 160 is the top then. So I think it has a 35 to 40 pika gram per mil, is it? Yeah. So I always keep mine around 40, 45 and digestion issues zero. But I also have my prebiotics and my totka every meal. And I love my sauerkraut every meal. It's sauerkraut and chia seeds, man. It's magic. Two wipes, you're done. Yeah, I mean, it's a matter of how much I would really take. I mean, I like what you brought there. Bowel health towards liver health. You know, stomach acidity aside, some of that, you know, when you go to the bathroom, it should be one pass and clean wipe on the way you go. That can give you an insight into your digestive health, whether it's your stomach acidity or your bile output, the quality of your stool and the frequency, obviously. That again, links back to the liver and the gut health, potential permeable guts, low pancreatic out of pancreatic lipase. You know, it's just a lot going on with when we look at the liver cell to know how steroids affect the liver. Yeah, the liver's disease is prominent. But we have to remember that when the liver gets diseased, you increase oxidative stress from ferritin, from increased cholesterol production, from potential lower glutathione turnover or higher demand for glutathione. That yeah, it was we often view like the liver as being like, yeah, it's regenerative. Like depending on the risks that you do, yeah, until you really throttle it and your lifestyle doesn't really support that recovery. It's very resilient. If you support it, it will support you. So, you know, when you're trying to assess gut health, deliver enzymes alongside cholesterol, alongside GGT, can't let you know that there's an issue going on at the gut if the gut is inflaming the liver from that first pass from the portal vein delivery. And like you said, about the enterahepatic recirculation, if you are having a lot of bowel urgency, where you're actually maybe producing too much boil, whether that you know, is it a flush mechanism from the liver or the gallbladder? That can often be a sign of like low fiber in your nutrition, where the boil isn't getting bound up in your your roughage or your, you know, your mass still. That enterahepatic recirculation, you only excrete about 5% of your boil per day. And you're about 600 milliliters or something like that. And the most of it you reabsorb. 95% as you pass from the small intestine to the large intestine, you have enterahepatic recirculation, where you bring that boil back to the gallbladder to be stored. That if we do have excess boil being excreted, I mean, a bile acid malabsorption or bile acid diarrhea, that can also change the gut microbiome in that you're flushing out a lot of your beneficial bacteria that can produce natural like lactase. So now you've got some level of lactose intolerance developing just transiently from bile acid diarrhea. That yeah, it comes back to your serotonin, now you're depressed. Yeah, I mean, coming from the liver, it's fascinating that when we've broken down these individual organs, how, in one sense, you treat the organ for its job and what it does. But in the bigger scheme of it, what's fascinating is that this is where, you know, I think how functional medicine thinks versus conventional medicine, it connects the organs and that the liver isn't just the liver, the liver affects digestive health, digestive health and the gut affects the liver. If the liver isn't operating efficiently, then you're going to see issues with malabsorption of food, regardless of the stomach. So it's, it's fascinating how when we just talked about the kidneys, kidneys are affected by the adrenal gland and the lung health and the blood pressure then carrying over onto cardiovascular health and cerebral vascular health. Like it's, at the end of the day, when we're doing all this education, it's to see the big picture and focusing on I got to protect my kidneys. I got to protect all of it. You know, you got a whole system that interacts, which is beautiful. When another one with the two, the kidneys liver together, if you're dehydrated, the kidneys can no longer filter your blood, right? So then the job goes to the liver, then the liver can't produce bile, right? So then it screws everything up that way too. And it doesn't take a lot of dehydration to cause that. No, these are common issues with alcoholics, because they dehydrate themselves with the alcohol, obviously the whole time, then the whole system falls apart. And dehydration is contributing factor. And the liver can't do anything. No, it can detox if all the toxins. Yeah, it's, it's especially with, you know, polypharmacy, it's, unfortunately, most of it hasn't really been studied in a sense where you see how it affects the organs. It's all separately, right? So we have to do our best estimate and guess based on what we know, and how to connect everything together. But yeah, again, when you already look at the cytochrome P450 enzymes, and the overlap there, the substrates and the inducers and the inhibitors, I mean, it will blow your mind. You would never want to do polypharmacy, unless that's what you're after, right? You take your mirror background to make your LSD more effective. Allegedly, you don't notice a difference in their aspect either. You take 200 milligrams mirror-becroded, microdoses don't feel more pouted. Or maybe my 2A5 enzymes are broken anyway. I remember when I did that deep dive, I had found the research for the LSD and then people skipped, you see a clear peak in that timestamp, like people are all, the arrow-witch community is all like, hey, you can take this bladder medication to make my LSD more potent. It doesn't work like that, unfortunately. Yeah, unfortunately, just take it sublingually, bypass first hepatic metabolism. That bed works. Yeah, works faster also, allegedly. What else can we cover on the liver topic? Let me think. We've covered the liver enzymes, so the ratios AST, ALT, ALP, is not specific to the liver again, just to cover that briefly. That's useful in terms of phosphate transport in the body, which is important for bone health, and to a certain extent, phosphate content of our cells. ALP is a magnesium core, so we've covered this before, that it's a nice insight into your magnesium status of the body. Research suggests anywhere around 65 to 70 IU on blood work is sort of your sweet spot to say that you're making enough without there being signs of biliary disease, and aiming for 10 milligrams per kilogram elemental magnesium to try and get to that ALP level of support. We've covered GGT, covered bilirubin. These alkaline phosphatase levels are sky high, but that's the bone specific alkaline phosphatase. So for the guys that ever see that my ALP levels are so high, I must, I must take too much magnesium. No, you might have a micro fracture somewhere. That's another thing that you have to correlate to bilirubin off the ALP, is a biliary disease. And if it is, if your ALP and bilirubin are raised, go and get an abdomen ultrasound and see what it finds in terms of blockage. I guess one thing that I have seen is you can have SKUs in bilirubin and SKUs in the ALT and ASC that are linked to denying growths within the liver. So we have like a hay pattern and genoma, which is basically like a clot within the liver. Those are mostly hereditary. It's like a centimeter across. Hereditary, because obviously if bilirubin is raised, you also have to rule out Gilbert's syndrome. Yeah, you have issues with bilirubin clearance. And that's where you sort of look at direct or indirect or conjugated and unconjugated bilirubin to see what the overall health of the liver is and go about our storage. We've covered metabolism. So phase one, phase two, doing the transformations, looking at supporting the substrates to help phase two for excretion. The liver's impact onto the small intestine and cholesterol, hepatic lipase being suppressed, sorry, hepatic lipase being increased with a higher level of androgens, which suppresses HDL. And that for some reason, windstraw and anovir seem to be the two that really drive that hepatic lipase activity. What else can we talk about? To bring it back to the total indirect bilirubin, in the entire robotic recirculation, you have glucuronidates, right? That breaks glucuronidates away from the bilirubin. That's basically the difference between total and direct bilirubin. One is glucuronidated or conjugated and the other one is not. So if you take something that promotes glucuronidates activity or inhibits, no inhibitors would actually promote the excretion. So if you do something that messes with the glucuronidates, your total bilirubin would come up. How was it direct? Direct is the unconjugated, right? Yeah, you put me on the spot now, but yeah. I think direct is unconjugated. For the sake of this video, let's just say that direct is unconjugated as the glucuronidate removed. So if you get a lot of inter-hepatic recirculation, you see that direct bilirubin goes up because you're reabsorbing that, but if total bilirubin is fine, then it's not a problem with excretion, it's a problem with reabsorption. And if this happens at the end of a cycle where you're hematocrit and ribosoccount and hemoglobin concentration of your complete blood count was sky high, that means you're actually metabolizing the hemoglobin into your body, but you're reabsorbing the bilirubin as a metabolic byproduct. And you could also see your serum iron start to creep up over time if you do frequent blood work. But this is also an issue with low fiber diets and something that messes with these enzymes. It's a rare occurrence, but I've seen it happen a couple times where you're like iron is high, hemoglobin is low, and bilirubin is sky high, and then there's some digestive issues taking place also. Yeah, because that's basically the earliest steps to jaundice. I'm Irish, my skin's so yellow, am I? I'm turning Chinese, no. That's your anodrol being flushed out of your system. With that, like, yeah, beta glucuronidate, that increase in activity can come from dyspiosis as well. Right. And that that recirculates hormones as well back into the body. So glucuronidated estrogen gets recirculated back in. So now you've got more estrogen going back into circulation of the body right and being cleared out. Research wise, L aspartic acids has been shown to inhibit beta glucuronidase, looking at fibers, chia, flaxseeds. Brus milk. Hey, that's the difference between brus milk and formula, right? That's the cause of jaundice. It's the beta glucuronidase inhibitors. That's why in brus milk and hydrolyzed casein protein. So I would always recommend hydrolyzed casein protein because it has a beta glucuronidase inhibitor in there to make sure that these guys would pass the drug test because a lot of the beta glucuronidase, if they get reabsorbed, they get sulfated. And then the sulfate metabolites are longer lasting. That's the one that you usually fail for. Testosterone sulfate or trimblone sulfate or, you know. So yeah. Drink from the boob to pass the test? I would. I might have. Steve's selling some. Yeah, yeah. No, I'm not selling it. It's all mine and my daughter's. Link down below. Yeah, link down below. Yeah, yeah. They put it on eBay. Start bidding. 1000 bucks per liter. And stevemoke.com. Frozen for longer shelf life. Fuck. How do we get here? My fault. My bad. So yeah, with the liver stuff and the digestion, there's so much correlation there that you could either do it completely right. Like if you're really focusing your digestion, your liver will thank you for it. And if you eat like an asshole, then your liver will not be happy. And all the drugs that you're taking, the metabolism of it, and we see that with guys, they feel toxic and you change your diet. You don't even change their protocol because they're on a mild protocol. And you shouldn't feel like this. Your liver engine shouldn't be this high. And then you fix your diet and everything just falls back at the baseline. It's not the drugs. It's the shitty lifestyle. Yeah. You know. To sort of go back from an ideal of into the research on celiac disease, raised liver enzymes can be a sign of gut inflammation coming from the HLA genetic activation with celiac. So if you've got unexplained liver enzymes being elevated despite resting, despite avoiding, but like whatever is toxic to your liver substances, the environment, it could be a sign of you've got some level of genetic response towards gluten or dairy. So raised ALT when you delve into it can be from a sign of gut dysfunction from gluten intolerance or autoimmunity towards gluten. And similarly, with gluten, CYP3A4 expression will, or activity, I should say, will increase. So what you'll see is a slowdown in the pharmacokinetics of an oral drug. If your gut is inflamed and CYP3A4 is slowed in its activity. So now you have a higher oral... We can't have anadroprostromy sandwiches. Well, prostromy sandwiches is a ribrid, right? I don't know. I would have gluten. So now you're slowing down. I guess the clearance of the drugs or improved bioavailability or the ability to pass from the gut to intubus. It's a good idea to sprinkle a little bit on your... Well, once you're not... Well, this is assuming that you have HLA genetics and so maybe it might not be worth the inflammation from the gluten to your immune system to just... I mean, you get a pump everywhere, especially when you've got... Yeah. I mean, in hindsight, that when my mind became apparent, that pain in my stomach, I wouldn't wish on an... Yeah, that was a hard one to figure out two years ago, because I remember seeing your Botarachia. I'm like, what the hell is going on? And then you figured out it was the Celiac disease. I sent it to you. I was like, see, my cholesterol is very, very high in this set of loads, but the historic trend you're just seeing everything like sub-even tree for LDL and this one result was up at... It couldn't even be detected to triglyceride. So it was above 8 on LDL. And I remember saying to this has to be an assay issue with the lab and they done another test and it was... It came down a little bit, but it was still saying, okay, well, something's not right here in the sort of health of the liver. And then eventually, obviously doing the anti-tissue transglutamides and antibodies give that answer. But yeah, if you've got hidden gut dysfunction, it can influence how you metabolise drugs at the liver as well. So that's another link with the gut and the liver. Did you guys ever... I'm sure you do regular or occasional cancer marker screening with your clients, right? And then you see, most of them are in range. And then occasionally you see a guy with a hepatocelular carcinoma where PIVCA2 is elevated and let's say vitamin K related marker that is produced in a hepatocelular carcinoma. In many cases, what is it? Not AOP, but what's the one? The other one? The other marker. AFP. Proteins. Yes, exactly. It's then also elevated. Did you guys ever reverse something like that in cases with oral steroid abuse? No. Have you seen it? I've never seen it. Never seen it. Okay. I've seen it in oral steroid abuse where PIVCA2 is slightly elevated and then over time as you do more diagnostics, AFP goes up as well. Then surprisingly, diisodicloroacetate, DADA, the ATP recycler actually helps with that. Or else what's going to take him? 150 a day. Anadrol, halo together. For longer periods of time. Yeah, ask how long you say I can't remember. It's been months. It said how angry are you? I'm used to it now. Months. Months. Looks like a lump of swiss cheese. What was that bodybuilder's name? Where the liver was melting? Andres Mernser. That liver was literally melting out of his stomach. He was also taking bulk loads of oils. And the mealers told him, so you know these three diuretics are the same thing, right? He's like, no, they're different names. You know, it's the same thing. It's like three kinds of triametreins or something. Potassium sparing diuretic. Yeah, mental. Yeah, we've come a long way. Legitly, Derek Lonsworth was cramping up backstage pretty hard. Did you hear guys hear that rumor? Yeah, that's why that's why he came out last. Samson should have come out last. Well, that's just a rumor, guys. It's a Chrissacito potassium loading special. Allegedly. I haven't recommended that one in decades. It's okay. Just get leaner. Yeah, well, these guys get lean. I mean, I don't know. Look at the comparison photos from 10 years ago. Yeah. The condition is not what it used to be. No, I think it's the water retention from turns they fall from the orals and the growth. They run the test in, right? These guys run the test in the show, which is dumb. They worry too much about being full. Right. And then they overload, they use too much insulin and they try to clean the shit up. All right, diuretics. Keeps happening, man. I wonder why they're distended. Just get leaner. I know. Pull the test. Yeah, pull the test. And then you don't need to take an aromatizing order to kill the damn test. 2.5 milligrams of letrosol, bro. It's out both and just pull the goddamn test out. Yeah. It's not the end of the world. Two, three weeks, four weeks. Honestly, if you timer rate that the only day where it's fully bottomed out is the day of the show. Yeah. No, it's like, well, no. It's okay, man. There's levels to the shit as we know. So we covered the diagnostics as well. The MRIs, the ultrasounds, I think people should do that just regularly. I'm due for my big round of diagnostics in January, usually do that after Christmas and New Year's because then the hospitals are empty because nobody wants to go. So I can do all my stuff in one day. And let's see how bad it is after abusing the SLU BB332 for four weeks. Yeah. It's a fun experiment. Like I said, I'm intrigued. I mean, even with SLU, I'm not really knowing fully the half-life and the bioavailability. I think when I, you know, I don't want to break down on the pharmacology of it from a medicinal chemistry perspective and how the drug is created. You've got a phenol and typically phenol based drugs have quite rapid phase one clearance. So all of a sudden, your bioavailability, the compound is limited from a metabolism perspective, metabolic first pass. But on the other side of it, in terms of the bioavailability of being absorbed from the gut. So you have to view swallow orally. In theory, you've got the amide bond and the imine that can be hydrolyzed by stomach acid, but it does look like it's in terms of the PKA of that being hydrolyzed. It's in a position where it should pass from the stomach down. How it gets absorbed in the gut based on the phenol and the naftaline structure. You'd anticipate somewhere around 50 to 60% bioavailability from the gut absorbed across. But if you're absorbed, let's say it is, if you've done a big bowl of stozo 400 milligrams, let's say 50, 60% of it is absorbed into the bloodstream, first pass metabolism based on the phenol could be quite quick. That when you have seeing people dose it throughout the day, there's some merit to that and that you're keeping the drugs level consistently topped up. But I am just really intrigued based on PDK and PDH, the interaction of long term free fatty acid oxidation on mitochondria energetics. It could be something that then turns into excessive glycolysis and acytoplasm because your mitochondria's efficiency to use glucose goes down. So you head more towards a Warburg effect of the cell, which can be linked to cancer and affect just glucose utilization by cells. If PDK for activity is switched on and PDH can't work properly, you're not bringing acetyl CoA in into the TCA cycle to feed into the electron transport chain. That if you starve cells of glucose like the heart or the brain in teres, there could be some cellular dysfunction that comes off that. So I'm intrigued. I think if it works based on what anecdotally 600 micrograms max for me, and to be honest, like I said, I ran this sort of experiment for a long time was over 12 months at that low exposure. I will be doing advanced marker soon. But based on that long term exposure, the risk probably still is the same of the high dose exposure. That, you know, to me, the sweet spot with these compounds from looking at it is potentially short term like 8 to 12 weeks, get your benefit, get out, and then see what sustains from it. Yeah, and they rely on ModC and SS3-1 if you want to boost mitochondrial function in the long term because those why SS3-1 is now FDA approved actually as Bindava or a little bit of appetite. I know. Yes, I'm pronounceable to these names. It's a pediatric disease. I remember reading the application approval because there is no, it's basically an inherited mitochondrial dysfunction and there's no known therapy for correcting it. That SS3-1 based on what the data says of improving mitochondrial efficiency, it's sort of like, well, yeah, we're going to approve this as like an off label adjunct to this disease that has no cure. I can't remember the name of it for me in the FDA. Yeah, it's been a while since I read the studies. Yeah, it's very promising though. But yeah, the SLU, I know it's not really, I don't think there's any more data. I think the last study was like one half years ago and since everybody started experimenting with it, besides that one study that Kurt found about exercise mnemonics not really being...  exorcismamidix, which we talked about the last podcast. This hasn't been any new data on it. Let me ask you this, Steve. How was your blood pressure taking a high dose S-L-U? Because there was a paper, no, the reason why I'm asking is there's a paper from last year that suggests SLU-PP332 mechanistically could be an anti-COVD therapy because of it lowering ACE2 expression. So it can have positive effects as an ACE2 inhibitor. I didn't notice anything, but then again I used Tomasartan. So, you know, because I'm only one half grams a gear, so it's better to control it. If someone isn't using an A or B or an ACE high and they decide to run a high dose, that might prove some of that theory. It was just a plausible mechanistic paper. It wasn't, this is going to have great impacts on blood pressure control, but one of the things where what we can do is lower ACE2 expression that can impact that pathogenesis S-L-U, boost your mitochondria, which can improve obviously your metabolism, improve obviously immune function and secondary lower ACE2 and the Androtensin activation, Androtensin 2 activation that can feed into what that causes. It's weird that SLU-PP815 was never brought to market. That was shown to have like all kinds of benefits in chronic kidney disease. And you've got SLU-PP, I think it's 1008 as from 2020 was another one. Yeah, it's another one, yeah. What was studied towards improving prostate cancer. Oh. So, anti-cancer benefits. All the high-master-one guys are looking forward to that one. Had anti-prostate cancer effects by inhibiting metabolic pathways and playing to prostate cancer. So, they're really interesting. I mean, the scaffold of the drug, I think 2014 was when they isolated the pharmacophore of like the immune bridge and the naftaline ring. But it's, it'll be interesting to see how quick someone tries to capitalize on this becoming a therapy like SS-31. Well, I've recommended it to drug designers. You know, so this is, if you want to bring a drug to market, this is the one, but you need clinical trials. Problem is, you make a lot of other medications obsolete if it turns out to be something good because it lowers hemoglobin A1c, it improves blood glucose, it lowers triglycerides, all right, and it improves body composition. So, and it might even preserve muscle mass by over-regulating, you know, mitochondrial function. So, it seems to be multifaceted in that sense. It's lipophilic, so you have to make tablets or injectable, but injectable that doesn't go in MCT. The people that make it do it in DMSO, I wouldn't want to inject that. No. That's it. With the fee and all, again, I covered this in the lecture looking at improving a potential drug delivery mechanisms where you make it, you know, more lipophilic or you encapsulate it inside like a liposome or you change. Again, we don't know is SLU-PP-332 the actual active molecule creating the effect or is it a prodrug that the phenol, the phenol gets metabolised and it creates the active component that just because the phenol is an OH and it's normally classically linked with increased sulfation. I think one of the first two studies is a pharmacokinetics and dynamic study, but I can't remember if they investigated metabolites as well. I don't remember reading it now, it could be wrong, but, you know, just classically looking at drug design phenols, normally if your active drug is a phenol, you'd protect it as a prodrug and then it creates the phenol after first pass metabolism. Yeah, I'm intrigued, you know, as much as people fail at your some level, again, of emotion of you're just like, let's just be very careful if you're going to do this, you're doing it at your own risk, right? And saying, someone said it on the internet. I ran low dose for a year now up to one milligram and this 400 milligrams split over four servings of 100 milligrams for eight or nine weeks after ramping up the dose, I did like one milligram, two milligrams a couple days, five milligrams, 10 milligrams, 20 milligrams, 50 milligrams, right? And then just continuously wrapping it up till I saw some negative thing occur. And besides, bouts of hypoglycemia. That's it. That's it. And it was expensive. It was pretty expensive, but not as expensive as getting it from I got it directly from China. Not as expensive as buying over the counter pre bottled. So, so the blood work is more expensive than the four rounds of blood work like before, during, after and then two weeks after to see if anything changed, which my triglycerides came up slightly and lipids stayed pretty much the same. So I wanted to see what would happen after I discontinued this drug, like if I would spontaneously combust or melt or freeze over. You don't take the SLU PP332 anymore, you might have conjured now dead and you figured it out soon enough, you know, you're completely reliant on it now you stop and it's came over. So but nothing really changed. Which is pretty positive. So again, it proves into that short burst cycles, take advantage of it, exit and assess. Yeah. Yeah, because the energy levels and the fat loss that I sustained was insane. Insane. Yeah. It's a big difference. All right, let's leave it there. Next time we'll discuss hopefully brain health with a neurosurgeon. And then we'll get into why steroids are completely deleterious for your brain function, as you could tell from us three, and were completely ruined from all the steroids we took. Three smartest minds together. I took a bottle out of steroids, especially Kurt. I think I took the most steroids out of all of us, which is very noticeable. Look at this fucking jawline. Jesus Christ. So next time we'll discuss brain health. Guys, it was a pleasure on how you got to talk to you a little bit faster than the last couple times because that felt like an eternity. And that felt like an eternity. So let's let's let's let's squeeze in one more before Christmas. Cool. You know, early December, and then and then summer middle of January when everybody's got their moon face under control. I know I will. I know I'll be eating for Thanksgiving and Christmas and New Year. I'm going to enjoy myself. Guys, all your social media links are down below. Give these guys a subscribe even though they don't have their own YouTube channels. They have Instagrams. I have my own channel. I just don't contribute to it. You should. You should. Get back on the on the on the tube. And maybe you can get yourself deleted, like as a badge of honor, like me Paul Chase Chase is not back yet, but we're working on it. Yeah, but me, I got banned and I got back. Paul got banned and then he got back. So I think you're in running with your opinions to get banned on YouTube also. And then I'll continue just like get kicked off. Yeah. Yeah. And then you got to rumble. All right, guys, this was a pleasure. We'll see you next month. And guys, enjoy your weekend or whatever day it is. We'll discuss more about staying healthy on steroids very, very soon. Peace out.